Chapter one hundred, and uh we just read through the this whole thing, but I want to notice verse number two. I'm actually going to try and Very briefly, we're going to look at this whole chapter, all five verses. But I want to start off uh just to get us started. Verse number two. The Bible says, Serve the Lord with gladness. Come before his presence. With singing. Serve the Lord with gladness. Then down verse 4. Let me add this one in. It says, Enter into his gates with thanksgiving. So come before his presence with singing, and enter into his gates with thanksgiving. Now I'm going to have to explain the title here and my message, but my title for this morning is How to go to church. How to go to church. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to us from His Word this morning. Father in heaven, we come before you and we're very grateful for your blessings on us. Lord, as pastor, I'm just uh thrilled and encouraged by folks come out on a bitterly cold morning, snow flying around there earlier, and uh folks in the house of God singing to your glory, singing your praise. And laughing and fellowshipping together. And now, Lord, we have our Bibles open before us. And I'm asking, Father, that your Holy Spirit, the author of this book Would open our hearts and minds, and that we could see in this passage some truths that would help us. Lord, I'm asking you to help us as a church to be a good, strong, healthy church that you're pleased with. And then for us as individuals, our homes, our individual lives, that we would be people that would please you and fulfill your purpose for our lives. Now, Father, I acknowledge publicly, and I acknowledge to you, Lord, I have nothing in and of myself, no ability, no intelligence that is able to help anybody as far as spiritual or eternal things are concerned. So we need your Holy Spirit. I present my body to you, Father, anew. I ask you your Holy Spirit would fill me and speak through me. I yield my mind to you, that you would guide my thinking as I speak. And Lord, what is said would be what you would have said. And then Lord help us to be submissive and trust you as you deal with our hearts individually. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Our concern as as a pastor, my concern as pastor, and I think I can speak for the church, our concern as a church is is not that we be clever in our ministries and our messages or that we try and be unique. You know, sometimes you ever hear a preacher say, uh, I'm going to give you something you've never heard before I tell you, anytime you hear that, you better put red flags up. Our desire, our our our concern is not that we be clever in our approach, our messages, we're not trying to be unique in any way One thing we are concerned about, and that is this, that we be true to this old book, that we stick with the Word of God. We be faithful to the Word of God. The chief characteristic of a, at least historically, the chief characteristic of a Baptist church is that the Bible is our sole authority. Everything we do, every message we preach, every lesson we teach, every ministry we establish and we carry out, everything needs to be based on the old book, the Word of God. And so that's our concern. That's our emphasis. And this is our governor, the Word of God. We don't want to go outside the perimeters of God's Word, and we want to do everything within that God says we should And so the Bible. When we come to the Bible, and our approach to the Word of God is to take the Bible literally. I'm of the mind that God means what he says and says what he means. And so unless there's a clear indication he's not speaking literally We take what the Bible says literally, and that affects our interpretation of the Word of God. That affects our understanding. God means what he says, says what he means. And so we want to take the Bible literally and we want to study God's word carefully. We don't want to be negligent. We don't want to be sloppy. In our study of the Word of God. We don't want to read things into it that aren't there. Amen? And we don't want to try and pull stuff out that it doesn't say. Sometimes preachers will uh make prom uh will try and claim promises God never made. We have to be very, very careful in our study of the Word of God. So we take it literally, we study it carefully, and when we do that, I said all that to come to this point. When we do that, we study the Bible, we find that the Bible makes a very, very clear distinction between the nation of Israel and the New Testament church. There's a very clear distinction. Those are two um two different um uh uh uh entities Yeah, the Old Testament uh nation of Israel. And uh God through because of idolatry and through um their rebellion against God's clear teaching, God's will for them. They resisted God's will. They insisted on going their own way. God set them aside. He sent Jesus Christ to be their king, be their Messiah. He came unto his own, and his own received him not. And God set Israel aside for the time being. And he established, we see in the New Testament, he established the church, the New Testament church. And that is the dispensation that you and I are in now. We are in the church age, we refer to it. Now, is God done with Israel? No. There's coming a day. Jesus Christ is going to come back. Particularly at the second advent, after the tribulation period, Jesus is going to come back. Israel as a nation is going to see him whom they pierce, the Bible says. They're going to receive him as their Messiah. And he will be establish, re-establish the kingdom of Israel as he originally intended it for a thousand years in the millennial reign. Now that's all prophetic But what I'm trying to say is this: Israel and the church are two separate entities. The church is not the continuation of Israel. The church is not spiritual Israel Israel is referred to in Scripture as the wife of Jehovah, symbolically speaking. And then we get to the New Testament, we find the church is the bride of Christ. And so we find a clear distinction between these two. um between the nation of Israel and uh uh the Church of Jesus Christ. Uh the church now is um uh is uh uh in operation. We have our commission to take the gospel into all the world. That's uh uh that's what's operating now, the the New Testament church. We are awaiting the rapture of the church. It's the next great event. And we're looking forward to that trumpet sound, the archangel, in a moment, a twinkling of an eye, the last trumpet. We'll be caught up out of here. How many people vote Jesus comes back, raptures us today? Yeah, amen. Wouldn't that be great? And um uh so it's in his timing. So when we come to the book of Psalms. The book of Psalms is, for lack of a better term, a hymn book for the nation of Israel. Um these psalms that are in in the book of Psalms, they were penned and given by God The immediate purpose was for the nation of Israel to sing these as songs at their times of worship. They would come to the temple, and various psalms were used that various ceremonies and sacrifices and different feasts they would pull out different psalms. And so it was uh uh somewhat of a hymn book for the nation of Israel for their national worship at the temple, when they would come together to the temple on the Sabbath and on special feast days and whatnot. It was also used, the book of Psalms, was also used by the nation of Israel for their own personal worship As they would get together as a family in their homes, and they would pull out different psalms, and they would sing these psalms As a family, they would read scripture. Deuteronomy, it's very clear. I believe it's chapter 4. He says that the parents are to teach their children the Word of God in the home. You ought to have Scripture on the walls, he says. And it ought to be very, very public, very, very uh visible in the home, the Word of God, and uh reading scripture together and praying together as a family Not just as the nation of Israel. They would do that all on a national scale, as they would assemble, but each day in the homes, day by day, meditating therein, day and night And what they would do in the homes that were loved the Lord, Jehovah, and trusted him and were seeking to please him, they would gather the family together. They would read portions of Scripture. They would pray. And then they would sing various psalms out of the uh uh from the book of Psalms. They would sing different ones And so it was somewhat of a hymn book, what we understand a hymn book to be, but this is inspired and given to us by God Let me stop there, and I know I've been hounding this maybe a bit, but this is so vitally important. It would do our homes a heap of good. If we would establish the habit of a daily time of gathering the family together, reading the scriptures, praying together And singing a hymn, singing a psalm of praise unto the Lord. Would you agree with me? I could see that changing the atmosphere of a home. Amen or not. Just a little bit of time, maybe in the morning, maybe of an evening. Gather the kids together. Maybe the kids are grown and moved out, mom and dad. Get together, grandma, grandpa, get together, read a little scripture, uh pray together, sing a hymn together. Uh I'm telling you, it would change the whole home. It would change the home And so that's what Israel did. This book of Psalms was part of their national worship of God, their national praise to their Jehovah, but it was also personal. Now we look at Psalms and we find no reference to the church. I cannot find, in all the Psalms, 150 Psalms, I cannot find one reference to the church. Not direct or indirect. And we come to Psalms 100, no reference to the church. We find recorded in song form, psalm form, the history of Israel. There'll be references back, Psalm 78, there's great depth, the history of Israel, various others. But we don't find any direct prophecy about the church. About the church. In fact, we're told Paul tells us, uh, under the inspiration of God The church was a mystery in the Old Testament. Israel was not aware at that point. That information had not been given. However, now I said all that to say this Though Psalm one hundred is not referencing the church, I believe there are Characteristics, or I believe there's some lessons in Psalms 100 that can tell us how God's people should assemble together in his name. Is everybody with me still? Okay? Everybody alright? How many folks how many folks glad we're not having outdoor service this morning Praise the Lord for that. And um and so I know I know what Carol is thinking. She's thinking it feels like I'm outdoor. It's freezing in here. It can be 95 degrees in here. She's cold. Um that's all I'm saying. Psalms 100 does tell us how God's people should get assemble together in his name. Now, whether it's Israel as a nation and years gone by, or we can take these principles, we can take what's said here, and we can apply it to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. When we come to church on a snowy first Sunday of February, cold, bitter cold. We can come together. There's lessons here. We can learn how to come to church. How to come to church in a way that pleases the Lord. And so I want us to notice these. I want us to look at these. Now before I do that, before we look at Psalm 100 and start breaking it down, I want to give what I believe And forty some years of ministry, studying the Word of God, what I believe are four characteristics of a strong, healthy church. I want Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church to be a strong, spiritually strong church. Amen or not? I want us to be a spiritually healthy church, a healthy body of believers. Now I believe there are four characteristics. Now, this is not the message, this is just a little attachment to the message. Number one, I believe a strong, healthy church is a church characterized by prayer. By prayer. A church, a healthy church, a strong church is a praying church. Jesus rebuked uh uh the Pharisees and them. Of course, this was at the temple, but I think the application uh fits to the church. He came in and there was money changers there In other words, people would travel a long distance to come to Israel and come to the temple, and they're going to make their sacrifices, and what they would do is rather than hauling their uh sheep and oxen that they're going to sacrifice and the various things. They would just leave it they'd bring money and they would purchase their locally what they were going to sacrifice rather than ha ha hauling it all the all the way. I don't know, that in and of itself was nothing wrong with it. Here was the problem. The Pharisees would set up these money-changing tables all around the temple, and they would literally rip the people off. And they would charge exorbitant prices. Do you ever go to a Taurus trap and they charge it 10, 20 times what something normally would cost? And they just do that. That's what they were doing. And I tell you, that upset Jesus. Don't try and rip God's people off. And he came down. What did he do to the tables? He turned them over. He went in there, flipping those things over. You say, oh, Jesus would never do that. Yeah, he did. And he made a statement that helps us understand what He wants his people to be and uh by application what he wants the new time church. He says he says, You have made my the my house a den of fees. Now I'm not quoting verbatim. He says, You made my house a den of fees. You're a bunch of thieves. He said, My house shall be a house of what? Prayer. What he's saying there is, the people of God, when we assemble together, the church, by application, the church Should be a place of prayer. It should be characterized by prayer. It should be one of the things identifying a good, strong, healthy church is that church prays. Now, this is my opinion. I believe churches are making a serious mistake when they drop the midweek prayer service. I think we ought to have that. Now some have it Thursday or whatever, that's fine. But I think there ought to be, I think it's important and it's healthy and it pleases the Lord to have in the middle of the week a time when God's people come together and we spend time in prayer. I think our services ought to be characterized by prayer. Open them up in prayer, close them in prayer, pray throughout it. We have a teacher's prayer meeting in Sun on Sunday mornings before Sunday school. The teachers pray with their class In the class. We have men's prayer meeting at 6. 30 of the evening. We have monthly men's prayer breakfast, ladies' prayer, luncheon. We ought to be characterized by prayer every Saturday night. This group of fellows get together, kneel at the altar here, pray God's blessing, God's presence, God's power to be upon what we're doing. We ought to pray for our radio station. We ought to pray for our literature ministry. We ought to pray for our missionaries. Pray, pray, pray, pray. One of the characteristics of a strong, healthy church is that church knows how to pray. And they do it. Number two, a second characteristic, I believe My observation of a strong, healthy church, it's a praying church, it's a preaching church. The book of Acts is a blueprint for the New Testament church. I want a pattern as pastor. I want to pattern Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, not after some other church that's out there. I want to pattern us according to the church given to us in the book of Acts. That's the original. That's the model. That's the template for our church is the book of Acts. Now there are some things in the early church era, chapter 2. that were unique for that specific moment when the church was being established. Spirit of God came, it was a one-time event, some of that. But the pattern through the church In the book of Acts, our record we have of that ought to be what we pattern ourselves over. And what we find, if we study the book of Acts very, very carefully, we find that New Testament church was doing a lot of praying. Praying, praying, praying, praying, praying. And they were also doing a lot of preaching. They were preaching the Word of God. Some of the preachers in the early church were very dynamic Very eloquent. Others not so much. The Apostle Paul was a long-winded preacher. He preached till midnight one time And a guy was sitting in the window, Eudychus was his name, uh uh Greek name I believe, and uh he's preaching so long, he preached till midnight. Now now I don't seem so bad, you think about that, right I have never preached till midnight. I preached at midnight, but never to midnight. Um but the guy fell asleep. He fell asleep in his preaching. Now I wish I could say I've never had anybody fall asleep when I'm preaching, but um that's not true even as I speak right now. But um What I'm trying to say is this. They had dynamic preachers. They had some not so dynamic. Some were long, some were short. You read the sermons in there. Different styles, but I'll tell you one thing, every single one of them they were preaching the Word of God. That was a characteristic of that New Testament church And a good, strong, healthy church teaches the Bible in Sunday school. They preach the Bible from the pulpit. They broadcast the Word of God. They proclaim the Word of God. They preach the Word of God everywhere. Everywhere. Go everywhere preaching the Word of God. So number one A good, strong, healthy church is a praying church. We ought to make sure we get that emphasized in our church. It's a preaching church. I put this one down, number three, a pure church A new strong healthy uh spiritually healthy church is a pure church characterized by purity. Now I don't I'm spending longer on this than I wanted to, but Ephesians chapter 5, verse 25 through 27. So talks about the church being without spot, holy, without blemish The church at Corinth was rebuked sharply by the Apostle Paul. And we have that record in 1 Corinthians. And Paul rebuked them sharply because they tolerated and indulged in some awful, awful sin. And the teaching of Scripture is that the church ought to be pure. The church is described as the bride of Christ. And Jesus Christ wants his church to be clean and pure. I don't know about you, but I don't know that I would want to be a part of a church where the preaching did not confront sin. Right up front and scripturally. There needs to be preaching against sin. The church needs to constantly Be cautious and watch ourselves and be aware if we're allowing, as individuals, allowing sin to creep into our hearts and minds. Allowing sin, tolerating. Listen, as long as we're in this flesh, we're going to have to deal with sin. But we do not have to tolerate it. And when we fall, we get back up. And when we sin, we confess it and make it right. And we go on. God wants a pure church. So a good, strong, healthy church is a church that prays It's a church that preaches the Word of God. It's a church that is pure and righteous. By the way, that church at Corinth responded positively to Paul's rebuke. They made things right in 2 Corinthians. He praises them. Uh for doing that. And so a pure church, and then last of all, a characteristic of a strong, healthy church is a praising church. Acts chapter 2 and verse 46-47 says they and daily they assemble together, praising the Lord, praising God, praising God. And a church ought to be characterized by its praise. As I said, we ought to take a stand against sin. But we ought to be characterized by our praise. I know some preachers, and I'm not trying to be critical. Uh it's just, you know, everybody's different, but I have some associates I know, and uh man, they just they preach on sin, and amen for that. But that's all they do. And that's all the whole church is characterized as being against this and against that and they're against this and they're not for that and they're standing against this. And we need to do all that But I think God wants us to be characterized by our praise for His love and His goodness and His mercy He shows us and how He takes care of us. You follow what I'm saying And just character. What are those folks out at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church? What do they do? Well, I'll tell you one thing. Those folks pray. Good night. They pray. And I had a guy down in Mount Lake Park, I mentioned this recently, I knocked on this door, he said, I know about your church, you guys preach the Bible. Amen. We ought to be characterized. What do they do out there at Mount? Well, they preach the Word of God out there, I'll tell you that. They teach it. Uh uh well what do you know? Uh man they're pray they're pure. They uh man if they sin, they mess up, they make it right, they get things right, they they're trying to live right and be pure and please God That church praises God. Man, they just praise the Lord. They're just rejoicing. They're happy. They're praising God. And I believe those four characteristics describe a good, strong, healthy church. And that's what I would like for us to be. Amen? That's what I like for us. We may not be the biggest thing in town, but I tell you, we can please the Lord with with uh what we are And with these characteristics. Now, Psalms 100, I've got read this in my devotions. It's been several weeks ago. And I just got reading down through it. I thought, this sounds like some thoughts about how we should come to church And I wrote it in the margin of my Bible. I wrote there by the title. I put how to come to church. And I jot it down. I said to myself that morning in my devotion, I'm going to preach on this someday, and here we are. I see, I think Psalms 100, these five verses, are a manual on how God's people should come together to worship Him and praise Him. Would you look above verse number one? There's a title there. What does it say? It says a Psalm of Praise. How many people have that there on top of your? Sure, that's the title. Did you know that is the only psalm in all the book of Psalms that's the only one that has that title? No other psalm is titled by that. They have variations of it But God identifies these five verses, the Psalm 100, as a psalm of praise How to come to church. How to come to church. Now, when we come to church, first of all, this is, I believe, how we should come. We should come and we should sing joyfully. We should sing joyfully. Look at verse number one. Make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lands. By the way, do you catch that little missions emphasis there? All ye lands. God wants every nation have people singing praises to him, singing joyfully. Come down to verse number two. Look at the last part of verse two. Come before his presence with what? Singing. Look at verse number four. Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, into his courts with praise. Be thankful unto him and bless his name. We ought to sing joyfully. From Genesis to Revelation, the Bible is filled with singing, songs The Old Testament, back there we have the Song of Moses. We have the Song of Miriam. David sang. Many of the Psalms were penned by David, songs that he sang. Um when um when David came in from killing the Philistines, uh the women came out and they sang, Saul has slain his thousands and David his tens of thousands. Now that got under Saul's skin, caused a lot of problem. But the fact of the matter is they were singing They were praising God, praising what God had done through these men. And the Bible is filled with singing. We're studying Psalms 40 and Sunday nights. You ought to get in on this. It's been a blessing to me. And David says, there, he says, I waited pace for the Lord, he inclined to me and heard my cry. And he brought me up out of a horrible pit, out of the miry clay, set my feet upon a rock, established, and he had put a new song In my heart. A song in my heart. We ought to come and sing joyfully to the Lord. Sing joyfully. He wants us to sing. Paul and Silas. When it was Acts chapter 16, they're in prison. They're beaten badly, bloody. They're taken to the inner prison, the worst of the worst of the prison. They're in bonds. They're in stocks and bonds. They can't even move. And at midnight, the Bible says, they griped and complained about their treatment, right or wrong? No. They prayed and they sang praises to God. There was something in the heart of the people of God that has to sing. There's something there in Paul and Silas's heart, and in the most unpleasant, in the most violent circumstances Yet down inside their heart, there was a song of praise and rejoicing to God. We come together as a church, we ought to sing joyfully to the Lord. We ought to sing Revelation. Study the book of Revelation. That book is filled with singing. Before the throne, singing praises to the Lamb of God. And uh singing, singing, singing. Uh Ephesians chapter 5, verse 19 says one of the characteristics of a spirit-filled believer is singing and making melody in their heart. Colossians chapter 3 and verse 16 says that singing reveals the condition of a church. Our song. Our song. The condition of my heart will my songs I sing, let me put it this way, the songs I sing will reveal the condition of my heart The world sings songs about uh some parts of the music world. They'll sing songs about uh broken heart and She uh uh uh my my old ex stole my dog and ran off with the truck and uh Right? And I'll go drink a beer and you know, cry in my beer. And uh you know why they sing that? It's in their heart. That's their life. And uh and now there's I hate everybody, I hate the world, I hate my wife, I hate my mother. You know, you know why they do that? Because their hearts are filled with what? Hey. My song tells what's in my heart. When I'm filled with the Holy Spirit, I'm walking with God. I have the presence of God. There's a song. God puts a song in my heart. Does anybody know, have any idea what I'm talking about? A song in my heart I tell you, we get thoroughly right with God. Now we all have ups and downs, and we, you know, it's like three steps forward, two back, and our spiritual growth. You know what I'm talking about? And uh you you that but uh I tell you, we get our we get in tune with the Lord, and God puts a song there. And uh anybody here ever just catch yourself just singing a song of praise to God? You're not even thinking about it, just there. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You know what I think that is? I think that's the presence of the Holy Spirit Colossians tells us that, Ephesians tells us that a melody in our heart, singing unto the Lord. Say, preacher, I just I just don't sing because you know people around me would hear me Why are you singing for the people around you? You're supposed to be singing to the Lord, amen or not? And uh, you know, some of us could use some lessons But whether you got whether you got lessons or not, here's something. I like what Lester Roll said. Jesus never yet has complained about my singing. Some of y'all have, but uh Jesus never did. Jesus never did. I tell you, a church ought to sing, amen or not. You ought to sing. We'll lift our voices up. Yeah. I wish all of you, we should take turns, have all y'all sit up here sometime when the church is singing And just look at people's faces while they're singing, I am so happy in Christ today that I go singing. Give me a break You know? And then there's others that just sit there and don't say anything. And we laugh about that, but I tell you, it breaks my heart. There's somebody that knows the Lord, have the presence of God in the life, they have eternal life, their sins have all been forgiven, saved from sin in hell, and there's no song, there's no praise to God God pity a church that doesn't sing joyfully. Just get together and sing and just raise the roof. And sing. Years ago when we first came here back in the early nineties, we didn't have any air conditioner or anything, so the summertime, some of y'all might remember this, we would open the windows here in the summer, we would get Uh believe it or not, there's about a couple weeks where it actually gets hot in Garrett County. And um we'd open the windows and uh I'll tell you, I love it. We'd say one time when the church had started and I left my notes from a sermon over at the house. So while they were singing I had to run over the house to get my notes. And while I was going, the windows were open, and I tell you, the whole neighborhood could hear the church singing You can just hear out along the road, uh amazing grace, and just that song going out. I you know what I think? I think that pleases the Lord To hear his people sing, the Bride of Christ singing praises to him. I want to challenge you. When you come to church, get the hymn book out, lift your voice up, and just sing to God's glory. Amen. Let's raise the roof. Let's just raise the roof. So number one, come to church, sing joyfully, sing joyfully. Uh the first time when I first got saved, I went to church. I w the one-to-one church there was incredibly liberal. Here's the thing, I was one week old in the Lord. I got saved on Monday night. I went to that church on Sunday just down the road from our house I was the only person in the whole church that had a Bible. I didn't know anything, but I knew to take my Bible to church. They didn't preach the Bible, they didn't do anything. So I went to the next church The next church I went to was a good fundamental gospel preaching church. And they sang a hymn. We got in there. And I hadn't been in church for years since I was little. And they started singing a song. Oh, oh, what a wonder that Jesus loves me. I am so glad that Jesus loves me. And I didn't know any hymns, I didn't know the books of the Bible, I didn't know nothing. I was sitting there and they started singing that, and those words from when I was a little kid, I was taught those in Sunday school, those words came back. And I found myself singing, oh what a wonder that Jesus loves me Sing joyfully. Sing joyfully. Let the Holy Spirit fill you and sing joyfully, Lord. Let me, I gotta go quickly. Number two, put this one down. Serve happily. Look at verse 2, the second part Serve the Lord or the first part, serve the Lord with gladness. The word serve means labor for the good of others. Serve others is the idea. Serve the Lord with gladness. That means pleasure, happily, joyfully. Did you ever go through a Chick-fil-A restaurant and um and uh I think they're gonna have Chick-fil-A in heaven, I'm not sure. But uh you go through there and you say they give you like some uh sauce, special sauce, and uh and you get and you say, Oh thank you for getting that for me. What do they say? It's My pleasure. It's my pleasure. You know, we ought to serve the Lord and be able to say to the Lord, Lord, it is my pleasure to serve you. To serve you with gladness. It's a pleasure for me to serve my God. Ah, Sunny's, I have listen, serving God, teaching a Sunday school class or working a bus route or singing a choir or pastoring whatever role, deaconing, whatever role I might have, whatever service I may give to the Lord in church. It's not some right that I have or some obligation I have. I'm telling you serving God in the local church is a privilege It is a pleasure to serve God. And then we get to the judgment seat of Christ, and he says, Well done. And he rewards us. We're honored by our Savior for serving him. What a privilege. What a blessing. I don't want to do nothing. I tell you, you're missing out. You're missing out. We ought to come to church to serve and to serve with gladness Sort of joyfully, willingly. I like to say this, and uh sometimes you know folks they don't actually do this, but has this idea they'll walk in the back door, all right, bless me if you can. I tell you, you're missing the whole point. The point is come and be a blessing. Amen? To serve, to help, be a blessing. I tell you, just a smile to another person in the church, just a handshake, say, I appreciate it. It's good to see you. And put your arm around. That may change someone's weakness. You don't know what people are going through. People are hurting. And we come in and we just serve others. I want to be a blessing to others. I want to teach children the word of God see their lives changed. I want to run a bus and bring people in that would never come to church and bring them in and have them meet the Lord and know the Lord And have their lives changed. I want to serve I want to clean and work around here so God's house is nice and neat and presentable and honors him. We want to take you follow what I'm saying Serve the Lord with gladness. So number one, sing joyfully, serve happily. 2 Corinthians 9:7 says, God loveth a cheerful giver. I'll say God loveth a cheerful server, to serving God. We used to sing a song: I will serve thee because I love thee. You have given life to me. I think I need some lessons, brother. But I will serve you because I love you. Are you serving God? You have a ministry? You doing it joyfully, or are you like the Old Testament priests that grudgingly and oh I've got to do this, I've got to do that, I better I better get some. I had a guy tell me one time he sang a special and afterward I'd ask him if he would sing. He said He goes, Well, if I have to. I said, Well, it would be a blessing. And so he sang and afterward he says, You owe me. You know, that's not what God's looking for. Amen. Just serve joyfully, serve willingly, serve happily, happily, and then submit willingly. Look at verse 3. Know ye that the Lord He is God. It is he that hath made us, and not we ourselves. We are his people. We are his possession. We are his people, the sheep of his pasture. I put it this way. We are to submit to God willingly. When God speaks to our heart and he says, This is my will for you. This is what I want you to do. Stay away from this. Get involved in that. Do this. Don't. And God gives us instructions as a church and as individuals. We come together and say, Lord I'm willing to submit to you. You are God, not me. You made me. I didn't make you. I didn't make myself. Lord, you are God. I'm your possession. 1 Corinthians 6. 19 says, ye are not your own. You're bought with a price. Wherefore glorify God in your body. Submit to him. We are his people. We are his sheep. He's created us. He owns us by creation. He's the one that gave us the life. He's the one that created us. We're his. And then we sinned, and then he died and shed his blood and paid for our sins and redeemed us back. And we're his by creation and by redemption. He owns us twice. And we submit to him. Dr. Creed, uh we all know Dr. Creed here, who is a dear mentor of mine. He went to be with the Lord this past uh Friday night. And uh but he said uh Lee Bowman over in West Virginia, another preacher friend of mine was out of his church. Brother Bowman said one time they were at a fellowship after church And uh he says he for some reason he remembers this he was eating peanuts, and Dr. Creed walked up to him and said, Uh, Lee, uh, when are you going to get serious about living for God and submit to God? Let him have his way in your life. And he and and Brother Bowman said uh well um uh uh he didn't know what to say. He said, but God Started working in his heart. Just that one statement started dealing with his heart, dealing with his heart. He finally submitted himself to the Lord. Say, Lord, not my will, your will. God, what do you want from me And then God used him in evangelism in various ways all these many years. Submitting. Saying, Lord, what do you have me to do? That's why we give invitations every time we preach. God speaks the heart. We want to respond, submit to the Lord. Yes, Lord, I submit willingly to you. You're God. Want your will to be done, want you to have your way. Take my life and let it be consecrated, Lord, to thee. There's not a church in the world that God can't revive. I don't care how dead that church is. I don't care how cold, sorry, lazy that church is, that church will submit to the Lord. He can revive it. He can bring it back to life and make it a good, strong, healthy church. But we have to submit to him. There's not a soul that God can't save. Doesn't matter how hard that heart may be, it doesn't matter how far from God they may seem to be, I'm here to tell you, if we submit to God, God can save even the worst of sinners. Amen or not? God can. He's God. And we submit to him. There's not a marriage. God can't heal. There's not a need. God can't meet. There's not a sin. God won't forgive If we'll just come and submit to him, let him have his way. Lord, you're right. I agree with you. I submit to you. Last of all, let me put this down. We need to trust him completely. Trust him confidently. Look at verse 5. For the Lord is good. His mercy is everlasting. His truth endureth to all generations. Here we have four characteristics of our God that we ought to keep in mind when we come together to church. He's good He's merciful and he's true. That is the basis of all our service, the goodness and mercy, and truth of God. Our faith is not a blind faith. It's not just, ah, when I first got to say, ah, Jesus got blind faith. No, it's not blind faith. It's faith that is grounded in the truth of God's Word and in the character of Almighty God. And my faith and our faith is in a God that is good. And we trust Him. But confidence, because we know he's good. Say preacher, God's allowed some things I don't understand. They don't look good. They they're hard. They're difficult. That doesn't make sense I know that, as a lot of times that's the way it peers, but behind all of it, we've got to be confident that we have a God that is good. He knows what he's doing. He loves us. And he allows changes in our life. And he allows trials in our life and disappointments and setbacks. He allows all of that And behind all of it is his goodness. And we trust him. You follow? You follow me? We come and we sing and we praise and we serve because our God is good. He's beneficial. There was a when I was in Bible college there was a blind guy showed up and um uh I don't remember where he was from, but he was he was enrolled in college. He was blind. I mean blind as a bat. He not And that guy was something else. He memorized how many steps. Now the the school there, Tennessee Temple, was in the city. It wasn't an enclosed campus. It was just open, traffic and everything He would memorize how many steps it was from one intersection on the campus there to the next, and when he'd walk, he'd he'd knew exactly where that uh sidewalk was. He would just stop, he had a little stick, but he didn't hardly ever use it. Every now and then he would lose count or get out of whack And so he would find and um and uh he'd be, he'd get up across the insection, and somehow somebody would talk to him or something, and he'd get out of whack, and he'd walk along and oh I mean he s I saw him one time he smoked smack face plant into a telephone pole. What he stepped back He went, well, praise the Lord. And just go around. And then he'd go, and then somebody bone, Well, glory to God. I tell you what, that guy knew the Lord. He had a present of God. Most of us, we do that and be like, not him. He's praising God. Praising the Lord. I don't know about you, but I'd like to have some of that in my life. God's good. He said, well, God's good. Praise the Lord. Wave his little cane. Trust God confidently. He's merciful. The church is not a museum. The church is a rehab center. It's a merged room where a bunch of sinners come. We hear about the love of God. We hear about the blood of Christ that was shed for our sins, how he died for us, was buried, rose again. And we find forgiveness and we find new hope and we find second chances. And we find a God that cares about me and loves me no matter how I mess up. And if I'll confess and I'll agree with him about my condition, he'll forgive me and show mercy. Help me go on. How many people are glad for the mercy of God? God's good. He's merciful. He's true. He's someone I can trust. I can build my life. On the Word of God. We ran a bus route down. For some reason I've been reminiscing back my early years, Bible college and training. We had bus routes and I mentioned them often over the years into the inner city of Chattanooga there. We go and pick up kids in the projects. We go in on Sunday afternoons, it was called afternoon Sunday school. They ran the bus in the morning They'd come back and then we'd send them out again in the afternoon and go to a different area. And my route, my division, it's about three or four buses that we had, we go into the inner city projects. And I mean we're off Drugs and and prostitution and drunkenness and gangs. I mean rough. These little kids, it was horrific. We'd bring 'em in, we'd teach 'em about the Lord, we'd preach to 'em, warn 'em about sin, try and point 'em to Christ. We saw a lot of young people saying. They had a revival at the church and I went ran the bus there in the projects. I did it at night. We weren't supposed to because it was really dangerous, but we picked up some kids, brought them out There's a fellow named Michael Suggs. He was probably about 14, 15 years old. I mean rough. Gangs. Drugs. Rough. Mouth He came to church, came to the revival meeting. Lo and behold, the end of the preaching, he's at the altar. There's somebody there with the open Bible showing him how to get saved. He got back on the bus. It's dark. We're going home after church that night. He's riding. I said, Michael, what happened? He goes, I trusted Jesus tonight. He said, I got saved. So that's wonderful. We had seen a lot over the years, you know, go through the motions or whatever. That next Sunday, Michael was there. He had a Bible, 14 years old in a project, had a Bible, had a tie on And he rode that bus. He was back the next week. And then we'd go pick him up Sunday nights in the car. And old Michael, God got a hold of him. And he wanted to be at church every single time those doors were open. He fell in love with Jesus. I saw him Oh, I was again I was a college student, but I saw him cut standing there and other kids in the project. I mean there's no grass, it's all just dirt and beer cans laying everywhere Now the kids would be laughing at him. Ah, look at him, going to New Highland Park. And he'd just stand there with his Bible. And he'd get on the bus. You know what happened? God changed his life And he wanted to come to church, and he wanted to praise the Lord, and he wanted to be what God wanted to be. Wasn't long after that, I graduated, we got got married. I'd called us up to Indianapolis and I lost touch with Michael. Often wondered whatever happened to him. One thing about Michael, he loved his church. God saved him. A teenage boy in an inner city project, God turned his heart around. Isn't that something? I wonder how many folks remember Michael Irvin. He used to sit right here. Everybody remember Michael? Old Vietnam war vet Came home and went moved into the nursing home. I don't think he uh hardly lived outside of the nursing home, just young, got messed up in the war He came to Dr. Don Williams' meeting, saw the chalk drawing, came and got saved. God got a hold of Urban. He was here every time. He'd be here in church every time. Lived over at the Bennett Road He'd sing. He'd sit up here, people in behind him. I'd sit up there, I'd sing him. He would just, he didn't hardly talk at all, if you remember, he never hardly talked to anybody. But man, he would sing these songs, have his hymn book. Just sing. Love the Lord. I did his funeral. Buried him out at lead mine way in the back there. And uh the family came to me. I never met any of his family. They came to me and he said, Pastor Leatherman, you will never know how much your church changed Irving's life. He said he was a different man. Now it wasn't our church. We know that. It was the Lord. Amen. And God got a hold of him and he loved the church and he'd sing and he'd do whatever he could. Lord wants us to be a good, strong, healthy church Let's pray. Father, I ask you to help us to sing joyfully. Help us to serve you gladly. Lord, help us to submit to you willingly. And then Lord help us to just honor you in our lives. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher? I want to be the church member that God wants me to be. I want these characteristics. Any like that, God bless you. Maybe some of us need to start singing. Just let the Holy Spirit fill us and sing to Him. Maybe some need to start serving willingly. Whatever God may have spoken to your heart, we invite you to come this morning. Do business with God. Be pure and clean. So there's someone here this morning, say, preacher, I don't know for sure when I die, I'm going to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know for sure that my sins are forgiven and that God has saved me. Any like that, say, preacher, pray for me. I need God to help me settle that. Any at all? Father, I pray you bless now our imitation in Jesus' name.