Chapter number four. We're working our way through the book of James. And uh we're up to chapter four already. And uh I've been enjoying studying this and preaching this, and uh I hope it's the Lord's using it. We start a new chapter and he kind of begins a new subject uh a little bit carry over from the previous chapter, but Before we get to that, here we go. Are you ready for this? Um why were the Indians here first? Because they had reservations. Yeah. I tell you I got a whole list of these this week, so you're gonna have to endure them Uh school a clas a class in school went on a trip to the Coca-Cola factory and afterward they had a pop quiz. The energizer the energizer buddy was bunny was arrested. He was charged with battery. Here's a question for you. How does Moses make his tea, Sandy? He brews it. All right. You've heard these before, apparently. Uh I found out I found out the other week that I have type oh well we thought we I have type A blood, but it was a type O. I had a type oh get it oh. I was wondering why that baseball kept getting bigger and bigger and then it hit me. Uh and here's this is this is the last one. I promise broken pencils are pointless. So th th those are sad, right? James chapter four. I'm just gonna we read one verse and um I'm just going to give the first point of our message tonight. I just want to kind of set the groundwork for the coming weeks. But look at verse number one of James chapter 4. From whence come wars and fightings among you? Good question, huh? Where does all this fussing and fighting come from? Come they not hence, even of your what? Lusts, that war in your members Verse 2, he says, You lust and have not, you kill and desire to have and cannot obtain, ye fight in war, yet ye have not, because you ask not. You're going about the wrong way to get it. Subject is this, how to end a war. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless our time in your word. Help me, Lord, to be get to the point. I ask, Lord, you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit and speak through me. I present my body anew this hour. I yield my will to you. I pray you'd open our hearts and minds. And I pray, Lord, that Lord, I pray that maybe as a result of the truths that we're going to touch on here, that maybe a workplace in the coming weeks and months would be a little more peaceful. God, maybe uh a home Would be a little more peaceful, or maybe a heart would be a little more peaceful, if you just touch our hearts and teach us and help us to understand and apply. this portion of Scripture to our lives. I ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. We finished out chapter 3 comparing, or the Bible compares, earthly wisdom with heavenly wisdom. The product of exercising earthly wisdom and living my life by this world's wisdom, this world's perspective is chaos, strife. envying, uh, and all that type of thing. We noticed that, we were taught that in that passage. But we're also taught that if we live our lives from heaven's perspective, if we apply to our living Heavenly wisdom, that the result of that, the fruit of that is peace. And uh now we get into chapter number four. And he addresses this matter of war and fighting and um and the results in a sense of Of the lack of heavenly wisdom that is applied to our situations and the results that go by. The history of the world is a history of war. Beginning with Satan's rebellion against God, and in a sense, in Isaiah 14, he basically declares war against God. And that war between Satan and God, hell and heaven, that war spills over into man's experience. And as God created man, and Satan, I believe, took issue with that. And then we find not long after man's creation and then fall as a result of Satan's rebellion against God spills into man's existence. Then we not far into it and we find war within the family. We find Cain killing, murdering his brother Abel. And from there on down, it's been a history of warfare. In homes, in communities, between nations, between families, between individuals, warfare has spilled into the hearts We're going to notice this as we go through here. There's warfare even within our own hearts, a war between the old nature and new nature. And so, as I said, the history of the world is the history of war. The history of mankind is the history of war. From the first family, the very first home, even to this day. I thought it was interesting. I came across a report by the Minnesota Crime Commission. They had done a study on delinquency and crime and they were trying to find its causes. It was a government-sponsored, a state-sponsored commission and a study, and in 1926 The Minnesota Crime Commission came to this conclusion. Listen very carefully. They said this. Every baby starts life as a little savage. He is completely selfish and self-centered. He wants what he wants when he wants it. His bottle, his mother's attention, his playmate's toy, his uncle's watch Deny him these once, and he seethes with rage. He seeth with rage and aggressiveness, which would be murderous were he not so helpless. He's dirty. He has no morals, no knowledge, no skills. Now the This is the state, Minnesota's Crime Commission saying this, and then this they made that statement, they came to that conclusion, then they make this statement This means that all children, not just certain children, are born delinquent. Now get this. If permitted to continue in the self-centered world of his infancy, Given free reign to his impulsive actions to satisfy his wants, every child would grow up to be a criminal, a thief, a killer, or a rapist. I thought, wow, what a profound observation. In other words, this is what I took away from this. In other words, if a child is left to himself, If there's no corrective discipline, if there's nothing in there to alter his behavior, that childish self-centeredness, that childish demands Will be carried into adult life where it can actually do a tremendous amount of damage as he becomes able to carry out his demands. I think we look at the news and we see that. I think the behavior in Ferguson and and uh in uh some of our cities in Baltimore and different places, I think that is just infant demands being carried out by adults. We see war within society, war between races, war uh class warfare. It's not a pretty picture. And in James chapter 1, as we just read, he asks the question, where does this come from? Whence come these wars and fightings among you? I want to, my first point in the message, and all I'm going to give tonight, is the reality of war. The reality of this war. He's asking the question, as I just said, where does all this war come from? Now I want to look at a couple words he uses here. He says, From whence come wars and fightings among you. He uses two words here, wars and fightings. Now the word wars there has this idea, disputes, strife, or quarrels. The word war there and what I read that when I read the word war, I'm thinking of shooting bombs at each other and throwing hand grenades and and uh you know artillery going back and forth and planes dropping. I think of that, but that's not necessarily what he's addressing here. He's talking about here The conflict and the strife that goes on between individuals, the quarrels that we go, but by using the word war He's addressing not just a little issue comes up that we might fuss about a little bit and get over and go on, but by using the word war, he's addressing a continual, extended conflict And it's a reality. He says, whence come these? They're in existence. They're there. He says, where are they coming from? He's not using a hypothetical thing. Well, we might have a war or Could possibly have some fights? He goes, No. They're there. They're in the church. They're in your existence. They're in your family This extended continual ongoing war, quarrel, strife, dispute. Where does that come from? Then he uses the other word, fightings, and this is a little bit more violent word. The definition is a little bit more violent word than the word wars there. The word fightings there has the idea we might refer to it as combat. Jody getting to blows, you know, somebody gets in an argument and it gets more and more heated And it gets to the point where it crosses the line, it gets to that boiling point where it's no longer just a verbal assault, it becomes a physical assault. And things start flying. And fists start flying, and frying pans come out. And it becomes a battle, a hostile engagement between some people. He is, where does this come from? He's not saying this is a possibility it will happen. He's not saying this could be. Hypothetically, there might be wars. I wonder if there was. Where would they come from? No, he says that he's addressing this as a present reality. And as I pointed out, and we're going to see it later on in a later message, these are very real A very a it's it's reality. Um Psalms 133 verse 1, the Bible says this. This is a good verse. It says, Behold, this is God speaking. This is this is our Creator talking to us, his creatures This is our Savior talking to us who have trusted him. He says, behold how good And how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in what? Unity. God says that's good. That's pleasant. God wants his people to get along. I would venture to say, every one of his parents, as parents here tonight, we want our kids to get along. In fact, we discipline them if they don't. How many parents, how many parents here would agree with me and say, you know, when my kids, when my kids fuss with each other, it hurts me. Anybody testify to that? It hurts. I know a little bit what I'm talking about on this one. When mom and dad are fussing It hurts the kids. It hurts them. They might not say it. They might not show it. They might not be able to express it like you and I would express our hurt. I guarantee it's there. It's there. Can I say this? When God's people fuss, whether it's a husband and wife or brothers or church members or co-workers or neighbors, when God's people fuss, can I say this? It hurts God. It grieves our Heavenly Father, our Savior, the one that loves us and created us. But nevertheless, it's a reality. God's desire for mankind is to be at peace. God didn't create man to fight and kill and hate and and fuss. It's not why we were created. God's desires for all mankind to be at peace, especially God's people, loving each other in harmony with each other. It's what God wants. That's God's intention. That's God has given us his word. He's given us his Holy Spirit. He's given us the church. To help us and guide us and direct our thinking so that we can live at peace How good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity. The reality of war, it's there. This is not God's will. This is not God's plan. Where does this come from? That's what he's addressing here in the subject, the reality of it. As much as God wants his people to live at peace, yet all through Scripture we find God's people fussing with each other. All through scripture, from early on, we find God's people warring with each other. We mentioned Cain and Abel. That ended in murder. Thought about and we could give uh an ex I'm not going to give an exhaustive list. We'd be here for days But I thought about Lot fussing with Abraham. Lot and his crowd and flussing with Abraham and they end up having to go separate ways. Lot, of course, made the horrendous decision to pitch his tent towards Sodom and all the consequences of that. All that came out of an inability for Lot to get along with Abraham. Absalom went to war against his father David. In the household, of course, this is consequences of David's horrendous decision with Bathsheba. But Uri ends up being killed, others end up being killed, and war erupts within that family. These are God's people. This isn't Ben Hadad that we preached on this morning. This isn't pagans out there. These are God's people, taught the Word of God. They know the Jehovah, the true and living God. And yet The reality of wars and fightings. I thought I have tremendous, tremendous respect for Job. What a man of God. We get to heaven. I look forward to seeing Job and talking with him. Uh old Joanne's up there now, Cisler. I don't know if she's seen Job yet, but I wish I'd have told her some questions I had to tell him ahead of time. I didn't think of that. But uh what amazing man Job was. Do you know what? His wife bust at him. There was a disruption in a man as godly and as perfect, the Bible says, of course, biblical term. As perfect and righteous and upright and just as Job and yet there wasn't perfect harmony in that home She fussed at him. Why don't you just curse why don't you still retain your integrity? Why don't you just curse God and die? I don't know about you, but that to me was a stagger in the heart of Job, I would imagine. The reality, all through even the best of God's people, even the most godly, strongest faith. They had to deal with this. It is a reality of life that people have a hard time getting along. Let me qualify that. It is a reality of life that God's people often have a hard time getting along. In the home and even in the church. Take your Bibles. We're going to look at a few verses and I'm going to quit. Matthew chapter 20 And notice with me if you would. We're going to go down through a list of these, so keep your Bible handy. Matthew chapter 20 and verse number 20. Here is the Lord Jesus Christ. And um Jesus is the Son of God. He is perfect, He's sinless, He's pure, He is holy, He is good, He is everything. That God created man to be. Jesus is the second Adam And he's got twelve men that he's called to be his disciples. He's mentoring them. They are in the inner circle. They are intimate with Jesus Christ. They are being taught one-on-one by Jesus Christ. Look like looks like to me, if anybody was able to get along It was Jesus and all his little nest of uh his little uh flock of disciples. They're all just getting along in perfect harmony. I mean, good night. They're right with Jesus in his physical immediate presence all the time Look at verse 20 with me in Matthew 20. Then came to him the mother of Zebedee's children with her sons, worshiping him, and so she's being respectful, and she's desiring a certain thing from the Lord Jesus And he said unto her, What wilt thou? She saith unto him, Grant that these my two sons may sit, the one on thy right hand, and the other on thy left, in thy kingdom. I think it's interesting. I wonder why she didn't ask that Peter and Andrew sit with him. She wants her sons to hold this position. She's being a little bit. Selfish. Whence come wars and fightings among you? We're going to find out in another message. But we see a little hint here. She's not asking that the lowliest, Matthew was a publican, he was hated. Wonder why she didn't say, you know, be really nice Somebody that was hated by so many people as a as a tax collector, that'd be nice if he could sit at the right hand. She don't say that. She goes, I want my kids there. Look what happens. Jesus answered and said, You know not what you ask. Are you able to drink of the cup That I shall drink of and be baptized with the baptism that I am to be baptized. And they, they're apparently with her, they say unto him, We're able. They still really don't know what they're talking about. And he saith to them, Ye shall indeed drink of my cup and be baptized with the baptism that I'm baptized with. But to sit on my right hand and on my left is not mine to give, but it shall be given to them for whom it is prepared of my Father. Now look at this. First, a little bit of a selfish, not bad, but a little bit of a selfish request. Look at the consequences. And when the ten heard it. They were moved with what? Indignation against the two brethren A little bit of selfishness. I went my way, I went my request, I went with my boys, and the consequence is the other ten. Did you hear Do you hear what her their mom asked? They want to be. Who do they think they are? And boy, it gets gone. Do you see it? And suddenly there's a fuss. And there's quote unquote war, division, strife. And there's indignation. They're moved with indignation. But Jesus called them unto him and said, Ye know that the princes of the Gentiles exercise dominion over them, and they that are great exercise authority upon them. But it shall not be so among you. Whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister. And whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant. Even as the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister and give his life a ransom for many. Those last statements, verse 26 through 28, you know what Jesus is doing? I mean, he's teaching us a principle of the kingdom here, but he's also doing something else. He's making peace within the flock. He's having to address that indignation they had with each other and the division that's taken place, the war, so to speak, that's erupting. So even within the disciples, even within the inner circle of Jesus' key men that he's mentoring and training to be leaders of the coming kingdom, of the coming church age. There's division. What I'm trying to say is this. It's a reality. James asks, what does this come from? He's not saying it could be, it might be, he says it is. Why where is this coming from? How is this happening I think if we understand where the strife comes from, we can take a giant step forward in keeping it from happening That's what he's getting at. Turn with me if you would to Acts chapter 13. How many people agree with me that Apostle Paul is probably one of, if not the greatest Christian that ever lived? Anyone hold that view? I think so. I mean, of course, we don't know all the Christians out there, but you read Apostle Paul, he's an amazing man. Barnabas is one of my heroes in the Bible. And turn with me to Acts chapter 13, and you say, if anybody can get along, if anybody can function without fussing, it would be Paul and Barnabas. Good night, these guys are something else, spiritual giants. Uh oh. Look at verse thirty six of Acts chapter thirteen is not correct. Ax chapter s shifteen. Acts chapter fifteen Whew, Lord help me find that one quick. Look at Acts chapter 15, verse number 36. And after some days And some days after Paul said unto Barnabas, all right, here's these two great giants missionaries. They had a phenomenal mission trip the first round. Let us go again and visit our brethren in every city where we have preached the word of the Lord and see how they do. They're going to go do some follow-up. And Barnabas determined to take with him John, whose surname was Mark. But Paul thought it not good to take him with them, who departed from them from Pamphylia and went not with them to the work. The first trip Mark started out, he quit for whatever reason went back. And that didn't sit well with Paul. Barnabas thinking, oh, we ought to give him another chance. And these two great spiritual giants disagreed on something and they were able to peacefully solve this and work it out and go forward and do great things for God. Look what happens. And the contention, verse 39, was so sharp between them that they departed asunder one from the other. I mean they got mad and went separate ways. And Barnabas took Mark and sailed to Cyprus. Paul chose Silas and departed, being recommended by the brethren and the grace of God, and he went through Syria and Seleucia. uh confirming the churches. I put in the margin of my Bible, we saw verse 39, Proverbs 13, 10. Only by pride cometh what? Contention. It says contention was there. The reality. Come with me if you would. I've got to go a little quicker here. In 1 Corinthians chapter 6. Now, we're studying the church at Corinth in Sunday school. And um I don't know about you, but I can just look at Church of Corinth and say, all right, I can see fussing going on there. That church. Yeah, that makes sense. They're a mess. They've got a lot of issues. In chapter 6, verse 1 through 8, and I'm not going to read this now, but they're fussing with each other within the church. In fact, the fussing is getting to such a point that they're going to court One church member is suing the other church member going to the unsaved heathen to try and solve their little issues within there. And Paul rebukes them and says, What's the matter with you guys? You haven't got anybody mature enough to figure out what's the right thing to do here? Come with me if you would. And Galatians chapter 5. Church at Galatia was a phenomenal church. Strong. They had a little issue, some doctrinal issues, but for the most part, they were a good, strong church. And in Galatians chapter five and verse number thirteen For brethren, ye have been called unto liberty. Only use not liberty for an occasion to the flesh. Look at this. But by love serve one another. For all the law is fulfilled in one word. Even this, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Now look at verse 15. Apparently this was going on in the church. But if ye bite and devour one another, take heed that ye be not consumed one of another, one of another. Apparently, within the church there, this good strong church. They were biting and devouring each other. You say, surely Christians don't treat each other that way. Paul had to address it there. Come over to Ephesians. I've got two more verses. Ephesians chapter 4. And verse 1 through 3. I, therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that you walk worthy of the vocation whereof you are called with lowliness and meekness, with long suffering, bearing one another in love. Look at this. Endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. Now my conclusion from the church is Ephesus is this. They were getting along. My conclusion is they were, you know, they were loving each other, being gracious, being patient with each other. For the most part there was harmony there, and they were working along. But Paul, under the inspiration of God, writes to them and he gives them a very serious warning. He says, Listen, you've got to endeavor to what? Keep the unity of the Spirit. He says, listen, don't just take this for granted. Don't just ignore it. Don't just assume it's always going to be that way. You've got to stay focused. You've got to keep working at this. You've got to endeavor to keep what you have. Because fussing and fighting is a reality of human experience. And if you're in a situation where there is peace and there is harmony, you have got to stay focused on that and work at that And he's addressing them there. Let me give you one more. The church at Philippi is one of my favorite churches in the Bible. Thessalonica and the church at Philippi are amazing churches. In chapter 4, Philippians chapter 4 Now I'm tempted to make some smart remarks here, but I won't do it. Tom is teaching me. to keep bite my tongue. Look at verse chapter four, verse one. Therefore, my brethren, dearly beloved, and long for my joy and crown, so stand fast in the Lord, my dearly beloved. And look at how would you like to be these two ladies? I beseech Judais and beseech Syntecti that they be of the same mind in the Lord. Now here are these two ladies. Apparently they were apparently they were not getting along. They were not of the same mind in the Lord. They were just, ah, there was wars and fighting. And this is what gets me. For all of eternity, how many people believe that God has preserved his word? Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word shall not pass away. That means they are recorded in the eternal word of God, these poor ladies. That they didn't get along. And so 14 million years from now we're going to be a new heaven and new earth. Let's get the Bible out and read the Bible. Oh, there's Senti and Senecty, or however you say their names And they're like, yes, that was us. This is the old nature. We were in the flesh. Give us a break. But in a good church like Philippi, they had people that had a hard time getting along. Now, I hate to end the message here, but the reality is we live in fallen, we have we are fallen beings And we are selfish. Can I get a witness? You say, I'm not, but my spouse is. Yeah, right. My kids are yeah, their parents, your kids' parents are very selfish. And so James is addressing a very serious and a very real issue: wars and fightings among God's people. Now he uses strong words: wars and fightings. And he says, where do these come from? They're real, they're there. Now we're going to look in coming weeks, as I said, coming messages, we'll look at where they come from and how to put an end to them. But I want to throw this out, and I'm not saying this because I'm the pastor, I'm not saying this because I'm trying to want us to make feel good, uh fuzzy, uh worm and fuzzy feel good. Oh, we're all just wonderful Because we're just Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is made up of a bunch of sinners. Right? We all know that. And I don't want to disappoint you. Your pastor is a sinner too. And uh so I'm not saying this to make us more and fuzzy, but I feel like we've got a good church. I feel like we got a church where we love each other and we're very patient with each other and we try to be in kind, encouraged, and help each other. I think for the most part that's true. But what I'm saying is this, we have got to apply ourselves to listening what God says and doing what God says and dying to self So that we can please our God and our Savior who says it is good and pleasant for brethren to dwell together in unity. And you say, but I just don't love that person. But if you love God, then you will love that person. And die to self and do everything you can. So let's apply ourselves. Let's read our Bible every day. Let's ask God, teach us, Lord, show me how to be a good, godly, humble Christian. That can be at peace. Let's pray and ask the Lord to enable us to do what we know the Bible tells us to do Let's keep in mind at all times that people, lost people, are watching us and we are on display to this old simple world, and we need to be a testimony to this world that God is good and God can work and help us live like we should. And here's another aspect, and I just thought of it. You know, we're on display to Satan. Ephesians tells us that. And we are displaying to the fallen spiritual world the wisdom of God. And when we fuss and we fight and we fume and go on, we're saying to Satan, you know, Satan, you were right. God isn't very good. You are right, the Holy Spirit isn't able to help us draw in peace. And we're lending credibility to Satan's claim that God's not good. But when we die to self and we make we work in harmony and peace. We're rebuking Satan and saying, no, God is good. You follow what I'm saying? And so we've got to work at this. We've got to die to self. We've got to focus on this. And God has given us the resources. We're going to look at it But prayer, Bible reading, church attendance, serving the Lord, all these things, this frame of mind we have to have, all these things are important. So Sunday night, we've been doing this lately. I've been saying this. I really like this. I think it's a good thing to end the day at the altar, old-fashioned altar, just saying, here I am, Lord, use me this week to be a peacemaker. God used me this week to promote harmony. Not compromise, we'll talk about that, but harmony and peace and the love of God. And as sin comes to mind, as the Holy Spirit dresses areas in our life that are not right, let's confess that and forsake that as we go into the Lord's Supper. So let's make the invitation, the altar call, make it significant. Asking God to really help us and yielding our will to Him. Father, bless now our invitation, I ask. Deal with us, convict us, challenge us, and help us. And Lord, I pray that we leave here in a few little bit, that our hearts would be yielded to you, our soul would be filled with the Spirit of God, and we can go out in this work a day week and be a testimony. of the love and goodness and grace of a holy God. And that you would use us to have an impact on our world in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.