Numbers chapter 14. And uh I want us to look at verse number 11. You would find that there. Numbers 14 and verse number 11 Verse 11 says, And the Lord said unto Moses, so God is speaking to Moses about, if you paid attention when Brother Grant was reading the context here. He's speaking about the Israelites, and I'll give the broader context here in a moment, but God may ask this question, and this is what caught my attention. The Lord said unto Moses, How long will this people provoke me? And how long will it be ere they believe me? How long are these people going to provoke me, Moses? And how long is it going to be till they start believing me? Let's pray to God. I'm tired of the message. How long? Let's pray. Father, I ask now that you would use your word. I pray you'd speak to our hearts. God, I pray you would challenge us. I believe, Father, with all my heart, that I and perhaps many others need you to draw us out of our comfort zone. Lord, we need to get to the point in our Christian lives where we are living by faith. And taking you at your word and start seeing you do things that you promised you would do if we would but trust you. I ask God with all my heart this morning that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body anew, I yield my will to yours, and I pray that in the next few moments you would speak through me To each of our hearts, and that you would apply this truth to our hearts and minds. Again, I ask that you would challenge our faith, challenge our apathy, challenge our self-confidence, our self-reliance And help us to be a people by faith, people who live by faith. And I ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. I read of a farmer who was in his middle age, and he always dreamed of being a preacher. But for whatever reason, there was just never any open doors for him to preach, and the opportunities were never there. And for whatever reason, it seemed like God always closed the doors. on him uh preaching and and fulfilling his lifelong dream. One day the story goes, he was out in his field under a tree and he was resting in the middle of the day. And uh he was just staring up at the sky and his thoughts were going on and the clouds going over top, and as they often do, the clouds seem to form uh pictures and different things As he was there looking at the sky, the clouds seemed to form right before his very eyes two letters. P C. And he looked and he thought, PC. And all sudden that dawned on him, he jumped up in excitement, and he said, Preach Christ He went running home. He said, Sweetheart, God has called me to preach Christ. He's given me the go-ahead, and I can fulfill a lifelong dream. He sold the farm. He went out and started preaching. The problem was he was a terrible preacher. He did not have the gift of preaching whatsoever, and the people would endure his sermons. That is not the place to say amen, by the way. I know how some of y'all think. And during one of his particularly bad sermons, he told this story of how he envisioned God had called him to preach. And he said, I saw the PC, preach Christ. One of the neighbor ladies leaned over to his wife and she said, I believe that PC stood for plant corn. But he wanted so badly for God to operate according to the farmer's plan. Rather than the farmer operating by God's plan. And I think we're all that way a little bit. We want God to bless our plans. We want God to lean on our understanding. We want God to do things our way. When God doesn't work that way. God does not bless our plans. God says, you come and get on board with my plan. God says, I'm not going to lean on your understanding. We're not going to operate by your understanding. I need you to not lean on your own understanding, and all your ways acknowledge me. And man has always had a difficult time with this. Mankind has always had a difficult time simply trusting God. Simply taking God at His Word. Why? We've always struggled with that from the very get-go. We have, for whatever reason, have a difficult time believing that what God says is so And we always and we find ourselves always trying to work around what God has said, always trying to somehow get God to explain Himself. Rather than simply trusting God, rather than simply taking him at his word. Israel is a classic example of that. It seems like almost their whole history, they struggled with trusting God As long as Israel could see what God was doing, as long as they could see how it panned out, then they were okay with it. But whenever they came to the point in their existence, and we'll see that here in a moment, whenever they came to a point in their journeys, and whenever they came to a point in their history where they had to operate by faith Where they had to simply trust God, boy, then they struggled. Then they would start murmuring Then they would start complaining, and they would start throwing accusations around because they really had a hard time simply trusting God. Um, if you will uh we could go back, well uh for sake of time, we won't go to all of these. But in Exodus chapter 5 You have uh Moses shows up in Egypt. Now get this Israel, the nation of Israel, are literally slaves to the Egyptians. They have no freedom. They have no personal possessions. They have no choice in their life whatsoever. They're absolute and completely enslaved to the Egyptians. They're doing their dirty work. They're doing whatever the Egyptians want them to do. And they begin to cry out. And they say, God, you've got to change things. We can't go on this way. We can't live like this. God, we need you to deliver us. And the Bible says God heard their groanings. God heard their sorrows. God heard their cries. And God sent to Egypt his man Moses. Now Moses had his own issues trying to trust God. Finally, he got over that. So Moses shows up in Egypt and he confronts Pharaoh and he says the classic statement: let my people go! And Pharaoh's initial response was, oh sure, no problem. Go ahead, take off. No. Moses said, What are you crazy? He says, Who is this God you're talking about? I don't recognize this God. And Pharaoh's response to Moses, rather than submitting to God's Instructions and God's command. Pharaoh says, Not only am I not going to let your people go, I am going to increase their responsibilities. I am going to make it tougher on them. If they've got so much time to whine and complain, I'm going to make it tougher on them. And you know the story. He took away the straw. He says you've got to find your own straw to build these bricks And Israel's immediate response was not, hey, God's starting to work, God's starting to move on our behalf, praise the Lord, God's going to get us out of here. That's not how they responded. If you'll read Exodus chapter 5 very carefully, you'll find that Israel's response was, Moses, why are you down here? You're causing problems. You're making things worse for us. And they began to murmur, and they began to complain, and they began to throw accusations at Moses rather than trusting God. You see, things were not panning out exactly the way Israel thought that they should pan out. God wasn't working the way they thought God would work. And rather than trusting God, and rather than waiting on God, rather than saying, hey God, we believe you love us, we believe you're good, we believe you're in control, we're just going to trust you through this They began criticizing and complaining and moaning and groaning. Israel, like mankind, has always had a very difficult time just trusting God. A little bit later on, God begins moving. God doesn't give up on Israel, and he has Moses keep coming back, and you know the ten plagues that take place. And finally, as we get about eighth or ninth plague, Israel starts seeing what God is doing. And when they can see, like us, when they can see how it works out, when they see what God is doing, then they have no problem trusting Him. And boy, all of a sudden they're praising God, they're rejoicing, and they're gathering up stuff, and lo and behold, they're marching out of Egypt. And they're rejoicing and they're happy and they're singing the songs of Moses. Because they can see what God is doing. And when they can see what God is doing, then they're okay with it. A little bit later, they get out of Egypt. You know the story. Most of you are familiar with the story. They get out of Egypt and uh they get to the Red Sea. And suddenly Moses has a change of mind. Not Moses, I'm sorry. Pharaoh has a change of mind. And Pharaoh says, What was I thinking? Man, now we've got to make our own bricks. We've got to build our own buildings. We've got to do all our own nasty work. Calls the army together, he says, go get them, bring them back. I made a terrible mistake. So Israel's their back is against the sea. They don't have any boats or ships. They don't have any ferries or anything to escape. Their backs are against the sea. In front of them is Pharaoh's armies coming out after them to capture them and take them back. And Israel does not see how that's going to work out. Israel does not see how they can escape that. And rather than trusting God, rather than saying, God, you did amazing things in Egypt, we saw you send locus. We saw you send plagues. We saw you send darkness. We saw you do uh just miraculous things. And God, we believe with all our hearts you will keep your word. And you will protect us and you will take care of us. They didn't respond that way. Because they could not see how God was going to work it out. Thus Rather than trusting God, they fell into the same thing mankind has been doing all through history. Start complaining. Start whining. Start criticizing Moses. You brought us out here to die. You're a failure. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It would have been better for us to be back in Egypt. We'd have been better off. Now you brought us out. We're gonna be killed. You're a failure. And they did what mankind seems to always do. It's rather than trust God, they murmured and complained. Now, God says, Moses comes to God, and Moses like, Lord, what in the world? God says, you be still. You just set still, don't listen to them, and you'll see the salvation of God. Now, thank God Moses was able to trust the Lord. And God instructed him to stretch his rod out across the sea, and God divided the Red Sea. All of a sudden, Israel is, oh wow, we can trust God. When they saw how God was going to resolve the situation, when they saw how God would keep his word, then they had no problem trusting God. And they go marching into the Red Sea on dry ground. Now I'll be honest with you, that takes an element of faith to go marching into an ocean with two walls of water on either side and go marching through there. I would have had a life preserver on probably. Just in case that thing comes collapsing down. But here's my point. As long as God would explain Himself, so to speak. As long as they could reason it and understand it in their mind, then they can trust God. But when they couldn't see what God was doing, when they couldn't understand how God would work it out, they murmured and complained. And that was their experience all through their history. As soon as they had a need As soon as a difficulty came, as soon as God would require something from them that they needed to exercise faith in They would distrust God. They would start complaining. They would start throwing accusations. Now we need to be very careful. All of us need to be very careful. When we start complaining, that is a strong indication we are not trusting God. Can I get an Amen? When I'm complaining, when I'm lying That is a strong indication that I'm not trusting God. You study Israel very carefully, study them. And the New Testament tells us they're examples for us, they're a pattern for us to learn How God operates, how God works. And you study them, every time they're whining and complaining and murmuring, look at the situation, they're not trusting God. Every single time, without exception. So when I find myself whining and complaining, when I find myself murmuring, criticizing Pretty good indication I'm not trusting God. Pretty good indication I'm leaning on my own understanding. Pretty good indication my thinking is, you know, God's really not coming through for me here. I don't think God's really keeping his word. I don't think all things really do work together for good. I don't see how this works out. Obviously, something's not right. And that's the way Israel was. Every time we start throwing accusations around, strong indication we're not trusting God. Strong indication. But in spite of how great our unbelief is, and trust me, I'm speaking as mankind, our unbelief is great. We really have a difficult time trusting God for whatever reason. Regardless of how great our unbelief is, God's mercy is always greater. Regardless of how short my patience may be, God's patience is always greater. Listen to Leviticus 3, verse 22 and 23. Listen to this. Great verse. It is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed, because his compassions fail not. They are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. If God had not acted on Israel's behalf, They would have all died as miserable slaves in the deserts of Egypt. And in spite of their whining, in spite of their complaining, in spite of their accusations, God says, I will be merciful to them and I will accomplish my will. Regardless of how great our unbelief is, regardless of how strong our doubt and disbelief of God is. God's mercy is always greater. 42 times, 42 times in the Bible you'll find this phrase. Speaking of God, his mercy endureth forever. His mercy endureth forever. His mercy. Endureth forever, forty-two times. In Numbers chapter 14, our text for this morning, God Says to Moses twice, how long? How long will this people provoke me? How long will it be ere they believe me? How long is this going to go on? What more do I have to do to prove to this people that I can be trusted? What more has to happen for them to understand? I will keep my word. Moses, how long? How long? It appears to me, and other portions of scripture suggest this, that as great as God's mercy is, and as great as his patience is, it seems to have a limit. And I get the impression in this statement here that they are pushing the limits of God's patience with them. And the Bible does indicate that there are points where God says, all right, that's enough. Alright, no more. Alright, I will give you no more opportunities to trust me. I will give you no more opportunities to exercise faith in me. I will give you no more opportunities to prove my word. You disbelieved it, you disbelieved it, you disbelieved it? Alright. Then go on without it. God says, how long? How long? The question here isn't whether the question here is not God's long suffering. God's not suggesting that he can't be long-serving. The question is this, I believe. If I'm patient with them longer, is it going to make any difference? If I tolerate them any longer, is it going to make any difference? Everything I've done, I've done just inexplicable miracles. I've kept my word to the T. And they still don't believe me. If I give them more chances, will it change anything? My first point this morning is this. The fear of the Israelites. The fear of the Israelites. Look at Numbers chapter 13 with me, the chapter before. And let's set the stage here up to this question God is answering. Then let's address God's question. Look at Numbers chapter 13, verse number 26. I'm going to read a little fairly lengthy portion of scripture here and see what's going on. Now, the context here, let me give you the context. God has brought Israel out of Egypt, as I mentioned. They've been through the Red Sea. God has parted the Red Sea. They crossed over in faith. They're rejoicing. They're singing. They're happy. They saw what God did. They saw how it all works out. God brings the Red Sea back together on top of the uh Egyptian army. They're destroyed, they see the chariots and stuff floating, bodies floating out there. Uh the for all intents and purposes, the is uh i Egypt was no longer a factor in their concerns. God gives them his law, God gives them the ceremonies, he gives them instructions on how to function as a nation, as the people of God, as a society, gives them laws concerning their health. He gives them instructions concerning their worship of God. They gives them instructions as far as the structure of their government is going to be. He lays everything out for them Now he says, we're going to enter into the promised land, that land I've been telling you about that flows with milk and honey And they come up with the great idea that before they invade this land, trusting God, following his leadership, they come up with a great idea. We're going to send 12 spies in. Now we just gonna check it out, get this, and we want to see what we're getting into And so they send the twelve spies in. They search the land out. And they come back. And they said, Moses, guess what? The place is amazing. It's a land flowing with milk and honey. I don't know about you, that sounds kind of sticky to me. Flown with milk and honey. And look at this cluster of grapes we brought back. It was so huge we had to put it on a pole, carry it between us. This monstrous Moses, this land is unbelievable. We've never seen anything like it. But the people there are great. They're powerful, they're strong. Their cities have in uh impenetrable walls around them. Their armies are amazing. Moses, as great as that land is, there is no way in the world we could ever get in there. There is no way in the world we could ever conquer these people. We look like grasshoppers in their sight. We're bugs to them. Moses, there's no way we're going in there We don't see any way how this can work out good. There's no way God can come through on this. We are not going in. We should go back to Egypt. So I basically told you the story here. Then that's where we pick up verse 26. And they went and came to Moses and to Aaron and to all the congregation of the children of Israel into the wilderness of Paran to Kadesh. And brought back word unto them and unto all the congregation and showed them the fruit of the land. And they told them, This is what I was just saying, we came unto the land whither thou sendest us, and surely it floweth with milk and honey And this is the fruit of it. Nevertheless, the people be strong that dwell in the land, and the cities are walled, and very great. Moreover, we saw the children of Anak there. And the Amalekites dwell in the land of the south, and the Hittites and the Jebusites and the Ammonites dwell in the mountains, and the Canaanites dwell by the sea, and the coast of the Jordan, and Wahw What are they doing? They're whining and complaining, and they're saying we can't trust God. Now, to their credit, Caleb and Joshua didn't go along. Look at verse 30. And Caleb stilled the people before Moses and said, let us go up at once and possess it, for we are well able to overcome it. But the men that went up with them said, We be not able to go up against the people, for they are stronger than we. And they brought up and they brought up an evil report. of the land which they had searched unto the children of Israel, saying, The land though which uh through which we have gone to search it is a land that eateth up the inhabitants thereof, and all the people that we saw in it were men of great stature. And there we saw the giants, the sons of Enoch, which come uh which come of the giants. And we in our own sight are as grasshoppers, and so we were in their sight. One thing we can conclude here is the children of Israel are scared to death. They look at this. They are afraid to do what God has told them to do. They're afraid You know what I found in my experience? One of the greatest obstacles of faith is fear. Afraid. One of the greatest enemies of my faith in God is my fear of my circumstances. Now, I'll be honest with you, their fear of the Canaanites was legitimate. These were a bunch of ex-slaves. They had no weapons to speak of And if they had an organized army, it was untested. Their fear of the Canaanites was legit if they did not have God. But they did have God. And I'll be honest with you, some of the things God asks us to do, some of the things God instructs us to do. If God did not exist, if we had no promises from God, they would be incredibly fearful. I would be afraid. But Israel had God. They had God's presence. They had God's promises. Thus, there was no reason to fear. Now, why did they fear? I put down three reasons they feared the Canaanites. First of all, their focus was wrong Their focus was wrong. Look again at verse 32. I tried to emphasize some key words through verse 32 and 33. They say towards the end of the verse, they say, the land through which we have gone to search it is a land that eateth up the inhabitants thereof, and all the people that we what's the next word saw in it Or men of great stature. Verse 33. And there we saw the giants. We were in our own sight as grasshoppers, and so we were in their sight. I circled those words. That was One of their problems. They were going by what they could see. They were going by what they could understand. They were leading on their own understanding. They were operating by their own reasoning. They were not operating by the promises of God. And thus they were afraid. They focused on their obstacles rather than on the omnipotence of God. They're walking by sight. That's the same mistake King Saul made. When Goliath came out much later on in Israel's history, Goliath comes out against the nation of Israel. He says, I defy the God of Israel. And he's a giant. And King Saul, who had been a tremendous soldier, tremendous warrior for years, cowered in fear. Because all that King Saul and the armies of Israel could say was a giant, a champion of the Philistines. And that was where their focus was. That was what their mind was on. Well, little David comes along. You know the story. And uh David comes along, says, to summarize, the brief abbreviate the story, he says, what's up, Doc? I say, oh yeah, you're out here causing trouble. Goliath's out there. Look at the size of that guy. He's challenged us. Anybody goes out there, he'll kill him. David says, What are you talking about? Is there not a cause? Don't we have God? Hasn't God promised us that if we'll trust him, our enemies won't stand before us? And what did the armies and Saul and his brothers immediately do to David? Began to criticize them. They do what man always does when he doesn't trust God. Start complaining, start criticizing, start murmuring. It's what we always do. Whenever we're murmuring and complaining and criticizing, it's a strong indication we're not trusting God. So David, to his credit, and he doesn't word it this way, but we come to this conclusion. David to his credit says, I don't see Goliath, I see God. This guy is some kind of champion, you say he's nothing compared to God. I'll go kill him. You gotta be kidding me. Go back to the sheep, David. He says, nah watch this. And he goes out and he kills Goliath. You know the story. What was King Saul and Israel's problem? They were leaning on their own understanding. They were operating by the way they understood things. And the way they understood things, Goliath is big, we're small. Goliath kills, we die. David says, no, we're going to trust God. And that's where Caleb was, and that's where the nation of Israel was here. They're looking, going by sight. We saw the giants. We are in our sight as grasshoppers. We are in their sight as grasshoppers. We saw the men of great stature. So their fear, their focus was wrong, and that's one reason they feared. I put another reason down they were afraid, is their figuring was wrong. They assumed that they would be defeated. Now, what had God promised Israel when they went into the promised land? What did he promise them? He promised them, your enemies will not be able to stand before you. That was God's word. But they leaned on their own understanding, and their figuring was: we invade that land, we're going to die. We're going to be defeated. Get this. Here's a big problem for you and I. They assumed that they knew what was going to happen. And most of the time, our fear is the result of us assuming we know what's going to happen tomorrow. We assume we know what the outcome's gonna be. And thus we get afraid we don't trust God. The fact is They didn't know what the outcome would be. All they could do was trust God. God said what it would be, or they could lean on their own assumptions. And they went by their assumptions. And they were wrong. Their focus was wrong, they were going by sight, their figuring was wrong, they thought they knew how this would turn out. They even thought they knew what the Canaanites were thinking. Do you notice what it says there? Verse 33. Look at the last part of verse 33. Everybody happy? Everybody alright? Amen. You look a little happy. Look at this. Look at verse 33. This this I I love pointing this out. This stirs my heart every time I read it. They're telling Moses why they shouldn't go into the promised land. And we were in our own sights as grasshoppers. Now look at that last phrase. And so we were in their sight. Now my question is, how did they know what the Canaanites thought of them? Did they interview them? Did they sit down and psychoanalyze them? Now, what are your thoughts on Israel coming into the land? They stayed away from them. They had no they tried they were scared to death. They stayed as far away from them as they could. And they assumed they knew what the Canaanites thought about that. But I read in Joshua and I found out they were as wrong as they could be. Come with me, keep your place here. Come with me to Joshua chapter number two. Now this is after the years, 40 years have gone by, they wandered in the wilderness, that whole generation dies, they've blown it, they paid a heavy price. Joshua now is in control. He sends a couple guys into the land, not to decide whether they're going to go in or not, but just to decide the best plan, where they should go, the route they should take. It's a whole different scenario. And these guys come in and they meet a prostitute by the name of Rahab. In Joshua chapter 2, verse 8. And before they were laid down, she, the Rahab, Came up to them upon the roof. Now they're she's hiding them so they can get out of the country, out of the city of uh of um Jericho. And she said unto the men, Now look what this Canaanite woman says Who knows what the Canaanites are thinking because she's one of them. She said unto the man, I know that the Lord hath given you the land. Wow. Here you have this Canaanite woman has more faith in God's promise than the Israelites did. And that your terror is fallen upon us. And that all the inhabitants of the land faint because of you. Doesn't sound like me. Doesn't sound to me like the Canaanites view the Israelites as grasshoppers Sounds to me like the Canaanites are scared to death of the Israelites. Sounds to me like they're fainting at the very thought of Israel coming in. And then she goes on and explains, we heard what God did to Egypt. We heard what God did at the Red Sea. We heard how God take care of you guys for 40 years. And we're scared to death. We dreaded the day that Israel would come into our land because we knew we had no chance against them. And then you have the Israelites over here. Oh, they may be us like grasshoppers. Liar, liar, pants on fire. That wasn't even close to the truth. They had it all figured out in their minds. They had it all figured out how this was going to play out. And it completely left God out of the equation. And they were as wrong as they could be. They were as wrong as they could be. I don't know how many times I've had people over the years that I witnessed to and shared the gospel with. And it comes to the point to make that decision whether I'm going to accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior or not. And inevitably I come across someone at some point that has it all figured out. But if I get saved, then this is going to be that, and that's going to be that, and my life is going to be miserable, and I won't be able to do anything fun, and it'll just be terrible. And I won't be able to live up to God's expectations and this and that and the other. And they won't get saved. And they die and go to hell. Because they thought they had it all figured out. For I got saved, I went through that same process. I wanted to be delivered from my sin, but I thought, man, if I become a Christian, it's just going to be this, that, and I and stupid me. I fought that and fought, and finally, you know what? I got saved, and you know what I found out? I was wrong God gave me peace and joy, and my life was ten million times better after I got saved than what it was before I got saved. I thought I had it all figured out before I got saved. And you know what? The unsaved world is out there and they think they've got Christianity all figured out and they tell us how it is and they tell us how we are And they tell us how miserable and wrong and hateful we are, and they are as wrong as they can be. Because they factor God out of the equation. One, they focused, their focus was wrong. No wonder they were scared. They were looking at this, they weren't looking at God. Their figuring was wrong. They assumed they knew how things were going to play out. No wonder they were scared. Look how they're thinking. And their follow-up was wrong. And by that I mean their conclusion. How do we respond to this situation? And in spite of trusting God, rather than trusting God in spite of their fear, which is what we have to do sometimes, They start throwing accusations. Look at chapter 14 and verse 2. And all the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron. And the whole congregation said unto them, Wood God that we had died in the land of Egypt! Or would God we had died in the wilderness! And they start whining. And they start murmuring. They start throwing accusations. Verse 4, they start making plans to go back to Egypt. Verse 3, they're even accusing God. That is what always happens when faith is rejected. It always produces accusations, complaining, and it ultimately comes down to the accusation that God will not keep his word. What a horrible thing to say about God. That God cannot be trusted. Let's put ourselves at the judgment seat of Christ. And we're standing before Jesus Christ, and that day will come. And we're standing before Jesus Christ, whose hands, the wounds are in his hands and his side, and his feet. And we see God Almighty judging us. And we have the audacity. To say to him, Jesus, I just could not trust you. I could not believe that your word was good. You say nobody would do that. Nobody will do that at the judgment seat of Christ. I agree with you. Nobody will do that at the judgment seat of Christ. But that is exactly what you and I do every day that we don't trust God. It's exactly what we do. Well, I think I think Well, you're wrong. I'm wrong. When we lean on our own understanding, and that's what Israel's doing. I'm trying to paint a picture. Of what of how awful this is. They plan to go back to slavery. I've seen that over the years. 1985, I started in the ministry. 95, 05, 20 some years, 29 years now. I've seen people get to grow and grow and grow and they get to a point in their Christian life, and for whatever reason, they're not going to trust God. I'm not going to have faith in God. You know what I've seen? I'm just telling you my experience. They never just stay there at that point of spiritual growth. When they get to a point where it says, alright, I'm gonna have to step out in faith, I'm gonna step out in faith. When they get to that point where Alright, God, no more. You know what I found? They never just stay at that spiritual level. They always do what Israel wanted to do, start going back. Going back, going back. And then I can trust God with less and with less and with less and with less. And in some cases, they end up no different in their lifestyle than the unsaved world. Just like Israel wanted. I want to go back to Egypt. I want to go back to the world Had God been unfaithful to them? Have God given them any reason not to trust them? No! They simply weren't willing to lay aside their own understanding, lay aside their own reasoning, and take God at His Word. So Israel was afraid. If there was no God, if they had not God's promises, then their fears were legitimate. But they did have God. They had his very presence with them. They had unbelievable promises from God. But they were not willing to take God at His word. And they were afraid. My last thought, and I have to give it to you real quickly, is the frustration of the Lord. And that's where I get in verse 11. How long? To me, as I was studying this this week, to me, this is like the most human God acts, I think, all through the Bible. God is acting almost human here, if I can say that. And the Lord said unto Moses, How long will this people provoke me? How long will it be here they believe me for all the signs that I have showed among them? It's hard for me to imagine God being frustrated, an all-powerful, all-wise, sovereign God. It's hard for me to comprehend him being frustrated. But when the people he loves so dearly start acting like he doesn't exist When the people that God had invested so much in and he loves so dearly and he has so great plans for, and they start acting like he's some kind of liar. Becomes incredibly frustrating. When they get when when when the people that he has shown his power to and his wisdom and his compassion on. And they start acting like God has not been good to them, God has not been fair to them. And somehow the world is better for me than God is. And God's like, what in the world? I read a question recently I thought was pretty good. Why do God's people go running to the world that crucified their Savior? Why do we love and like the society that killed Jesus? What has the rock and roll crowd ever done for our young people? Come on now, you're allowed to say amen to some of this. Wow. I say it again, what has the rock and roll crowd ever done for our young people? Nothing but corrupt them. What has Hollywood ever done for Christians in America? And God says, What in the world? How long? I suffered hell for you. I forgave your sins. I give you eternal life. I give you breath to breathe every day. And you act like I'm a liar. And you act like I'm some kind of like I don't even exist. And God looks to me, He's frustrated. Listen, this is the kind of preaching Baptists have done for decades. This is the kind of preaching that built good strong churches. And God is frustrated with his people. I can see, as I look at this and evaluate, I can see how it would be very disappointing for God, for his people to act that way. I can see where God would be very dissatisfied with how the people he invested so much in won't even believe him, won't even trust him, and complain about him and accuse them of things. Generally, I believe we have no comprehension as to how much God really loves us. I don't think we have any comprehension of how great God's plans are for us. And how much He wants to use us and how much He wants to bless us. And we don't even comprehend that. And we think we've got it all figured out. And God's like, ah It's frustrating. Notice in verse 6, 7, 8, and 9, even Jacob, Joshua, and Caleb are frustrated. They're like, man, come on. God's been true to us the whole time. You can trust him. You can follow him. God will do exactly what he says. What are y'all talking about? And they're frustrated. After all that Israel saw God do, after all we've seen God do for us. It's incredible that anyone would not trust him. After All that God has done for us, it's unreasonable that we would not trust Him and obey Him and let Him lead us. Have faith in him. It's inexcusable for us not to trust God. Let me ask you a question. I'm asking myself. I'm asking all of us. What justification do we have for not taking God at His Word? Answer me. We have no justification. God has been faithful. There's not one area we can step up and point and say, God, I could not trust you in that area. We have no justification for that. We have no justification for disobeying God. None We're not going to stand before Jesus Christ at the judgment seat of Christ as believers someday and say, okay, God, here's why it was okay for me to disobey you. It's not going to work. I want to denounce my lack of faith in God this morning. This morning I got up, had my morning devotions, and I said, God, I'm going to denounce my lack of faith in you. And I'm going to trust you in every area of my life. And if you say go forward, I'll go forward. If you say stand still, I'll stand still. And if you say jump off that cliff, I'm going to believe you that you will take care of me. Now I'm talking about God saying that, amen? If Ronnie tells me do that, I ain't doing it. But I want to denounce my lack of faith in God. The just shall live by faith. Faith. Trusting God. Trusting God. I want to denounce my lack of faith in God. I want to stop and consider how my unbelief of God will hurt my family. How my unbelief in God will hurt my future? Think about the Israelites here. If they would have simply taken God His word, did what He said, trusted Him. And went into the land for forty years before their entire families could enjoy the blessings of God, they could enjoy the fruit of that country, they could enjoy the peace of coming and being in God's promised land and they forfeited all of that and they wandered in wilderness and they had to struggle for their food to eat matta and and find quail and The whole generation died off. That 40-year, it was a 40-year funeral procession And the price they paid, and their kids grew up never knowing what it's like to have the blessings of God upon my family. Never knew what it was like to live in the promised land because they refused to trust God. And God's frustrated. He said, man, I've got such great plans. I do some great things for you. I love you so much. I want you to trust me. I've known the Lord personally for 35 years. I've known the Lord Jesus Christ personally for 35 years now, being May. And I'm telling you, you can trust him. You can take him at his word. His word is true. I've known him personally for 35 years. His word is true. The mark of true faith is our willingness to step out and trust God and obey Him, whether it makes sense to us or not. And unbelief comes with a heavy, heavy price. And Israel paid that price. I don't want to. Not anymore. Not anymore. Not anymore. I read about the African Impala It is said that the African Impala can jump over ten feet high and can jump a distance of greater than thirty feet. But you know what the owners of zoos have learned? That if that impala cannot see where its feet are going to land, it won't jump. You know what they do? I'm told that they do in zoos to keep that African impala in enslaved is they just put a little three-foot wall up. And then they hide where the bushes or something around, so the impala can't see where it will land on the other side of that wall. And they'll stay enslaved. And they'll stay restricted. And they give up all their freedom simply because they can't see where their feet will land, and a little three-foot wall. Keeps them in. That's what happens. You and I won't trust God. Devil says, This is easy. Any little thing. Keep them from experience God's blessing. Any little thing, I can keep them from having God's hand and the joy of the Lord and freedom in their life to live for God and be glorified God in their life simply because If they can't figure it out, they won't trust God. They don't see how God will do it, then they're going to lean on their own understanding. And God's like. What in the world? How long? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord