I would like to encourage you this evening, if you have a pen and a piece of paper or uh maybe even just in the fly leaf of your Bible, I want to give you a list. I'm not going to preach on this passage here directly Uh I probably next Sunday I'll do that, but um I I want to give you a list of things here this evening I I believe would be good to write down. And also the other thing is keep your Bible handy as uh we're going to be looking up a number of verses particularly throughout the New Testament. I think I'm on here now, Jamie. Alright, look at James chapter 4 and verse number 10 is our text. And as I said I'll reference it here to begin with, but uh preach from this, try and break this verse down next week and give that. I'm a little bit strong up here Alright, verse 10. Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up. Now, my initial title was How to Be Honored by God. But I want to do tonight is just speak on humility. I just want to talk about humility. I'll give you a list here in a little bit, and I really want to encourage you to jot these down, keep these, maybe meditate on these and use these sometime in the future. Let's pray together. Father. I ask that you would bless tonight. Lord, I really believe, maybe perhaps it's just because of the condition of my heart, Lord, but I really believe this is a virtue that we are in desperate need of. And I pray that your Holy Spirit would teach us about humility tonight, that you would convict us of our pride, myself included, Lord. And uh I yield myself to you. I present my body new. I pray you'd fill me with your spirit is my constant prayer and um help us and challenge us. I pray we that this These thoughts would be true in our lives in the coming days, weeks, months, and years. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Charles Spurgeon said every Christian has has a choice. We can either humble ourselves or we can be humbled by God. I think he had a good point there. As I mentioned in my prayer, I believe without a doubt, the greatest need in Christianity today is humility. I really believe that's where we're at. I think a lot of the worldliness coming into the church, I think in many churches I should say, I think a lot of the uh false doctrine that creeps in. I think bickering among Christians, I think all of this can be cured with a good dose of old-fashioned, biblical, genuine humility. Would change all of that. I really believe that. My concern, here's my concern as a Christian My concern as a Christian isn't how the unsaved world acts. We get worked up about the politicians. We get worked up about people out there in the world and what society is doing. Really, our concern ought not to be so much like the so not so much about the unsaved being so hateful and so proud Our concern ought to be Christians acting like the unsaved, being hateful and proud. Follow what I'm saying? That's where the concern is We expect the unsaved to act like the unsaved, right? We expect the world to be, have the characteristics of the world as described in the Bible. But the problem is when Christians start having that. When we start adopting those characteristics, I think the greatest need in our pulpits, this one here included, greatest need is genuine old-fashioned biblical humility. We need that. We need it in the pews, too. Huh? Humility in the pews. In the pews. Humility is the beginning of everything good. Begins with humility. Everything godly begins with humility. Pride is the basis of everything evil. Somebody said it was pride that turned angels into devils. Think about it. Pride. I've seen it. I've seen it over the years in the ministry. I've seen Christians They're just godly and sweet and faithful and all that. And I tell you, some pride creeps in. They can turn pretty ugly. You have an angel Christian turn into a double Christian pretty quick when pride sweeps in, sneaks in there. Humility, I believe it's our greatest need. Pride is our greatest enemy We've been talking about this. James deals with this throughout this whole book. He keeps coming back to the subject of pride and humility and submission and pride. Pride is our greatest enemy. Pride is our constant enemy. We never reach a point in our Christian life where we do not have to fight pride. Young people can be awfully proud. Y'all are quiet tonight, huh? Maybe it's a sober subject. But young people can be awfully proud. In fact, one of the characteristics of the last days Is a generation becoming very proud against their parents, against authority. Young people can be proud. Hey, can I say this? Old folks can be awfully proud. And all points in between. We never reach a point in our Christian life. We never reach a point in our in our life at any age, uh at any bracket, any Any stage is what I'm trying to say through our life. We never reach a point where pride is not an issue. It is our greatest enemy, it is our constant enemy. And let me say this about pride. Pride is the chief characteristic of Satan. Pride is the chief characteristic of Satan. It is pride that turned Lucifer into Satan. That brought him down. Pride. Take your Bible, if you would, and as I said, we're going to look at a number of verses and turn to Revelation, the last book of the Bible. I want to show you what Satan's ministry is. Revelation and chapter number 12. Revelation chapter number 12. And notice with me verse number 10. This is Satan's ministry. Revelation 12 and verse 10. And I heard a loud voice saying, In heaven, now has come salvation and strength. And the power of our God and the power of his Christ, look at this. For the accuser of our brethren is cast down. Who is this accuser of the brethren that's cast down? Who is that? That's Satan. Now look what his ministry is. Which accused them before our God day and night. Satan is the most proud being in existence. It's his chief characteristic, and he is so proud. His ministry Is accusing Christians of doing wrong just constantly, constantly, constantly. It's his ministry. I asked my wife I said, if Satan joined Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, suppose he got in here and became a member of our church, how would you identify him? How would we know that he was Satan? Would he sit there? Would there be horns sticking up out of his head? No. Would he, when he got up to walk, would there be a little red tail hanging out his trousers at the bottom? Say, yikes, that's Satan right there. Or down her skirt. Yep. See a little red tail hanging out? No. No horns. No tail. Maybe you went up greeting time and say, hey, what's your name? And the tongue came out and was a forked tongue. That's the devil I suggest to you there would be no physical appearance to identify Satan as Satan. In fact, Corinthians tells us that his angels, uh uh his ministers, are uh his angels are ministers of light. He's very deceptive. He would come across, pretty sharp, pretty nice guy, pretty good Christian. And so I asked my wife, I said, how would we know it? How would what would give him away? And she said, I don't think we would know it. He wouldn't give himself away. And that's where I took took issue with her. And that's how this finger got bent out of shape I think we could identify him. I think he would go around accusing Christians of stuff I think he'd be very, very proud. I think he would present himself as being very righteous and better than the others, and his whole ministry is accusing the brethren. I don't think he could hide it. And I think we would and and he wouldn't. He's not a member. He wouldn't be a member of this church or any other. He'd have a little imps and out there. But uh If he was, if that did happen, I think eventually a discerning Christian could tell he would betray himself with his pride and his accusations of the brethren. Because that's what he does. And that's what pride does. Pride looks for false in Ed and points them all out, makes sure everybody knows all things Ed does wrong. Now that would be unending. But Carolyn's there, you want me to try? And um, but no. Or anybody, we go around anyone, and you the pastor Uh every now and then over the years we've had somebody that kind of gets out of sorts with me and they'll tell me all the things I do wrong and I like to respond if I can. Uh I like to respond this way. You don't even know half the stuff wrong with me You're not even scratching the surface. If you're trying to discourage me by pointing out my faults, brother, you don't even know half of them So pride and humility, I think our greatest need is humility. Our greatest need. I was talking about how to identify uh the devil if he's in it we couldn't physically uh form I don't think we could figure out any doctrine-wise I think he'd come across straight as a be but I think his pride would give him away I think his insatiable desire to accuse the brethren of faults and point out their sins and their failures, I think that would give them away. And I base it on this. Jesus said about one of his disciples that they had a devil. One of his disciples, who was that? Judas. Now you read very carefully about Judas. You know what he's always doing? He's always criticizing people. Why'd she pour that ointment on his feet? You could have sold that. What a waste. He's always criticized and very proud. Criticism and money was Judas's big issue I think the devil would give himself away. I really do. Now he's pretty slick, so I don't want to be overly confident on this. But I'll say this. As soon, I hope you're with me on this As soon as a person starts throwing accusations around, you get away from that person. That is of the devil. You read your Bible very carefully, get your corns out, look up every time the word accuser or accusation or accused is used, look who's using it. It's always the devil and his people. Pharisees, self-righteous. They always are. Somebody starts throwing around accusations. I want to get away from that. That is of the devil. That is pride. That is satanic. That's the devil's ministry. So what are you saying? I'm saying this. Humility is what we need. Humility. James says, humble yourself in the sight of the Lord, and he'll lift you up. Now I want to look at that in a little more detail later on, but I want to talk about humility. Do we really understand what humility is? I put this down, and this isn't the list yet. Humility is the most basic virtue of the Christian life. I really believe that. Every other aspect of what it means to be a Christian. begins with the virtue of humility. You can name any any characteristic, Christian characteristic you want. It has to begin with humility. Humility is the most basic virtue of the Christian life. Humility is the exclusively a Christian virtue. I do not believe that outside of the grace of God a person can be genuinely humble. Now I want to be careful here. I know there's unsaved people can sure come across awfully gracious and awfully humble, right? I'm thinking of some people in mine, one lady in particular, unsaved as could be Uh known her y years ago and she was a very gracious and she came across a very, very humble person. But I'm I'm afraid unless a person understands and has ex Experience the grace of God in salvation. I don't think we can be completely and thoroughly biblically humble. Because the grace of God teaches us humility. That I deserve nothing. Humility is a basic virtue of the Christian life. All other virtues spill out of humility. Humility is exclusively a Christian virtue And I put this down. Humility is the key to greatness in God's kingdom. Would you turn with me now to Matthew? We looked at the last book of the New Testament. Let's look at the first book of the New Testament. Matthew chapter number 20. Matthew twenty, and I want to begin reading in verse number twenty-five. Jesus, of course, is speaking to the disciples here. And the context is um uh you come up there to verse 20 and Uh James and John's mother show up to Jesus and they say, uh, uh can you do something for me? Uh do a certain thing And um she said to him, Grant that these my two sons may sit one on thy right hand and the other on thy left in thy kingdom. She wanted them in exalted positions. She wanted them honored and lifted up high or boys And the Lord says to her, you know, are they real able to go through what you got to go through to get to that position? And um and uh and uh they said unto, yeah, we can do that. We can they didn't know what they were talking about. And the Lord says, all right, you sure want to have to go through that. And look what happened there in verse 24 when the other disciples heard it. What's verse 24? What did the other disciples do when they heard about it? They got ticked Man, that made them mad. Who does she think is? Who do they think they are to ask for that position? And oh, they get to the they must have been Baptists. They got to squabbling And then verse 25, Jesus called them unto him. You know what that reminds me of? That reminds me of a father, and all the kids are fussing. He says, All right, kids, get around here. We need to straighten this out. Look what he says to him. You know that the princes of the Gentiles exercise dominion over them, and they that are great exercise authority upon them. He says, you know, out there in the world, this is the way they act. Dog eat dog. Big man runs the show. One, the guy that gets the authority, the guy that carries the biggest stick. Guy that has the most clout, he's the one that's exalted. But, verse 26, it shall not be so among you. This is what we've been saying on Wednesday nights. We as Christians operate by a different set of values than the world does. God's people don't think the way the world thinks. God's people don't operate the way the world operates. God's people don't interact. the way the world interacts. We live by a different set of values. And that's what he's teaching them here. Look what he says. That's the way the world functions They just go at it and they boss each other around and some dog eat dog guy gets up on top and he's knocked the others out. Whosoever, verse 26, will be great among you, let him be your what? Minister. And whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant. Then he sets himself up as the example, even as the Son of Man, came not to be ministered unto I didn't come down here for you guys to do stuff for me, is what he's saying, but came to minister and to give his life a ransom for many. My point is this, humility is the key to greatness in God's kingdom. Now, in the message next week as we get into the passage, I'm going to make this statement. I made it before, but humility is one thing God cannot resist. I don't mean to be irreverent in making that statement. But you go through the Bible, and every time somebody humbled themselves before God, God responded in mercy. God responded in grace. God responded with forgiveness and blessing and restoration. Every time it doesn't matter how wicked and vile and hard-hearted and ungodly that person was, when they humbled themselves God responded in grace and mercy and forgiveness and compassion without fail. And so God is looking for humility in you and I as his people. I'm talking to say I'm preaching to saved folks tonight Humble ourselves. Now here's you got your pen. Let me give these to you very, very quickly. I'll give you a list. I think I got 10 here. Characteristics of a humble man or a humble woman. Now, I hope in these opening statements, I hope I've spooked us away from pride. And I hope that the Holy Spirit of God has put within our hearts a hunger and a desire for humility. I hope we see that. I hope we see the importance of that in God's eyes. In the world, humility is the last thing they're worried about But in God's economy, in God's kingdom, humility is the most precious, most important virtue. Now, how do we have that? What are the characteristics? What would be true About a person who is genuinely humble, a man or a woman. Number one, here's the first one, and these are very basic, nothing deep or profound. Number one, a humble person trusts God. They trust God. The foundation of all acts of humility is simply trusting God. By that I mean a humble man or a humble woman understands that God is all-wise, and I am not. I understand that God is perfect in His judgment, and I am not Did anybody here ever make judgment on a situation or a person and later found out you were dead wrong? Anybody that way? I remember my good friend through high school, Denny Swartley, and he passed away. I witnessed to him, as far as I know, he never got saved. And it's just one of the grieves of my life. And uh, but when we first met, the very first time we met in junior high school, we got in a fight. And that first year of junior high school, I couldn't stand that guy. I hated him, he hated me And my judgment was of them, we are complete opposites, and uh there's nothing good about that guy in my mind at the time, and nothing good about that guy, and I didn't want nothing to do with him. You know, by the time we finished our time in middle school in uh junior high school, uh we were best buddies. My initial judgment of them in my unsaved mind, my initial judgment of them was completely wrong. I completely changed that. Listen, we ought to be very, very careful on making judgments on some things. We don't know all the facts. And a humble person says, you know, I know, I understand God is the one that can make perfect judgment, not me. And he humbles himself. He humbles himself. A humble person trusts God. They understand God is all-wise. God is perfect in judgment. A humble person trusts God, and by that I mean he understands that God loves him dearly and will never lead him astray. I can trust God. God will never lead me astray. God will never do me wrong. He loves me. And he's all powerful. I like what again what Charles Spurgeon said. He said, God is too good to be unkind and too wise to make a mistake. We can trust him completely. So number one, first point on the list, is a humble person trusts God. Number two, a humble man or a humble woman is very grateful. We're talking about the characteristics. of a humble person, they are very grateful. Somebody said this, gratitude is the beginning of greatness He recognizes that every gift he has is of God. Can I remind us of something this evening? All of us, remind us of something. Every breath that I take. Is a gift from God. And a humble person recognizes that. And by the way, you and I, we do not deserve that next breath. It is a gift of God. And we ought to be grateful. We ought to be grateful. How many folks here you're saved, you know it. Say amen. Now if that's true, I trust it is, if that's true, every moment we're not burning in hell, God is giving us something we don't deserve. See, I don't got anything to be grateful for. Good heavens, the fact you're not in hell right now is enough to praise God for the rest of eternity. A humble person is grateful. He understands that everything I have, everything, is a gift from God. Can I suggest this in light of this morning's message? Can I suggest this? Even the difficulties God puts us through we can be grateful for. Uh I worked, as many you know, um with Neighborhood Bible Time for three years out in Boulder, Colorado, and it was a tremendous honor. I hope you don't misunderstand what I'm about to say. It was tremendous honor. And God used it in a tremendous way. But I when I got out there, uh it wasn't long till I've realized that most of my time was spent printing ribbons Bible time ribbons. How many people have Bible time ribbons in your Bible right now? Anyone? I've got about 700 in my Bible right now. And they were at the time were printed one by one on an old letterpress. And literally, asked my wife, eight, ten hours a day, I ran that letterpress. And for about the first five, six months, I started steaming. This is not what God's called me to do. This is not what I went through. This is not what I spent six years getting a four-year education for. And I got steamed and I got out of sorts with God and with Brother Holmster and everybody. And then I learned something. God taught me something. Well I stopped complaining and start thanking God for it that there's some reason he allowed this and there's something he's going to do for me. And I deliberately, I discipline myself to deliberately be grateful. For the privilege of doing that. And I started praying for every little kid that would hold that ribbon. Doing about a hundred a minute, but uh I started praying. God changed that whole thing. And you know, here I am, 20-some years later, I look back and I thank God for those three years there. God taught me so much. What I'm saying is this a humble man is a grateful man. Even for the trials, a humble woman is a grateful tri uh woman. Everything we have is a gift from God, even the difficulties, even the heartaches we go through. God allows that and God has something for me. Do you got that written down? Number one, a humble man or woman trusts God. Number two, a humble man or woman is grateful. Number three, and I gotta go quicker on these. A humble person stands in awe of God's mercy. The only thing between me and eternity in hell is the mercy of God. The Bible talks about a broken and contrite heart the Lord will not despise. When I realize and comprehend how sinful a person I really am. And that God in mercy has forgiven me and saved me, that is a humbling, humbling thought A humble person, man or woman, is humbled by the mercy and grace of God that he shows to a sinner like me. I am convinced we do not comprehend how wicked our hearts really are. I am convinced we do not comprehend how offensive our sin is to a holy God. And that holy God shows mercy to me. I stand in all of that. Number one, a humble person trusts God. Number two, a humble person is very grateful. Number three, a humble person stands in awe of the mercy that God has shown me. Number four, a humble person rejoices in another person's blessings. A humble person rejoices in another person's blessing. Would you turn me to Romans chapter 12? Romans chapter 12. And notice with me verse 15. Everybody doing alright out there? Everybody okay? I'll take that as a yes. This is a good verse. Just simple, just a simple statement here Romans twelve, verse fifteen. Rejoice with them uh rejoice with them that do rejoice, and weep with them that weep. You know what pride does? Somebody else gets a raise at work, or somebody else, something wonderful happens to them, somebody else, something good happens to them. You know how pride reacts? Huh. Wonder why they got that. Why didn't I get this? The very opposite of humility is jealousy. I deserve that. They don't deserve. I deserve that more than they do. I want to do that for me. Me. I. A humble person says, man, praise the Lord. That's the attack. Man, you're going to be better off. You don't have to worry so much. Praise the Lord. That's great. I mean, genuinely is glad and rejoices with that person when they're rejoicing. Or Something goes bad and something goes wrong. They lost their job. Well they pride says, well, they probably deserve these a sorry worker. Humility says, man, I'm sorry to hear that. And they rejoice with them that rejoice, they weep with those that weep. They rejoice in others' blessings. They get their eyes off of themselves and off of their own desires. A humble person conquers this selfish issue. And they're glad for others in their blessings. And they're sad with others in their sorrows. Number five, let me give this one to you here. A humble person dies to self for the benefit of others. Ephesians, if you would, turn over there very quickly. Ephesians chapter 4. The Bible says this. I'll just go ahead and start reading it, Ephesians 4, if I get there And verse number two, look at what the b listen to what the Bible says. Verse 1. Therefore, I, therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that you walk worthy of the vocation wherewith you are called. Look at this. With all lowliness and meekness with long suffering, forbearing one another in love, endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. In other words, the a humble person guides the self so that the other can benefit from any way they can. I try to help benefit the other. It sets aside personal preferences in order to build up another There's a lot of things we can do that we could legally do, and even scripturally, there's a lot of stuff biblically we could do. But it doesn't mean we should do everything we can do. Bible talks about in Corinthians, and we're going to study this when we get to Corinthians, the Bible talks about where Paul set aside things he could do so that he wouldn't be a stumbling block to weaker Christians. That's humility. Say, you know, there's really nothing wrong with this. But if I do that, it's going to cause him or her to stumble. A proud person says, I don't care how it affects them, there's nothing wrong with me doing this, I'm doing this anyway. You know what a humble person does? Humble person says, you know, I know it would affect them. I know that would mess them up a little bit. I could do it. There's nothing wrong with it. But I'm going to stay away from it because I don't want to hurt them. I don't want to be a stumbling block for them. That's humility. Dies to self, puts a self, puts aside preferences for the well-being and benefit of others Let me give you, I've got to keep working down here. Number six, write this one down. A humble person is not wise in their own eyes. In other words, he understands that God knows more about stuff than he does. So it's they have this attitude, you know, maybe I can learn from that other person. Maybe they'll pick maybe they they see something I don't see. Maybe they understand something about an issue, whatever it may be, a mechanic or whatever. You know what I found that good mechanics will listen to what other mechanics say. Because sometimes they may pick up something that they didn't pick up. And that's what a humble person does in life, in all life. A humble person doesn't have the attitude, I know it all. You don't have nothing to tell me, you have nothing to benefit me, you have nothing to offer me Humble person doesn't have that. Humble person says, I don't care who you are, there may be something you can help me. There may be some way you can help educate me in one way or another. So they're not wise in their own eyes. Number seven, write this one down. A humble person forgives quickly and easily. Quickly and easily. This kind of ties back up into the one number three, but he has a basic comprehension of how much God has forgiven him, so therefore he's very quick to forgive his brother. Jesus gave a story about this about a fellow that owed his king unimaginable amounts of money, and the king freely forgave him. And then he went out and found a fellow that owed him a couple bucks and he choked him, the Bible says, and he threw them in prison. You're staying there until you pay me every dollar. That guy had no comprehension of how gracious that king was to him, therefore he turns around. But a humble person understands, God has been so forgiving to me. How can I not be forgiving to my brother or my sister? You say, yeah, but you don't know how badly they hurt me. Oh, but you don't know how badly you've hurt God with your sin. You know what it would cost me to forgive them? You know what it costs God to forgive you? A humble person forgives quickly. And easily. Write this verse down, Esians 4, verse 31-32. Addresses that subject. Verse 42, we know what verse 32, chapter 4, verse 32 says. We know what that. Be ye kind one to another. Tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. Number eight, write this down. A humble person is teachable. Kind of touched on this. He understands the need to learn from others. A humble person understands they're limited in their own knowledge. I've met some people that I'm convinced, they are convinced, they're omniscient. I mean they know everything about I had a guy uh remain in Bible college. I hope you don't listen to this online. But um Uh I mean it's a it doesn't matter what you talk about, he knew everything about it. He knew he had more. If you're talking about somebody being rich, they were richer than those person were. Next conversation be somebody being poor. They were poorer than that person. And no matter what it was, they knew more about it. They had everything. You couldn't tell them nothing. You know what that's called? Pride. A humble person is teachable. Number nine, an humble person invests their self into building up others. The issue is not what can you do for me, but the issue for the humble person is what can I do for you? How can I help you in some way? What can I do to be a blessing to you? How can I help you up? Ephesians 4. 29 is the verse that goes with that. And in number 10, I am with this one. This is the last, because it's the last one. Number 10, a humble person has a servant's heart. Has a servant's heart. Look at Galatians chapter 5, and as I said, we'll end with this verse. Galatians chapter 5, and look with me at verse 13. This ties in a little bit about the benefits of others. Some of these overlap a bit. Galatians 5 and verse number 13. For brethren, you have been called unto liberty. Only use not that liberty for an occasion to the flesh, but by love serve one another. Verse 14, for all the law was fulfilled in this one word, even in this, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. But if ye bite and devour one another, take heed that ye be not consumed one of another. A humble person has a servant's heart, what can I do to be a blessing to you? As I was preparing this and Particularly on this thought, and I was trying to expand on it and think of ways to explain it. Uh and I won't say any names, uh, but uh a certain several people in our church came to mind There's many times where before the service or after, I'll be in the back and people around, I'll have something in my hand. There's several folks in the church. If they see me that way, they'll come up right away and say, here Pastor, let me take that. I'll go take care of this for you Or something's going on and something say, hey, do you need some help with that? Let me help with that. I'll take care of that for you. And I tell you, I'm convicted by that. That's humility in action. That's a servant's heart. It's not something they're doing to earn brownie points or get their name up on the screen or something like that. But it's just in their heart. I want to help you. I was standing out here shaking hands uh this morning and I saw one of our visitors had set uh on their car they had set their their coffee mug and different things on the hood and they I guess they had a baby or they were doing something in the car. One of our members saw one over there and picked it up and said, here I'll hold this for you and I watched them do it and helped it put it in there. in their car for them. You know what that is? That's a servant's heart. That's humility. Now listen, it's one thing to do to it to a stranger that we might never see again. It's another thing to do it to our spouse Huh? But genuine humility isn't in the church parking lot only, but genuine humility is in the house, in the kitchen. Amen or not? That's where I got convicted. Let me ask you this. Would you qualify as a humble person? If we took these traits of humility and compared ourselves up to it, how would I match up to that? You say, well, what do I do? Well, our text says, humble thyself in the sight of the Lord. That's a decision I make. We'll preach on this a little more next time, but that's a decision my make. I choose whether I'm humble or proud. I choose whether I obey that verse or not. You say, well, how do I humble myself? Let me throw this out and we end. Nothing, I don't believe there's a thing in the world will mortify our pride, put our pride to death, and thoroughly humble us Like standing before the judgment seat of Christ. When that day comes for every one of us And we stand before the judgment seat of Christ as a Christian, and we see Jesus Christ, that absolutely perfect, righteous judge. Who knows everything about us, our very thoughts. He is terrifyingly holy And he is going to judge us. I am telling you, there will be no pride at the judgment seat of Christ. All pride will be immediately annihilated. And we will know at that point pure humility. Say, well, that's at the judgment seat of Christ. What do I do now? In the meantime, how do I humble myself? I think when we uh when we see uh we hold that fact that the day that day is going to happen, someday that's gonna take place And we hold that fact in our mind, and we hold on to that, and we remember, hey, that day's coming. That will help us maintain a humble attitude now. Are you with me? You follow what I'm trying to say? Living every day in light of the fact that the judgment seat of Christ is coming, God has been so gracious to me. God has been so merciful. I have to give an account. It will humble us. It will humble us. So that's my list. How do we match up? I went down through this and put it together and I thought, goodness, I got Lord's Supper here in a little bit. I got so much pride. I fall so short of what the Bible says humility is. And I have nothing to claim. I have no basis for being so proud. I have no justification for being so proud. I have nothing. The only thing we can do is confess our pride is sin. And before God, say, God, this pride is wrong, and I ask you to help me to live and humble myself before God and be this way. Let's pray. Father in heaven, as we come to the Lord's Supper tonight, I ask, Lord, that you would help us to humble ourselves so that we don't have to wait until you humble us. You'd help us to judge ourselves so that we would not have to be judged by you. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed as we give the invitation here. How many would say, preacher, tonight At least one of those characteristics struck a chord with me that I need God to help me alter. And you'd say, preacher, pray at least one of those characteristics has struck a note and I need God to help me deal with that. Any like that by the uplifted hand. I can't imagine any of us would get through that list without at least one of them striking home. Now what do we do? Confess our sin and we humble ourselves before God and say, God. We rejoice in your mercy, rejoice in your forgiveness, and we get up and ask the Holy Spirit of God to fill us and enable us to be that humble Christian that God calls us to be. Father in heaven, I pray you bless now our invitation. Help us, as we go into the Lord's Supper, to search our hearts and come with pure, humble hearts before you. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. It's Sunday night. I really like the idea of ending a Sunday night service and beginning a new week at the all-