Psalm chapter 40. I'd like for us to read verses one and two is what we're going to look at this morning. I'd like for us to read these together in unison, if you would, if you have your Bibles there. And beginning in verse number one all together. Ready? Here we go. I waited patiently for the Lord, and he inclined unto me, and heard my cry. He brought me up also out of a horrible pit. out of the miry clay and set my feet upon a rock and establish my goings. I want to speak this morning on how to get out of a pit. How to get out of a pit. Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for good service this morning. It's been a blessing to me. I'm grateful for the folks that have ventured out on this day. I pray you'd speak to hearts, and I pray that you would uh fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body anew now, again, this hour. And pray that you would teach and preach and speak through me your word. Lord, I have no doubt I'm talking to some folks that are in some sort of a pit And so help us, Lord, to understand what that means. And Lord help us to um Be able to get out and get up and go on. So please bless this hour, I pray. Give us hearts, open hearts and minds to what you have for us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I don't know about you, but Psalm chapter 40 is a precious psalm to me. How many folks would say Psalm chapter 40 stands out in your mind? Anybody at all like that? And I use the first several verses there for many, many years. I would think of uh read that and I would apply that to my own salvation. In fact, I have written in the margin of my Bible, beside verse 2, I have May seventh, nineteen seventy-nine, the night I trusted Christ as Savior. That night the Lord brought me up out of a horrible pit and aught of miry clay, and he set my feet upon a rock, and he established my goings. I like verse 3, he says, And he put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God, and many shall see it and fear And shall trust in the Lord. I worked at a meatpacking plant when I first got saved and a pretty rough crowd. Most of them were uh ex-cons, and uh some of them I think were still cons. Uh it was a pretty rough crowd. And uh God saved me and for whatever reason he transformed my life just instantaneously. I mean immediately there was a An absolute complete transformation of my life. Now I know sometimes folks get saved and it takes a while for you know things to get straightened out, but for whatever reason God did a phenomenal A miraculous change in my life. And these guys at the meatpacking plant, uh, they it became very, very obvious immediately that something was different about Leatherman. That's what they called me. They said, what in the world got into you, Leatherman, uh, Jesus? And uh say, what in the world? And um one of the fellas there And he was a nice enough guy, a short fellow. He was, how many people know what I'm talking about? This was back in the 70s. He was a deadhead. Anybody know what a deadhead is? I mean I w not just that his head was dead, but um he was a follower of a rock group, uh Grateful Dead. They were dead heads. And I mean he was just full-blown, all of that. And uh this was after maybe a month or so, I say and completely changed. And he came up to me and says, Amen, leatherman. I said I said, Hey. He goes, man, you're freaking me out. And uh He says, and he made this statement. This is why I thought of this on this passage. He says, I don't know what's going on with you, but it scares me. It scares me. Did you notice in verse 3 he said he put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God, many shall see it and Fear. And I think he saw God working in my life. He saw something he couldn't explain. He saw something that there was no human explanation for. And it shook them. And it shook them. Now I didn't know it. I worked there about a year or so after I got saved, and then I went off to Bible college. But I found out years later that a number of those fellas had trusted Christ. And uh some of it because what God had done. And so this has been a special uh passage to me, this chapter, particularly those first three, four verses there have meant a lot to me. Psalm chapter 40 is a psalm of celebration. David is celebrating God's goodness and the mercy that God had shown to him in light. It is a testimony, Psalm chapter 40, is a testimony of what God can and will do. For those who will trust him completely. It's a testimony. We'll touch on that here in a little bit. In fact, that's what I want to say right now is Psalm chapter 40, if you look at it very carefully, it's a personal psalm You'll see these words used throughout the psalm, I, me, my, my cry. He brought me David is giving personal testimony to what God had done for him. Now, listen, a personal testimony is one of the most powerful tools. In not just sharing the gospel, but influencing others to have faith in God. Simply sharing with others what God has done for you. Now I want to challenge us here, right in the beginning of the message. I want to challenge this, uh, beginning this week and maybe for the rest of your life, whether you're a young person in school or Maybe you're out in the workforce, you're retired. Whatever stage of life we are in, if we know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, I want to challenge you. To be vocal about your testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ. Do not be afraid to speak up and share with others what God does in and through and for you in life. That is a powerful thing. Learn to say these couple words out in public and around. Learn to say these words. Praise the Lord. Something something good happens, got something we get a blessing or whatever, don't be afraid. We'll praise the Lord. I was at Walmart, it's been a couple uh hours ago, no a couple of days ago, uh I was up there at Walmart and um I forget went through and here the price was less Than what um uh it was on there. And the lady says, Well actually that's a dollar cheaper than that. I said, Well, praise the Lord. She looked at me like, what in the world is this guy But I think just giving personal testimony, tell them folks what God has done for you. I like to, when I get uh when I fly occasionally, they'll come by. Would you like an alcoholic drink? And um I always say something like this. I I'll try to if it's appropriate, I'll say something like this, you know the last time I drank alcohol was nearly 40 years ago when May 7, 1979 was the last time alcohol touched my my lips and I'll say, Wow, well wonderful. That's good. And I'll say, yeah, praise the Lord. God changed my life. And try to give a testimony. Here a year or so ago I was flying, Kathy was with me, I think. We were somewhere And they said, Would you like an alcoholic drink? And I said, No, I haven't touched liquor and since nineteen seventy nine and all this I've got uh uh haven't touched a drop And you know what she said? She said this. Well now would be a good time to start again. And to be honest with you, I got half ticked at her. And I thought, what in the world kind of thinking Here's a guy who's been delivered. She has no idea what it was, and she's wanting to reintroduce into my life something that is so deadly. And so destructive. So what I'm trying to say is this. This is a personal testimony. He's talking about what God had done for him What God had done for him personally. I tell you, there's power in that. When somebody says, let me tell you what God did for me personally. That's a powerful thing. And so this is a personal psalm, but I also notice, particularly in verse 6, 7, and 8 It is also a prophetic song. He makes a reference here, a prophetic reference to the Lord Jesus Christ. Look at verse 6. Sacrifice and offering thou didst not desire. Mine ears hast thou opened, burnt offering, and a sin offering thou hast not required. Then said I, Lo, I come in the volume of the book it is written of me I delight to do thy will, O my God, yea, thy law is within my heart. If you take your Bible, keep your place here, and turn with me to Hebrews chapter number ten Now you think, well, how does that have to do with the Lord Jesus Christ? Hebrews chapter number 10, and I want to begin reading in verse 5. If you would turn back there real quick. And Hebrews, Paul, I believe, is the human penman of Hebrews, under the inspiration of God References those verses from Psalm chapter 40 as applying to the Lord Jesus Christ. Hebrews chapter 10. Look with me if you would at verse 5. Wherefore, when he cometh into the world, the Lord Jesus When he cometh into the world, he saith, Look at this, sacrifice and offering thou wouldest not But a body thou hast prepared me in burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin, thou hast had no pleasure Then said I, Lo, I come in the volume of the book it is written of me, to do thy will, O God And so we see here in Psalm chapter 40 this tremendous psalm of God's goodness and mercy. David is giving testimony of what God has done for him. And here, smack dab in the middle of it We find a prophetic reference to the Lord Jesus Christ giving himself in obedience to God as a sacrifice for man's sin. I'm telling you, what I take away from that, I'm telling you, that book is full of the Lord Jesus Christ. From Genesis to Revelation. There is a scarlet thread, as is often said, that runs through the Bible referencing the Lord Jesus Christ and his crucifixion and the price he paid for you and I. I like what Charles Spurgeons he said Spurgeon said, he said uh when speaking to preachers, he says, you get your reference and then you make a beeline to the cross. And that's good advice. And as I studied Psalm chapter 40, I noticed here that the Lord Jesus Christ is right in the middle of it. And we praise the Lord for it. Now, what about Psalm chapter 40? Um we know without a doubt that God is the author. Amen? I always say that. Whenever I'm trying to do the background of a book, we always begin with the fact that God is the author of Scripture. This book is not man's book. This is God's book. It's not man's word. It is God's word. So when we read chapter 40, we are reading the very words of God. So God is the author of the Bible and Psalm chapter 40 in particular, but David is the pen man. It is through David that God inspired, brought his inspired word through David's pen as he recorded down his personal testimony, praising God for his goodness and mercy. So David's the penman. God, of course, is the author. David is the penman there. We see that right at the top to the chief musician, A Psalm of David. So what is this about? What was the background? What is he writing here? What is the background? Um we don't know We're not told anything about what the circumstances were of writing this. We don't know anything about the background of it I think, and I've said this many times before, but I think if we can determine what the background is or what the circumstance was when something is recorded in Scripture It helps us gain some insight, what was going on there, maybe how we can apply it to our lives a little better. But we don't have that. We're not given that information. The only thing we can determine as far as the circumstances behind the writing of this is that David was in a time of intense trouble. David was in a time of overwhelming trial. And he gives testimony that in the midst of this trial, in the midst of this difficulty, in the midst of this uh uh uh testing and these hardship he's going through He says, God's been good to me. God's been good to me. Now here's my outline. Number one, I want us to notice David's plight. David's plight, or the circumstances he tells us he is in here. Look with me, and I want to begin with verse 2. rather than verse one. We want to begin uh by looking first of all at verse two. Notice what he says. He brought me up also out of a what? A horrible pit. It's interesting, he doesn't say out of a pit. He says out of a what? Horrible pit. So I thought, well, that's bad. And so I got looking up the word horrible, and I thought, well, what does he mean? It's a horrible pit. I mean, we use the word horrible. Oh, the snowstorm was horrible. You know, that trip was horrible. That whatever that was they cooked last night and I ate it, it was horrible So what does he mean when he says it was a horrible pit? Well that's an interesting word, actually. It has this idea And I think you'll see how we get the word horrible comes from, but it has this idea of just completely overwhelming It comes from a word that means the deafening roar of like a river. You ever been to a large river and there's a waterfall or there's rapids and just a roar and you're trying to talk, what? I can't hear you, it's too loud. This overwhelming roar. How many people know what I'm talking about? That's the idea behind this word horrible. It is overwhelming. It is deafening. And so he says, he brought me up also out of, he doesn't say out of a pit, but he says, a pit that was absolutely overwhelming. Uh I I couldn't function. I uh it was it was overwhelming this pit I'm in. And then the word pit uh is interesting if you think about it. Um well how would you describe to somebody a pit? It's more than just uh a low spot, right? If you're driving down the road and you you say, oh, I hit a pit That would be more than a low spot. It would be more than a pothole. A pit. Unless you're in Terra Alda, those are pits over there. I'm telling you, that is bad. If you've been over and terror to lady, those roads are horrible. So he says, I'm in this horrible, this overwhelming Pit. Now what a pit is, way we would describe it, a pit would be a very deep, narrow hole in the ground. It's used to refer sometimes to an old well. How many people hear your grandma or grandpa had a well out back or something? Man, that thing goes way down there. It's very narrow, it's very deep, and it's very dark. One thing about a pit is this. When he says he was in a pit, He is saying, I was in a place, now get this, this is important, I could not get myself out of He's in a pit. This thing is deep, it is narrow, and then he throws that term horrible in on top of it. And he says, this was absolutely, I was in a pit, it was overwhelming. I could not, it was a place I could not get myself out of. Then he goes on in verse 2. He says, he brought me up also out of a horrible pit, this overwhelming dark, deep hole I was in. And uh and uh out of a horrible pit. And then out of the what? Myri clay. We're not a big crowd this morning. You can talk to me a little bit. He got him out of the Miery Clay. Now the Miery Clay, we don't not given as specific of word picture as we have of the horrible pit. We can kind of picture that in our mind The Myri clay, uh, it just simply means the Myri uh is uh very, very sticky. I mean you just get in, you get stuck in that thing, and the clay, it's kind of slippery. And the best picture I can have is I study this, how it's used. It's kind of when we were kids, you'd go fishing somewhere And you'd pull your shoes and socks off and roll your pants up. I was going to do it this morning and take my shoes and socks off and roll my pants up, but everybody get jealous of my legs. And um But you ever and you got and you get walking out in the river and you get to a spot before you actually get to the water is and it's just kind of marshy and it gets all squishy and you walk anybody know The kids these days, all they do is play games. When we were, you know, we went out in the real world and um and you walk out in that thing and you take a step and boy it starts going down in Anybody know what I'm talking about? And boy, it's slick on top and you step there and boy that one goes down. Finally you get where it's like You can't hardly pull your foot out. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And finally you get in there far enough and it's like, help I'm stuck in this miry clay, in this mucky, sticky yuck Would you agree with me? David is describing a bad place. This is a bad place. He is in a pit, it is overwhelming, he cannot get himself out of it. It is dark. It is low. By the way, the other thing about a pit is generally only one person fits in there. When he was in a pit, I want to suggest to you he was by himself. He was alone, it was overwhelming, it was dark, and he could not get out. Then he says, I was in Myrick Clay. I was stuck. It was just pulling me down worse and worse and worse. And um so I got thinking about this. I don't believe That what he's describing, this horrible pit and this Myry Clay, I don't believe he's describing a literal condition he was in I don't think it was a literal pit that he was down in. I don't think he was literally stuck in Murray and God brought him out of that. I don't think it was even, can I say this? I don't think this was even a physical condition he's describing. I read through the chapter and there's no mention of any kind of physical illness or ailment that he's struggling with. I don't think it was a physical condition was in. I don't think it was any kind of uh uh uh an enemy attacking him You know, we don't know the background, and I tried to look and tried to speculate what what areas of David's life that we're aware of would this describe? Of course, we think about when Saul was chasing them all over the place, and you know, he's hiding and staying in caves and out in the wilderness. And I don't see any of that referenced through here What I'm trying to get at is this. I think what David was describing was a spiritual condition. I think he was describing, can I suggest maybe a mental condition? He was, I had a fellow a couple years ago who was going through a tough time, living in another state, doesn't attend here, but he had called, I know him, and uh we were talking, and he said, Brother Leatherman, he said, I am in a dark place I'm in a dark place. I know exactly what he meant as we talked. He was in a spiritually dark place, mentally dark place. I'm wondering if David isn't describing here a form of depression. Where it is overwhelming. His circumstances, situation is so overwhelming. He goes, I don't see a way out of this. I don't see any light. I'm down in a pit. I can't get myself out of it. I am stuck in this miry clay. I can't get my head around this. And I am sinking, sinking, sinking. And I have a feeling that that is perhaps what David is talking about. It was dark, he was alone, and he felt helpless. Have you ever been there? Have you ever been in one of those dark places? I don't care how tough you are. I don't care how strong you be. I don't care how great your faith may be. Life is such that it is possible for even the strongest Christian. It is possible for even the toughest person. To get spiritually into a very, very dark place. Here you have David. David was a, would you agree with me? David was a man of intense faith in God. David was a man of intense commitment to the Lord. I mean, you can't read his Psalms that God used him to record. You can't read of his life. We're studying on Wednesday nights, David and Goliath, and his response to Saul's uh craziness. And you see here a strong man, a mentally, spiritually uh powerhouse, and yet he says, I was in a horrible pit. I was in Miery Clay. I was in this place I could not get myself out of. And so I looked through and I thought, what in the world? Then I found a little hint. in Psalm chapter 40 of I think what David is talking about. If you would, come to verse number 12 in Psalm chapter 40. And he says almost the same thing he says in verse 2, except he expresses it a little bit differently, and I think we get a little insight. Look at verse 12. He says, for innumerable, innumerable, could we say this, overwhelming? Can't even count them. They're just innumerable what? Evils of what? Compassed me about. Sounds like a pit. Sounds overwhelming to me. I've gotten in this thing. I am compassed about by it. There's no way out. They're innumerable. For innumerable evils have compassed me about. Now here, look at this. Mind what Iniquities have taken hold upon me. I noticed that phrase taken hold. You know what that made me think of? Myra Clay. They got a hold of me. I can't get out. Sticky. Sucked into that. Um he says, so For innumerable evils have compassed me about, mine iniquities have taken hold upon me, so that I am not able to look up. They are more than the hairs of my head, they're overwhelming. Therefore, my heart, what? Faileth me. It's a dark place. And verse 12, I think, suggests to us what the situation was. David had failed God. David had sinned, and that sin had become the guilt and the the grief and the conviction perhaps of that sin. Have absolutely taken over him. There was a sense of failure, I think, on David's part that he says, I feel like I can't get out. I have failed God so badly I have come so short of what my God expects of me and desires of me. Mine iniquities have taken hold of me. They're more they compass me about there over my head. I'm in a horrible pit. I'm stuck in this Myri clay. I'm telling you, sin is an awful, awful thing. Sin is an awful thing. We ought to flee sin with every ounce of our being. We ought to be on guard 24-7 that we do not allow sin to creep into our hearts. Sin is so deceitful, it is so subtle, and it is so devastating. It is so devastating. David was a man of tremendous faith. He was a man of intense devotion. But David was also a man of intense trials. Intense difficulties. And he had some horrific failures. And they hurt him and they cost him dearly He's in a horrible pit. I read of, and I had never heard of this fellow before. Some of you might have Supreme Court Justice Luis Brandes. Does anybody recognize that name? It was a little bit before my time Some of you old folks, um older folks, I'm sorry. Uh the way before that he was like early nineteen hundreds, I think. Um I think that's when he was, actually. Uh back when you guys were middle aged, some of you He made an interesting statement. He's talking to his daughter, who was going through a hard time. And he he made this statement. He said, sweetheart. If you will only recognize that life is hard, it'll be a whole lot easier for you. And the fact of the matter is, David's life is a testimony to the fact that it doesn't matter how strong your faith may be, it doesn't matter how much you may think you've got your act together. You may have all your ducks in a row and everything set up just perfectly for your life. And I'm telling you right now, life is still hard. And trials still come, and sin is still very real. And when sin comes, it can absolutely throw us into a pit and into a hole. And that we feel like we cannot get out of it. How many public figures have we seen that have fallen into open, ungodly sin And their lives are absolutely destroyed. Am I right or wrong? Now if we're seeing that I'm talking about in church even, in churches, public people. Now if we're seeing those public, how many are the ones we never hear of, never see of? So David is in a tough situation. He's in quite a plight here. He's down in a pit, he's in a hole. Listen, can I say this right now, just real quickly? Can I give you a word of caution? If you're toying with sin If there's something in your life, and even as I'm speaking, the Holy Spirit of God is bringing it to your mind, I don't have to give a list. The Spirit of God does that. And there's some sin there, and there is something you're toying with, there is something in your life that you know is not right. I want to plead with you as a pastor, as your pastor and as a preacher of the Word of God, I want to plead with you, turn from that thing right now. You flee from it. Because I'm telling you, you will end up in a pit and a hole that can be overwhelming David's in a horrific plight here. And apparently, according to verse 12, apparently he had failed in some way, and it says this was the consequence. Now I want us to notice, second of all, David's posture Now we come back to verse number one. We start at verse two. Let's come back to verse one and look what he says. Now remember, this whole psalm is a testimony. David is saying, This is what God did for me This was my situation, verse 12. I was in a horrible pit, I was in Miery Clay, it was tough. But let me tell you what I did, verse number one. He says, Here was my posture, this was my action, this is how I responded to it. It was horrific, it was overwhelming, it was dark, it was hopeless, humanly speaking, but this is what I did. Now, here's a good place to follow David's example. Look at verse 1. I, what's the next two words? Waited patiently. You know, it's one thing. First thing David did was he waited on God patiently. He waited on God patiently. What does it mean if you're waiting on something? What does that tell you? See if I can get you thinking along my brave wavelengths here. If I'm waiting on something, what does that say about what I think is going to happen? See, you follow what I'm trying to say? I am what? I'm anticipating something to take place. If I'm waiting Um I was traveling this week and there was a there was a line door I was wanting to get a cup of coffee and so I went up and I couldn't tell where the line was and um I I said to the one lady, I said, uh are you waiting in line here? She goes, oh no, I'm just standing here. Said, okay. So here, I said, are you is this the line? Are you waiting in line? He says, yeah, we're waiting in line. The difference was this person anticipated getting to the counter and receiving something The other one wasn't anticipating nothing. They were just I don't know what they were doing. They were just standing there. And so what I see David says, I waited That tells me he anticipated God doing something. He's in this horrible pit. He's in this Miery Clay. He said, but I waited I I I I is anticipating on God stepping in, I am anticipating on God. It means I expect a result. I expect something to happen There's a difference between waiting on something to happen and hoping something happens. Right? Boy, I hope it doesn't snow today. Alright? Forget that. You might. But uh another person says, uh uh one person says, I hope it's going to snow today. Another person says, I'm waiting on that snow to show up. You see the subtle difference I'm suggesting? David didn't say, I hoped. He says, I waited. God's going to help me. God is going to do something. God is still in control. I'm still the Lord's. God has not abandoned me. God has not forsaken me And I tell you one of the first things to do, and one of the most important things to do when I get in a pit and maybe it's depressing or whatever, I messed up and I'm overwhelmed by a uh darkness and I'm down in this hole and I and I can't get myself out of it. One thing I must be sure of is that God still loves me and God can and will help me I waited on the Lord. I anticipated God. God has not abandoned me. God is not done with me. God can and will still help me. I tell you what, you give up, you stop waiting on God, and you're going to be stuck in that hole for a long time Wait on God, wait on God, wait on God. But the interesting thing is, he doesn't say, I waited on, he doesn't say I waited for the Lord. He says what? I waited Patiently for the Lord. It's one thing to wait on God. It's another thing to wait patiently. Patiently waiting. I anticip I'm at Walmart. How do my illustrations always end up at Walmart somehow? I'm at Walmart And I'm waiting in line. And it's a long line. It's always a long line. I'm waiting in line. And uh I fully anticipate getting to that cashier and giving her all my money. And uh getting stuff that uh taking home stuff I did not walk in to get, just came in to get milk, and now I got a whole cart full of stuff. And she's gonna take all my money, I'm waiting on that and the line, and it's gone slow Did you ever get there and the lady behind the thing knows the person that's buying stuff And like an hour and a half later they're still talking, Oh, let me show you my grandkids and they're going on and on, you're back there waiting. It's one thing to wait, it's another thing to wait patiently. Anybody here wait impatiently? It's like this. What's some of you are doing right now for the message to end? Waiting means I anticipate a response. Let me throw this out. Waiting patiently means I am absolutely confident That response is going to come by. I'm waiting. You you think God's going to do something? Yeah, I'm waiting on him. God's going to help me. All right. Three weeks later, you're still waiting on God? Oh yeah, absolutely. God's going to help me. Aren't you a little worried? No, I'm confident. I'm waiting patiently. God is going to get me out of this. God is going to change. God is going to help me God is still in control. God still loves me. And I think when he says, I waited patiently, Lord, he is saying, I am absolutely confident. He is waiting with confidence He's in a terrible pit, a horrible pit. He's in my reclay. He can't get himself out of it. It's dark. But he says, there's a God in heaven, and I fully anticipate him helping me. And I am going to be patient until he steps in. Tell you, one of the key virtues in the Christian life is learning to be patient. Learning to be patient. We want it, and we want it now. But I found out a long time ago, God does not work on my time frame. God doesn't check my little calendar on my phone to see what I got scheduled. God works on his time. I made this statement many, many times. I hope you get a hold of it because it is absolutely true. I have never regretted waiting on God. Never. Now, there's times where I got impatient and I took things into my own hands and said, I'm going to do it my way. I can't go on this anyway. I've got to do something. I've got to do something. I tell you, I've been in that frame of mind many times. You know what? I regretted it terribly. Can I get a witness? I didn't wait. I took action. I stepped ahead. Oh yeah? I'll fix this. And I messed up. You know, the Bible is full of characters and good people. That got in big trouble because they failed to wait patiently on the Lord. You know who I'm thinking of? Abraham. Abraham. God says you're going to have a child. Your wife, you and your wife are going to have a child. Says, uh man alive, I'm a hundred years old, Sarah's ninety, what in the world? And uh in fact he laughed. Sarah laughed And uh God says, no, you're gonna have one. Actually Sarah got a little impatient, got talking to Abraham, what happened? She gave him who? Hagar. Any child by Hagar. And uh boy today we're still suffering. The results of that, all the turmoil in the Middle East. things in their own hand. I'm going to do this and I'm going to do that. Rather than just trusting God, doing right, staying at it, be patient. Let God work, let God intervene, let God do his thing. And just wait on God. Wait on God. Wait patiently on God. And so Abraham, I thought of Rebekah. uh got in trouble with the kids. And all through the Bible you have people di got in trouble because they didn't wait on God. So the first thing David does, his posture, his response, he's in this His plight is, I'm in a horrible pit, I cannot get out, this is dark, this is overwhelming, I'm stuck. But I'm gonna anticipate, I anticipate God helping me, and I'm gonna wait and I'm gonna be patient. I am I'm going to be consistent and let God intervene and do this. So he waits on God patiently, but then he says something else. Now he doesn't come out and say he does this, but it's implied. He looked to God prayerfully. Look at verse number one again with me. I waited patiently for the Lord. And he inclined unto me, look at this, and heard my what? Cry. What do you think he's referring to when he says he heard my cry? He's talking about what? Prayer. Prayer. You just sit back in the pit and say, oh, this is overwhelming. It's dark. I'll never get out of here. I'm stuck But God will intervene someday. God's, I'm just gonna wait and try. No, no, no. You know what the best thing to do while you're waiting? Start praying. Start praying. You're in a pit, pray. You're in miry clay, pray. When in clay, pray. Right? David prayed. David, of all the Bible characters, and there's a lot of them, so I can't really single him out. But David knew the power of prayer. David believed in prayer. You read the Psalms, you know what most of them are? Prayers of David. Pour his heart out to God. Complained. He said, I poured my complaint out to the Lord. Prayed to God. He prayed to God. Best thing to do when waiting on God is to pray. The best thing to do when you're in a pit is pray. There's nothing unspiritual about praying to God. Well, I'm just going to buck it up. I'm going to I'll get myself out of it. No, no, no. You look to God, you wait on God, and then you get on your knees and you beg and plead God. Sometimes the most spiritual thing to do is to cry out to God when we're in a pit. You say, I'm in discouraged, I'm in depression, I've messed up, my situation is overwhelming, I don't see any hope. You convince yourself God is still good, God is still in control, God cares about me, God will intervene, and I'm going to pour my heart out to him, I'm going to pour my complaint out to him. I found out a long time ago, and I'm no doubt I'm still guilty of this, still do it, but uh I found out a long time ago complaining to other people doesn't really help a whole lot But complaining to God is powerful. Powerful. Well, I had someone a number of years ago that came, preacher, I got a list of complaints. I said wonderful. Here's a box right there. You put them in there. That's my complaint box right there beside my desk underneath there. There's empty coffee cups and stuff in there. Yeah, that's the complaint box. Throw it in there. Not really. But what I'm trying to say is this: complaining to God makes a world of difference Makes a world difference. Pray. So he waited on God patiently. He looked at God prayerfully. Now let's quickly uh notice God's response. I waited patiently for the Lord and he what? Inclined unto me. Huh That word incline, what do you think of when you when somebody uh anybody have a recliner? What's it do? When you get in the recliner, it does what? It leans back. It's a recliner. It goes back. So if you're inclining, what are you doing? You're leaning forward. You know what it is? Do you ever have a little kid come up and talk to you? They'll come up here sometimes, the kids will run up the front, preacher. They'll come up, and you know what do you do when a little child comes up to you? Hey, hey Grace, hey Gabe, what's going on? And you bend over it, you incline some. I tell you what, I don't know about you, but that stirs my heart to think that when I'm in a pit and I'm going through a hard time and it's overwhelming and I don't know the answer And I'm on the ma verge or even down in depression, and I cry out to God that God does this What are you saying, Dennis? God inclines to us. He listens to us. The God of this universe cares enough. Bend down and listen. In fact, the word incline, I got looking it up. It it gets even more exciting. It means to pay close attention. It means to uh to bend over toward the one talking, it also means this. It means to stretch out the ear. Say what are you talking about? It means this. You ever do this? Huh? You push your ear forward. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You push your ear. What is that? I hear a little something. Listen. And this is the picture I get. David's down in this pit. There's Myri clay in the bottom. He's stuck. It's dark. He's alone. He can't get out. And he's crying out, God, help me. And God comes over to the pit and he says, David. I'm listening. He listens very carefully. I think the quietest, softest whimper And the heart of a believer is heard very, very clearly by God in heaven You say, nobody hears me, nobody knows. I'm telling you, God is inclining and he's listening. Isn't that good to know? Just this one statement. If you don't get anything out of this message, you walk out of here. I hope you get this statement. God cares. God cares. David said, I was in a horrible pit And God inclined unto me. God cared enough to bend down and stretch his ear out. Then he says this, and he inclined unto me and heard my cry. Now, the word heard there doesn't just mean God picked up the sounds. It's more than just, oh yeah, I heard something. No, no, no. It means this: to listen intently. God known bends down. David, you're in a pit. I cry in the Lord. And he inclined unto me. And he listened to me. He paid attention to what I was saying. He paid close attention. He listened very carefully. In other words, God was fully engaged. But David was pouring his heart out to God. Say, boy, I wish I could get God's attention. Can I tell you how to get God's attention? You just be absolutely convinced that He is going to intervene. You get on your knees. You pour your heart out to God. God says, I'll pay attention. He said, a broken and contrite spirit I will not despise. You're here this morning and I don't know, maybe I'm talking to somebody you cried yourself to sleep last night. Maybe I'm talking to somebody you woke up in the middle of the night so overwhelmed with heartache and maybe failure. I don't know. You say, I don't know how I can ever get this straight, and I don't know how to make this right, I don't know how to get out of this hole. I'm telling you, God in heaven is able and he cares. I can pour my heart out to him, get on my knees, and God. And he hears us. He inclines unto us and he pays attention and he fully engages us. I was reading about a gal and I don't know where, I don't know anything about the circumstances, other than this. A young lady shared an apartment with another young lady. The other young lady was a Christian. And the initial gal that wasn't a Christian, she trusted Jesus Christ as her Savior. She came home one day, she told her friend, I got saved today, I trusted Christ as Savior. And she said this, I became a Christian. I accepted the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior because of you. And the Christian roommate said this. He goes, why in the world? What about me would bring you to Christ? And she said this. She goes, I'm I go through periods of deep depression Why would that bring you to Christ? And the other roommate said, because of how you responded. to the times of depression showed me that there's a God in heaven that cares deeply about me, and I need him as my Savior What a testimony. You get into horrible pits. You get stuck in miry clay, but I've watched you wait on God. I've watched you pour your heart out to God, and I've seen God lift you up out of that pit and set your feet upon a rock and give a song in your voice and praise unto our God And it caused me to fear God and to trust Him as my own personal Savior. Can I suggest to you, our testimony a lot of times, isn't necessarily how happy we are when everything's going right. That doesn't always bring great impact on other people's lives. I tell you what impacts other people's lives is how we respond when everything's going wrong Because that's where the supernatural comes in. Hey, the most wicked person in the world can be happy when everything's going right. Right? These wicked movie stars and musicians living ungodly, perverse, wicked lives and all kinds of sin. If everything's gone right and they're and uh the Saturday night at the club, they're happy as can be. But when Sunday comes around another day and things are falling around apart, then they don't have any answers. They have no hope, they have nobody to turn to. But as a Christian, when things go wrong and things mess up and I'm in a hole, I've got somebody to look to. I've got somebody to trust that can bring me up out of that. And people see that. What a powerful testimony Psalm chapter 40 is. Amen? David, he brought me up out of a horrible pit, out of a miry clay, he set my feet upon a rock, he established my goals, he put a song in my heart. Many see that in fear. Let's pray. Father in heaven. I pray you'd help us in those times of darkness, those valleys that you allow us to go through. Help us to learn in those valleys. And then Lord reassure us that we're going to leave those valleys eventually. We never stay there. We never stay in those pits. You eventually get us out. So help us to wait on you. Help us to pray and trust you. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if there's some this morning who say, preacher, I'd like for you to pray with me. And God would help me see this and just trust him. To wait on him, pour my heart out to him And to trust him that he is going to help me. He's going to lead me and direct me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Pray to I'd like for you to pray with me. God bless you. Bunch of hands. All around. Bunch of hands. I have no idea what situation each individual may be, but God does and he cares deeply. Wants us to wait and trust and look to him. Don't get ahead of God. Don't get all work. Say, I gotta do something I think the best thing to do is just wait on the Lord, trust him, let him lead you, he'll direct you, and you pray and he'll bring you out of it. Father in heaven, I pray you'd bless our invitation now. Lord, if there's somebody that's never been saved, they're in a horrible pit of sin and unbelief, I pray you'd not let them die in their sins, but they'd find forgiveness through trusting Christ. They believe and be saved. And Lord, those of us that know you as Savior, when we uh have these struggles or failures or these pits Lord help us to wait on you and trust you and pray. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing the invitation. How about it?