All right. Thank you. Thank you, Pastor. Take your Bible, please, and turn to turn to the Psalms tonight, to the beginning of the Psalms, Psalm number one. And uh I will actually uh start there, and if you keep your Bible open, I have oh a variety of text for the message tonight. And uh trust it'll be a help and a blessing in what you're finding Psalms, which is not a huge assignment for you, I'm sure, but Um I I want to say again how much it's been my delight to be here. Um I I know I've told you before and maybe I say it every year, I don't know. But but I I love coming here and I'm thankful for what uh the church here uh has done, is doing, and plans to do. And uh Brother Leatherman is uh a dear friend, always does a great job in getting the conference ready and in notifying the rest of you guys who are pastor out here, there and yon and getting uh getting you informed so that you can get it on your docket and schedule and and it's it's just a delight and I appreciate uh the uh Things have been done I've I've overeaten, I've eaten too much. Uh I enjoyed it, but I I hate too much. And uh So I go home and and uh you know, be on a bread and water diet for a couple of days to get my get my pounds off. But uh but thank you all of you for your kindness and for all that you do to be supportive of the sword of the Lord. Pastor just a few minutes ago, Brother Davidson and I stopped at a very famous restaurant down the street, Golden Arches out front And uh I've I I don't drink coffee hardly ever, but I've violated my rule on that the last three days because I've been stopped up, my throat's been a little sore and all that kind of stuff And uh I had said to him earlier, maybe we'll go a few minutes early. And uh so uh we stopped down at McDee's and got our coffee, and just as we walked in It was a man standing there. I think he had already ordered. And he and as I walked up, he said, what did you say? Are you Reverend Shelton? Aren't you Shelton? Something like that. Yeah, I I I something like that. And I and I said uh I said, well yes And turns out he works at a secular radio station here in town. And he said, I've been picking up the sword at, what is it, Food Land or Food Lion or someplace? And he said, I've been picking it up, but I read it every bit. And the guy's a Lutheran. Yeah, yeah. And he was uh he was all excited. And so uh you know f just just to remind you, what you're doing is having some impact. And uh and it um It's it's good and I I would uh well uh you know there's a lot of ways to impact a community. A lot of ways. Some of them are very expensive, some of them are very doable. And what you're doing and getting out these several hundred copies of the sword all over Garrett County. It's very doable. And in fact I hope some of the rest of you guys will want to do that in your town. Uh it'd be good for us, helps us to accomplish our goals, and at the same time it's us being a little part and helping you. To make a dent on your Jerusalem. And I hope we can help you with that. And uh Brother Sam and I uh always enjoy uh being together. I Uh you know, one of the things about being editor of the sword is I've I get to preach with some guys that man, I just I love it. And uh and not not just because they do great when they're in the pulpit, but I know about people that are real down to the bone and uh that you get spend a little time with them and and uh we're we're very grateful for that and uh and I am uh appreciative this time as well. Brother Fox, thank you. for your uh role here and for what you're doing. God bless you for that as well. Now, uh, Psalm number one, you found it? All right. Good. I'd be worried about you if you hadn't, but anyway. Psalm number one. And before I begin the reading, let me let me set this up just a little bit. New Year's this year, I said to our staff at the sword, I said, if uh I said, if I just mentioned the word blessed, What pops in your mind from the Bible. Make sure the word blessed. And uh two or three of them Uh just spontaneous they said, Oh Sermon on the Mount. I said, that's exactly what I would have said had you asked me the question. Because that section, you know, the blessings in the Sermon on the Mount. But I said, you know, that word blessed appears a bunch of times in the Bible. And so I said to them, I said, what I'm going to do, I think, I'm going to just Uh one one a day. We have devotions every work day at the sword five days a week, seven o'clock in the morning. When everybody shows up for work, And right now I think we've got forty-two people working there. And we all meet in the Sword Auditorium. We have fifteen minutes of devotions. If I'm there, I preach to them. Sing a song, get up, open the Bible, tell them about it, and 7. 15 we go to work. I'm not there when the other man does it. But I said to them, I said, I'm going to take one of these blessed verses per day. As long as they last. And we're going to go through every one of them. Now, I didn't quite do that because I decided not to do the ones They'd say like, blessed be God. If it's in reference to God, something that like that, I I didn't do those because they're pretty much saying the same thing. But the ones that I did do were the ones that were directed to us. And I as you know I travel a lot, so I'm not there but about half the time. But uh but I started New Year's and I finished up end of July. Just, you know, doing one or two or three or four a week. And out of that, the message I'm about to give you has come. And the message tonight is entitled How to Get the Blessing of God in Your Life. How to Get God's Blessing in Your Life Now, Psalm 11, first word, first verse says, blessed, blessed is the man. I stopping the reading there to say to you that the Bible says here very pointedly that you as an individual May get the blessing of God in your life. Blessed is the man. God is saying a man can get the blessing And he gives three three conditions here. He says, the man that walks not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits under the seat of the scornful. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. So we have the three conditions. The first of which is that we not walk in the counsel of the ungodly. We live in the day of Dr. Phil and Oprah and Abigail Van Buren And and uh and uh Anne Landers in the newspapers and other such things as that. So advice is available everywhere. I mean this is the age of the psychologist and the psychiatrist the uh psychiatrist. And uh I mean you know you can go and for several hundred dollars an hour you can get you can get advice. Uh I mean you can let somebody just listen to you rattle I mean this is the age of all of that. But let me remind you that when you have the TV on listening to some of the folks that I just mentioned, you're listening to New Agers. New agers by and large. And uh what we need is not to set ourselves in place where we're following the advice and the counsel of those who are coming out of a different world. Years ago I had a man in my church. And his family had been uh there for, I don't know, two, three, four years, and They came Sunday morning, came Sunday night, sometimes on Wednesday night. They were there, but they were not as fully as engaged as I wanted them to be. One day he shows up at my office and he said, Pastor, can I see you for a minute? I said, Sure, come in He said, Well, you know what? He said, I have a health problem. I knew he had a health problem. He had a kidney ailment. He said, I just came from my doctor, and he said, I I just want to ask you what you think about the advice my doctor gave me Now, oftentimes, not all the time, but about 98% of the time, when somebody comes at you like that, they're about to do something stupid, and they want you to put your imprimature on it. This was a case in point. He said, My doctor said that if I drink a can of beer a day That it would help my kidney ailment. And he said, What do you think about that? And I tell you what, I did not call a committee meeting. We did not get the deacons together. Before I thought, I said to him, I'll tell you what I think about that, you need to get a new doctor. Now, sadly, I knew that that man had had a drinking problem ten or twelve years before. I don't know whether the doctor knew that or not, but I knew it. And a year and a half from the time that he decided not to take my advice but to listen to the MD, a year and a half from that point, the man was a drunk. He was a drunk. Why? Because he listened to the wrong counsel. And when we listen to the wrong counsel, the blessing of God is going to disappear every time. Not only that, but this verse says, nor sits in the uh nor stands in the way of sinners. The word sinners there has to do with people who miss the mark. That is, they they they uh they miss the standard that God has set. God does have certain standards. He has certain moral codes. And if we violate those codes, we are missing the mark. Sinners. And uh you know, Ten Commandments, Book of Proverbs, Sermon on the Mount, I mean the epistles, all kinds of things in the Bible, and they're not there to spoil our life, they're not there to keep us from enjoying our life. They're there to protect us and to keep us safe and to keep us headed in a good direction. But whenever whenever we decide, well, here's folks over here, they're doing that, and they seem to be having a good time, and they seem to be doing well, and I mean that guy's making money uh hand over fist So if I do what he does, I'll be able to do that, and we'll be able to buy the big house and buy the big car and do all that we want to do. And whenever we go, where that guy goes, the blessing of God slips away. Third condition there is, nor sits in the seat of the scornful. The scorner is the guy who says I don't care what's in the Bible. I don't care what God said. I don't care what the church stands for. I don't care what the preacher preached last Sunday. I am going to do what I want to do, and it doesn't matter to me what any of that is about That's the scorner. And the guy who turns his nose up at God and the things of God is not going to be in possession of the blessing of God. The Bible goes on to say in verse 2, but this blessed man has his delight in the law of the Lord. So it's not just the doing of the things of God, but it's also the delighting in it that God's looking for. Those of you that have or have had children, you remember there was a time, whatever, maybe they were two or two and a half or something, and you you said to them, go do this, and they would do the poochie lip at you. They would do it, but they had their bottom lip hanging down. They were about half mad. They did it, but they were about half mad about it. But there came a day whenever you said, go do this, and they popped up and said, Yes, Daddy, yes, mother, and they went and did it. Oh, what a what a sweet day it is. Whatever they decide to do and they they want to please you. Brother Davidson and I were talking on the way over here about our parents. And uh his his mother's still living, my mother's still living, but uh our dads are gone in heaven already. And uh and we and we were just talking about how as even as grown men we we wanted to honor and please our parents. And and you know, I mean I I I understand I feel this down deep inside inside in relation to my own family, my own parents. I've seen it with my own children. Now, if we get that in our little family arena, just think what our Heavenly Father wants of us. He wants us to do the things we ought to do, but He wants us to delight in it. And whenever we start, I mean we start just getting excited, we're thrilled, we're just very, very much delighted about the things of God, then the blessing of God comes in. That's what we're after. How to get the blessing of God? This passage says three conditions: don't walk in the counsel of the ungodly, don't sit in the way of sinners. Don't sit in the seat of the scornful, but delight in what God wants. Now, remember we're looking at these blessed words. Look at chapter 2, verse 12. The Psalms, chapter 2, verse 12. Right at the end of the verse. Here is one that says, Blessed are all they that put their trust in him. You know, I I I pe people ask me a lot of questions. I'm sure they Brother Leatherman, I'm sure they ask you a lot of questions. It just kind of goes with the territory. If you're a pastor or. uh somebody who's you know uh got some position in the Lord's work, uh people will ask you questions. Now, one of my favorite answers To the questions that people ask me, one of my favorite answers is, I don't know Because people ask me a lot of things that I don't know the answer to. Now, I've read the Bible through a bunch of times. And I've studied the Bible, and I and I and I know I delight to know a lot of the things in the Bible, but I'm going to be very honest to tell you, there are things in this book that I don't have figured out yet I mean you could turn to page 246 or something and say, what is that about? And I'd have to say, I don't know. I don't have it figured yet. By the way, I have more figured now than I did five years ago. But there's still things I don't have figured out. But let me tell you something. In order to have the blessing of God on my life, I've said, whether I got it figured or not, if it's in the book. I will faith it where I can't figure it. If my little brain can't get wrapped around it, I'm going to say God is still God and the Bible is his word. And whatever that he says, I'm just going to go with it. You say, you're talking about what? I'm talking about your marriage, I'm talking about your children, raising your kids, I'm talking about your relationship with the church, I'm talking about your business. I'm talking about everything you do. Just find God's principles and faith your way with it. And say, I'll do it God's way. And the blessing comes. You trust him, and the blessing comes. Jump over to 32. Psalm 30. All these I'm going to give you tonight are in the Psalms. 32. 1 and 2. There are two of them here. And you're going to like these two. Oh, you're going to like these two. I'm telling you. The first one, verse one, says, Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. The second verse says, Blessed is the man unto whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no God. Now, let me help you out here. We're all sinners. We were born in s we were born sinners. Do you know why everybody sins? It's because they're sinners when they're born. You don't become a sinner the day that you say, Oh, I sinned today. And you don't say, oh, I guess I'm a sinner now that I sin. No, no, no. You were a sinner from the start. That's the reason the sin eventually comes. It's like an apple tree. It's an apple tree when it's not any bigger than that and never had an apple on it By its nature, it's an apple tree. Because it's an apple tree by nature, eventually it gets big and has apples on it And eventually sin shows up with all of us because we're sinners from day one. And whatever we realize, that the wages of sin Is death physically and spiritually. One day we'll die and go to hell because we're sinners. But when we realize that Christ went to the cross, He paid the debt for us, and because that He shed His blood on Calvary's tree I can be forgiven. What a blessing. I mean, every every guy that you know in the penitentiary Everybody in the local jail, whatever they've done, wherever they've been, whatever things that they've done, God is the God of grace and the God of mercy, and a God who is so powerful that He can cover every sin of every life. There's blessing that comes with that. And the second one of those says That man unto whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity. Do you realize once that you're in the family of God, God doesn't charge stuff to you? That thing in the New Testament called imputation, another one called justification, all of those things are applicable to me and to you whenever we're under the blood of Christ. What a blessing. Look at the next chapter, 3312. 3312 says, Blessed is the nation. Remember, chapter 1, verse 1 said, Blessed is the man. This one says, Blessed is the nation. Does that mean that a nation could have the blessing of God? Well, hey, it's in the book. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, and the people whom he hath chosen for his own inheritance. So here we learn That God not only will bless people like me and people like you, but He will bless a whole nation of people if they will allow Him to be their God. You say, can America have the blessing of God? I think we have had the blessing of God in years past. And in some measure we have it now. But we've lost a bunch of it. I mean, we're in a mess. Our world is in turmoil. The fields are on fire. And there's more developing every single day. What what are we to make of all this? We need the blessing of God. And we cannot get, we cannot get the blessing of God when we let liquor run down our streets like a river. Brother Davidson and I went in a jiffy market today to pick up some diet soda. And as we were looking around trying to find the Diet Coke, I said to him, they have ten times more booze in here than they do sodopop. And ten times might have not told it. I mean, there was just row after row after row of all that trash and a little section of soda pop. You cannot get the blessing of God with liquor flowing down the street like a river. You can't get the blessing of God when you have killed fifty-four million unborn babies. In less than forty years. And more of them being killed every single day. People getting on TV and acting like it's just our right to choose. Right to choose my foot. Right to choose. What are we talking about? I mean, yeah, you got the right to make a choice, but your choice just went away once there's a life there. I notice all of the people who are wanting to make a choice got to be born themselves. They're pontificating pontificating the well-being and the outcome of another life over which they have control. I mean if somebody walked up to them and said, You know, I think I choose to shoot you till you're dead. My guess is every stinking one of those liberals, every one of them, mindless as they are, I think they would muster up the grain of sense that it takes to say, oh, please don't shoot me. I think they would. And for them to say, these little unborn ones, ah, it doesn't matter. Their fetal tissue. Oh, come on. You say, every time I hear you, you're harping on some of that stuff. Yes, and as long as the Lord gives me breath, I intend to keep on. I tend to keep on. Amen. Listen, I'd I'd like to have the blessing of God in full measure upon our nation. I mean all of this all of this claptrap about homosexual marriage and and all of that kind of stuff. What in the world Next thing you know, we'll be blue in God, amen. Mm-hmm. Hang on. This might get worse before it gets better. Verse 12 says the nation could be blessed. Oh, how we need to get our nation on track. Jump over to uh the next one is in thirty-seven, thirty-seven twenty-three. It's all about blessing. How to get the blessing? What does God say about the blessing? 3723 says the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and he delights in his way. Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down, for the Lord upholding him with his hand. I've been young, now I'm old, yet I've not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread. He is ever merciful and lendeth And here it is, his seed is blessed. What are we trying to say here? You get this thing going like God wants it to go, you get God in your life like God wants to be in your life, get His blessing flowing to you, and you will not only get the blessing But your family, your children, your offspring, your grands are going to reap off of your choice to put God first. Families are highly impacted by what the leadership does. Mom and dad, you're not living in a world of yourself You sit there and watch the uh watch the the uh the television set and watch some of that trashy stuff and and your your children uh sitting there watching you watch that? And then they build on that and wind up doing something crazy, and then you won't throw your hands up high? Just as a little aside here, we we adopted a one-volt rule at our house. About eight hundred years ago. A one vote rule. By the way, we we we have television in our house. I know some of you say, well, I I don't want a TV. If you don't want a TV, God bless you. I have one. In fact, we got two. Me and Betty, she's got one, I got one. Sometimes she gets tired watching baseball. But uh we have a one vote rule at our house. We had it when the children were small. It's just bad and me there now. We still have that one vote rule. The slightest thing Can come on, and anybody that's sitting in the room just slightly flinches, and the TV gets turned immediately, and there's no debate. When we were when we had children in the house, they had that now mom and dad maintained veto power because sometimes kids will they want to watch something else and they'll make uh you know how that could happen. But if it was a legitimate vote by the children, they were able to cast the one vote. I mean, and and we just we we've done that at our house for years. And uh you say, what's what's the deal? We we want we want our children to know that the things that we talk about at church and the things that we read out of the Bible when we're at home together We want them to know that it's not just our little religious duty we're talking about. This is life. This is real. This is who we are. This is what we're going to do in the light of the day and in the dark of the night. This is what we do. Yes. And our children are blessed because mom and dad make good choices, and the Lord promises it here. Let's do another one here. Look at 41. 1. We're talking about getting the blessing of God in our life. 41. 1 says. Blessed is he that considereth the poor. Now let me help you with this. This is one of those verses that the social justice crowd among religious people sometimes jump all over and they want to They want everybody who doesn't have anything to be provided for by those who've worked and earned it. And whether whether they deserve to be helped or not, if they don't have anything, we've got to help them. I'm I'm not I'm not there. That's that's not who I am and that's not what this verse is about. You say, well, somebody needs their rent paid. Well, maybe we can help with that, but maybe we Maybe we're only enabling them in some of their bad things if we do pay the rent. So I'm going to be careful about all that. You say, but this says consider the poor and you get the blessing. It's exactly right. And what the Bible passage means here is the poor are just as real as the rich. They're just as much a person as the well-to-do person. They are somebody who ought to be respected I mean somebody who doesn't have two dimes to rub together and who has never had two dimes to rub together ought to be just as welcome to sit on the front row here as the guy who drives in in a Mercedes or a BMW. When you're when you're out up and down the streets passing out gospel tracts and witnessing to people, the uh the the lower echelon end of town, I mean the the the absolute ghetto trash pit part of town The people that are there, they're just as real, they're just as lost, they're just as worthy in God's sight as the folks who live over in the gated community. And God is saying, you get the focus right. I mean there there are churches in town where some bum walks in and uh they invite him to leave You say, oh, nobody would do that. I'm telling you, there are places like that. But some some bum walks in With his worldly possessions on his back, you know. The McDonald's where I eat breakfast every morning in Murfreesboro. I mean we got folks show up there every morning with all their worldly goods on their back and they're they're they're sitting there in the wintertime in warm space and Using the facilities and and and they'll come in and buy a cup of coffee and sit there and sip on it for six hours. You know, and some of those people, I'm telling you, some of them, they just pass through and they totally change the aroma. In the place. It's one you can't mask with that coffee smell. But I'm telling you, every single one of them Hadn't been all that long ago until it was somebody's little boy. Somebody's little daughter. And the Bible says if you and I just get our focus so that we don't look down our noses at people because they're Nothing, because they're nobody, because they have nothing. Get our focus right. What's he after? He's trying to get us to see the folks, whoever they are, in the same way that he sees them And he says, when you see people for the worth that I have put into them, you get blessing from that. Let me do one more. Look at 84-4. 84-4. Actually, three of them in this chapter, I'll only look at two of them, four and five. Eighty-four-four says, Blessed are they that dwell in thy house. They will be still praising thee. You say, are you telling me that I get blessing if I hang around the house of God? I think that's what he's saying. In fact, uh, that old negative attitude, I mean that old grumpy spirit That old uh man nothing's right, nothing's good. Uh I mean I've been mistreated and I I'm I'm I'm just uh you know it's a hard time. I mean that old that old grumpy spirit, you hang around the church house And the heat will come on, and the Spirit of God will work in your life, and it'll take the grump out of your spirit. The verse says you'll be praising God. You hang around the church house. That fifth verse has another one that says, Blessed is the man whose strength is in thee. Ladies Well, tell you something about us guys. You already know it. But we guys like for you ladies to think that we're strong. That's the reason we do this sometimes. We want you to think we're strong. In fact, I think it was yesterday one of the guys out here in the in the lobby walked up, shook my hand, and with his other hand he reached up here and grabbed me like that. And invariably when somebody does it, I look down and I say, Don't hurt yourself. You know what I'm telling him? Strong. But it's just a man thing, and it's not really true. Uh-oh. It's not really true. Our strength, our strength is not it's not in our brawn. Our strength is not in it's not there. Our strength, if we have strength It's because that we put ourselves in the place of the blessing and we get the strength that comes from God. And by the way, tying verses 4 and 5 together in this chapter, there's another place in the Bible that says, the joy of the Lord is your strength. So you hang around the church house and get to praising God, and God will put joy inside of you, and there's strength that comes with that joy. Did I say this was the last one? Oh, forgive me. One more. Look at eighty look at eighty-nine fifteen And I will finish with that. There's a bunch of these, but you get the drift here. I mean, we're talking about getting the blessing of God, having that blessing in our life. 8915 says, Blessed is the people that know the joyful sound. They shall walk, O Lord, in the light of thy countenance. Now notice this verse does not say It does not say, blessed is the people that hear the joyful sound. It's the people that know the joyful sound Let me illustrate. A few months ago, I was in a hotel, and for the life of me, I can't even remember what city it was. Middle of the night, two o'clock in the morning. Fire alarm went off. You ever been in a hotel when the fire alarm went off? Piercing. Absolutely piercing. I got up, slipped into my clothes, stuck my head out the door. Other people were doing the same thing. Several of us went downstairs, found out there was no fire. We went back up and went to bed. Ten minutes after five, went off again. Same thing, no fire, went back to bed. Turned out it was a basketball team in the hotel. Some of those guys were having fun. And some of them, I learned later, were going to pay a little fine for the fun that they were having. The next morning. I was leaving there, had finished my meetings, and I I was headed out to the airport, and I went downstairs to the lobby to await. uh whoever was picking me up to take me to the airport. And I sat down. Uh the front section of chairs was like here And the clerk and the counter was right here in just a small aisle between us, and I'm sitting there with my satchel and stuff waiting, and and uh And and as as I was sitting there waiting, elevators right over here, the door opens and two people walk out. It's a uh uh a grown couple, I'm guessing, in their early sixties. Uh he was grayish, they were nice uhly dressed people, and they they walked up to the counter, and the minute he they were getting ready to check out, the minute he opened his mouth I detected, I mean I'm I'm sitting here this close to them. I detected a uh an Eastern European accent, a very thick Eastern European accent. Spoke English, but it was halting English. And as they were checking out, he said to the clerk, he said, uh what uh What was the uh the awful noise in the night? I was sitting there and I was stunned. They had heard exactly what I heard, but they had no clue what it was. No clue. Now, had there actually been a fire, they might have tragically been killed by the smoke or the flames or whatever Because they heard it. They just didn't know what it meant. There are people who walk in these doors, Pastor. People who walk in these doors sometimes and they sit here and they hear everything else that all of us hear, that they walk away and they don't know what they've heard. The Bible says it's not the hearing of the good news. It's not just the hearing of the Word of God, but it's the knowing. what you've heard that brings the blessing. And when this book is opened, And we hear it read, we hear it taught, we hear it preached. And we know that we know what we've heard. The Lord wants to give the blessing. Backing up to 212, if we trust him, he says that he will. You know, these are only, I think I've counted right about seven of these I gave you tonight. And there there's a bunch of them, dozens of them in the Bible. And you know what? The overriding emphasis of them, God is saying, I want to bless you. I want to bless you. I want to bless you. I want to bless you. But you know, I've heard people talk about us getting under the spout where the glory comes out. You and I just need to get ourselves in the place where the blessing comes out. Get ourselves positioned so that God will be able to freely flow the blessing. And it's all laid out in the book How we can do it, how we can have it. And I hope and pray out of these two days we've had together. I hope there's going to be a bunch of us just have a bigger hunger for the good blessing of God. And tonight, a little while, Brother Davidson will give the appeal. You just listen carefully and ask God how you ought to respond. We'll all be happy when you respond to God's prompting. Our Father, we thank you. You've been mighty good to us. You've been patient with us. You've done so many good things. And we we need your blessing. We want it. We ask you for it. In the name that is mighty and powerful, in the name of Jesus, I pray. Amen