Alright, if you would take your Bibles, turn to 2 Samuel. I told you it's a one-pony show tonight. Mark said, I don't have a special for you tonight, special music tonight. I said, Well maybe I'll sing. And then I prayed about it and decided we wanted to have at least a somebody here So I'll try and preach. First Samuel, 2 Samuel, chapter number 1. Let me get hooked up here. And uh All right. We started this section. We started this actually two weeks ago. I think this is our third message from 2 Samuel chapter 1. We're studying the life of David. Um and uh we've been uh looking at this now for couple years. Actually, I think it is. I think we're going on two years now. But um David is a fascinating man. I think you could spend a whole lifetime studying him And uh you get something out of it. Oh, I was gonna say this. How many folks I don't know if anybody else this way, but uh we did that little series on joy How many people remember that? And uh we've been doing that. You know what I'm noticing in the songs, how many times it mentions joy, or I'm reading my devotions. I don't know how how you are, but it seems like I'm noticing that more and more. It's everywhere. Do you notice both songs we sang tonight referenced our joy? Join the Lord. And so I just thought uh that was interesting. First Samuel or 2 Samuel chapter 1. It uh another interesting thing, there's no real uh break in the transition from chapter 1 to chapter 2. It's just a smooth go. You can finish reading 1 Samuel finish reading the book of 1 Samuel, go into the book of 2 Samuel And uh there's really not a big change in the dialogue, is what I'm trying to say. It just goes smoothly from one book into the next. However, there is a huge transition in the life of David This is a major, if not the major turning point in the life of David. If there was one other one, it may be when Samuel anointed him to be future king. That was big And now, with the death of Saul, this is big in the life of David. He is about to become king. His years of running from Saul and all that he's been through are now about to come to an end. And uh he's going to ascend to the throne here real soon. I want to begin reading. Now, as I said, we already started this. I want to begin reading in verse number 11 And I want to read down through the end of the chapter just to keep the context together. I'm not going to preach on all of this tonight. I'm going to break it up a little bit. But verse number eleven, second Samuel chapter one, the Bible says this. Then David took hold on his clothes and rent them, and likewise all the men that were with him. Question, why is David taking hold of his clothes and renting them? He just got word. He didn't know. He just got word that Saul has been killed. Now he got it from this Amalekite fellow. Anybody remember him? We don't know his name. Uh but this guy shows up in the David's camp in the Zigwag there, tells him that uh that Saul's been killed. As far as we know, David has no word what has happened. And by the way A little ahead of myself here, but uh uh David's only uh the only information David has about the death of Saul is what this Amalekite's telling him. Now you and I go back to 1 Samuel chapter 30. There we have God's account. Remember we looked at this, and then in Chronicles, we had God's account. But all David's getting is what this Amalekite is telling him And uh so keep that in mind. So David took hold his clothes, rent them, likewise all the men that were with him. Verse 12, and they mourned and wept. And fasted until even that would be the evening for Saul and for Jonathan his son, and for the people of the Lord and for the house of Israel. because they were fallen by the sword. And David said unto the young man that told him, that's the Amalekite fellow. Whence art thou? And he answered, I am the son of an estranger, an Amalekite. David said unto him, How wast thou not afraid to stretch forth thine hand? to destroy the Lord's anointed. Remember he had told David that he found King Saul, that he had fallen on a sword, but he was still alive, and so he finished them off. He got the he got the um uh uh King Saul's um uh helmet and his um bracelet. And uh so that that's what he's referencing there. How was thou not afraid to stretch forth thine hand to destroy the Lord's anointed? I I'll bet you that boy wasn't expecting that response. David called one of the young men and said, Go near and fall upon him. And he smote him that he died. David said unto him, Thy blood be upon thy head. For thy mouth has testified against thee, saying, I have slain the Lord's anointed. What an indictment. And David lamented with this lamentation over Saul and over Jonathan his sons. So, verse 17, David lamented with this lamentation. Then verse 18, down through the end of the chapter, is the lamentation That David is lamenting with. And he also bade them teach the children of Judah the use of the bow. Behold, it is written in the book of Asher. And then he goes down and he goes into this lamentation. The beauty of Israel is slain upon the high places. How are the mighty fallen? Tell it not in Gath. Remember, that's where Samson was, that's where Goliath was from. Publish it not in the streets of Ashkelon, lest the daughters of the Philistines rejoice. Lest the daughters of the uncircumcised triumph, ye mountains of Gilboa, let there be no dew, neither let there be rain upon you, nor the fields of offering, for the shield of the mighty is vilely cast away The shield of Saul, as though he had not been anointed with oil. From the blood of the slain, from the fat of the mighty, from the bow of Jonathan turn not back, and the sword of Saul return not empty Saul and Jonathan were lovely and pleasant in their lives. And in their death they were not divided. They were swifter than eagles. They were stronger than lions. Ye daughters of Israel, weep over Saul, who clothed you in scarlet and with other delights, who put on ornaments of gold upon your apparel. How are the mighty fallen in the midst of battle? O Jonathan, thou wast slain in thine high places. I'm distressed for thee. My brother Jonathan, for very pleasant hast thou been unto me. Thy love for me was wonderful, passing the love of women. How are the mighty fallen, and the weapons of war perish How are the mighty fallen? That's what we've been looking at. Let's pray, and we'll look at a little bit more of this tonight. Father in heaven We're grateful again for your word and these Old Testament events, Lord, that you have recorded by inspiration and preserved for us here these many thousand years later. And I pray, Lord, that you would teach us what you'd have us to learn from this. You preserve this for us for a reason And so, Holy Spirit of God, fill me, I pray. Take my body and speak through me and teach us and help us to grow in our Christian life, I ask in Jesus' name Amen. What we looked at so far, we're working our way through this chapter. We noticed first of all that King Saul died the death of a fool. Do you remember that? We looked at that And we looked at several reasons what it was about King Saul's death that he died the death of a fool. Let me get to my place here. We pointed out a few things. First of all, just quickly, briefly review here. We noted that Saul died the death of a fool because he neglected his godly mentor. He had k had Samuel there. Remember when we looked at that? And he he he didn't go to Samuel for advice. He neglected the opportunity he had. But this great anointed, uh this great prophet of God And uh he would not take advantage of that. He failed to wait on God. He got impatient. And um, I was thinking today, as I was going back over my notes, I was thinking today, how impatience has cost me over the years. Can I get a witness? Failure to wait on God. Failure just to be patient. And Saul was afflicted with that. He failed to obey God in the small matter If we're not careful, we overlook the little details of the Christian life. And you know, it's those little things sometimes that come and get us. And so Saul was negligent there He attempted to excuse his disobedience. He justified his sin and excused his disobedience to God. He allowed bitterness to consume him. Boy, what a dangerous thing bitterness is. I don't know about you. We live in a bitter society. Man alive. I was the other day, I was somewhere, I was doing something Monday or Tuesday And I noticed the bumper stickers and the window stickers on the cars in front of me. Boy, that's not a good thing. Man, they're filthy. And just about everyone I read was angry. Some some some form of anger being expressed on these stickers. And I thought this whole place is angry at everybody about everything. And Saul let that consume him. And what anger did to King Saul, it'll do to our country, it'll do to our community. It'll destroy us if we allow anger. And then we said that he fought against God. That's one fight you'll never win, fighting against God. Only a fool thinks he can fight against God and win. It's not going to happen. Then we noticed this messenger that showed up. Remember? This Amalekite guy. We looked at him last week. We said that he was a curious messenger. It was kind of strange that a Malachite would be showing up and be interested in David's issues and the affairs of Israel. We said he had a questionable report And what I did was we played CSI. And I went through and I looked at what CSI stands for. Criminal science. Criminal science investigators. And so we looked at this and we compared God's report, God's witness God goes on the stand. What happened here with the death of Saul? God says, this is what happens. And then we call on the stand the um The Amalekite guy, what happened here? And his report contradicts God's report. Who are you going to go with? I'm telling you, I'm going to stick with God's report every time. And so we looked at that, and uh then we noticed that he had a cold indifference The whole re account of the death of Saul revolved around the Samalekite. Now, I said all that to get us caught up to where we're at. I want us to notice In verse 11 down through verse 17, David's response to this report. How does David respond to this report? I want to give you a statement. I want to encourage you to write this down. This I think this is a good statement. I think this is helpful. If you've got pen and paper, jot this statement down, would you, uh, somewhere? Here it is. A great indicator of my spiritual maturity Is my ability to see people and circumstances from God's perspective Now let me say that again. A key indicator or a great indicator of my spiritual maturity Is my ability to see people or circumstances from God's perspective. Does everybody follow what I'm saying If I can get to the point in my Christian life where I see somebody, not from my perspective, but I can see them the way God sees them Then I'm growing and I'm getting I'm maturing in my Christian life. Or, let me put it this way, if I am able to look at a circumstance I find myself in And be able to see it from God's perspective. Now, granted, I'm not always going to see it perfectly from God's perspective, but if I can look at it from God's perspective and assess it From God's perspective, rather than my perspective, I'm growing in my Christian life. I'm maturing in my faith. I'm able to see things. How many people here ever saw a situation, you assessed it, and after it was said and done, you were completely wrong in your assessment of it? Yeah. Can I tell you something? God's never wrong. In his assessment of a situation. Anybody here ever have someone your first impression was, that guy's a bonehead. But then you got to know him a little bit, and after a little while you say, hey, you know what? He's a pretty decent guy after all. Anybody like that? Yeah. And uh or vice versa That's a decent guy. You get to know him. He's a bonehead. God never misjudges anybody. So if I can get to the point in my life where I'm able to assess my situation or see people from God's perspective Boy, then I'm growing. I'm strong in my faith. I got another statement here, and I'm going to try it. Hopefully you'll see how this ties into what we're looking at here There is a real danger. Now this is obvious, but sometimes we need to state the obvious. There is a real danger in interfering with the work of God. That's a dangerous thing. I've been in the ministry for a little while now. A guy's been much longer than me. And you know I found out. Somebody tries to interfere or disrupt the work of God. It doesn't usually work out very well for that individual. Try and come in and disrupt or cause problems or interfere with God's work. That usually doesn't pan out too good. I've seen people pay a bitter price for opposing the work of God. Try and step in and intervene and interfere with what God is trying to do. Now I said that to say this. I see spiritual growth on David's part. Again, I get ahead of myself sometime in my notes and my thinking. But verse number 17, 18 down through verse 27, David's assessment, David's perspective His eulogy of King Saul was from a different perspective of King Saul than I had What I think, I think what David is seeing, David is seeing King Saul from God's perspective and what God believes Saul could have been and what God anticipated uh had hoped uh or or God intended, I should say, for King Saul to be. He makes amazing statements about King Saul. That are shocking and amazing. David had a different perspective they maybe than you and I would have had had we been in his shoes. David refused. And David's when David would not put lift up his hand against God's anointed, you know what he was saying? I'm not going to interfere in the plan of God. God anointed him, God put him in that position. I'm not going to mess with it. I'll let God deal with it. I'm going to let God take care of that. And uh that's an amazing, amazing uh level of insight, uh, I believe, and maturity on David's part there. All right, let's look at his response. To this Amalekites report here. Look with me in verse number 11 begins his response. Now let me say this before we look at the verses. My first point is this under David's response is David's response to the Malachite's report was very, very rare It was not how maybe you and I would respond. Let's put ourselves in David's shoes. In fact, I'm very confident that very few, if any of us, would have responded to the death of Saul the way David did had we been in David's shoes. Because I know how we respond to things less disturbing than what David was dealing with. Uh for what about eighteen months, maybe uh uh year and a half, eighteen months, Saul has been hounding David, trying to kill him. Soiling his name, saying terrible things, turning people against David. And um uh how would and then he finds out that King Saul is dead I don't know. Let's put aside how we know David did respond. Let me ask you, how do you think a normal person Woodra, yes. My fur my first one I put down was this. Um rejoice Praise the Lord. God destroyed my enemy. This guy's been trying to kill me. He ruined my home. He ruined my family. He ruined my reputation. I lost my position in the in the administration because of him. He's lied about me He's trying to kill me for crying out loud. Woo! We don't see any of that on David's part. I thought, well, okay, he doesn't rejoice over it, but at least he would be a little bit relieved. He'll be like, oh, I can breathe. I'm not glad he's dead, but boy, what a relief And you know we find out it's not that way at all. He doesn't respond that way at all. In fact, if all we knew about David's relationship with King Saul is what we read in his response to King Saul's death We'd have thought they were tight like that. You'd have think they'd have been the closest people and loved each other dearly. You'd have thought that King Saul was David's greatest ally he ever had, by the way David responds Now, I don't know about you, but that's rare. You're not going to find many people respond to the death of what in reality was an enemy In a lot of real ways, uh that way. Um uh here's the fact that uh and by the way, I'm confident this is not the way the Amalekite report This is not the response the Amalekite anticipated. He expected the hooray. Wow, you're you're a gu oh wonderful. And he didn't get that at all Fact of the matter is, David lived by a different standard than what the rest of the world lives by. And let me put it this way, David lived by a higher standard than those around him lived by. And let me say this, God expects you and I, let me back up, hold on. How many here would claim to be a disciple? of the Lord Jesus Christ. You'd like to believe. Say, yeah, I believe I would be a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. I'd like to consider myself that. I know I'm a believer. I'd like to be consider myself a disciple, a committed follower of Christ Jesus expects his disciples to live by a higher standard than what this world does. How many people understand that? We don't live, we're not better than this world. We've been pointing that out. We're not better than this world. But God expects us to live by a different standard than what this world does. Take your Bible if you would. Keep your place here. Take your Bible if you would, and go to Matthew chapter 4. Now I've done a lot of series of studies and and different books and portions of scripture in the twenty-seven years we've been here. And I've thoroughly enjoyed all of them, but I don't think any of them have impacted me personally as much as our study of the Sermon on the Mount has That thing I keep coming back to that and coming back to that. And in the Sermon of Mountain which begins in Matthew chapter 5, the beginning of chapter 5, did I say Matthew 5? Did I Chapter 5, I'm sorry. Go to chapter 5. And uh the beginning of chapter 5, Jesus begins the greatest sermon that's ever been preached in my mind. And it goes through the end of chapter 7 And what that whole Sermon on the Mount is, it's not an evangelistic message, it is a discipleship message. If you look at the beginning of the chapter, first verse or two, he's preaching to his disciples. Folks that are committed followers of his. And basically, what he's saying in the Sermon on the Mount, he varies a good bit in the subject matter, but basically what he's saying is this. If you claim to be a disciple of mine, then this is how you live. This is the attitudes you maintain. This is the actions we take. And when you get to chapter 5 and verse number 43, He makes some statements that tell us that we are to live by a different and a higher standard than the world does. We don't react. God expects us not to react the way the world reacts, to respond the way the world responds. Look at verse 43. Ye have heard that it hath been said, thou shalt love thy Neighbor and hate thine what? Let me ask you a question. Was Saul a neighbor or an enemy to David? He was an enemy by all practical things. He was an enemy That's what you've heard. That's the standard the world lives by. That's the way the world responds to their kind neighbor and their enemies. Look at verse 44. But I say unto you, we don't live by that standard. If you're my disciple, we don't live by that standard. Look what he says: love your enemies. Bless them that curse you. Did uh would you say King Saul cursed David? Yeah, trying to kill them, that would be equivalent, at least. Who knows what he said about them? Bless them that curse you. You read verse 17 down through the end of The chapter, chapter 1 of 2 Samuel, David is blessing King Saul. Bless them that curse you. Do good to them that hate you Pray for them which despitefully use you and what? Persecute you. Think David and Saul fit that? Man That ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven, for he maketh his Son to shine on the evil and the good, and sendeth rain on the just and the unjust. For if ye love them which love you, what reward have ye Do you not even the publicans the same? We live by a different standard. That's the standard they live by. They love those that love them. They hate them that hate them. If you salute, verse 47, if you salute your brethren only, what do ye more than others? Do not even the publicans so? And he says, pray ye therefore, be ye therefore perfect. That means complete, fulfilled, even as your Father which is in heaven. What's he saying here? He's saying we live by a different standard. We don't operate the world the way the world operates. We don't react the way the world reacts. And we could go to Luke, we won't bother, but let me give you the reference. Luke chapter 6. Verse 27 and 28, then again in verse 33 through 35, he says something very, very similar. You live by a different standard. If you claim to be my disciple, you claim to be a committed follower of Jesus Christ. The world responds that way, but I say unto you, this is how we respond. And I look at David's response to the death of King Saul. And I look at his eulogy, his lamentation that he gives, that we'll look at, Lord will next Wednesday night. And I say, David's living by a different standard. than what I see in the world around me. And I hate to say it often when I look in the mirror, I see David responding in ways that is is pretty rare, pretty rare. If you are my disciple, then we live by a higher standard. So my first reaction in studying David's response to this Amalekites report that he finished off King Saul is dead. Here's his helmet. Here's not his helmet. His uh his crown and here's his bracelet I see how David responds, and I thought, wow, that's not how most people would have responded. That's a rare response. My second observation in studying David's response is this: I notice remorse On the part of David. Look at verse 11 now. Now we'll look at this exactly what's said here. Then David took hold on his clothes. And rent them. Now I'm being a little redundant, but I would imagine the Amalekite would have thought David would have took hold of the Amalekite and boosted them up on his shoulders and marched him around saying, for he's a jolly good fellow. And David took hold on his David's own clothes, not the Amalachite's clothes. David took hold of his own clothes and rent them. And likewise all the men that were with him. Now, what does it mean? He rent his clothes. He tore them. The word rent means to tear in pieces, or at least tear in half. And throughout the Bible, when somebody would rent their clothes, it was an outward indication of internal distress. It was an expression of great sorrow and great grief. Can you think of anybody? Anybody here think of anyone else in the Bible that rent their clothes? Job is the first one comes to mind. You think Job was distressed when all his kids were killed in one day, all his possessions gone in one day? You talk about distress, you talk about grief. Can you think of anyone else in the Bible that rent their clothes What about Jacob when he found out about when his brothers came back with Joseph's coat of many colors, soaked in blood, most precious son he loved dearly, and he thinks he's been killed by some wild beast And the Bible says Jacob rents his clothes in intense grief, intense distress. And so it gives us a little insight Into the heart and mind of David when he gets this report that King Saul of all people has been killed, that he rends his clothes. This is this is intense Grief on the part of David. And the other thing, as I looked at this As soon as the Amalekite is finished giving his report, David immediately responds that way. It's like it's instinctive. And to me, as I looked at verse 11 there, I thought, this is not a show that David's putting on. This is genuine grief and distress on the part of David. I mean, it is instinctive That he responds this way. And so the remorse that David has on the part of the death of Saul and his response to the death of Saul, then look at verse number 12. Oh, and by the way, did you notice at the end of verse 11? Look at the end of verse 11. And likewise, all the men that were with him. They rent their clothes. And look at verse 12. And they, David and his men, mourned and wept and fasted until evening. Now stop and think about it. Verse 11, David rent his clothes. All his fellows around him rent their clothes. Verse 12, David fasts and mourns and um And uh wept, mourned and wept and fasted till evening, and all the other fellows did also. Now think with me for a minute. It's only been maybe a few months before At the most, where these same guys are urging David to kill King Saul. Remember when he's looking down in the valley, and Saul's down in the trench, and his sword he goes down, and they say, Here's your chance, kill him. They said, I'm not going to do it. Now, when they find out he's dead, these same guys are renting their clothes, they're mourning and weeping and fasting over the death of Saul. What happened? You know what that is? That's called influence. David's actions influence those around him. Let me ask you a question. If David would have rejoiced over the death of Saul, how do you think those fellows would have responded? They would have rejoiced. Here's a point I'm trying to make. This is what I took from this. How you and I respond and react to situations in life not only is a reflection on who and what my heart is But it also influences people around us. No man lives to himself and no man dies to himself. We have tremendous influence, whether we recognize it or not, whether we want to or not We have tremendous influence on those around us, and people observe, especially within a family or close people around us And our actions, not just what we say, but how we respond and how we react influences people around us. My boys, I talk to them about every day on the the uh texting thing and stuff like that. Um and in the last five, six months, both of them had said has said things along this line I'm becoming like dad. Now I can't tell reading it the tone of their voice whether they're saying that in a good way or a bad way. Daniel texted me some time ago and he said, Dad, I'm starting to laugh like you do. I said, that's a wonderful thing. Praise the Lord. And they watch and they see and they observe how we respond and how we react, and it influences them And I see a tremendous amount, just, you know, maybe it's been weeks. I don't know the time. I didn't look up the time frame from when David refused to kill Saul with his own sword until this takes place. It can't be but a couple months at the most, if that And yet their whole attitude is completely changed. The influence of one life that lives by a different standard than the world does And the impact that has. And so the same men who just previously urged David to kill him are now grieving deeply Look at verse 12. It says they did three things. Well, four things. They rended their clothes, verse eleven. Then verse twelve, it says they mourned, and they wept and they fasted until that evening, until the end of the day. Even for Saul and for Jonathan his son, and then it lists the people they're mourning for. But I looked at these words, mourned, wept, and fasted. And they mean basically what you think they would. The word mourned had a little bit more significance back in the day than it does today. We'll go to a funeral and we're mourning. How do you picture someone that's mourning over the death of someone dear to them? They're sad. Generally, I don't know any more, they don't too much, but generally you still wear dark black clothes, right? Somebody's death, they're in mourning, they would dress the le used to be the ladies would wear a black veil over. Anybody? And it was it was a sign of mourning, was a sign of that. But for the most part, it's pretty subdued in our concept of mourning. It's pretty subdued. It's somber, it's sad In this context, and still in the Middle East and a lot of places, when people mourned, it was anything but subdued. The word mourn there means this: to wail loudly. In fact, several places it's used along with pulling their hair out. I'm telling you, you're pretty distressed if you're pulling your hair out, right? To wail loudly, to pull your hair out, to beat upon your breasts in distress and sorrow. I'm telling you, these guys are tore up over this. And then the word weep, uh they wept. It means again what you think it does, but very intensely the word that it comes that our word comes from means to solve deeply and continually. I got this impression in studying the word how it's used to sob without uh to to sob uncontrollably. Now this don't answer this outwardly, but have you ever been so heartbroken? You ever been so distressed that you've sobbed so hard that you cannot stop? Uncontrollably. Now that's the idea behind the word there. And then the word fasted simply means to go without food. Now, I don't think this was a deliberate fast. All right, all right, y'all, we're going to fast now until 9 o'clock tonight. I don't think that's the idea behind this. I think they were so distressed that the last thing they were interested in was eating. Did you ever get that way? The last thing I'm interested in is eating. And the intensity of David's remorse and how it affected the men around him who just a few weeks, days, month maybe before, are trying to kill him is a profound thing. Now think about this with me. David showed great remorse, great resorrow over a man who sought to destroy his family, who did destroy his family. Michael's gone His position in the administration, gone. Any security, physical well-being, uh other than his faith in God, that's gone. He's running for his life for months. His reputation, as far as we can tell, is shot. And he's been trying to kill him. Trying to kill him. Now, this is what I thought was interesting. Notice here, the end of verse 12. Who also, they're mourning for Saul. That's rare. He's mourning for Jonathan. I can see mourning for Jonathan. These guys were Close. These guys loved each other dearly. They were best um what do you what do you what's the little thing on the internet? BB BBFs Is that right? Best buds forever. So I can see him weeping over Jonathan. But look, there's some added on to here at the end of verse 12. They morning but fasted until evening for Saul. All right, that's rare. And for Jonathan, I can see that. But look what else For the who? For the people of the Lord and for the house of Israel, because they were fallen by the sword. See, it wasn't just Saul. And it wasn't just Jonathan, but it was the people of God. And I put this down as I looked at that and I thought, well, that's something there. I put this down. The well-being of God's people was greater, more important, greater in importance for King David than his own personal vendetta against King Saul was. The well-being of the people of God, the nation of Israel Israel, God's people, was more important in the heart and soul of David than having his own agenda. As long as King Saul is on the throne, David's not on the throne. He's running. But it's more important to David that the nation of Israel, the people of God, and Saul and Jonathan Be well than for David to get his way, than for David to be living in a palace. And I thought, what's the application for you and I? Can I put it this way? The well-being of God's people and the cause of Christ is far greater than any personal agenda you and I may have in our own lives. In other words, let me put it this way, the cause of Christ is bigger than you and I. And sometimes we forget that. And we think, I've got my agenda and I've got what I've got. And we're willing, we're willing to interfere, we're willing, we would never say this, but our actions, we're willing to do harm To the cause of Christ, so that I can get my way and what I want done. I've seen it happen, pastors, I've seen it happen in churches and ministry. Brother Corrigan could probably give you names, somebody gets caught up. And their own agenda is more important than the cause of Christ. And they do great harm. They do great harm. The defeat of Israel was a defeat for David. To him and his mind, that Israel's defeated, that's a defeat for me. I've said this recently in a message, I'll say it again. We want the church in accident to succeed. We want a good man in there. We want a strong church in there. Well, that'll be competition for us. No, it isn't at all. This the cause of Christ is bigger than Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Bigger than Dennis Leatherman or any individual, the cause of Christ. There is no competition within the people of God. And David saw that, and David understood that. And he realized that this is a blow to the cause of Christ. What could have been viewed as a great opportunity for himself He rather viewed it as a damage to the people of God. And I tell you, that impressed me. That impressed me. This thing's bigger than you and I. We want churches, we want God's cause to succeed. That's bigger than us. Number three, a third observation. One, his response was rare. Number two, he was very remorseful in his response. And number three, I notice, and I'll end with this is David's rebuke of the Samalekite. Now again, this is not what this fellow was expecting. There's no doubt in anybody's mind. Look with me if you would at verse 13. And David said unto the young man that told him, Whence art thou? And he answered, I'm the son of a stranger, an Amalachite. Now apparently by David's response here, David believed this fellow. When this guy came and said, oh yeah, life was still in him, he leaned on his sword. And uh life was still in, so I finished him off. I don't think that's what happened. We already talked about that. But I think that's all the information David had, so he had no reason to believe otherwise than what this guy's telling him. And so David believed that this guy killed the anointed of God. And David responded as you would expect. David responded, he has two questions here. Who are uh whence art thou? Where are you from? Now he had already told him before, but he says again, I'm the son of a stranger, an Amalekite. Then he answers verse, he asks another question, verse 14. And David said to him, How wast thou not afraid to stretch forth thine hand to destroy the Lord's anointed? He asked him two very significant questions. One he had already answered previously The young man had. And David's asking him again, where are you from? Tell me again, where are you from? Why weren't you afraid to stretch forth your anointed? This may just be me. I'll allow that I may be misinterpreting here But I am in my mind, I see David setting up a judgment is about to take place. He's getting this guy to say who he is, where he's from, and he's getting this guy to acknowledge with his own lips what he did David's already decided what's going to happen. He's simply making what I'm call uh this is the way I I I maybe again, maybe I'm reading in a little bit much here, but I think David's setting up formal beginnings of David carrying out the judgment of God on this fella for his from his own lips he said he killed God's anointed And then verse 15 and 16, he carries out that judgment. He asks these two questions. All right, let's get this straight. Alright, let it go on the record. Who are you? And why weren't you afraid to kill them? All right. For your own lips, here we go. Here's the judgment. Look at verse 15. And David called one of the young men and said, Go near and fall on him, and he smote him that he died. And David said to him, After he's dead, the dead body lay in there bloody mess, you can only imagine. David said unto him, Thy blood be upon thy head, for thy mouth has testified against thee. Saying, I have slain the Lord's anointed. David's referring back to the two questions he just asked him. You just said with your own mouth who you are and what you did. And your judgment, your blood is on your own hands. Question. Was David just in taking the life of this Malachite? Based on his testimony, based on what he said, and David confirmed it very carefully Very deliberately confirmed. That's what he said. You know, capital punishment is in the Bible. Let me give you a reference. We won't be able to turn to it, and I got others I can give you later, but Genesis 9. 6. And I'm not quoting exactly, but if a man shed another man's blood, then his blood should be shed. You say, well, that's the Old Testament. We can go to the New Testament where he talks about authorities. They bear not the sword in vain. What's a sword designed to do? Take life, execute. So David had a scriptural basis for this. And I think his response here reveals the depths of David's respect for God's anointed David respects that position to the degree that he was, he had no qualms about taking the life of a young man that claimed to have killed God's anointed. You talk about respect for the king, for the throne of Israel. Now David was not David was not adverse to taking people's lives He had slaughtered how many Philistines did the ladies sing? Ten thousands. So I don't know about you. That would be a difficult thing for me to take a fellow's life like that. But for David, his respect for that position, the throne of Israel, was so great, boom, take his life. Yeah, he was still lying about it. So um David's here's what I want to end with. David's commitment to God and God's people was intense. Intensely committed, intensely loyal to the people of God. Not just Jonathan and his bud, not just Saul the king, but the people of God themselves. We could use a little bit of loyalty within the churches today, one to our Lord. Amen. Now even the disciples abandoned him when he was crucified. I got reading this in my devotions the other night. I'm just studying my way through the gospels, just aside of my Bible reading, and um I got in yeah, got in thinking about this. You know, there's only one person in the crucifixion of Jesus Christ that stood up and defended Jesus. Anybody want to take a guess who that was? Nope, John fled. The centurion after he was dead said, Surely this was the Son of God, but nobody stood up while he's being judged and crucified and said, This man's this man's uh The thief on the cross was the only one that spoke up and said, This man should not be here. Isn't that something? That's something. Loyalty within the body of Christ. Loyalty to our Lord. This is between you and I. This is between you and I and the Lord. This is between us and the Lord individually, not this way. This is between us. But how often have we been disloyal to our Savior? How often? In little things. Failure to speak up. David was intensely loyal to the Lord and to the people of God. Let me ask you this. How loyal are we to our brothers and sisters in Christ? I've tried very, very hard, and I've not lived up to this like I would like to in my mind, the ideal in my mind, but I've tried hard. When I'm out and somebody speaks disparagingly of a member of this church or a brother or sister of Christ, I've tried to defend that one. Now sometimes some folks are a little harder to defend than others But loyalty within the body of Christ, not excusing or covering sin or just not talking about that at all, but just David's loyalty to the king Saul is an amazing thing. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, dear Lord, that you would help us to learn from David. And Lord, our love and our loyalty, help it to be intense. Lord, to you and to your people, to your church. I ask in Jesus' name. Heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, I need to live by, I need God to help me live by that standard That Jesus has established for us. So often we just fall back and we fall into the mentality of the world and the response of the world. And we need to rise above that. How many like me would say, preacher, I need to work on that? And have this discipleship standard to live by. And David was a great testimony here that we need to ask the Lord to help us. We need to ask the Lord to help us. We influence people around us, so it's a there's tremendous importance to it. Father, please bless us and help us in Jesus' name.