John chapter four. I want to read verse twenty-two, twenty-three, and twenty-four again. I know Pastor Matt just read a few moments ago. But if you would notice in verse 22, the Bible says, ye worship, ye know not what. We know what we worship, for salvation is of the Jews. Now, let me just stop there. I want to say we need to pray for Israel. If you've seen the news at all, we need to pray for Israel. Israel is God's people. They always have been. They are now. Someday they're going to be re-established. The kingdom will be re-established. And so we need to pray. God has promised That he would bless those that bless Israel and he would curse those who curse Israel. So I've been praying since I heard of the events over there yesterday morning. I've been praying that God will protect his people and God will crush their enemies, defend them, and defeat the enemies. So keep Israel prayers. And Jesus says to this woman here, which by the way is a Samaritan. She ha she was a Her and the Jews, the Samaritans, the Jews, were at odds. And he says to her, salvation is of the Jews. Now that doesn't mean that only Jews are saved. That's not what he's saying. He's saying the salvation comes out of the Jewish people. It is through the Jews that God gave his word through Israel. He gave them the oracles of the Word of God. And through the nation of Israel that we got the Bible. It's through God's chosen people, Israel, that the Messiah has come. And so when he says salvation of Jew, he's saying that's of the source. But he says to her, Ye worship ye know not what. We know what we worship. Then he goes on, verse 23. But the hour cometh, and now is, when true worshipers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth. For the Father seeketh such to worship him. God is a spirit, and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. And I want to speak this morning on how to worship God. How to worship God. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, we thank you for the word of God that you have given us. And Lord, we are grateful for the nation of Israel, your people. And now is there under attack And uh they are in dire straits, Lord. We do ask for your protection. We pray for the peace of Jerusalem. And Lord, we ask now as we look at your word and what Jesus said here about worship. I pray you'd impress on our hearts the importance of not just worshiping you, but worshiping you correctly. And so I yield my will to you, Lord. I don't want to impose my will on your word. I pray your word would dictate our will. And Lord, I ask you fill me with your Holy Spirit. And I present, as always, I present my body anew, Lord. I ask with all my heart you fill me with your Spirit. Speak through me. And have your way in our lives. In Jesus' name. Amen. If you've been around Bible preaching in a Bible-preaching church any length of time, you're probably fairly familiar with the woman at the well, the events of John chapter 4. Of course, Jesus comes, he is making his way to Jerusalem ultimately, and he deliberately goes through the city of Samaria, the area of Samaria, which is very anti-Jewish And deliberately positions himself at a well there where the people would congregate eventually. Everybody's coming to the well to get water. And this woman is there at the well, you know the story. He engages her in conversation, and uh, I think very cleverly uh directs her thoughts in the conversation to her need of a savior. Her need of Messiah. And there's many lessons to be learned there in our personal witnesses of how Jesus accomplished that. And he comes, he's coming down to the end of the conversation. She's about to put her faith and trust in Christ as the Messiah. This gal's about to get saved. She's right there. And then the Lord makes some three critical statements. He points out three significant truths that is important for not just her to understand, but all of us. He references, first of all, he references the nature of God. Look there at verse 24, just quickly with me. The first few words there, his first statement. God is a spirit. God is a spirit. It's important for you and I to understand, and I'm confident most, if not all of us, do, but it's important for us to understand: God is not a physical being God the Father does not have a physical body. He is a spiritual being. He is unseen. He is a spirit. He has no physical entity. Now, Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the second person of the Godhead, he took on flesh and blood. But speaking of God the Father, in his very essence, he is Spirit. You will find, nowhere in Scripture will you find a physical description of God the Father. It's not there. Because he's a spirit. He's a spirit. I believe with all my heart. There's no doubt in my mind whatsoever, even remotely. Is there a doubt in my mind that God is here in our presence right now? We can't see him. We don't hear him moving about. We can't smell him, can't touch or feel him, because God is a spirit And you and I are in the very presence of the God that created this universe right now. In fact, he's all-present, he's ever-present, he's omnipresent. But God is a spirit. And he points that out to this dear lady. I think it's important for us to keep in mind. God is a spirit. We are in his presence. I think it's an amazing thing. God hears what I'm saying right now. The God that spoke this universe, He hears what I'm saying right now. He's here. He knows what's going through our minds Our God is amazing, God. He's unlimited. And so he points out this lady a very significant statement. God is a spirit. God is a spirit. Second thing he points out here is we have a need to worship. Now, let me explain what I mean by that. Look at verse 23. He says, the hour cometh and now is when true worshipers shall worship the Father in spirit and truth. Now look at this next statement. For the Father seeketh such to worship him That word seeketh there. I got caught my attention. I got looking it up, how it's used, and the meanings behind it. And it means this: to intensely desire It actually has an element, and the meaning of that word is an element of requiring or craving for something. I don't know about you, but if God is what the Bible says God is, and He holds the position that the Bible says that God, the position God holds as God of the only living and true God, all-powerful, all-knowing, holy. If God is what the Bible says he is, then I want to know what does he want. If I'm his creature, if he, this infinite God, has created me, given me life and everything, then I want to know what my creator want. And Jesus is telling this lady here, sitting beside a well, just him and this gal, and he says, God wants, he's looking for, he's desiring people to worship him. To worship him. That's part of the reason we were created. It's part of the reason we exist It's to worship this infinitely holy God that spoke everything into existence, to worship him. So we seek it. We have a need, we have a necessity. If God wants us to worship him, we better worship him, huh? If we're going to please God, we're going to need to worship God. If we're going to fulfill our purpose in life, and we get to the end of our lives, we go out in the eternity, we stand before God. He says, did you fulfill the purpose I created you? Did you fulfill the responsibilities I gave you? If we're going to hear him say, well done, part of it is going to have to be we're going to worship him, because that's he desires such to worship him. He seeks such to worship him. So we have the nature of God. He's a spirit. We have our need of worship this God. That's what he desires. He intensely desires for us to worship him. And then I noticed the necessity of correct worship. Look at verse 23 again. But the hour cometh, and notice the wording the Lord Jesus uses here. He says, but the hour cometh, and now is when the what? True worshipers Shall worship the Father in spirit and truth. Now why didn't he say the out the why didn't he put it this way? The hour cometh, and now is when worshipers shall worship. He injects that word true worshipers. What he's doing, he's distinguishing the true worshipers from what? Well, if these are the true worshipers, the others would be what? False worshipers. It is possible to worship God in a false way. It is possible to be a false worshipers. The word true there has the idea of genuine, correct. The implication being is that it's possible to falsely worship God insincerely in an incorrect, unscriptural manner To worship God, worship God. So he makes these profound statements about God, what God is like, what he wants. He wants his people to worship him. And the interesting thing I find here, and this is a little aside, as we're going to get to the subject here, but I find it fascinating That the Lord Jesus Christ speaks of these profound truths. I mean the nature of God And the desires of God, and the importance of right and wrong worship of God. He doesn't discuss these subjects with someone in the temple, with theologians in the temple. He's not talking about this with the scribes and lawyers about the Word of God, these people that held significant and very uh powerful positions in the Jewish religion. He doesn't talk about it with any of them. He talks about it with a woman who's been living with who's been married five times living with a guy now and uh is hated, hates the Jews and is hated by the Jews. You know what he's talking about? He's talking to just a common sinner, a woman that had struggles, made bad decisions, but he loves her. And he believes that she is capable of comprehending God. And he reveals to her truths about God that she can understand and respond to. I like what Abraham Lincoln said. He said, God must love common people. Because he sure made a lot of them. I'm here to tell you this morning, God does love common people. And he loves those of us who have messed up. And he though he loves and cares about just ordinary, everyday people that are trying to get through life without messing it up too bad. And he comes to her and he introduces himself to her. And he goes through this process, and that's another message, but he goes through this process to bring her to the point where she sees that she needs him As her Savior. And then he makes these profound statements. I don't blur God is not very impressed with our titles. He's not impressed with our talents or how much money we have. God's not impressed with how good we are. It's not impressed with how intelligent we are. As I said, our Lord loves just ordinary sinners. I got thinking some of the people that in my years as a Christian, forty, four and a half years almost now, Then I've been knowing the Lord and come across a lot of people. I met a lot of Christians in my time, traveling. Some of the most godly people, some of the some of the men and the women that knew God the most intimately and the most the most uh um thoroughly knew God Haven't been big shot professors. And I'm grateful for the professors I had. But just simple common folk. I thought when I first got saved back there outside of Philly Two fellas, Terry uh Arden Musselman and Terry Wilcox. You've heard me talk about them often. They're just two fellas. They were studying They're working jobs. One was a mechanic. The other, I don't I forget what Arden did, worked in a oh, he was worked in a hospital. Just ordinary guys, just ordinary sinners. But I'm telling you, they taught me things about the Lord. They helped me understand who God is and what he's like and how to live for him. I thank God for them. I thought about this week, I thought about my one of my mentors, Brother Charles B. Holmshire Founder and director of Neighborhood Bible Time. You know what he was? He was just an old farmer in southeastern Kansas or Colorado and had a big wheat farm. He grew sugar cane He said one day he was out driving his tractor, plowing a field. He said the Lord spoke to his heart, not audibly, but God stirred his heart and he thought, you know, God has fields he wants me to plow, not just these. And he dedicated his life to Christ. And God used them to bring literally millions of boys and girls to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. I look at, and I couldn't just bypass this as I was studying this. I thought these are profound truths, and Jesus is talking to this ordinary woman beside a well. And he relates this to her. And then he uses her, if we'd study more, again, another subject, but he uses her to have a profound impact on a whole town. God can use you. You can be saved. You can know the Lord You can understand God. You can have a personal, intimate, powerful relationship with the God that created this universe. We don't have to have some level of education or hold some position. These teenagers can know God in an intimate way. Senior citizens, all of us in between. That stirred my heart that God would speak. Jesus Christ, the Son of God, speak with this woman. So he makes these profound statements here. About God and worship. Now what caught my attention was he seeketh such to worship him. God wants us to worship him He desires it strongly. He wants you and he wants me to worship him. Now, how do we do that? If that's the God that made me and the God I'm going to answer to, if that's what he wants of me, then I want to know how to do that. How do I worship God? I put a few thoughts down. Number one, I put down we need to worship God intelligently. Intelligently. Look with me if you would again at verse 22. He said, ye worship, ye know not what. Now I'm not using this word in a derogatory way, so please don't misunderstand. But what he was saying to her was, and he wasn't being derogatory here, but what he was saying to her was, you're worshiping ignorantly. What does it mean if we do something ignorantly? What do we mean by that? Somebody help me. We don't know. We didn't know that. I didn't have that intelligence. I didn't have that information. I didn't know. She's worshiping God. She's wanting to worship God. But she wasn't doing it correctly. She didn't have the information. She wasn't doing it intelligently. God wants us to worship Him intelligently. He wants us to know what worship is and who it is that we worship. I got looking at the word here, worship. It's used nearly 200 times in Scripture, all the way from Genesis to Revelation. It's a major theme in Scripture. The word itself means literally, I mean the strict definition of the word means to lay down prostrate before another. It's an act of submission. It's an act of reverence to one before me. I worship. I lay prostrate in humility before another. That's what the literal definition of the word is. The biblical, if you look how it's used throughout scripture, you get a little fuller meaning. And has this idea an expression of profound reverence? By worship God, I am expressing profound reverence for my God. It's more than just an expression. It's an attitude. It's a way of thinking. It's a way I view myself and a way I view my God. Reverence. Reverence. It means this is my definition. I've used this off and on over the years. This is my definition. To acknowledge God's supreme authority over my life. By humbly trusting Him and obeying Him. Now, did you get that? Let me repeat it To worship God, this is as I understand from Scripture, to worship God is for me, if I'm going to worship God, I am acknowledging His supreme authority. Over my life. No higher authority than God's authority over my life. And I submit to that authority by humbly Trusting him and doing what he says. Following his instructions, obeying his instructions. That is biblical worship. Take your Bible if you would. Now keep your place here because I want to look at some of these other statements he makes, but come back all the way if you would to the first book of the Bible, Genesis. And I want us to look the first time the word worship is used in the Bible. Now, if God is seeking folks to worship him, then we ought to look and see how did people in the Bible worship him? And the first time it's mentioned is in Genesis chapter 22. This is Abraham, tremendous man of faith. In fact, he's referred to as the father of the faithful. And God gives them instruction, Genesis 22. God gives them some fantastic instructions. By fantastic, I don't mean wonderful, but I mean unusual. Verse number one, it says, It came to pass after these things that God did tempt Abraham. Now, just quickly, the word tempt there doesn't mean to entice to evil. It's used various ways in Scripture. The word here is it used means to test or to prove him. He wants to test Abraham's faith. He wants to prove, not for God, God knew, but so Abraham would know that he can trust God. Even if it doesn't make sense. So God did tempt Abraham and said unto him, Abraham, and he said, Behold, here I am. And he said, Take now, look at this, take now thy son, thine only son Isaac, whom thou lovest. And get thee into the land of Moriah, look at this, and offer him, your son, you love, there for a burnt offering upon one of the mountains which I shall tell thee of. How many people would think like I do, that's too much. That's asking too much? Are you kidding me? God's tempting him, God's testing him, he's proving him. Look at verse three. And Abraham argued with God and negotiated. Huh? No. In fact, if we took time and studied this thoroughly, we don't find any argument on Abraham's part whatsoever. In fact, I don't even see hesitation on Abraham's part. He trusted God even in this situation. And Abraham rose early in the morning and saddled his ass and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son. And claved the wood for the burnt offering and rose up and went unto the place of which God had told him. They traveled for three days, and then on the third day, verse 4, Abraham lifted up his eyes and saw the place afar off. They got there. Three days. And Abraham said unto his young men, Now think about what Abraham's about to do. What he's been instructed to do. Go up on the mount. He's going to offer up his son, he loves his only son, as a burnt sacrifice to God. Burnt offering. Look what he says here. This is what we're getting at. And Abraham said unto his young man, Abide ye here with the ass, and I and the lad will go yonder and what? Worship. It's the first time the Bible uses that term and first time it's used in the Bible. We're gonna go worship. Abraham is recognizing God has authority over him, supreme authority over him, and he humbly trusts God. And does what he says. That's worship. That's worship. And you know the story, most of you know the story Abraham follows through. Takes his son up and builds the altar, builds the fire. In fact, he puts his son on the altar About to plunge the night, the angel of God shows up and says, Hold it, Abraham, hold it. You pass the test. Now I'm giving my words there. You pass the test. Don't do thy son no harm. It's proving you. But what caught my attention and what it's pertinent and what we're talking about this morning is that was described as worship. No hesitation. Abraham says, You are God. I am not. You are perfect in wisdom. I am not. You have authority over me. I trust you and I will do what you say. And it's described as worship. Go to the book of Job with me, if you would. I think most of us, if not all of us, are familiar with Job. Job, although the circumstances and the The process was a little different. Nevertheless, God was proving Job. Not so much to Job himself, but God is proving Job to the devil. And God puts his trust in Job that he'll be faithful even, oh we're going to let the devil do what he wants. And Job will be faithful to me. Job God has faith in a man. God is trusting him that he'll remain true. Even Let the devil do what he does. By the way, just a little aside, if you want to know what the devil would do to you if he got his way, read the first couple chapters of Job. Don't play with the devil. Don't toy with the devil. Because if you want to know, if he had his way with you and me, if he had his way with our young people and our little children, he would destroy them. I mean, eat him alive, kill him. He's a murderer. But look with me, if you would, here at chapter number one, at the end of chapter one We have an interesting statement on the part of Job. Satan had come and Uh verse thirteen down and the Sabaeans come and they take all his oxen and Um and uh uh Spi in verse fifteen, they took them away. Uh fire of God falls from heaven and burns up his possessions, and then his children are killed. And it's just horrific what Satan does to this man, this good man. Verse twenty. Then Job arose and ran his cloak his mantle and shaved his head. Fell down upon the ground and what? Worshiped. Worshiped His heart is crushed beyond imagination. He's lost everything he's vested his life in, material-wise. He worships God. He recognizes that God has supreme authority. God can do this. If God chooses to, he has the authority to do this. And he trusts God. Notice what he says following that. He worshiped. Here's the expression of his worship. And he said, Naked came I out of my mother's womb, naked shall I return thither. The Lord gave. The Lord hath taken away. Look at this. Blessed be the name of the Lord. In all this Job said not, nor charged God foolishly. You want to see worship expressed in its purest form right there. He worship God, you are authority. You are ultimate authority, supreme authority of my life. I submit to that authority humbly by trusting you and doing what you say. Jesus said, God seeketh such to worship him. To worship him. Come back to John if you would real quickly with me. I hope you kept your place there. Come back to John So we uh he says to this woman, he says, you you you don't you don't understand what worship is. You don't understand who it's about. We need to be intelligent in our worship. We need to understand what it is. It's not doing some ritualistic things. It's not crossing my heart and It's not doing religious things. It's an attitude of my heart. It's a seeing myself and God in a very specific manner. Now notice what he says there here, verse 21. He says, You worship you know not what. Or I'm sorry, 21. Jesus saying there, woman, believe me, the hour cometh. When ye shall neither in this mountain nor yet at Jerusalem worship the Father. You know what he stands here? He's saying worship is not limited to a specific location Worship takes place in our heart and our mind. Worship is an attitude of my mind and my heart before my God. It's not someplace I go to do. I can't I studied the New Testament, I studied through Acts I cannot find one place in the New Testament where the gathering of the church together was called a worship service. Not one time. Is the gathering of the church in the book of Acts or any of the epistles referred to as a worship service? That's a man-made term. Now, should we worship God at church? Yes or no? Sure, absolutely. But we ought to worship God at home also. And on the job and in the school, and in the community, and at the market, and at the gas station, and on the battlefield. Worship is not limited to a location. Well, we're going to go there and worship. Well, you ought to go there and worship, but that is it's not limited to a location. And he clarifies this in this dear lady's mind. She thinks, well, I have to go up there if I'm going to worship God. You say I've got to go to Jerusalem if I want to worship God. Jesus says, No, no, no, it's not a location. We're to worship God in our homes and on the job and in the school. Then notice verse 23. He says to her, But the Hour cometh, and now is when true worshippers shall worship the Father. Worship is not limited to a location, but it is limited in its object. We are to worship God and God alone. Worship the Father, only God. We are not to worship a man. We are not to worship an object. We are not to worship an activity. We are to worship God and God alone. I was in a meeting It's been 20 years ago probably over in West Virginia, and there was a preacher there, a very, very famous preacher, very, very powerful preacher. That I tremendous respect. God used them phenomenal ways, powerful, very, very well known, around the world. And the fella introducing them made this statement. He said, I do not worship Dr. So-and-so. He said, I do not worship Dr. So-and-so. But it's so close you can't tell the difference. I sat in my seat there and I said, that is wrong. My worship of God ought to be so distinct and so exclusive, nothing else is even question whether I worship it or not. I worship God and God alone. Don't worship people. Now we can respect people, we can honor people. Friday night. We honored our uh some of our folks in our church. We I'm all for that. The Bible says teaches that. We ought to respect people. You ought to recognize the delegated authority that God gives to people, but we do not worship man Before I was saved, we'd take these rock singers and put their big pictures up on the wall and put big movie star pictures up on the wall. When I was in college, some of the guys get big pictures of preachers and put them up on the wall. Now, I'm not against pictures, but I am against exalting and worshiping people. Whether it's a preacher or a pervert in Hollywood. Amen or not. He says, worship the Father. We don't worship objects. I like, I like, I got some guns. I like my guns. Somebody asked me down in New Zealand, they said, how many guns you got, Brother Leatherman? I said, it's none of your business. Like my house, I like a car, I'm I like cars. I tell you what, we don't worship objects. Now let me let me state that. Some people do worship objects. They live for their house or their whatever. That's everything. Everything in their life is dictated by their love for this thing. We don't worship objects, we don't worship houses, we don't worship things, we don't worship toys We don't worship buildings. We worship God. No thing ever takes the place of God in my affections. That's what he's saying. Are you with me? We don't worship people. We don't worship things. Let me throw this one out. This is a biggie. We don't worship activities. We live in a fun, crazed nation. Sports and hobbies and activities control us. That hobby or that activity, if there's a conflict between God's will and that activity, you watch Americans, that activity has the authority every time. Right or wrong? And I don't think I get a whole lot on that. But I know it's right. If anything takes the place of God and his authority and my affection for him, Then God is not the object of my worship. If I have to disobey God to fulfill my desire, then I am not worshiping God. Right or wrong? And you name it, if I have to disobey God to have this object, then I'm not worshiping God. Worship is limited to God the Father. Period. Period. We worship him as our Creator. In the beginning, God created the heaven and earth. Psalms 100, verse 3 says, Know ye that the Lord He is God? It is he that hath made us, not we ourselves. We are his people, the sheep of his pasture, he's God We worship him as our Savior. Galatians 2:20, Paul said, For I am crucified with Christ. I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I am yet not I. But Christ liveth in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. Paul said, My whole life is dedicated to the worship of Jesus Christ because he gave himself for me. You know why we should worship God and God alone? Because he gave himself for us. He's our Savior. He saved us from sin in hell. Good night. What more do we want him to do? What more does God have to do for us to trust Him and worship Him? Paul said, I'm dead. It's not me at all. It's all Christ. He loved me and gave himself for me. We worship him because he's our Lord. He's our creator. He's our Savior. He's our Lord. Thomas doubted that Jesus Christ had actually risen from the dead. And he says, unless I see his hands and plunge my hand into his Side, I'm not believing he's alive. Well, lo and behold, Jesus showed up. And he said, Thomas. Now it didn't play out exactly like this, but You know what Thomas did? Thomas humbled himself before Jesus Christ, the Son of God, his Savior. Listen to what he said. He said, My Lord and my God. You know what Thomas did? He worshiped. You are the Lord. You are Lord, not me. You're God. So we need to worship God intelligently Not limited to a location. It's not, it is limited to God for three reasons, and many more I could give, but He's our Creator, He's our Savior, He is our Lord. Worship God intelligently. We're to worship God internally. Now, notice here, he says The hour cometh, verse 23, and now is when true worshipers shall worship the Father in spirit. Verse 24, he says, God is the Spirit. They that worship him must worship him in spirit. The word spirit there is referring to the spirit of man. Notice that's a lowercase word. There's a reason. Notice where in verse 24 it says God is a spirit. That's a Capital S. And they that worship him must worship him in spirit. Lower case has two different things. It's talking about the spirit of man, our innermost being, what we are. I say this at uh uh uh every funeral But I don't. It's extremely rare. Every funeral I say something to this effect. You and I do not have a soul. You and I do not have a spirit. You and I are a soul. We are a spirit. That's what we are, and we have a body. This body is what we inhabit. When we die, we leave this body, and the body is remains. When Jesus comes back, the body will be resurrected, we'd be reunited. And when Jesus says to this here woman at the woman at the well, he says, God's a spirit. They that worship him must worship him in spirit. He's saying internally, from your heart and soul. With your innermost being, what you are, you worship God from the very core of your being. It's not some superficial thing that we do It's not some Sunday morning obligation. We're going to the worship services and we're going to go through these rituals and then go home and go back to That's not it at all. It's our spirit. It's from our innermost being. Worship from within our heart and soul sincerely, willingly, joyfully. Some worship God as they're some sort of slave. Out of fear. I don't worship God, he's going to still trust me. Not what he's talking about. Some worship God as if they're on heaven staff. And if I worship God, thank God I'll get a payment. I'll get something out of it. I'll worship God and He'll do something for me. By the way, that's a bunch of these yardbirds on TV preach that nonsense You get a bigger house, you have more God may give you a big house, God bless you, but that's not what worship is about. Getting stuff from God We don't worship God like we're some sort of slave and He'll crush us if we don't. We don't worship God because we're on staff and He'll pay us if we do. We worship God like a son. Out of love for our God, who He is, what He's done for us. That's from the Spirit. God, I love you. God, I love you. And you are everything. You're the total authority. And I trust you. And you tell me what to do, I'll do it. That's worship in the spirit. In the spirit. Samaritan woman, she thought, well, you go to this mountain, you go up there and cross your heart, hope to spit, and um, you know, do Five uh do five uh Hail Marys and do this, that, and the other, put some money in the offering plate. Well, I worship God. He says, no, no, no, you worship God in your spirit. Your spirit. So, number one, we worship God intelligently. Number two, we worship God internally. And last of all, we worship God with integrity. He says, they, two worshipers, verse 23, shall worship the Father in spirit and in what? Truth. He repeats it. God's the spirit. They that worship must worship him in spirit and in truth. Our worship of God is to line up with the Word of God If my worship of God must never contradict the nature of God Alright, God's God. Alright, I'm going to worship him and I'm going to decide. I'm going to do this, that, and the other, and I'm going to do this, and I'm deciding what I'm going to do. No, no No, that's not worship. That's not intrived And truth is, God, what do you instruct me? What do you command me to do? What are you telling me I should do? That's in truth, in line with the Word of God. Should we come to church to worship God? Yeah, sure. In fact, it's part of it because he says, forsake not the assembling yourselves together as a matter of summers. So if a God is my authority and I trust him and he tells me not to forsake, so my part of my worship is coming, assembling together with the people of God. Right or wrong? Are you with me? And you give a we could go down a whole list. I do not have the option of worshiping God in my own way. I've had people say this to me, preacher, I worship God in my own way. Well, God bless you. You are you know not what you worship. You're no different than the Samaritan woman. You gotta worship God in spirit and in truth. If my expression of worship is unholy, If it's worldly, if it's sensual, if it's of my flesh, my fallen sinful flesh Then it's not in truth. I may be as sincere as can be, I may be as in a as sincere as can be But if it contradicts the word of God, if my expression of worship contradicts the will of God and the holiness of God and the purity of God and the goodness of God, then it's not in truth. Our worship must have integrity. Twice in the Psalms we have this phrase. Psalms 29, verse 2, and Psalm 96, verse 9 says, Worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. Now that's not just a uh a flowery phrase. That's not just an oratorical expression. It's a command. Worship the Lord in the beauty of what? Holiness, purity, distinction from the world. Clear and separate and distinct in all its aspects, distinctively godly, distinctively biblical, distinctively Christ-like In all of its aspects. So our worship must be intelligent. We need to know what worship is. We need to know who we are worshiping. It must be internal. It must be from our heart and soul and spirit. Out of love for my God. And it must have integrity. It needs to be according to the Word of God. We ought to conduct ourselves in church, at home, on the job, in the marketplace, according to the principles of Scripture. Amen. That's where I would say. Amen. Now we fall short. We try, we mean to. Got this old flesh. We struggle. But that's where the Savior comes in. That's where the Holy Spirit helps us. I love Proverbs. A just man falleth seven times, and what? Rise up again. Say, preacher, I haven't I haven't been living like I should. My worship hasn't been integrity. It's just become going through the motions. It's just become ritualistic. Well, praise God, we can come and make that right. Amen. I read about a little boy years ago, and he was very good with a pocket knife I didn't even get a reaction. Wow. And uh he was really good at whittling stuff, and one day he decided he was gonna make a boat. He was going to enter some contest And he whittled on that thing, got a big thug, picked it out, looked just right. He started whittle on that thing, carved it out, and dug out the inside, made a little thing, put little uh uh mass up on there. You got some cloth and um put sails on that and little rope. I mean it was phenomenal. Got it in water, got it balanced just right so it would hold its own and float and and b stay buoyant and balanced. And I mean, it was beautiful. And on the bottom, he carved his initials. And he painted it up real nice. It was a masterpiece. Before he's going to enter it into, I better put this away, I'll cut myself. Um before he entered into the contest, he said, I'm going to take it down to the river and just check it out and see how it floats. And so he took it and he was so proud of that, he was so happy, was satisfied with how it came out. And he put it down in the water and boy it balanced just right. And he gave it a little nudge to see how it goes through the water. And that thing just went beautifully. And right about that time, a breeze kicked up. And blew that little boat out way out into the river. He panicked And he went out after it and it got up and it was too far out. He couldn't get in. The water was rapid. And it began being washed down the river and he ran down alongside the river and tried to keep up with it until finally it was too fast and he saw it go out of sight. He was crushed. Came home crying, told his parents, and said, I can't believe it. They were sad. About a week went by. He was in downtown and there was a pawn shop there. And just out of curiosity, they just walked into that pawn shop and they're looking around at different stuff in there. And he looks over, and lo and behold, There is his little boat, his boat. That's beat up scratched a little bit, but it's there. And he runs over. He said, Daddy, look. And he turns it over. And sure enough, there's his initials on the bottom. He got his moat back. He picked that thing up and he held it tight and he goes walking out the front door. And the proprietor, the fellow behind the counter, says, Hey boy, where are you going with that thing? He goes, Oh sir, this is mine. I lost it a week ago out on the river. And uh, see my initials are right here. It's mine, thank you No, no, he says, you get back here, son. He goes, that thing, twenty-five hours. You can walk out with it. He goes, but it's mine. I made it. 25 bucks, son. If that thing's going out of here, you're paying me 25 bucks. He looked at his daddy, his daddy said, he's right, it's his now. Daddy reached in his pocket, got a $20 bill, $5 bill, gave it to his son. He handed the money to the owner. And with tears streaming down his cheek, the little boy walked out the front door and he stood on the sidewalk. He held that boat up tight and he says, You're mine now. I own you twice. I made you. And I bought you. I think our Savior in heaven looks down at you and me and He says, I own you twice. I made you And I bought you with my own blood. And I desire for you to worship me. I desire for you to recognize the position that I have. And the love that I have for you and trust me. Follow my instructions. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you teach us to worship you and you alone. Intelligently, internally, and with integrity. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how many of God's people this morning say, I'm saved, I know I'm saved. God has saved me, given me new life I've trusted Christ as Savior. And you'd say, preacher, I haven't given as much thought to this matter of worshiping God like I should. And I want my life. To be a life of worship to God and God alone. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. God has stirred my heart. And I want to worship God as He instructs. God bless you. Hands all around. I want to worship God, my God, my Savior. So some this morning say, preacher, I've struggled, I've gotten away from the Lord, and I need to get back. We're not talking exclusively worship, but I just need to get back to the Lord. Start living for him like I should. Is there any like that? Preacher, I've gotten away and I want to get back. And live for God like he intends. God bless you. God bless you. Well, there happened to be someone this morning say, preacher, I've never been saved. I don't know for sure that I'm going to heaven, not to hell when I die, and I need that settled. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know that God has saved me and forgiven me. Is there any like that? But the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I need to be saved. I need Jesus Christ as my Savior. Any at all? Father, I ask you to bless now our invitation. Have your way. In Jesus' name.