If you would notice with me verse number thirty-one, Acts four, thirty-one. How many people thought I was gonna forego the dad joke this morning? Yeah, no way That was a good one. Acts chapter 4, verse 31. Notice what it says here. Now this is not a Mother's Day message, okay? Sorry, ladies, but it is a Bible message. And uh I think the truths and the principles that we'll pull out here will help moms along with everybody else. I believe I really believe that. So notice verse 31 And when they had prayed, the place was shaken where they were assembled together, and they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and they spake the word of God with boldness. The place was shaken. That phrase caught my attention. It was shaken. And I'm entitled The Message This Morning, How to Shake Things Up. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now our time in your word. I've been blessed just by being in church today and around your people singing and fellowshipping, laughing and enjoying each other. Now, Lord, as we look into your word, the perfect word of God, I pray you would use your word to impact our thinking. God, if we're thinking wrong, if our thinking's out of whack. Pray you'd use your word, get our get our our reasoning, our understanding back in line with your word and the truth. I pray that you would challenge us to go forward in our Christian life to grow and be stronger. And Lord, I ask with all my heart this morning, in this moment, that you would fill me with your Spirit, that it would be you speaking through my lips, through me. the truths of Scripture and then apply to our hearts and lives and help us to respond in faith. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I like the book of Acts For a Bible believer, the book of Acts is a dynamic book. Uh the early church getting started and what God did through those uh New Testament believers and that small church starting out uh there in Jerusalem, how that thing just the power of God was upon it and souls were being saved and lives being changed And um I mean dramatic, supernatural ways. And that thing grew and expanded all through Asia Minor there and then up into Europe, down through North Africa and east into India and and uh regions beyond that. The power of God that was upon that church. And it's all recorded here in the book of Acts And that stirs my heart. The book of Acts is an accurate historical account An inspired account of the beginning days of the New Testament Church, as I just said I believe the book of Acts displays the importance of the Holy Ghost in our lives, the role that the Holy Spirit plays in our lives as Christians. How many folks this morning you're saved and you know it? Say amen. I got news for you. In your body right now, whether you're aware of it or not, probably can't feel it, but in your body right now, the Holy Spirit of God is indwelling this very moment. The God that spoke this world into existence, the all-powerful Creator God, in the person of the Holy Spirit indwells us. How many people find that amazing? Phew! If we understood that, what our lives would be like if we get a hold of the potential. That is rests within us in the person of the Holy Spirit. And so the book of Acts, we see that, how important the Holy Spirit is in the believers' life. Now the unsaved, they're on their own Person never trusted Jesus Christ Savior, they don't have any Holy Spirit. I'm telling you, I would not be the person I am today if it wasn't for the Holy Spirit indwelling me way back 1979 when I trusted Jesus my Savior. I could not live this up. I couldn't work this up. It's a supernatural thing. The Spirit of God does. If you would, keep your place here, but come back to chapter 1 of Acts, just a page or two back there, a couple pages. And most Bibles have a title for the book. And right above chapter 1, there, you should have a title somewhere at the beginning of this book. And it probably the title says this The Acts of the Apostles. How many people, the Bible says that there? You know that's a man-made title. That's a man-given title. That's not inspired. Now I did something. Maybe this maybe bother somebody. I don't know. I don't care. But uh uh I care a little bit, but um I changed it. I crossed out the Acts of the Apostles, and I wrote this, the Acts of the Holy Spirit. Because we read through the book of Acts, it's the Holy Spirit of God doing the work through the apostles. They're just normal guys. In fact, they're messed up, you know. I mean they're fighting over who's the greatest, they're fussing, they're they're a mess. And uh and then Acts chapter two, the Holy Spirit comes upon them. Woo! I mean they are changed. Good night. This is the acts of the Holy Spirit. What the Holy Spirit can do in a church, in a home, how the Spirit of God can change your home. The Holy Spirit of God can take what is wrong in our lives and make it right. As Christians, He can heal our homes and empower our homes and put peace of God in our homes, our hearts, the Holy Spirit. And so the book of Acts shows, and then in the church life, the Holy Spirit plays a role in all we do. Listen, this isn't just what we work up. You and I, the church can't save a soul. The church can't make a drunkard sober. A church can't change a life and change a heart. The Holy Spirit of God does that through the power of the gospel. And so in our own personal eyes, the Holy Spirit I think the book of Acts sets a pattern for all the early for all our churches, our church and all churches around the world, a pattern of unity. Look at chapter 4, come back there real quick, and notice verse 32, what was said about that church. It says Acts 4 verse 32, it says, and the multitude them that believed were of one heart and one soul. What amazing thing. This was a diverse crowd. There was rich people in this church. There was poor people in this church There was Jews, there was Gentiles, there was men, women, there was nice people, and there was people who probably weren't very nice. There was smart people, and there was Um not smart people. There was tall people, short people, there was wide people, there was narrow people And yet, look what it says. They were all of what? One heart, one heart, and one soul. That's what the Holy Spirit of God does, knits us together. Did you ever go on vacation somewhere? Did you ever go on vacation somewhere and you're in a this is bizarre, but we go, we drive five hours, go on vacation, the first place we go to is Walmart. Could have done that at home. And you're in there and you see somebody and just kind of the way they're talking, maybe the way they're dressed, their demeanor, you say, I wonder if they're a Christian. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You see them. Oh. And you get talking to him, and man, there's a kindred spirit there right away. How many people know him? Y'all are just looking at me. Yeah. You know what that is? That's that Holy Spirit uniting that kindred that kindred spirit there. It's like we knew him our whole life to get talking. I know him my whole my whole life. And so there's unity. Even in diversity, there's unity. The Holy Spirit does that. The world talks about, oh, diversity, diversity. They're wanting us to be different. The Holy Spirit, even though we're different, brings us together. And uh the Holy Spirit of God. And persecution. We look in the book of Acts. We see the church persecuted intensely. I mean, they're beating People in the church, for no other reason than the fact that they're a believer in Jesus Christ, they're throwing them in prison, they're killing them. I mean killing them for no other reason than they're a disciple of Jesus Christ. And yet the people are rejoicing. The thing is booming. And then we see the purpose of the church. That's to get the gospel in all the world. And that's what we're about, our missions. Go ye into He says there in chapter 1 verse 8, he says, Ye shall be witnesses unto me, both in Judea and Samaria and unto the uttermost part of the earth And so we see the purpose of the church. Book of Acts was penned by the uh by Luke. He was a doctor, he was a physician. And he heard of Jesus Christ, he got saved, God changed his life, and he committed himself to be a follower of Christ and worked with Paul. and other apostles and missionary journeys. He actually wrote the book of Luke also. In fact, the book of Acts is volume two of Luke's writings. You have the Luke and then Uh uh and then um uh Acts and uh same man penned it. Of course God's the author. In chapter four here We find, just to get the context, then I want to point a few things out quickly. But we find Peter and John were detained for preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. We notice that back in verse number one. Notice if you would, verse number three, it says, uh, uh, well, verse one, and they spake unto the people and the priests. The captain of the temple and the Sadducees came upon them. They're telling people about Jesus. That's all they're doing. They're not robbing anybody. They're not threatening folks. They're not stealing. They're not beating people up. They're just telling people about Jesus. That's what they're doing Verse 2, and the the priests and the captain of the temple, Sadducees, they were grieved that they taught the people and preached through Jesus the resurrection from the dead. And they laid hands on them and put them in hold. That's the prison. Until the next day. So Peter and John, they actually, God did a miracle, a fellow got healed. They start telling everybody, hey, Jesus is the one that That says Jesus rose from the dead, he'll save your soul, change your life, he'll meet your needs, and and they throw him in jail for that. Verses 18 through 21, we won't read all that. They're instructed not to teach or preach or speak in the name of Jesus Christ. Don't be talking about Jesus anymore. That's what they were told. If you would, I do want to point out one verse, verse 18. It says they called them, the authorities called them, Peter and John, and commanded them not to speak at all nor teach in the name of Jesus. Yeah, I wrote in the margin of my Bible, that's Satan's Great Commission. Jesus told us to go into all the world, preach the gospel. Satan says, don't you do that. You do that, I'll mess you up. You do that, I'll destroy you. And so Satan's great commission is: don't be preaching the gospel of Jesus, don't be talking about Jesus. Anything that squelches the gospel of Jesus Christ is of the devil. Let me just say that. Anything that quenches squenches, squenches. Everybody out there? Alright. The gospel, it's not of God, it's of the devil. It's of the devil. And so they are threatened, instructed not to preach or teach in the name of Jesus. So in verse 23 through 31, Peter and John come back to the church, the local church there, and they tell everybody what happened. And they report to them, you won't believe this. They threw us in prison. They told us we're not to preach in the name of Jesus. And uh we told them, if you go back to verse 20, listen. You can threaten us all you want. We have no other choice. We've got to preach about Jesus. We've got to speak in the name of Jesus. And uh it's better to obey God than you guys. We can they they put it this way, we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard. Anybody here get saved and something down inside your heart and soul, you just want to tell somebody about Christ. Anybody know what I'm talking about? When I got saved, May 7, 1979, this past Wednesday night at 10. 30 at night. 46 years ago, 19-year-old boy, I knelt by my bed up in Philadelphia. I called out Jesus Christ. Messed up. I mean, messed up. You've heard my story. I mean, drugs, drinking, fornication, the whole lifestyle was destroying me I called out on Jesus Christ, have mercy on me. I don't want to be this kind of person. I don't want to be this man. I don't want to be this. And Jesus Christ heard my cry, he came in my life and changed my life like that. I'm telling you, I wouldn't trade what Christ did for me for all the money in the world. My conscience bears me witness. I would not, for all the money in the world, forfeit what Christ has done for me. Now here's what I'm getting at. Spirit of God moved in. I didn't know it. I didn't feel it. With no lights or bells going off or anything. But I knew God changed my life. I knew he saved my soul. Very first thing I wanted to tell my dad, I wanted to tell my mom, I want to tell my family, Jesus saved me. Got to work, started telling them, hey, I accept Jesus Christ as Savior. They thought I joined some weird cult. I said, what are you gonna do? Shave your head, wear white, wear a robe? Well here I am 46 years later. I don't have to shave my head no more. I don't have to I I have it I s I kept my comb. I just can't part with it. I just But that was better than the first one. Listen, I'm the one preaching here, just But the point I'm trying to make is God did something in my heart I couldn't help but tell others. I had to tell others. Can I get a witness? Anyone know I'm talking about And so that was the case here. And they're telling them, you you be preaching, you talk about Jesus, you get out there, we're going to throw you in prison or worse. And they came back and told the church about it. And the church responded, the way the church responded was they immediately went to prayer. I mean as a body. Wednesday nights we have midweek prayer service. We pray together. We gather around. Once a month we have men's prayer breakfast, we pray. The ladies have prayer lunch and once a month they pray Saturday night, some of us pray. Sunday mornings, some teachers, we pray. Sunday afternoons, our men get together downstairs. We pray before the evening service. A church ought to be a praying church. And that's exactly what that New Testament church did. When they heard what they were threatening and what they were doing, church says, we gotta pray. And that's verses verses 23 down through 31. The church is praying. They get the report. Let's pray. We've got to pray. And they went to the Lord. They quoted Scripture. God, you said this was going to happen. Kings are going to stand up against you, but you're God. We're going to trust you. And then brings us to verse number 31. And that's what I want to tell you. I know I just got a couple minutes. And it says, and when they had prayed, the place was shaken where they were assembled together, and they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and they spake what? The Word of God. Now, this is another subject, and so I'm not going to deal with it, but I want to point out they didn't speak in tongues, they preached the Word of God. Word of God, that is what it's about. Three things real quick. I'm going to throw them at you real quick. Number one, how do we shake things up? I think there's some hearts and lives that need to be shook up here this morning. We get in a rut. Our home gets cold and hard. We start fussing in our home. If we're not careful, we get cold at church, start fussing in church, huh? Each other, criticizing, complaining, gossiping. We're not careful. We can uh we can get in a place we don't want to be, and we need God to shake it up a little bit sometimes My own personal life, maybe I get little lukewarm and uh I'd lost that fire, I lost that love for the Lord I once had I need shaken up. I need to get shook up a little bit and stir that. We had our men's getaway. We were four-wheeling down in uh uh the uh uh uh what's it called? Hatfield McCoy down there. Man, we had a great time. We had a fire at night. Isaac started the fire one night. It was okay. And um it was pretty good actually. And that thing starts dying down. Isaac had this poker stick. It's about ten feet long. He'd get in there stirring those coals up and get that fire going again. That's what we need in our churches, don't we? It stirred up again, stirred up. How do we shake things up? Number one, I put this down, the prayers of God's people. Notice it says, when they prayed, the place was shaken. We must never underestimate the power of prayer. We must never underestimate the importance of prayer. I know The world thinks it's silly for you and I to talk to somebody we can't see. We're just talking to the air. But I'm here to tell you there is power in prayer. I've been doing this 46 years. I can tell you, and many of you can testify the same thing. I'm telling you Prayer is effective when we do it the way the Bible says to do it. Prayer, I'm telling you, prayer can take some old hard sinner Could care less about the Bible, could care less about God, could care less about whether they go to hell, they could care less about any of that. And I'm telling you, you get a hold of God in prayer, God can take that old sinner, melt that hard heart, and they'll see how desperately they need Jesus Christ. Am I right or wrong? Prayer. They went to prayer. It shakes things up when we pray. God starts moving. I'm afraid a lot of times we don't take prayer seriously. We don't we're not earnest about it. We don't invest a lot of time and effort. God is great and God is good and I thank Him for the food, bless all the missionaries, Amen. And nothing happens Nothing's changed, and I'm still defeated by sin, and I'm still have these needs, and and uh there's still people I love that are unsafe, and and it's like nothing happens But I tell you, we get serious like the church did there, and they started praying. I mean getting a hold of God desperate. And God moved and God responded And powerful things happened, and people got saved, and people's lives were changed. I got studying all the great men and women in the Bible. You know what? I found a common denominator About all the great men and women of the Bible, and that was this. They were all men and women of prayer. They prayed earnestly, faithfully, consistently All the great men, all through church history. You read of we read of great missionaries and great preachers and great Christians all through church history. There's a common denominator Runs down through every single one of them. Pray, pray. Today's Mother's Day. A mother ought to pray for her children. Mother ought to pray for her family. By the way, children ought to pray for their mother. Pray, I prayed for my mom this morning on my knees at the house. I pray God would bless my mother. Take care of her. Prayer. Praying for one another. All the great men and women throughout history pray. A husband ought to pray for his wife. Wife ought to pray for her husband, brothers and sisters, praying for one another Now, effective prayer, if we're going to have prayer that actually results in something that makes a difference, we have to have faith in God. Prayer without faith in God is just empty words. Just going through the motions. This morning, I'm not trying to be critical. Please don't misunderstand me. But I'm here to tell you there are churches all across our area, all across our country, all around the world, and all they're doing is just going through the motions saying a prayer. We come, we've got to believe God. Did you notice when we read that in our scripture reading? They were quoting Scripture back to God. God, you are the creator. You are all powerful. The kings of this world rise up against you, but you stand. They were serious about their prayer. They believed that God is, and that He is powerful, and that He can and will respond to the prayers of His people. We've got to believe that. If not, we're just playing games. We're just mouthing But there must be faith in God when we pray. God, I believe you. Now that doesn't mean, well, if I believe, then God will give me whatever I want. No, if I believe, God will do what's best for me. I can trust them, but I can pray and pour out my heart. Effective prayer must be from a sincere and pure heart. Man, this is where the constant struggle is. This is where the spiritual warfare comes into play. David said in Psalm 66, verse 18, he said, If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. The great killer of prayer is lack of faith and sin in my heart and life Disobedience to God. I cannot simultaneously live in disobedience to God and at the same time expect God to hear and answer my prayer. It will not happen. You've done it with your kids. Listen, you lose you lose that attitude, or you're not going to get some things. Right? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Say it to the kid? Uh I remember I just thought of this. This is very traumatic I think it was like my tenth birthday. My parents bought me, anybody here remember the RUP minibikes? Rup, little Rupp. They got me for my birthday. I couldn't believe it. I saw it in the garage. There it was. And I did something I I I don't know what I did. I think my sisters did it and I got blamed for it as probably what happened. But it was my birthday and there's that mini bite and I couldn't have it. They said, you ain't getting that thing. You got an attitude, or whatever it was I did. I was the victim, I'm sure, but Um and I stood there on my birthday and watched my sisters ride my mini-bike around. How many people agree with me? That's child abuse right there. That's terrible Listen, God says you get listen you you're you got something in your life you know it's wrong. You know it's wrong And you say, well, I don't care, I'm going to do it. Don't don't be don't be expecting God to answer your prayers when I'm living in disobedience to Him. I got some sin in my life. Now listen, we all deal with sin, right or wrong. It's there. I deal with it. Daily basis. You deal with it. It doesn't say if we're sinless, that's impossible. But if I regard it, I do wrong, I sin against God, whatever it may be, fill in the blank. And I regard it, I hold on to it, say, no, I'm not going to repent it. I'm not, I'm holding it, I want this sin. And then God won't hear me. God won't hear me. So I've got to be pure in my heart. I've got to have faith in God. I need it when I mess up. I confess it. Lord, that was wrong. That was wrong. I confess it. And come to God in prayer. Um, there must be submission to God's will when I pray We talked about this in Sunday school. How many people are aware of the fact that God's smarter than you and I are? Anybody find that out? If you didn't, you really need to learn that. God's wiser than we are. He knows the end from the beginning. He knows where every road goes, every decision I make, he knows where it ends up. The ones I make, the ones I don't make. He knows every eventuality. He knows every scenario where that ends up. And so it's wise, it behooves me, if I'm not a fool, to come to God and say, God, this is what I like, this is what I want. But you know what how that will turn out. So God, I come to you praying, this is my request. But Lord, if you know it's better some other way, then I'm going to submit to that. You follow me? I asked for things in my life these forty-six years and God didn't give it to me and God didn't do what I wanted him to do, and some of them were I'm thinking of one in particular God, you have to do this for me. This is what needs to happen. And God said no. And now I look back 25, 30 years later and say, Whoo, thank God, he didn't do that. Are you with me? My son, and I've used this before, but he was had a business here in Missouri years ago, and there was um messed up some with the money and some cart credit cards and stuff and messed up And he called me up and said, Dad, I need you to pray uh that this thing comes through, this thing comes through. And then later on, and I I don't know all the specifics, but later on, if it had come through, it would have really messed him up. And God didn't answer his prayer. It didn't come through. And he called me up about a week later. He said, God didn't answer my prayer. Praise the Lord. Glad he didn't. It would have been disaster if he'd have done what I was asking. So when we pray, we pray in faith. God can, God's able. We claim his promises, we come with a pure heart, we make things right, but then we understand, God, not my will, your will be done. You know better than I do, but this is what I want. This is what I think. This is what I ask. God, I trust you. So, prayer, the power of prayer, the prayers of God's people will shake things up. I just got a couple minutes. Let me give you a second one: the power of the Holy Spirit. Notice it says, and when they had prayed, the place was shaken where there were some of them together, and they were filled with the Holy Ghost. That word filled there means to control, take over. In Luke, Jesus did a miracle, and the people didn't understand what was happening, and we won't take time to go there, but it says they were filled with fear because they didn't understand how in the world could God do this. And they were filled with fear. And what it means is the fear took over. The fear controlled their thinking and their actions. They were taken over by fear. And some of us have been there, you're in a situation, you get afraid, and you almost panic. That's the fear taking over. Well, that's the same concept of the Holy Spirit, being filled with the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit takes over. And he changes the way I think. He changes the way I behave. Maybe I am naturally hateful. Even after I get saved, I still have these characteristics that are true in my life. Maybe I'm naturally in Maybe I'm naturally short with people. Maybe I'm naturally bitter, hold on to grudges. I know some things about myself, characteristics of myself, that are true of me personally. But yet when I'm filled with the Holy Spirit, God changes that. And we behave in ways we aren't don't normally naturally behave. You follow what I'm saying? I've had people think of one just a hateful fella. They're talking about it. And he said, Well, that's just the way I am. He said, Well, must God. So that's what the Holy Spirit is for to change us and bear the fruit of the Spirit in our life. Love, joy, peace, patience, long-suffering, kindness. Holy Spirit enables us to be uh some when I got saved, there was a lady at the hunting camp. We went hunting in the fall, Mrs. Keller, she said to my dad, what in the world, they called me Denny, said what in the world got into Denny He's like a different person. My dad said Jesus got into Deddy. There's the Holy Spirit in me, changing me, making me behave in a better way. And so the Holy Spirit fell upon the disciples there in Acts 2 at the Pentecost, and their lives were transformed. It's like completely different people. No longer hateful, no longer bitter, walking around angry at everything, miserable. They're changed. They had the presence of God. They had boldness in their witness. They had compassion. They cared about somebody. They cared about people other than themselves now. We're so in love with ourselves. We're so wrapped up with ourselves. The Spirit of God gets in there, self-guys, and now we care about others. Power of the Holy Spirit, the power of the Holy Ghost, joy. Over and over and over, you read through the book of Acts, it says there was great joy. There was great joy. There was great joy. Listen, I thank God for a I think we have a happy church. I know my jokes are a part of that. But behind it all, I believe, is the presence of the Holy Spirit. God's spirit in us, and He produces this joy. I'm telling you, we can have joy in our home. Say, preacher, if you knew what my home was like, you know why we're all miserable. Well, it may be, but I know this. The Holy Spirit of God can change all of that. He can anoint that home with his presence and the peace of God be there and the joy of the Lord be there and just transform the whole thing. Shake things up. Make it what it ought to be. The Holy Spirit. We can go through the motions of the whole of the Christian life. We can talk about being Christian in our homes. We can have lots of activity in our church. But without the presence and filling and power of the Holy Spirit, there's no spiritual life there. So, number one, the prayers of God's people. Let's be praying people. Number two, the power of the Holy Ghost. Those of us that are saved, let's seek the filling and power and presence of the Holy Spirit in our lives, in our homes, in our church, our ministries. Our Sunday school classrooms, our buses, our choir, our pulpit, presence of God. Number three, I'll end with this: the preaching of the gospel. Three things that shake things up. Prayers of God's people, the presence and power of the Holy Ghost, and the preaching of the gospel. Look at the last part of verse 31. And they spake the word of God with boldness. I like preaching. I'm a preacher. I like preaching. I like preaching that's bold. I mean stand up and speak up and preach I told Evan, Evan preached in the teens day. I don't know how he did. I told him last night, let her rip. Just preach. That's what they did. They got up. Boldness. They spake the word of God with boldness. We don't have to be timid. We don't be arrogant. Amen. Difference between boldness and arrogancy. But we can speak with confidence. The Word of God and the gospel is God's divine force that saves souls, revives Christians and churches, and changes lives. The Word of God. This book is powerful. We declare it. We preach it. The preaching of the gospel. We teach and preach the Word of God, it produces faith. A home without the Bible being read is a home that has little faith. A life that has no Word of God being poured into it is a life that has very little faith. A church that has little or no Bible is a church with little or no faith. Churches all across our land. Again, I don't want to be critical. I'm not trying to do that, but I'm simply saying this. Any church that doesn't preach the Bible is a church that has little faith. Romans 10, 17. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. You're trying to influence someone by the front for the Lord, give them the word of God. Live it out in front of them. Let them see it. The Word of God saves souls, we declare the Word of God. Save souls. See people saved, we've got to give them the gospel. Preach and teach the gospel. This is the power of God unto salvation, it transforms lives Biblical preaching brings peace and purity and purpose to a light. Paul said, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice wholly acceptable to God to your reasonable service. And be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed. By the renewing of your mind, by thinking along the words of God, the Word of God. Preaching of the Word of God. And then it gives direction in life. If I'll get my nose in this book, I'll learn what this says, and I'm going to find things, I'm going to see and hear things God tells me I should do. He gives me instructions. And then he warns me about some stuff I need to stay away from and keep my nose out of. Then he gives me some promises that if I'll trust him, he'll do this for me. He'll do things for me. If I trust him, do what he says. I'll find He'll lead me in my life. He'll lead me in my life. I can testify that. God has led me all the way through His Word. Through His Word. The Word of God, shake things up. Say, my my life isn't what it ought to be. Get the Bible in it. It'll help you. Start following the instructions here. Follow the manual. It'll help you. Understand the power of the Holy Spirit. Get praying. Pray. Pray. Shake things up. A church that works, I think we have a busy church, don't we? We stay busy. And by design, I think it's right. We ought to be about our father's business. I asked the preacher one time, I said, You got anything coming up? Any anything coming up? He said, uh I think April of next year we got something going on. I said, well, God bless you. I'll pray. God will bless it. A church that works without prayer? May have a lot of activity, but it will have very little spiritual power. A church that works Without the presence and power of the Holy Spirit, may have a lot of activity, but there'll be little spiritual power there. A church that works without the word of God may be very busy, but there's no presence of God there. There's no power of God there. If we do what we're doing, apart from prayer, apart from the presence of the Holy Spirit, apart from the instruction of the Word of God, then all we're going to get is what we can do. But we do it God's way. We pray and yield ourselves, Holy Spirit, and go by the Word of God. I'll tell you, we'll see what God can do. Now we're not the biggest, the most, or the best of anything. I understand that. But God has blessed us. 30 I came here in 93, handful of people. I talk about it a lot, but it the older I get, the more significant it is in my mind I look around, I see the people, and all the ministries we have, and around the world, 92 missionaries. Hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of thousands of Romans booklets going out around the world. Thousands of people saved and lives changed. A little church up here in Garrett County. And I look at it and I say, that's not Leatherman. Believe me, I know me. You know what that is? That's God doing something. Are you with me? And it comes as a result of prayer, it comes a result of the presence and power of the Holy Spirit, and it comes as a result of just following this book and doing what it says. And the world They don't understand. Sometimes they mock us, a lot of times. That's fine. I've gotten the point, whatever. They may come here in America. We may have to pay a price. Huh? I'm reading a book now. 40 people in the last 20 years. That have been killed or tortured. One lady I just read one lady, all her fingers, a little Chinese lady, was beaten. They took pipes and smashed her fingers. For no other reason, she was talking to people about Jesus Christ. Here's an account, all documented, her fingers are all busted up. Because she believed in Jesus Christ. The world doesn't understand what we're doing. The world doesn't understand what we're talking about, but we know what God has done for us. And we want Him to use us. Amen? Father, please help us. Help us just trust you. Just have faith in you and let your will be done in our lives. We want your peace, God. We want your presence in our homes, our church. Bless our mothers. Help us to support them. And God have your way. Wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many Christians this morning would say, Preacher, I need revival in my prayer life. I need my prayer life shaken up and get it back where it'll be. Any like that? The uplifted hand. I need my prayer life. God bless you. Oh, what a powerful thing prayer is. We get a hold of that. Wonder if there's some say, preacher, I don't even ever think about the Holy Spirit. I don't even give a thought about it. But yet here he is in my life. And if I can trust them, let him lead me and fill me and empower me, what God could do. Is there any like that, preacher? I need to pay more attention to the fact that I have the Holy Spirit in my life. Any like that by the uplifted hand? That he can help me And lead me and guide me. God bless you. Maybe some need to come and just say, Lord, fill me with your spirit. Put that hunger in my heart that you can empower me. I can be a good witness for you. And then this matter of preaching the gospel, not from behind the pulpit, but just teaching it to my family and having devotions in the home and sharing it with other people in a community. Telling them about Christ. Is there any like that? Say, preacher, I need to get I need that shaken up in my life. Anything like that? The Word of God. The Word of God. Daily devotions. How important that is Father bless our invitation I ask now in Jesus' name