Start in verse sixteen, read down through eighteen. Verse 16: For a just man falleth seven times and riseth up again, but the wicked shall fall into mischief. Rejoice not when thine enemy falleth, and let not thine heart be glad when he stumbleth, lest the Lord see it, and it displease him, and he turn away his wrath from him We'll pray real quick and it's we got about 20 minutes or so here to the top of the hour, so I'm going to pray and then I'm going to look at this uh subject. It's really just a question. Um I'll be honest with you, it helped me out a lot, so hopefully it'll help you out a lot as well, but it's just the question. The question is this, how do I fall? How do I fall? The question isn't will I, it's how do I. So we'll pray and then we'll look at uh uh this question tonight. Lord, we thank you for your word. We thank you for this evening. Lord, I pray that you would uh just take over the service tonight. Best way I know how, Lord, I just want to give myself over to you. So Lord, you just you be the teacher tonight, I pray, and use your word to speak to us, Lord, and and encourage those that need encouragement, Lord. Bring conviction where it's needed as well. Um Lord, we'll just thank you for it. It's in Jesus' name. Amen. We went through, I don't know, I guess we finished probably two, three months ago, the book of Proverbs in Sunday school. It took probably four years, I would say, uh to get through it. We went through it verse by verse, um just four years. If it was Christmas, it didn't matter. We stuck with Proverbs, you know. If it was uh Easter or Mother's Day, Father's Day, we just stuck with it and um and we just it it took about on average four or five verses a week and we got through it in about four years. Uh but man, we got a lot out of it. And um And so I I really enjoy the the book of Proverbs. I think you should read uh one every day, I really do, but it's just practical stuff. Um And we need that. We need practical wisdom just to just to get through each day, because each day is just full of choices and you need wisdom to make choices. So I think it's a good idea to read Proverbs every day. Anyway, so this verse here, it's one that's probably familiar to us. We've at least heard it before. Verse 16, just man falleth seven times and riseth up again. But the wicked shall fall into mischief. And as I look at this, before we answer the question, how do I fall? We need uh to define some of these terms here, I like to do that. Um I like to use Webster's dictionary, the eighteen twenty eight uh Webster's dictionary, I like that. Um you know I'll use I'll use newer dictionaries too, but I always seem to go back to that one. Um I there was there's I can't remember who it was I was talking to But someone asked me, this was a few years ago, what I wanted for my birthday or Christmas or something like that, and I said I want a Webster's 1828 dictionary. Like I want one one of the old dictionary, like the original Webster's dictionary They said, well why not just look it up online? I was like, oh yeah. So that's what I do. Um because it's there. Uh so so that's good. But anyway, I like going to that. I like I I use commentaries There's a few different ones that I have, but I like to define words. But we see here the the the verse says, A just man followeth seven times. What is a just man? What is a just man? Well, positionally, that's some someone that is just, someone that is justified, if we talk in terms of their position, we might use the word saved Might use the the word righteous, someone who has uh received justification. They're just. They've been justified through the blood of Jesus Christ. Um understanding we're sinners, we deserve hell because of our sin. And and that is the fine, so to speak, the the the penalty, wages of sin is death, and so Christ died for our sins, and so we we um accept him as our Savior, call upon the Lord, and we're saying we've been justified. And that is our position as a Christian. But in practice, someone who is, if we look at this word, someone who is just, someone who practiced out just living Someone who practices out righteous living. The definition I got was someone who is influenced by regard to God's law. Someone that uh read God's word and then allows God's word to influence them to make decisions, someone who is living righteously, would it be a just person, someone who's trying to live just The way we might word is someone who just wants to do right. Someone who just just wants to do right. Now understand there's a lot of positionally just people that don't want to live right. There's a lot of people that um aren't saved. They're not uh positionally just, but they they they would be what we call moral and they just want to still live right. Now I think this verse is applying to kind of both though. And and we'll see what I'm we we'll see that here in just a minute. Um but if someone is born again, there's something in them that wants to do right. That's the Holy Spirit. It's like a it's like a conscience on steroids, you know, you might you might uh describe it that way. There's something in us that wants to do right. But anyway, so a just man would be a saved man that's just wanting to live right. And I think if we were to take a survey Most of us in here would be saved people who just want to live right. Not saying we do, but you know, there's something in us that wants to. There's something in us that wants to live right. And that's good. So going on in this verse, a just man falls seven times. Well, what does it mean to fall? Well, we know what that means. Um I share a fear with you while my wife's not in here. The fear I've always had ever since we've been married is that she's going to fall down the steps with a basket of laundry. That's always been in my mind I'm gone at work. If I well when I was gone at work when I worked um a uh a a secular job, um we didn't always have uh phone service and things like that where we lived at and so I go a few hours and I just had these images in my mind of her falling. I really did. And so anyway. She knows about it, but Um that's uh then now where we live the washer and dryer is on the same floor as our bedrooms. So praise the Lord for that. Um don't have to worry about that as much But now we have a problem with someone that falls up the stairs a lot. And that's okay too. So what does it mean to fall? It means to stumble or trip. And I pick on her, but I do it a lot as well. Um I tend to be clumsy, but that's okay. So it means the the s uh stumble or trip. Now the word here has the idea of uh of falling down flat We might use the word prostrate. Fall down flat. Flat on your face. That's not fun. That's not a trip. That's not a stumble. That's a You know, that's uh that's not good. But there's times like that in life, isn't there? There's some stumbles, but there's some times where we just we just fall. What in the world has happened? You ever been there? How this doesn't even make sense. What's going on? Could be something catastrophic, could be a death in the family, could be a serious health issue, could be Some financial thing that's come up. Could be someone's harmed you or hurt you uh emotionally or even physically, just like, what in the world? Where did this come from? Where did well how did this even happen? Um we fall. Could be, though, and I think more along the lines of what this verse is talking about It could be our own sin. Or we fall. We we do something dumb we st we do something dumb ourselves. We we know it's wrong and know to do good, do it not, so we sin and and end up causing ourselves a l a lot of headache You know, not all not everything that bad that's happened to you is because of your sin. You know, we live in a sin-cursed world, so bad things happen because of sin, but not everything's quote unquote our fault, but I think a lot of times it is too And so I think that's what what we're what what this verse is focusing on, and you'll see that when it talks about how the the the just fall, then how the wicked fall as well, and and and vice versa. But anyway. It means to fall flat on your face. Now, there's a word here, the word wicked is in this verse. Verse 16, just man falleth seven times, rises up again. But the wicked shall fall into mischief. Well what's what what what what who are the wicked? Well positionally someone who is not justified, someone who is separated from Christ, someone who has not accepted him as their Savior, but in practice someone who is just living wickedly Now here's what I see. I see righteous people sinning and falling, and I see wicked people sinning and falling. Right? We see both in this verse, both fall. Something we need to understand, and I think most of us do, but but there's no one in here that's immune from sin. That's immune from falling. That's not going to happen until we get to heaven. Right? It's that's just that that's part of living in this sin cursed world and and living in this body Paul talked a lot about that, didn't he? And that's just that's just that's just what's going to happen. Not that it should happen, and not that uh we use that as an excuse, oh well we're all gonna sin anyway, so I might as well That's not what I'm talking about. That's not what he's talking about. Uh Solomon here wasn't he's writing this, but the reality is, is we sin. We fall. Voice crack there, sorry about that. We fall. And you know, we we won't go to it for the sake of time, but in 1 John he says that if we say we have no sin, Make him a liar. I don't want to call God a liar. So I need to admit that I sin. I need to admit that I fall. And and I'm getting a little bit ahead of myself, but the focus of this verse is not Whether or not we're going to fall, but how we're going to, and what's going to happen once we do. So everyone sins. If you're saved, then You're still going to sin. But there should be a difference. And that's what I'm going to look at here. We see um two different types of people that fall. First there's the just man, second there's the wicked man. So let's look at the first Let's look at the just man. Ecclesiastes, chapter 7. If you want to flip over there, you can. Ecclesiastes 7. I believe it's verse 20. Says this Um verse nineteen Wisdom strengtheneth the wise more than ten mighty men which are in the city, for there is not a just man upon earth that doeth good and sinneth not Just men fall. Saved people fall. People that have been born again will commit sin. And this is something we need to understand. We're not immune to it. I am perfectly capable of committing the same sin as anyone else. Now the difference is, is the Holy Spirit's in me and He's throwing up the red flag. Don't do that. But I have the ability to. And you do too. I have the ability to lie. I have the ability to steal. I have the ability to commit adultery. I have that ability. But there's something in me that's saying not to, sure. It's the Holy Spirit. But do safe people lie, steal, commit adultery? Absolutely. We sin. We fall. Just because we are just, just because we're saved, doesn't mean we're immune from this. Now, sometimes it's a trip. Not like a trip, like we're going somewhere, but sometimes it's like you know a stumble, a trip. Shouldn't have done that. Sometimes it's a flat out on your face, prostrate, right down on the ground. fall. And it hurts. You know, if I were to stand right here, I'm not gonna do it. But if I were to stand right here and just stiff as a board, fall right over it, that's a long way from my head. My head would probably hit the pew That's a long way, and that would hurt. Sometimes it's just a little trip, you know, slip on the bottom step. Sometimes it's a pretty painful experience, isn't it? But we but we do it Am I the only one that's ever fallen flat on my face and done something really dumb? Huh I mean I might have done it more, but um we all do it. We all sin. We all mess up. Sometimes it's a trip, sometimes we fall flat on our face. The just man falls Um Paul again talked about that a lot in Corinthians. I won't go into it, but now the just men follow very often. I mean I I I believe we sin every day. I know I do. Um now sometimes i y you ever struggle with the same same one? You know what I'm talking about the same sin? Over and over and over. Maybe it's an addiction. Maybe it's anger. Maybe it's bitterness. Maybe it's lying. Habitual lying or something like that. You struggle with the same thing over and over again. I believe we fall often. But the point of this verse isn't that we should focus on the fall, but focus On the recovery. The main difference between the way the just falls and the way the wicked falls is what the person's focusing on. Look at this verse. Catch this. Just man falleth seven times and riseth up again. But the wicked shall fall into mischief. Whenever we quote this verse, whenever we look at it, we focus on the just man rising, not on the just man falling. We focus on the just man rising, the wicked, but we see they fall into mischief. Again, back to defining terms, what is mischief? It's trouble. You know, someone who is mischievous is someone who causes a lot of trouble. Mischief is trouble. When we fall, there should be something in us that says, I've got to get this right, I've got to rise back up. If I want to live right, I've got to get through this. Messed up, I did something dumb. 1 John 1. 9, I'm going to get this right. I'm going to confess my sin, admit that it was wrong, and I'm going to rise up again. The wicked, they fall into mischief. That means into trouble, which means it's like a downward spiral. And they don't that some they might not even have a desire to get back up. I don't know. But getting ahead of myself, the just man will rise again. Can I just encourage you Be determined to just get back up again. You trip up And next time you catch yourself, oh man, I can't believe I did that. Don't focus on the fall. Focus on the rising again. The devil wants us to stay down when we're when when he when we're beat. Even if it's when we beat ourselves. He wants us to stay down. Don't let them win. Get back up. Rise up again. First Corinthians ten, verse twelve. Says this, if you want to write it down. I won't I mean you can turn there if you want, but first Corinthians ten twelve, wherefore the let him that thinketh he standeth, take heed lest he fall. If I think that I've got it all figured out, what's probably going to happen is I'm going to fall. If I think I've got the whole Christian life figured out, and well I've already read through the Bible a few times, I'm set, right? You're going to fall. So one, we need to be on guard to help keep us from falling, but if we do, we need to be determined to get back up. Just men will rise again. Just men rise up quickly. Don't wallow in your misery. We tend to do that sometimes too, don't we? Oh, I can't believe I did this again, and we'll tell everyone on Facebook all the mess we're in again. Just don't do that, okay? Just get back up and tell God get on with life. Get on with life. You know, I love it. He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins. I'm so glad of that I'm so glad that if I commit the same sin again or I you know I get angry again or I lie again or whatever fill in the blank. I'm so glad that when I go to God to confess that, He doesn't say, now hang on Look at all these other ones here. He doesn't do that. He forgives. And he cleanses us. I'm so glad for that. Just men will rise again. Now, maybe it's your fault that you're down. Maybe it's not. But get up. Um, life's too short to stay down. Life's too short to quit. So now how do the wicked fall? First off, we understand that wicked men do fall, wicked men sin. I think we understand that. But the difference, um, look at the wicked men fall different. Um they know the the Psalm says they know not at what they stumble. Verse 17 here says, Rejoice, uh rejoice not when the enemy falleth, and let not thine heart be glad when he stumbleth. Um The the when when a wicked person falls, he might not even know why. He might not even know what's going on. He might not even know he's falling. A lot of times there's not even a desire to get things right. Not even a desire to get back up. Now there's something else I wanted to point out here. And um it wasn't originally in my notes, but I kind of just jotted it down right before. But look at verse 17. Rejoice not when the enemy falleth. Now, this is kind of almost a whole separate thought, but I for whatever reason I wrote it down. I'm gonna fall, right? Gonna sin. You are too. Why in the world would I take pleasure out of someone else that falls? Why in the world would I find joy or satisfaction when someone else trips up? That's wicked. That's wrong. Now he says, Rejoice not when thine enemy falleth. That's hard to do. Someone I'm at odds with, someone that's my enemy. But wait a minute. Let me just work through just work through this with me here. Because I just wrote this down, so I'm kind of working through it here too, okay? If I'm not supposed to rejoice when my enemy falls, because that is so wicked, why would I rejoice when one of my brothers in Christ falls? You follow the logic here? You follow what I'm saying? Why would I rejoice when one of my family members falls? That's just silly. It's just wrong. And there's a phrase we use a lot. I mentioned it in King's Kids this morning. Maybe it's related to that. I don't know. I don't know. But we use this phrase a lot. They're getting what they deserve. Don't do that. Because if we got what we deserved, we would get the lake of fire. Why in the world would I rejoice when someone is overtaken in a fault? Why in the world would I get pleasure, rejoice, and say, well, serves them right, they're just getting what they deserve Hmm. You which are spiritual, restore such a one. Not kick him down. And I find this warning very interesting. Verse 17: rejoice not when the enemy falleth. And let not thine heart be glad when he stumbleth, lest the Lord see it, which of course he will. And it displease him, which of course it will, and he turned away his wrath from him. You know, you if you rejoice when someone falls, God might just say, You know what? I'll just go ahead and pick him back up then. You want to act that way about it. And um anyway, so the question is: how do I fall? Now obviously we can't use the excuse, oh well it's just gonna hit us, so we're just gonna get hit, so we're just gonna fall, so we might as well just might as well just give in. Well that's done. Right? There's consequences with each fall Just because you can rise back up, you know if a boxer's in the ring, he's like he'll say, oh well if like he hits me I can get back up. You know, no, he's he's gonna be on guard, right? Um every time there's a a knockout it's pretty serious and it hurts. There's hurts when we fall. That doesn't mean we can't get back up. Um so do you fall like the just man? When you fall, do you rise back up? Or do you stay down? Do you fall like the wicked? Now, the way to tell all of that was to direct towards this point. The question is, is how do I fall? How do you fall? This I think will answer it. The way to tell how you fall is what you focus on when you fall If you are focusing on the fall, then you're you're you're acting like the wicked. You're acting like a lost person. If you focus on, oh, I did this, I messed up, I sinned again, oh, I don't know what I'm going to do with myself, and you're just going to tell everyone about it and focus on the fall. Well then you're reacting like a lost person would. And you're still focusing on yourself. It's a symptom of pride. But if you focus on the rising again You read Psalm 51, the focus of that wasn't on I don't see in Psalm 51 where he went into explicit detail about his sin. He's asking God for restoration. Why? So sinners can be converted to him. Right? The focus is on God. Not on my sin. One of your family members, kids, your spouse, parents, siblings. Does something dumb, don't focus on their sin. You focus on how good God is You focus on the restoration. You focus on how God loves us and wants to forgive us and wants to restore us and wants to have that fellowship back. And He is faithful and just to forgive our sins and to cleanse us. So, how do you tell how you fall? What are you focusing on? For the just man will focus on rising afterwards, but the wicked will focus on the fall. I guess I want to say this: don't dwell in your defeats. Don't dwell in your defeats. Dwell in how good God is. Don't dwell in your past sins or your current sins. Get it right, get over it, and get on. God's good, isn't he? If God can forgive us for our sins and take us to heaven, don't you think He can restore us while we're here too? I'm glad for that. I'm glad that God doesn't hold every sin against me. I'm sure you are too. I'm grateful for that. I'm grateful for how good God is. Don't focus on the fall. Focus on rising again. And if there's someone in here that you know of, you're related to, and really we're all brothers in Christ, right? And they're in the middle of a fall. Maybe it's because of their sin. Maybe not. Don't put them down. That's wicked. You want to be spiritual. The Bible says you have to spiritual restore such a one. Rejoice not when the enemy falls. So I don't I don't I don't know. This was kind of an a help to me and like I said we we looked at it probably at this point two years ago in Sunday school. But it it's it's been a help to me. Because um we sin. We fall. Sometimes we fall and it's not even our fault. Might be someone else's. But I'm not going to focus on it. I'm going to focus on how good God is. So this week, tomorrow, tonight, tomorrow morning. When you catch yourself tripping, slipping up, maybe even it might be just a big fall flat on your face, focus on how good God is. Confess it. Get on with life. Right? There's consequences, sure. But the just man rises again. So, Lord, we thank you for this day that you've given us. We thank you for your word. And Lord, I pray that we would, when we fall, not wallow in our misery and Not be full of self-pity, but rather focus on you and how good you are and how you want to forgive us and want to restore us. Lord, and if there's someone else in our life that has fallen, I pray that We would re want to restore them too, like just like you did for us. Lord, that we would love each other, not put each other down. Heads bowed, eyes closed. Or anyone in here and say, you know what, Pastor Matt? The Lord spoke to me about that. I'm in the middle of a fall right now and Pray for me. I need to just get right with God and get up. If that's you, could you just raise your hand? Pray for me, Pastor Man. Hey, my hand's up right now. I need to just get right and get on with life. Amen. I don't know how the Lord spoke to you, and it could be a number of ways tonight. It could be a number of issues. I don't know, but uh um as we stand to our feet and and he starts playing, if God's dealing with your heart