So good to be back with you again this evening. Have a good crowd tonight. I thank the Lord for you. Another chalk drawing. How many like this? And the best for the week. Let me see your hands Okay, we got a few. Let me just since we're in that direction, let's just see which is the the favorite picture so far this week. How about the the one with the galleon there? on the the doldrums. How we like that the best of the week. Oh my. See, we've got ten there, we got seven there. Eight. Okay, pretty much. I'm pilling around though, it doesn't. You want to hear it? You got it. And then we did that one last night. How many like that in the best? Let me see your hands. Ooh, all right. Like those little bridges and stuff. I just I like the false fall colors for one thing. How many like this and the best now? Okay. How many voted twice or more? I don't trust Christians. All right. Pastors already uh done pretty much as far as the uh contest is concerned. So I'm not gonna have to do that, but I'll ask you to visit the table back there uh if you're interested in some of my artwork uh somebody wanted to uh purchase one of the the chalk drawings and I I told them like I've told you in years past that I don't sell the chalk drawings. They uh well I mean if it's enough But uh I don't sell the chalk drawing. The only way you can get one of those is if you uh work for 'em and and uh you get uh uh enough visitors or enough points and the way we're doing it now it c it matters about the points So uh this will be on the board or on the wall when you come in tomorrow night. Six of them by Friday night and we uh Look for the big fight on Friday night on the ties, okay? That's what we'll do. Take your Bible and turn with me to the book of uh Hebrew. Hebrews chapter 2 Hebrews chapter two Hebrews chapter two, we're gonna let's just go ahead and and uh start up there in verse one. Hebrews chapter 2 and verse 1 in the Word of God says, Therefore we ought to give the more earnest heed to the things which we've heard, lest at any time we should let them slip. For if the word spoken by angels was steadfast, and every transgression and disobedience received a just recompense of reward. How shall we escape if we neglect so great salvation? Which at the first began to be spoken by the Lord was confirmed unto us by them that heard him God also bearing them witness, both with signs, wonders, and with divers miracles and gifts of the Holy Ghost according to his own will. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, as we uh once again get into your word, we uh pray for your leadership. Ask you, Lord, to guide my thoughts and and Uh help me, Lord, uh that that I'm not leaving something out that needs to be said. I pray that there are those who are here tonight. will open their hearts and receive the truths and and I pray that if there's one here that has never been born again by the Spirit of God that they might come this evening and let us show them from the Bible how they can be saved and know it beyond a shadow of a doubt And never have to fear death or hell again. We ask you, Lord, to bless the chalk drawing. We show it in a little bit. Get honor to yourself. In Christ's name. Amen. And amen. Book of Hebrews. I believe uh it doesn't make any difference uh what I believe, but uh I believe the Apostle Paul uh wrote Hebrews as well various opinions. The most important thing is it is part of the canon of Scripture and it's the inspired word of God. It tames no errors. We can trust it. The name of the book, Hebrews, tells us something, doesn't it? Written to the Hebrews. That's not too s too hard to understand. But the wonderful thing about the book of Hebrews is how it how it uh how it uh unveils the Lord Jesus Christ chapter after chapter after chapter. You just see him being manifest more and more as you get into the book. I think of the the first chapter. uh reveals him as uh the express image of the father, and by him uh our sins were purged. Chapter two, he's a so great salvation, the one who tasted death for every man In chapter 3, he was counted worthy of more glory than Moses, and 4, he was the high priest who is touched with the feelings of our infirmities. In chapter 5, he is the high priest after the order of Melchizedek. No life or no beginning and no end. In chapter 6, he's the author, the anchor to the soul and our refuge. And in seven, he hath an unchangeable priesthood because he continueth ever. In chapter 8, he's the mediator of a better covenant. In 9, he is a in his priestly ministry appearing before the throne of God for us, interceding for us. In chapter 10, he's our sacrifice by which we are sanctified forever. In chapter eleven and twelve, he's the author and the finisher of our faith. In thirteen, he's that great shepherd of the sheep. He's the same yesterday, today, and forever. And he's the altar upon which we can place ourselves and give to him a sacrifice wholly, acceptable unto him. So that pretty well that that just describes uh the one that we're going to talk a little bit about here and I notice in the scripture here that we w that we read, where it says in verse two, it says, For if we Uh no, verse 3, I'm sorry. He says, uh, well, verse 2, let me read that because it's important that you understand uh verse 3 by verse 2. For if the word spoken by angels was steadfast, and it is, and every transgression and disobedience received a just recompense of reward. In other words You're gonna pay the price. If you sin, you're gonna it's gonna cost you. That's what it's saying. How shall we escape if we neglect so great salvation? I notice the word so there, you know, for God So loved the world. And here we have the so great salvation. How do you express a salvation to the uttermost? How can you do that? And so the word so is just sort of one of those words that that that God uses in his word here to to express a a uh a per it's so great, so wonderful and so magnificent, so you know you all these adjectives would not even begin to explain and describe this so great salvation that we have in Jesus Christ. Isn't something in man is you know uh we read the scripture and we go back in the book of Genesis and we see how man was created and and the fellowship that he enjoyed with with God and then then all at once Bang. Sin came into the into the picture. And from that point on, man has you know has been alienated from God at birth. But see, God's not satisfied with that. He had a plan. And he still has a plan. And his plan is to re-establish what he uh what Adam lost back in the Garden of Eden. And that's what he's going to do. And that the way he does that is with this so great salvation. He does that through the new birth. And that that's something that that, you know, if you try to explain it, you can't. All I know is that that that when a person receives Christ as their Savior The Holy Spirit comes within and begins to change their life. It changes not only their destination, which is now uh heaven, heaven-bound But it also changes their disposition too. Gives them a whole new heart, a whole new desire, and a whole new life. That's the wonderful thing about this so great salvation. But the tragedy is that there are those who who do neglect it Now the word neglect, you know, what hmm. How can we describe neglect? I I I one way I think we could describe it is neglect is Is the wife who's sitting there watching her husband in front of the television. That's neglect. She's being neglected, am I right or wrong? Oh yeah, okay. Well that went over like a lead balloon. That didn't nothing happen on that. Me and my wife was going, huh? But just forget about that one, okay? I don't have any more, but uh I mean that's what you're gonna have to have to deal with. What is this neglect anyhow? Well, you you you know, we get we we have the the general idea. It's something that's that's so unimportant, useless, that we just sort of throw it aside. That's one way you can look at it It's uh it's forgetting, you know, uh so many things to do and we just sort of forget it, neglect it, however you want to uh term it. Uh ignoring it is something that's bothersome and and uh bothersome to the flesh, certainly Uh just o omitting it, overlooking it. Uh you know, uh there are just a lot of different ways, but but it all boils up to just a it's it's just a big neglect. And it just has to do with the uh we we have all the excuses why we neglect this so great salvation. I remember before I was saved, I had I probably used all the excuses you could think of, and then some. And I did it for for several years before Finally the Holy Spirit dealt with me and I finally trusted him as my Savior. But but there was a time when neglect was uh part of my life as far as spiritual things were concerned. But uh understand this. According to the first chapter of the book of Romans, You can use all the excuses you want, but according to that chapter, and part of chapter two, you are without excuse. There is no excuse saved. There is no excuse for not believing in God. There is no excuse for for uh neglecting this salvation. You don't have an excuse for that. You can you can use all you want, but when it comes right down to it, you're without excuses, oh man. That's what God said. You know, Christians can neglect this salvation too. It's not just the loss that do it. But it's Christians too that uh uh neglect the salvation they have. Now the the the Bible tells us that you and I, when we we've trusted Christ as our Savior, then then we are to work out the salvation. Not to work for our salvation, but it's it's to work out our salvation. That verse uh that verse is done in in uh Philippians chapter 2 and verse 12, perhaps you have it memorized. Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have all always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation. with fear and trembling. And once again I say it's not it's not you and I working for our salvation or to attain it or to keep it. Because that's something that settled at the cross when we trusted Christ, we were crucified with him, we died with him, he paid our price, and we now have eternal life. For it is God, verse 13 says, for it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. So he's the one that's doing the work, really working through us. He's the one that motivates us. He's the one that is actually working out our salvation within us. Scripture talks about people who reject the salvation. You know it's it's It's sad. There's so many people who have never had an opportunity to trust Christ. We've talked about the missionaries. Going in these different places across the across the continent and w and uh around the world. And they've never even heard the gospel. Many of those people have never even heard the gospel. That's just It just about, you know, it it gives me chills just to think about it. Think about America if the gospel had not been introduced here. Think about yourself, if you've never heard the gospel There's people in our country here in the United States that they've never heard a clear presentation of the gospel of Christ. But if you've if you've heard it and rejected it, you know, I think of I think of Felix and Agrippa and there's different ones, you know, that that uh more convenient time, one of 'em said, and and uh another time, you know, when er when I have, you know, nothing on my agenda, why I maybe I'll listen to you, Paul But the truth of the matter is, that neglect just turned into rejection. It wasn't just neglect, it was rejection. They just simply said, no, I'm not going to do it. They said I'll put it off till later, but it never came around. That's the tragedy about the about the matter of of putting things off, by procrastinating, by just j shoving it back on the back burner and saying, I'll take care of that later. Boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. We just since we don't have that assurance of tomorrow, why, it makes sense to take care of business today, doesn't it? You're here tonight and you've never trusted Christ. I want you to understand we have a God here that is a consuming fire. We don't like to think about this thing of called hell, but Jesus spoke of it quite frequently. More than he did on heaven. It's a place that's mentioned over and over in the scriptures and and uh it's something that that that we're warned about over and over, Old Testament and New Testament. We still kind of ignore it, I'm afraid. But God doesn't ignore it, and he doesn't ignore your rejection either. He says back in the book of Proverbs, he said, Turn you at my reproof, and behold, I'll pour out my spirit unto you. And I'll make known my words unto you. In other words, if you just if you'll listen to me, if you'll turn your ear up and and listen to what I have to say. Listen, I can give you some wisdom. I can give you the words that you need to have. Because I've called, you've refused. I've stretched out my hand, but no man regarded. But ye have said it not all my counsel and would none of my reproof. I also will laugh at your calamity, and I'll mock when your fear cometh. We never think of God like that, do we? When your fear cometh as desolation, and your destruction cometh as a whirlwind, when distress and anguish cometh upon you, then shall they call upon me. But I will not answer. Wow. We have the opportunities today and Today's the day of salvation. Now's the appointed time. God wants to deal in the present, now, and now. That's what he's concerned about. He wants you to deal with it the same way. Then shall they call upon me and I'll not answer. They shall seek me early, but they shall not find me. For that they hated knowledge and did not choose the fear of the Lord. And they would none of my counsel, they despised all my reproof, and therefore shall they eat of the the fruit of their own way and be filled with their own devices. Well, we could go on, but I I'll just pass on that. Can I ask you a question? How are you going to escape the all-consuming wrath of an angry God? You've rejected his son. You've trampled the blood of Christ under your feet by that rejection. The one that he put such high priority on and allowed to die for you And you reject him, then what do you expect? How are you going to escape the all-consuming Wrath of God. Hebrews chapter ten, verse twenty-nine says, O how much sore punishment, suppose ye, shall he be thought worthy, who hath trodden underfoot the Son of God And hath counted the blood of the covenant, wherewith he was sanctified, as an unholy thing, and hath done despite unto the Spirit of Grace. Wow. How are you going to escape the intense scrutiny of the Word of God? The Word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword. Piercing is the biting asunder of soul and spirit and the joints and marin is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. How are you going to escape the intense scrutiny of the Word of God? You better you better get into this book. You better read this book and and meditate on this book and hide this book in your heart because this is the one that's going to eventually one day is going to judge you How are you going to escape the intense scrutiny of the Word of God as it begins to uncover the layers of deceit that you have in your heart? Heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked. Who can know it? Even from the very beginning, back in the book of Genesis, the very thoughts and intents of the he of the heart of men was only evil continually That's the condition of man. That wasn't that long after uh Adam and Eve either. Like what, fifteen hundred years or something like that? And already the world had had uh gone astray. How are you going to escape the the sting of death? the dread and the fear and the final separation into eternal night. Well we don't think much about about death, we like to put it, you know, put it away. No don't talk about it. Don't s you know I've I've tried to talk with people and they I don't want to talk about that. Don't want to talk about death, dying, graves, burials. I don't want to talk about that. Well of course we don't. It's not a pleasant thought necessarily. It's something that I've come to uh I I I can't say that I'm looking forward to it to the process. I'm looking forward to what happens after that, but not not the process of d of dying. That doesn't have there's nothing uh appealing about that But I know one thing, I I took care of the you know the things that I normally would be afraid of. I took care of that back in 1962. And I don't fear death and hell any longer It's just not something that's that's in my heart. Uh it doesn't bother me to talk about it when we got our gravesites and everything all taken care of, paid for Well, I uh asked my daughter, she came up and she said uh I said, uh, hey Becky wanna where we see uh our grave lots? Uh Uh where we're gonna be buried? Said, no, I don't wanna see that. I don't know. Didn't bother me. I thought it's you know, it's like showing the a new dog or something like that. You know, it was just something something to do. But she certainly she just didn't like the idea at all. All right. So anyway How are you going to escape that the sting of death anyway? Sin. How are you going to escape the hopelessness of an eternal hell? If you neglect so great salvation. I guess that that's the the thing about hell it is so so scary Is the is the hopelessness to be in a place that that there's never ever going to be a release from. A darkness And then let me ask you this. And I want you to think seriously about it. If you're lost today, and I I re I look out there and I see a lot of most mostly saved people. But if you're here tonight and you're not sure that you're safe, let me ask you this question. How are you going to get away from? How are you going to escape the regret? Of once having an opportunity to trust Christ and throwing it away, the memory of that decision. How are you going to r uh get away from the and escape the regret of knowing that not only are you going to a place where you'll never, never get out of? For the for the worm dieth not, and the flame of the torment ascendeth up forever and forever. How are you going to escape the regret of taking some of your loved ones with you? Think about that. Because there's a there's a good chance that if you're lost and you die and go to hell, that there'll be some people that that have looked to you Perhaps children, loved ones, relatives that have looked to you and are going to follow in your footsteps and end up in that awful place. How are you going to escape the regret? Of making those decisions. How shall we escape if we neglect so great salvation? Paul was talking to the Jewish people. They were having their problems with this the old covenant and the new covenant. That's why he dealt with it in the book of Hebrews. He's talking to these Jewish people, and all they've known is is religiosity, just a religion. That's what that's what they have come that's what the Hebrew religion had turned to in the days of Christ. It was just a religion. Attempting, man's attempt to reach God. That that's all it was. It was was going through the rituals and and doing everything just so and so and And uh keep the the Ten Commandments. That was their that was their golden all the commandments that they made up themselves And they were trading that life for a life of freedom. If the sun shall set you free, you shall be free indeed. For you see, the law was given for one reason. The law was given to be a schoolmaster to bring these Jewish people to Christ. It wasn't meant to to try it w you can't live the Ten Commandments. The Ten Commandments are black and white. If you if you do it If you break one of the commandments, if it's just in thought, it doesn't even have to be indeed. Jesus explained that. If if a person just looks upon a woman and lusts in his heart, he's committed adultery. So it was it was deeper than what the Jews had even thought. And and here he's saying if we neglect the salvation that we have, the freedom from the law, not that we don't keep the law because When it's put in your heart, then that's what salvation does. God places the Holy Spirit in there, who is the the personification of the law itself, and helps us to live For him. But how shall we how shall we escape the damnation of hell? How should you escape all these things we've talked about? If you neglect, that's so great salvation. The truth is that you're not going to escape. Even this very moment, death is in pursuit, hot pursuit, of everyone that is not saved. You see, the devil just he he delights in s in a lost person dying. He delights in their death. He delights in their death because he knows it's just a soul that is creating an image of God that God is not going to be able to claim. He hates God. He hates he hates the those who were created in his image So you're not going to escape. So it's important that you make a decision. I don't know uh how how this is spoken to to some of you. If you're here and you're saved, then I ask you to question yourself whether you're neglecting the salvation And when I speak to the Christian, I'm talking about the life that you have is it is a life of separation, is it a life of dedication, surrender, certainly sacrifice? Because if it's not, then you're neglecting this so great salvation. You're laying it aside and saying, hey, you know, I'll pick it up when I need it, but until I need it, I'm not going to have to fool with it. So I'm gonna do my own thing and live my own life. Do my you know, that that's neglecting. How should you escape? Because there is a judgment even for the Christian. Judgment seat of Christ. All of our works are going to be judged, whether gold, silver, precious stone, wood, hay, and stubble, or stubble. And uh so we're not going to get away from anything. How should you escape if you neglect so great salvation? You know the wonderful thing about salvation? is the peace that it gives to that individual who receives him. I mentioned a moment ago that you know what my life was, I I feared death and hell. That was a fear that came on me, particularly in the months just prior to me getting saved. And I uh there was uh I mean uh at night I good I remember going to bed at night and and and praying. Yes, unsafe, still praying, praying that God would not let the house burn down because I didn't want to die in f in flames and then wake up in flames. Now that's how I felt about it. Scared to death. But the moment that I trusted Christ, there was a peace that came over me, knowing that I didn't have to fear death or hell again. That was something that God gave me. And you know there's something else. I don't have to worry about being alone again. There's there's times when uh you know uh people uh you wonder why some people commit suicide. That's always such a tragedy when it when it takes place because it's so useless and so wasteful. Person who whom Christ died for Has a, you know, that individual had a potential to be something special for God that it was just wiped away, just like that. How shall you you escape if you neglect so great salvation? If we can have these lights out, I'll show this chalk drawing