Looking forward to the next couple of days being with you and looking forward to tonight. Go and open your Bible, please, the book of First Samuel. We're going to be in the sixteenth and later in the seventeenth chapter of the book of 1 Samuel. Some very familiar passages of scripture, but bear with me. We'll look at this, maybe from a little bit different light. Then you've uh you've examined it before, and uh we're gonna uh examine the Word of God tonight for a few moments. About I I think it was about seven years ago, eight years ago, something like that uh not quite ten. I got on an airplane and I flew out west. I was gonna preach four straight meetings out west, two in California and two in Arizona Because the churches were flying the churches were flying me, I chose not to take my wife and my daughter. We usually travel as a family. That's our fifth will part back there. My wife is right here on the second row. She'll be at the CD table after the service. And we've been married for 37 years and she's only 29 years of age. Just wanted to clear that up Just to make sure that everybody understands the actual numbers that are involved here. But I was going to go by myself so that the churches didn't have the burden of flying three people and all of those kinds of things And I was going to be gone for the entire month of February. Now I have been apart from my family for longer than that. Some of the mission trips I've taken to Japan and Germany, I've been gone for six and seven weeks at a time Uh but this this was the first time I was ever gone for the entire month of February. Now in the middle of February, it's not really a holiday, although they say it is, but there's a marketing gimmick It's by the chocolatiers and the greening card manufacturers in the florist who came up with this idea of calling something Valentine's Day. Now I had been apart because my wife and I didn't get married till I was nineteen years of age, but I'd not have the first several Valentine's days of her life with her, but I'd been with charity for every single Valentine's Day of her entire life. So I was feeling very guilty. And so what I did, I went to the store and I bought Five different four presents and ordered one, four presents, and four exactly duplicate presents, one set for my wife and one set for my daughter There was a stuffed animal, there was a heart of chocolate, there was a little vase with three roses in it, and there's one of those big mushy cards that the greeting card people like you to buy I hid them in various places before I got on the plane to leave. Every night before I would go to bed, I would sit down at my laptop and I would send my wife an email In that email was a poem, and the poem was actually directions to find what I had hidden for them that very day. Some things were hidden outside in the trailer. Some one thing was hidden back in the storage building. One was in my office on top of a bookshelf. And so every day they would wake up and go to the computer and they would see this poem. They would follow the the gu uh the the the clues and they would find uh what I hid for them. One day there was a knock at the door and someone showed up with a box of chocolate covered strawberries and so they didn't just have one Valentine's Day when I was gone. They had five Straight days of Valentine's Day. From that day until today, my wife and daughter still asked me to leave town in February. But if you look at those presents that I left for them, they all had one significant thing in common. The little bear that I gave, that little stuffed animal bear, it was holding a little heart in his hands like this. A little pillow that was heart-shaped and it had Happy Valentine's Day on it. The card of course had hearts all over it. The vase with the three roses in it for each of them had a little medallion hanging down with a little heart on it. And of course the chocolates were in a heart-shaped box If you were to look at what I left for my wife and my daughter for that week of Valentine's Day, you would draw the conclusion that the heart is how we show compassion, it's how we show love, that that's what the heart is If you listen to Disney, you'll get a different story, won't you? Disney will tell you that it's your heart that you need to follow when you're wicked stepmother and wicked step stepsisters are making you clean the house and if you'll follow your heart a handsome prince will show up and slip a glass chip around your foot and carry you off to the palace and then you can go on Oprah and complain how you felt like you're a prisoner in the pa I'm sorry That's not the same story. By the way, Disney's definition of the heart is the absolute worst one. See the heart is dis Deceitful and desperately wicked above all things, who can know it? You really want to find happiness, then delight thyself also in the Lord, and he will give thee the desires of thy heart. Psalm thirty-seven in verse four If you were to add to ask a cardiologist tonight what the heart is, he will tell you it's nothing more than a muscle, a pump in your chest that just beats and pumps blood through your body, through the arteries, and then back up through the veins, and that that heart will just continue to beat and beat and beat. And by the way, on your 80th birthday, if you've had a normal heartbreak your entire life Your heart will beat on that day for the three billion, three hundred millionth time in your life. We are truly fearfully and wonderfully made, are we not? But do you know when you get to the Old Testament, the heart isn't just something that you follow, it isn't just some way of showing compassion, and it isn't just something in your chest that pumps blood. When the Bible talks about someone's heart, it's talking about the whole gamut of who that person is. It's talking about their goals, their characteristics, their desires, their idiosyncrasies. It's talking about what makes them If we were to refer to someone's heart in this auditorium tonight, the way the Bible refers to it, we'd be saying that very thing that makes you You. It makes you the individual that you are. In tonight's message, we're going to look at two men that we know about their heart. One is going to be early on in the passage of Scripture. God is going to, if you will, whisper something in our ear that nobody in the story knew about It's the first time it's ever been mentioned when he mentions it to Samuel in this passage of Scripture. It's something that just He doesn't know, and David doesn't know, and Abim Abinadab doesn't know, and Shamah doesn't know, and Samuel doesn't know. He's going to whisper us a secret in chapter 16, and then he's going to expose it openly for everyone to see in chapter 17. We're going to see one of the misquoted most omit one of those misquoted, misused, misapplied verses, perhaps the most popular Popular verse that has ever been placed on Facebook in the history of mankind. We're going to look at that tonight as we prove to you that it doesn't say anything like what they say it says Then we're going to look at a heart. Before we ever meet Jesse, before we ever know about Jesse, before we ever read about Bethlehem, before we ever hear in the Word of God the name David We know this about him. He's a man after God's own heart. Before we even know his name, we know what kind of heart he has I want you to look at this passage of scripture. Saul has been rejected. 1 Samuel 15 and verse 26. Samuel said, Thou hast rejected And now as you get to chapter sixteen, God has sent Samuel and To find the next king of the nation of Israel, to anoint him to be king, to replace the rejected King Saul. Look at first Samuel chapter 16, begin with me in verse one And the Lord said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn for Saul, seeing I have rejected him from reigning over Israel? Fill thine horn with oil and go, and I will send thee to Jesse the Bethlehemite For I provided me a king among his sons. And Samuel said, How can I go? If Saul hear it, he will kill me. And the Lord said, Take an heifer with thee, and say I am come to sacrifice to the Lord And call Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show thee what thou shalt do. Now show an anoint unto me him whom I name unto thee And Samuel did that which the Lord spake, and came to Bethlehem, and the elders of the town trembled at his coming, and said, Comest thou peaceably And he said, peaceably, I am come to sacrifice unto the Lord. Sanctify yourselves and come with me to the sacrifice. And he sanctified Jesse and his sons and called them to the sacrifice. And it came to pass when they were come, that he looked on Eliab and said, Surely the Lord's anointed is before me. But the Lord said unto Samuel, Look not on his countenance, nor on the height of his stature, for I have refused him For the Lord seeth not as man seeth, for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart. When you see this mentioned on so many different posts and so many different places and in so many different sermons You would think that it has to be read this way. The Lord seeth not, as man seeth, for man looketh on the outward appearance. But the Lord has to be three sniffs. It's a rule that you have to sniff three times. But the Lord only looketh on the heart. That's not what the passage says. Tonight I want to preach your message entitled this House Your Heart. Let's have a word of prayer before we begin. Lord Numberly Father, we thank you for this evening. We thank you for our time together. Thank you. For the wonderful music, the great job by the choir, the beautiful special by the teens earlier, for the foxes special, and Lord, we do call you Lord tonight. Father, we thank you for the first message. We thank you for the way Dr. Smith exposed the scriptures to us. And Father, we thank you for his ministry and his faithfulness. Father, thank you for Pastor Leatherman. Thank you for this church. Thank you for this lighthouse in this community. And Father, we ask now that you'll take everything else out of our minds for the just for the next few moments, that we'll turn our attention Only to the Word of God tonight, only to this passage of Scripture, that Father, you'll bless in a special way. Father, we ask that you bless everything that we do tonight in Jesus' name Amen. There can be no question, according to verse 7, that there's a problem with Eliab. He looks good, he talks good, he walks well, he acts well. Everything about him looks kingly in the eyes of Samuel. And remember this, Samuel did not just fall off the turnip truck yesterday Samuel has been involved in the Lord's ministry since he was basically a toddler. And now he's old. Remember in 1 Samuel chapter 8, when the children of Israel came to Samuel, they said this: Behold, thou art old. And thy sons walk not in thy way, he shall make us a king, that he may go up before us. In this passage of scripture, the children of Israel have uh uh I'm sorry, this passage of scripture, we're going to find out a little bit more about this man by the name of Eliab. He looks just fine, but his heart That's wrong. To hear most people say it, well that verse in verse 7 is saying this. You are nothing but a bunch of judgmental, independent, fundamental Baptists holding up your Bibles and preaching, looking down on everybody else First off, anybody who preaches this book doesn't look down on anybody. When you look down on someone, you're actually committing the sin of pride, and that's one of the sins that God hates And it's pretty much understandable why he does, because when Lucifer, the son of the morning, invented sin, he didn't start with murder and he didn't start with adultery, he started with pride. As you look at this passage of scripture, we're told that, oh, here this is, is God's way of saying that I don't care how the outward appearance looks I don't care if you look like the world and act like the world and dress like the world and go where the world goes, that's all just fine with me, just as long as your heart is right That is not what the passage is saying at all. If the passage were to say that, it would say this. And Samuel looked on Eliah, and Samuel said in his wicked, judgmental, fundamental heart As he looked down on poor little Eliab, he said, He can't be the next king of the nation of Israel. He's got a Canaanite haircut. He is wearing Jebusite shoes Oh, look at that. He is wearing Amorite, uh Amorite loin curtains. He could never be the next king of Israel. He looks like a heathen. I therefore am going to judge him negatively because of his outward appearance And then God said, Now, Samuel, you quit being so judgmental and you look at that boy because you look at his outward appearance, but I'm only looking on his heart First, let me remind you of this. God at no time confronts Samuel or corrects Samuel for looking on his heart. God only says what everybody in this room knows. As a human being, the only place you can look is on their outward appearance. I don't know your heart, you don't know my heart. I can look at your outward appearance. There's an entire book of the Word of God, the book of James. that deals almost exclusively with how we're supposed to live our Christian life in front of a lost and dying world so that they can see a reflection of our Heavenly Father in us. As Jesus said, He told us this that people would glorify our Father which is in heaven when they look at our lives. Let your life so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your father which is in heaven. The truth of the matter is that's the only place mankind can look. Christian, it doesn't do you any good to live a godly testimony only in your heart if it doesn't affect your outsides. God does not jump onto Samuel for looking on his outward appearance, and all he does is state the truth that he can see what Samuel couldn't see. I want you to notice the first thing about this rejected heart of Eliot. The rejected heart can be concealed. It is not a Difficult thing. I know some of you might want to disagree with me when I say this, but it's not a difficult thing to live a Christian life in front of the world and act like you're okay even when your heart is bad Eliab has basically done it his entire life. Jesse doesn't say, you know, we're right, Samuel. I don't think his heart's right. That's not what happens. This is news to Jesse This is r news to David. This is news to Samuel. It's news to everybody. Nobody could look at the out of outside of Eliab and say I just think he's wicked on the inside. No, he had everybody fooled. And the sad thing is there are Christians in this church and every other church Christians sitting here watching online right now that you have everybody snow they think your heart is just fine. You fooled the Samuels, you fuel f fooled the Jesse's, you fooled the Dan Davids, you fooled everybody But you haven't fooled God. The concealed heart, the refused heart can be concealed. It can be hidden from people, but it can't be hidden from God. Hebrews chapter 4 and verse 13 The Bible tells us this neither is any creature that is not manifest in his sight, but all things are naked and open unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do. Psalm one in verse six tells us the Lord knoweth the way of the righteous. But the way of the ungodly shall perish. Proverbs chapter fifteen and verse three. The eyes of the Lord are in every place, beholding the evil and the good Job chapter twenty-six and verse six. Hell is naked before him, and destruction hath no covering. Job thirty-four and verse twenty-one. For his eyes are upon the ways of man, and he seeth All his goings, you cannot possibly hide what you are from the God that sees your heart The truth of the matter is the refused heart is a wicked heart and it can be concealed. It can be hidden from everybody. It can be hidden from your pastor. It can be hidden from your friends. It can be hidden from your own spouse for a while. The refused heart can be concealed from everybody but God, but watch this: the refused heart is going to be revealed to everybody one of these days. In chapter 16, it's almost as if the Lord says, psst! Elive's got a bad heart. In chapter 17, he lets the whole world see. After this is over, and you know what happens? David finally comes in, he's anointed the next King of the nation of Israel, the only person in the Word of God anointed king on three separate occasions. First here in chapter sixteen, then later in Second Samuel chapter one, when he's anointed the king of the nation of the tribe of Judah, and then later in chapter. five, I believe it is at the end of chapter four when he's anointed a third time as the king again over the nation of Israel. But David is going to be anointed. After this, Saul is going to conscript his army together. He's going to choose the three eldest brothers of David, Eliab, Abinadab, and Shamah. He's going to go to battle against the hated enemy of the children of Israel, the dreaded Philistines. I want you to notice as this battle takes place, and there they are, we're going to put the children of Israel in the choir loft, and we're going to put the Philistines back in the PA booth, alright A whole lot of people pre uh uh complain about the PA guys. There's the most thankless job in a church service. If the PA guy does his job perfectly, you don't even know he's here. But we're going to put the Philistines back in the PA booth back there for the night. In between them is this valley of Elah with a brook that is there All of a sudden, out of the camp of the Philistines, before this great battle can begin, you know this story, a giant shows up, a man by the name of Goliath of Gath And he walks down and he begins to blaspheme Almighty God. And he challenges the children of Israel to send him one man to fight him. He said if I defeat him and kill him, then shall ye be our servants. But if he defeat defeats me and kills me, then shall we be your servants? And on and on it goes for 40 days. He blasphemes God and challenges the children of Israel until David shows up, goes down there with that swing, and kills Goliath in front of everybody. That's how you've heard the story all your life, is it not? But there is something that I've added to this story that every Bible storybook has added to this story. Do you know Goliath never said a negative word about Jehovah God? I know you're looking at me, you're staring at me, you're saying that's not the way I've always heard it. I'm not concerned with the way you've already heard it. I'm concerned with the way the Bible says it Look if you will at second first Samuel chapter seventeen. Watch with me please. We're gonna read what uh Goliath says. Verse four, we're going to meet Goliath for the first time. And there went out a champion out of the camp of the Philistines, Goliath, uh named Goliath of Gath, whose height was six cubits in a span. And he had a helmet of brass upon his head and upon his arm uh he was armed with a coat of mail, and the weight of the coat was five thousand shekels of brass, and he had greens of brass upon his legs, and a target of brass between his shoulders. And the staff of his spear was like a weaver's beam, and his spear's head weighed six hundred shekels of iron And one bearing a shield went before him. And he stood and cried unto the armies of Israel, and said unto them, Why are you come out to set your battle in array? Am not I a Philistine and ye servants to God I'm pretty sure that's not what it says. Ye servants to Saul. Can I tell you the scary part about this story? The children of Israel wanted a king to go before them and to judge them and to fight their battles. The scary part about this story is sometimes God gives us exactly what we think we want. Look if you want what he says next. Choose your men for you. Let him come down to me. If he be able to fight with me and kill and to kill me, then will we be your servants? But if I prevail against him and kill him, then shall you be our servants and serve us? And the Philistines said, I defy the God of Israel this day That's not what it says. I defy the armies of Israel this day. Give me a man that we may fight together. As a matter of fact, over I believe it's verse 23, it says the Goliath said the same thing for forty straight days You'll find that Goliath criticized the armies of Israel, defied the armies of Israel, blasphemed against the armies of Israel, but he did not say anything about Jehovah God. That doesn't make him right, it doesn't make him holy, but it doesn't mean that he's a blasphemer. Against the name of God. By the way, is it when I was at when I was a teenager, let me just say something to the teenagers. When I was a teenager, I was known as a smart aleck How many any of you teenagers, your mom looks at you and say, you're just being a smart alike, raise your hand if that's you? Some of you, I I appreciate your honesty. Thank you. I was I was a smart aleck. Now when you get older, here's the good news if you're a smart aleck. When you get a little bit older, then you're just satirical or sarcastic and it's no longer a problem being a smart aleck. So just you just keep saying right where you are. Don't be disrespectful, but But I I would I would want to ask questions sometimes, but I was afraid to ask them because if I did, someone would tell my mom that I was being a smart Elec in Sunday school. And this story was one of those that I always wanted to ask a question about Watch what happens here. Let me ask you a question. When did Goliath get voted in as the leader of the armies of Israel? See what happens. Goliath walks down in the valley and says, Alright, send me one man to fight me. And Saul and all the armies of Israel say, Well. We better find one man to fight him. I mean that's what Goliath said we have to do, so we can only send one man down there. Let me ask you a question. Why didn't Saul send ten thousand men down there and slice Goliath up into little tiny pieces Why didn't Saul put a thousand archers on the hillside and fill him so full of arrows that when he drank a glass of water, water squirted out in different holes around him Why do they think they have to do what Goliath said? By the way, has that not ever been more clear than it is right now? God's people have succumbed to the Goliaths of our world that are telling us how we can fight against them. They're telling us when we can go, where we can go, how we can go to church By the way, I'm just saying this, I'm not going to get political, I don't do that from the pulpit. But if someone had walked up to you in twenty eighteen and told you that in the United States of America America, there was going to be a time when it was illegal for you to go to church. You would have looked at them and said, Not in the United States, it'll never happen. And we watched it happen. Goliath is not in charge of the armies of God. He's never been in charge, and he wasn't in charge here. It's only because they had a weak leader who was afraid. Notice the next verse, please. In verse eleven, when Saul and Israel heard the how the uh the words of the Philistine, they were dismayed and greatly afraid. See, the refused heart can be concealed from everybody but God, but the refused heart number two is cowardly You'll notice that Eliah will not stand up for the armies of Israel. He won't stand there, stand up in his tent, and say, Well, I know Saul's afraid and we wanted Saul to fight our battles. for us, but since he's not going to, I'm not going to let some Philistine go down there in that valley and challenge the armies of Israel. You'd have think he'd have been a little bit more like his baby brother David. He grew up in the same home with the same dad. You'd think You'd have thought that Elijah would have said, You know what? I'll put up with a lot of things. I might listen to a uh to a Hittite say something about the armies of Israel. But I'm not letting some Philistine You think you'd have been a little bit more like David when David said, Thine enemies take thy name in vain. Do not I hate them, O Lord, that hate thee Do not I count them mine enemies. Yay, Lord, I hate them with perfect hatred. Psalm 139, verses 20 and 21 He won't stand up against the for the armies of Israel. He won't stand up against the armies of the Philistines. Even if he's not a patron Patriotic Israelite, even he doesn't care about his own country. This is a Philistine. They've been hating the Philistines their whole lives. You would have things he'd have said, Nope, I'm not gonna let it happen I'm not let a Philistine stand down down there and win the day against the armies of Israel. He doesn't even know who he's messing with He wouldn't stand up for the armies of Israel. He wouldn't stand up against the Philistines. There's only one person in all of Eliab's life in the Word of God that he stood up to, and that's his baby brother. I can appreciate that just a little bit. Brother Fox knows my baby brother. I can't call him that. I've violated a contractual agreement between the two of us. Well he's he's ten years younger than me and when he was younger I would always introduce him as my baby brother. He went to a service with me one time and we walked in together and someone looked at the two of us and asked me this. He said, Is is this your son? So I made him a promise on that day I wouldn't refer to him as my baby brother as long as he didn't call me daddy and we we've we've stuck by that for the last few years. But there is something wonderful about picking on your little brother, isn't there? Do you know why if you're the how many of you are the oldest in your family? Raise your hand. Do you know why you're the oldest in your family? Because God gave you extra time to get prepared to pick on your brothers and sisters. My little brother would call me up. He called me up one time when he was going to Bible college. He said, You know, he said, Every time I preach, someone tells me that they I remind them of you. And I said to him, I said, Yep That's unusual because no one's ever told me I remind them of you. But anyway, I have lots of fun with Philip. He's now pastoring at First Calvary Baptist Church in Hampton, Virginia, doing a great job there. So he's my littlest brother I was the kind of big brother that picked on my brothers and sisters, but they always knew I loved them, and if they needed anything, I was there for 'em. But still, there's something wonderful about picking on your little brother That's the only person in this passage of Scripture that Elijah will stand up to is his baby brother. He's a coward. There's a whole lot of people out there with the wrong kind of heart, with a refused heart, who are cowardly You won't stand up and say anything. If someone you've got ought against someone, you won't go to them. You'll refer to Facebook. You'll call other people and gossip about it behind their back because you're nothing but a coward just like Eliab Notice the refused heart can be can be concealed, but it's going to be revealed here in just a moment. The refused heart is cowardly. The refused heart is also critical. David shows up. Remember what happened Jesse, his father, has sent David. Now forty days they've been away at war. Now they didn't have embedded reporters reporting back every day what's going on on the battlefield. Jesse sent his three oldest sons off into Saul's army, and for forty days he hasn't heard anything. Have they been victorious or have they been de Are they pursuing them or are they pursuing the others? What's going on? Are his three sons okay? And he says, Go see how thy brethren fare. Basically saying, Go see if your brothers are still alive David shows up, look if you will please at verse twenty two. And David left his carriage in the hand of the keeper of the carriage, and ran into the army, and came and saluted his brethren. And as he talked with them, behold, there came up the champion, the Philistine, of Gath, Goliath by name, out of the armies of the Philistines. And he spake and spake according to the same words, and David heard them. By the way, let me point this out before we read any further. This is the first time David heard it. Everybody else has heard it for 40 days. There are a lot of things that offend you the first time you hear it, but if you listen to it long enough it won't offend you anymore. A lot of shows you didn't used to watch because they offended you and now you find them as your favorite things that you binge watch them now. Notice, Freeze, he hears the words for the first time, and all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him. And they were so afraid. And the men of Israel said, Have ye seen this man that has come up? Surely defy Israel as ye come up. And it shall be that the man who killeth him the king will enrich him with great riches, and will give him his daughter and make his father's house free in Israel. David spake to the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be done to the man that killeth this Philistine? And taketh away the reproach from Israel. For who is this uncircumcised Philistine? Watcheth that he should defy the armies of the living God The people answered after this matter manner, saying, So shall it be done to the man that killeth him? And Eliab his eldest brother heard when he spake unto the men, and Eliab's anger was kindled against David, and he said Why cameest thou down hither? With whom hast thou left those few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride and the naughtiness, watch this, of thine heart For thou art come down that thou mightest see the battle. David said, What have I now done? Is there not a cause? Let me show you this quickly. The refused heart is not only concealed. Right now, by the way, it's pretty much revealed when you read 1 Samuel chapter 17, isn't it? We know exactly what God was talking about. We know exactly what kind of leader Elijah would have been. Even a coward, just like King Saul. Now he's critical. Notice what he says to his baby brother He says three things. First off, he criticizes David's responsibilities. Who keepeth those few sheep in the wilderness? Don't we see that all the time? Have you ever gone up to someone who used to come to this church and you say, hey Why don't you come to church with me on Sunday? And they look at you and say this, this is one of the favorite mantras of people who used to be in church that aren't, or people that are unsaved and don't want to come to church. So they fall on this one all the time. They'll say, Well, I'm not going to go to that church. That church is filled with hypocrites. Let me ask you a question. Put your thinking cap on for just a second. Is there a single better place on the planet? For a bunch of hypocrites to go than church. What they're saying is, I'm not going to be where I'm supposed to be on Sunday, but I'm going to criticize the people that are going where they're supposed to go on Sunday. I've seen pastors, I've seen church members that aren't even in church that criticize, and not not for the reasons that some people aren't in church now because of this virus. But they're not even in church because they don't want to be in church and they criticize the church. They criticize the pastor. They tell you what he used to say or what he used to do Someone didn't shake their hand. And what they say is, listen, you got you just go ahead and take care of those few sheep, because I'm just gonna sit here and do nothing. That's what a lion's doing, isn't it? Yep If you want to compare Eliab to David, at least David was taking care of the few sheep. Eliab's a soldier hiding in a tent He's a soldier in a battle against the Philistines, and he's not fighting against the Philistines. In other words, he's doing nothing, but he criticizes David for doing something. See, the refused heart can be critical, criti criticize people's responsibilities. All she does is clean the church All he does is straighten the hymn books up. All he does is get some water. And it's so easy to criticize someone else's responsibilities and diminish them. Who keeps those Pierce sheep in the wilderness. Not just that, not only does he criticize his responsibilities, he criticizes his heart. I know thy pride and the naughtiness of thine heart See, what he doesn't know when he says this, as we're reading it now 3,000 years later, we already know he's got the wrong kind of heart, and we already know David doesn't We already know who's got the bad heart here, but here he is with a wicked heart and he assumes that everybody else does. Have you ever noticed that the guy who's embezzling money from his company thinks that everybody else is a thief? The guy who exaggerates every story thinks everyone else is a liar. You ever notice that? It's exactly what he's doing to young David here He's criticizing his responsibilities. He's criticizing his heart. He's criticizing his motives. You just came to see the battle. Actually he came because his daddy told him to go. He wasn't going to come to see the battle until his dad told him to go So here we have him criticizing David's motives. Don't you hear that in Bible-believing churches? I don't know that anybody here has ever said anything like this, but maybe you have. Well, she just cleans the church, so everybody thinks she's spiritual Oh, he just goes Sunday morning, Sunday night, and Wednesday night because he thinks he's the pastor's favorite church member. Listen, I cannot tell anybody in this room why you're doing what you're doing I can speculate, but I can't tell you. I can tell you whether what you're doing is right or wrong, because I have a book that says what you're doing is right or wrong. But I can't tell you what you're doing well about the motives for what you do. Understand this. Here's a simple truth that'll help you. Did you know that wrong is wrong, even if it's done for the very best of intentions? Yes. Oh well, I know he's going in the wrong direction, but I think he means well. I think he's a nice guy. I think he has a good. . You know, it doesn't make any difference at all Wrong is wrong. Even if you're the nicest person in the world, even if everybody likes you, even if everybody thinks that you have a good heart, it makes no difference whatsoever if what you're doing is wrong. It's always wrong no matter what your motivation is. By the way, humanly speaking, this is harder to say. Right is right, even if it's done for the wrong motives. You and I don't get to make that call. You know who makes that call? Every man's work shall be made manifest, for the de the fire shall declare every man's work of what sort it is. Whether it's wood, hair, stubble, or gold, silver, and precious stone, the fire of God shall declare it. That's when we know whether it was done for the right reasons or not. I don't know your motives, you don't know my motives, but I can judge your actions and you can judge mine. But he criticizes David's motives. Isn't that the common mantra of today? Criticizing everybody else's motives. If someone has a better heart than you They're just doing it so that people will notice them. If someone uh someone is very careful taking care of their sheep, well they don't have very many sheep. Isn't that what we do, Christian? See, the refused heart can be concealed, but eventually everybody's going to see it. The refused heart is cowardly, and the refused heart is critical. By the way, we've got some people that are cowardly critics. You won't say anything negative while you're at church, but you go home and post it on Facebook, thinking, of course, that no one knows that your Facebook page with your picture on it belongs to you. I think there are a whole lot of Christians that think the Bible is missing a word. Though when Paul said, after Peter was preaching uh legalism to the church at Galatia, and Paul said, I went and withstood him to the face, I think they think the word book is missing there I withstood them to him to the Facebook. That's not what it says. Truth of the matter is, the scary part of this message is that there are a whole lot of people, even in this church, that have a heart more like Elias than it ought to be. On the other side, we have David. We find this young shepherd boy, this man who can't even grow a beard He's a seventeen year old boy that's just shown up. Now he's been a pretty good shepherd so far. He's killed a lion and a bear. We don't know how he killed the bear, and I think a lot of people think he killed the lion with his sling, but that's not the case. He says he killed the lion by grabbing him by his Beard. You know, David was Chuck Norris before there was ever a Chuck Norris. You grab a lion by a beard, you're a tough guy, that's all there is to it. But he does not look imposing and he shows up Now we know that David is the only person in all of Scripture that is referred to as a man after God's own heart. I wonder what makes him a man after God's own heart. On one side we have the refused heart, on the other side we have the right heart Well you notice the first thing about the right heart is it's Christ-like. I wish there was some way to figure out what made David's heart so special. I wish there was something that maybe he'd left behind that we could look at, maybe read or listen to or watch, so that we would know how David kept his heart right. And then I remembered, oh, there's the Psalms. Seventy-five of them at least written by David, and David said a whole lot about his heart in the Psalms. He says of this Christ-like heart that he has, he says that it's a singing heart. You know what? You might not be able to carry a tune in a bucket, but if you've got a Christ-like heart, there's going to be a song in there. I was with a pastor named Clayton Morris over in Abilene, Texas And he got up on Tuesday night of the meeting. He said, Now a lot of people have requested uh uh made requests about me singing the special tonight, but I'm gonna go ahead and sing otherwise. Anyways You might have a heart that's so bad that cats fighting in the al uh I'm sorry, you might have a voice so bad that cats fighting in the alleyway knock on the door and ask you to stop singing in the shower. But if you've got a Christ-like heart, there's a song in there. What did David say? Thou hast put gladness in mine heart more than in the time that their corn and wine increased. He said in Psalm thirteen and verse five, But I have Trusted in thy mercy, my heart shall rejoice in thy salvation. Psalm 108 and verse 1. David said this. You know what? My heart's got a song in there Not only does the the Christ-like heart have a is it a singing heart, but it's also a surrendered heart. Remember what he said in Psalm 19 and verse 14? Let the words of my mouth and the meditations Of my heart. Be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. David said everything I say and everything all about me, I want it to be acceptable to you. That's a surrendered heart right there He had a singing heart, he had a surrendered heart, he also had a sure heart. David was not the type to get worried about what the enemy was doing. I love what he said in Psalm 27 and verse 3: Though in hosts should encamp against me, my heart will not fear Now love Psalm 61 in verse 2. From the end of the earth will I cry unto thee when my heart is overwhelmed. Lead me to the rock that is higher than I. He had a sinning heart. He had a surrendered heart. He had a sure heart. He had a sorry heart. One thing that separates David from every other character in the Bible is nobody in all of the Word of God ever confessed their sin the way David confessed his sin. What he say in Psalm fifty-one after being confronted by Nathan the prophet, create in me a clean heart, oh God. And renew a right spirit within me. He said this in Psalm 69 in verse 20 Reproach hath broken my heart. No way we don't have a heart like David's, who had a heart like God's, is because we don't get broken when we sin. When we sin and we come to an altar, we spend about 13 or 14 seconds there, peek out of both of our eyes, to look and see if the person next to us has gone back to their seat or not. That's not how David would have done it. The Christ-like heart is a singing heart, it's a surrendered heart, it's a sure heart, it's a sorry heart Lastly, please, it's a submissive heart. I delight to do thy will, David said. Oh my God, thy law is within my heart. Psalm 40 and verse 8 We could spend a great deal more time looking at the verses that David said about his heart. But I'm telling you this, Christian, the sad truth of it is most of us have a heart more like Eliab's than it ought to be, and much less like David's than it ought to be This right heart is a Christ-like heart. This right heart number two is a concern heart. This is David that says, hey, wait, wait a minute, wait a minute. He hears Goliath for the first time and he says What shall be done to the man that goeth down there and gives his life trying to fight this Philistine? That's not what he said, Christian. What shall be done to the man that killeth this Philistine? Taketh away this reproach from Israel. See, David was sure of one thing. He was sure that anybody in the power of God that went down there and fought Goliath could beat him. David said, Well somebody's got to kill this giant. I wonder who's it gonna be and what's gonna happen to him. They said, Well he's gonna be rich. I mean the king's gonna give him a war a reward His family's never gonna pay taxes again to the nation of Israel. Ain't it he's gonna be part of the king's family? He's gonna marry the king's daughter David had a concerned heart. Not only was it a Christ-like heart, not only was it a concerned heart, but think about this for just a moment. He also had a convicting heart. Can you imagine as Goliath walks back to the camp of the Philistines? And there is Eliab saying, I know thy pride. thy heart and who keeps those few sheep in the wilderness. You just came to see the battle. And David asked that question. Now this verse has been preached on so many different ways. Nothing wrong with preach on it preaching it on it uh preaching it in different ways. But is there not a cause? David asked the question in verse twenty nine Is there not a cause to go soul winning? Is there not a cause to read your Bible? Is there another cause to pray? All those things are true, but that's not actually what David is saying here. He says, David, you're nothing but a sniveling little child. Won't you go back home and take care of the sheep? And David said, What what have I done? Do you hear the calls? Remember what's going on here? Goliath just challenged Israel for the fortieth time. David is incensed. David doesn't know why this has been able to go on for 40 days. He doesn't know why someone hasn't gone down there and killed him already. He says, Hey, wait a minute What did I do? Don't you hear the calls? Right down there, right by the lake. There he is, standing up, challenging the armies of Israel. Why aren't you mad, Eliah? Why aren't you mad, Abinadab? Why aren't you mad, Shema? Why aren't you all fired up? That's what David says here. There's a cause, Christian. There's a cause, truly, to go soul winning. There's a lost and dying world. There's a cause to stand up for the Lord. Because we need to be a this army charging the gates of hell, not cowering in fear and bunkers. Notice the right heart is Christ-like, the right heart is concerned, the right heart is convicting. And then we get to the right heart being courageous. I love verse 29 When David says this. And David said, I'm sorry, not twenty-nine. Skip down to verse thirty-two is where I wanted to be. Look at verse thirty-two. And David said to Saul, Let no man's heart fail because of him. Thy servant will go and fight with the Philistines. You know what he basically says here? He says, Your Highness, just take it easy. I got this. Now if we didn't know who David is, If we could transport ourselves back in time 3,000 years ago, we read this story knowing how it ends. We can't help that, can we? But if you're sitting there in your saw and you hear this 17-year-old shepherd boy say, I'll go kill that giant for you. What'd you think of David? You thought, wow, what a loudmouth this guy is. I've never seen a guy more confident than this guy in my entire life. He actually says to him, he says, You're just a youth. And he's been a warrior since he was a youth. By the way, somebody let Goliath fight his first battle, didn't they? Notice carefully, please. David now says, Let me go kill it. You know the story how Saul put his armor on he hadn't proved it. And so finally, David walks out of the camp of Israel. Now can you imagine at that moment when all the children of Israel in their tents, see, this isn't just a battle To see whether David can beat Goliath or Goliath can beat David. This is a battle for the freedom of the nation of Israel. Do you think when the armies of Israel saw a seventeen-year-old, listen to this, unarmed Shepherd well no he's not unarmed, Brother Harper. He has the swing. Yes, but he didn't get the rocks till he got down in the little uh brook in the valley there, did he? He walks out with the sling, with no rocks, a gun with no bullets, a sword with no blade, a spear with no tip. He has nothing. Do you think the armies of Israel said, Oh great A teenager is gonna fight for us. Do you think they were overjoyed? Do you think Saul's approval rating in the latest Gallup poll went up or down? Do you think the Philistines there watching? Uh oh look. So someone's coming. They're back there in the PA looking out. Someone's coming. Oh is it did they get someone an Egyptian to fight? No, no, no. Is it a giant from the Hittites? No. It looks like a It's a little boy. They said a teenager. Do you think the Philistines now they don't know how this story ends The children of Israel don't know how the story is. Let me remind you of something. No one in the army of Israel thought that God could win this battle. If anybody in the army of Israel were confident that God was going to be victorious, they would have gone down there 40 days ago. Amen. Nobody here thinks God can win. Nobody there thinks Goliath can be defeated. You think the Philistines are pacing the horse in? I don't know what we're going to do. They've got a teenager. We're in trouble Now, if you need to reprogram your iPad, you want a teenager. You want to have someone come down there and fight a giant, you probably don't want an unarmed teenager Think the armies of Israel are going, yeah David, David, he's the man. Go ahead, David, go whoop that no, nobody is confident here. The Israelites are packing. So they hope they can go home with a good Philistine family David walks down in the valley. Notice what happens, please, and I know you know the story. But skip down, please, to verse uh 40, please. And he took his staff in his hand and ch and chose him five smooth stones out of the brook and put them in his shepherd's bag. which he had even in a script and his sling was in his right it was in his hand and he drew near to the Philistine. And the Philistine came on and drew near unto David. And the man that bare this uh shield went before him. And when the Philistine looked about and saw David, he disdained him. Do you realize in this passage of Scripture two people disdained David? Eliab and Goliath Tells you what kind of heart he really had, doesn't it? He disdained him, for he was but a youth and ready and of a fair countenance. The Philistines said unto David, Am I a dog? For thou comest to me with stuck staves, and the Philistine cursed David by his gods. And the Philistine said to unto said to David, Come to me, and I will give thy flesh unto the fowls of the air and to the beasts of the earth of the field Then said David, by the way, before we read this, when you read this in knowing the end of the story, it is one of the most impassioned speeches ever given in the history of mankind. But if you're the armies of Israel and you don't think God can win, do you think they're cheering David when he says this? Do you think the Philistines are quaking in their boots when he says this? Hindsight is 2020, and in hindsight, this is the most one of the most stirring passages in all the Word of God, as David makes this announcement. Then said David to the Philistine, Thou comest to me with a sword. With a spear, with a shield, by the way. Don't you imagine every member of the nation of Israel said, Duh. Sword, spear, shield, that's what you take to battle, David, not a sling with five rocks Thou comes to me with a sword, a spear, and a shield, but I come to thee in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defied. This day will the Lord deliver thee into mine hand And I will smite thee, and take thine head from thee, and I will give the carcasses of the host of the Philistines this day, and the fowls of the air, and the wild beasts of the earth, that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel, and all this assembly shall know. That the Lord saveth not with sword and spear, for the battle is the Lord's, and he will give you into our hands. A few things about David's speech quickly. First off, I love the our hands thing Who's the hour? I've heard Bible scholars debate about it and things like that. Some say it's the children of Israel. It can't be the children of Israel. They have nothing to do with the defeat of Goliath. I personally believe what David is saying here is that Goliath, it's me and God against you. God's going to deliver you into our hands. See, everybody else is looking at this battle like this. They're saying Goliath? David. Goliath. David. Only David is looking at Goliath and saying, Oh Poor little Goliath. He doesn't have a chance against me and God. Notice what else he says though. I love how he he he tells him That uh first off, I'm gonna kill you, then I'm gonna cut your head off. The Bible's gonna be very clear that David has no sword. How does David intend to remove the head from Goliath's shoulders Maybe we do not know that David is a secret martial arts expert. He's gonna cut his head off. By the way, you know what Bruce Lee's favorite drink was? Water! Sorry I just threw that in for no no extra charge then. He said I'm going to kill you and I'm going to cut your head off. Then he says this, I'm going to feed the carcasses of the hosts of the Philistines to the fowls of the air and the wild beasts of the earth When I was uh five years old, my dad was stationed at Fort Hood, Texas. We lived in a little house outside of the post in a little town called Killeen, Texas. The army would only pay for a two-bedroom house. So my sister and I, who was three, had to share the same bedroom. We were upstairs. It was the only room upstairs beside a little half bath My dad would be sitting downstairs after a long day of of uh of service, his his duty in the army, and uh my dad was a drill sergeant in a brown belt and karate, he was a tough enough You know what I'm saying? He'd be sitting there relaxing, and we'd start cutting up. I don't know if you ever shared a bedroom with a sibling, but sometimes things get really silly in that moment. So we'd start giggling and we would hear Dad yell from downstairs. Alright, kids It's bedtime. And we get quiet for about well three or four, maybe six seconds. Then we start laughing again because that made it even funnier. And now we're laughing some more and dad yells upstairs, alright You have to get up early in the morning. I'm going to wake you up before I leave. So we'd get quiet for another minute or two, and then we'd start laughing again. Then you could hear it if you listened carefully. Dad would get out of his chair He would walk across the hardwood floors, and you could hear him put his first foot on the bottom steps, coming up steps. You could almost picture his hand on the banister as he yelled up the steps Don't make me come up there. You know when Dad said, don't make me come up there, nothing was funny after that Isn't that what David says here? He said, look, let me tell you what I'm going to do here, just so you know. I don't want you to be uninformed, Goliath. I'm going to kill you. No question about that. Me and God, we're gonna kill you here in just a second. Then, I know I don't have a sword. I'm gonna cut your head off. And then he says, all you up there? I'm coming up there. I'm gonna feed the carcasses of the host of the Philistines to the fowls of the air, the wild beasts of the earth. Now I don't want to kill your giant, I'm gonna kill every last one of you guys Let me ask you a question, do you think at that moment the Philistines said, Oh no, he's got five rocks. We don't stand a chance This is this is hopeless. We better go ahead and surrender. You think Goliath's knees got weak at this moment in time? You think the armies of the Philistines uh Israelites said, Way to go, David? You hit them with all those five rocks. We're right with you. No. David's excited, David's short, David's confident, David's courageous, but the children of Israel aren't. All of a sudden, watch what happens, and once again, you know how the story goes. It says this, and it came to pass when the Philistine arose and came and drew nigh to d to meet David, that David hastened and ran toward the army to meet the Philistine. David put his hand in his bag and took fence a stone and slang it. If there was ever any more biblical proof that David was from West Virginia, I don't know what there can be. It doesn't say he slinged it, he slung it, he had been being slinging it. It doesn't say anything like that He slang it. If it said, if you're really from West Virginia, you know what I'm talking about. If it said that he washed it before he slang it, then you'd know he was from West Virginia My father-in-law will wash his clothes before he goes to Washington, D. C. , because he's from West Virginia. David slang it, and watch what happens, and smoke the Philistine in his forehead, that the stone sunk into his forehead And he fell upon his face to the earth. That doesn't quite add up, does it? But remember what David said? He's going to deliver you into our hand As God guided David's stone into the center of that giant's forehead, Almighty God was slapping him on the back of his head, knocking him to his face on the ground. This isn't just a one-man show. This is Almighty God assisting in every single part of this with David. So David prevailed over the Philistine with the sling and with the stone and smote the Philistine and slew him. I love how the Bible does this But there was no sword, just in case you forgot, but there was no sword in the hand of David. Therefore David ran and stood upon the Philistine and took his sword and threw it out of the sheath thereof and slew him and cut off his head therewith When the Philistines saw their champion was dead, they fled. Now why'd they flee? Oh, the armies of Israel. No, no, look at the next verse. And when the men of Israel saw and of Judah arose and shouted and pursued, no, they didn't run from the armies of Israel. Can you imagine the Philistines up there now as Goliath lays there headless on the ground? Imagine one of them saying, Okay, no wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. He said he was going to kill Goliath And he killed Goliath. Said he was going to cut off his head. He didn't have didn't have a sword. And he cut off his head. Then he said he's coming up here. Uh oh. They fled. Did they flee because David was imposing? Did they flee because he was an old warrior? Did they flee because of his armaments and his armor? Did they flee because of his ability to throw a spear? Did they flee because he was so overpoweringly impressive that everybody's afraid of him? No, the entire army of the Philistines fled From a seventeen year old shepherd boy with one sling and a sword too big to carry and four more stones that he got from the from the brook But that's not what they were running from. They weren't running from his sling, they weren't from running from his ability. All the armies of the Philistines were fleeing from one teenage boy with the right kind of heart. The world will still quake at our shout if we go to them with a heart like David's heart. If we have a Christmas And we stand up and say, Goliath isn't in charge here. God is. We're not gonna cower in I cannot be defeated. I cannot be overcome. The God that I serve has never been ambushed or outsmarted or overpowered. And as long as He stands with me, I cannot possibly be I tell you what, you come out of the armies of the camp of the armies of Israel, you go down in that valley, and you stand toe-to-toe with that giant, they might laugh their heads off until you're standing over the d headless carcass of a dead giant. Then they'll know they picked a fight with the wrong crowd. Here's the sad truth of it, and we're done. Most of us in this room have a heart more like Elias than it ought to be. And less like David's than it should be. So I just asked you this question and we're finished. How's your heart? Is it the refused heart or the right heart? Bow our heads and close our eyes, no one looking around just for a moment. We'll have a word of prayer, then we'll turn the remainder of the service over to Pastor Leatherman. Dear Lord in Heavenly Father, we thank you for this evening. Thank you for your word. Thank you for the fact that you tell us of this these great victories and Father that you are also clear on the great failures. Father, we ask that you bless as Brother Leatherman comes to take the service in Jesus' name.