Uh let me say this also. You notice in the bulletins or little slips, those uh volunteer helper slips. If you wouldn't fill that out, I tell you Uh two areas we particularly need folks to help. We still lack about one or two missionary story teachers, and so if anybody's available to help with that, it would be a tremendous blessing. picked up one today. And then also the other area is folks that can help in the evenings with Brother James and the teens. And uh that actually begins they're having activity Saturday evening and then Sunday through Thursday and uh he asked me especially to b promote and push if anybody maybe you work during the day, you're not free during the day, you could come in the evenings. from 630 to about 9. 30 and just help out. And I'll tell you how that works with the teens is with the helpers is a lot of times you end up standing around for a lot of it, maybe just keeping score, doing non real active type stuff Then when you're needed, you're needed. And there's a lot of activity, getting things ready, getting this, that, and the other. So see Brother James if you would uh be able and willing to help with the teens. If we can get about five folks in the evenings Men and ladies, that would be tremendous. Zechariah chapter eleven, verse number one, and I'm going to read down through verse number six We're working our way through this book. We're getting towards the latter part of the book, and it's getting pretty interesting. Look at verse 1. Open thy doors, O Lebanon, that the fire may devour thy cedars. Howl, fir tree, for the cedar is fallen, because the mighty are spoiled. Howl, O ye oaks of Bashan, for the forest of the vintage is come down. There is a voice of the howling of the shepherds, for their glory is spoiled, the voice of the roaring of young lions, for the pride of Jordan is spoiled Thus saith the Lord my God, feed the flock of the slaughter, whose possessors slay them, and hold themselves not guilty. They that sell them say, Blessed be the Lord, for I am rich, and their own shepherds pity them not. For I will no more pity the inhabitants of the land, saith the Lord. But lo, I will deliver the men, every one, into his neighbor's hand. and into the hand of his king, and they shall smite the land, and out of their hand will I not deliver them. We got uh howling shepherds howling trees and howling shepherds here Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts and teach us from this portion. Father, Lord, we look into your word this evening and we're asking you to help us understand this Challenging portion of scripture. God, we have no doubt in our minds. You've given this passage to us for our good, and so help us to uh lean from it. Open our eyes so we can behold wondrous things from this part of your word. I yield myself to you again, Lord, present my body anew. Fill me, I plead, Lord, with your Holy Spirit, and uh speak through me tonight. In Jesus' name. Amen. You know what I've been thinking about the last about week or so I've been thinking about snow. It is a nice time to think about snow. It kind of cools things down. I've been getting pictures from this past winter. and been looking at them. And uh this morning I thought about, as I was kind of meditating on the message this evening, I thought about a snow globe How many people know what you know what I'm talking about about the snow globe? Little thing has a little snowman or uh little snowman in there. And uh if it's just setting there, it's kind of dry and boring and not that big a deal. But you take that snow globe. And you turn it upside down or you shake it up a little bit, and boy, that thing turns into a winter wonderland. And uh how many folks caught yourselves complaining about the heat the last There too. Anybody here? Just pretend you're in a snow globe and close your eyes and remember three months ago in your front yard. But I thought about that snow globe And what you do with a snow globe is you turn that snow globe, the little people inside there, their little world they live in, you turn that thing upside down And boy, things begin to happen. It turns into a winter wonderland. It becomes a beautiful scene and it's so lovely. And you look in there and all the little snowflakes and everything going around But you know what happens when you shake that thing up and you set it down, what happens in that snow globe world? What happens to it It kind of settles down. And get this. Everything goes back to the way it was. Now that's kind of sad. But reality is that is a picture of so many times of our world. It's a picture of Israel. Over time, uh everything settles back, and things just become the way they always were. That was true for Israel. Israel, God would, Israel would get cold and stagnant and dead. And their relationship with the Lord came to a standstill. And spiritually speaking, nothing was happening except they were just stagnating. But every now and then in the Old Testament, God would take Israel and He would turn their world upside down. And he would absolutely shake them up. And you know what happened? Things began to happen. Israel would pray, the prayers would go up, and the blessings would come down, and God would deliver them and for a period of time their spiritual world was a blessing and was beautiful and they had God's blessings and they were seeing the Lord do things in your in their lives and in their and in their nation. But over a period of time, what happens? Things begin to settle down, and it goes right back to the way they were. And then God would stir things up again. And Israel was in a constant cycle. Revival, then coldness, apostasy, God would send chastisement, turn their world upside down. They'd humble themselves, then God would send a revival, and boy, things would happen, and round and round and round and round. And isn't that the way it is for us many times? We get cold in our Christian walk, we get a little negligent in our Bible reading, we get maybe a little unfaithful to church, we get a little uh indifferent to the things of God And then God sends something our way, a challenge, He turns our world upside down, He He uh uh intervenes in some way, and we say, wait a minute I don't want to be this way, and we'll get things right, and boy, prayers are going up, and we're reading our Bible, and things are happening, but if we're not careful, we go over a period of time and it just goes right back to the way it was Zechariah's day, Zechariah is saying here to Israel that there was a day coming. Thank To God, when that cycle is going to be broken for Israel. And no longer would it be revival, apostasy, uh hot, cold, on, off, in, out. The day's coming for Israel when God would break all of that and they would establish an unbroken eternal relationship with the Lord settled forever. Now that's what the message has been coming up to this point. And God has been promising Israel repeatedly: hey, I'm going to be your king. We're going to conquer all this. You're going to be victorious. There's going to be peace and prosperity throughout the world. He's promising them that and promising them that and promising them that. And now we get to chapter 11, 12, 13, 14. And suddenly the message takes a drastic turn. And God, you don't hear a whole lot of his promises here. Now we begin hearing of judgment again. And God is, I believe, and this is something I'm gleaning from this, I see in this God has been promising Israel a wonderful future, but there's a real danger, and this is where it can become true for us. And that is this: thinking that the promises of God are given to us without any responsibility on our part. In other words, we must never forget that with privilege comes responsibility. When God says, I'm going to do this and this and this for you, and I'm going to intervene on your behalf, and I'm going to meet your needs, and I'm going to protect you, and I'm going to provide for you. Then, along with those provisions and those promises and that protection, God expects something back from His people. We love him because he first loved us. Now, God loves us whether we ever love him back or not. But God expects you and I that we have the privilege of his love. He certainly expects for us to be responsible enough to love him back. And I believe what he's telling Israel here in these last chapters of this fascinating book, an obscure book in the Old Testament, he is telling Israel: listen, I have given you some tremendous promises I have assured you of a wonderful future. Now, with that in mind, you have some responsibilities yourself. And he gives them some very stern warnings. We must never forget, along with privilege comes responsibility. My first point tonight, and we're only going to look at two of them. I want us to notice in the first three verses the prelude to this message. The prelude to this message. Notice verse number one. Open thy doors, O Lebanon, that the fire may devour thy cedars. Howl, O fir tree, for the cedar is fallen, because the mighty are spoiled. How, O ye Oats of Bashan, for the forest of the vintage, is come down. There is a voice of howling of the shepherds, for their glory is spoiled, a voice of the roaring of young lions, for the pride of Jordan is spoiled Here we've got howling trees and howling shepherds. Now, question is, as we approach this, do we take this literally? Is God saying the day is going to come when the fir tree and the cedar tree and the oak tree are going to start howling? The answer obviously is what No, we're not taking this literally. This is what you would call figurative speech. And an important part, how many folks are glad you came to church? Everybody with me? Everybody okay? Alright. Just enjoying the hey it's worth it just for the air conditioning. Amen. You put up with me ranting on uh just to be cool for a little bit. Thank you. You make me feel better. Uh but uh there's important aspect to Bible interpretation To study the Bible, and that is this. You've got to be able to distinguish between when the Bible's talking figuratively and when the Bible's talking literally. And you say, well, how do you figure that out? Generally, it's pretty obvious. If the Bible says something, and there was beasts that came out of the bottomless pit, and they were like locusts That means, were they literally locusts? No, they were like them. And here's where a lot of people get in trouble in the book of Revelation. The Bible says that what John saw over and over, and I underlined it in my Bible, I don't know if it's this Bible, one of my Bibles, I underlined it over and over, the words light, as similar to And so when we're interpreting scripture, we need to pay attention to words, and for the most part, we take it literally, unless the literal sense doesn't make any sense Now, when God talks about howling cedar trees and howing oak trees, we can pretty much assume he's not talking that these trees are literally going to start howling. So he's talking figuratively. Now here's where the challenge comes in. What does he need? What is he talking about? I think, let me just give you what my conclusion is from this. Most Bible scholars agree with me, and pretty good indication they're right. That later. I believe what's happening here is being described as an overwhelming physical desolation. of the land of Israel at some future point. I think that's what's being this uh illustrated here the uh um pictured here look at verse one open thy doors O Lebanon Generally, most Bible scholars agree in a study that makes sense to me. This is talking about the mountain passes in the in the land of Lebanon, there are mountain passes. That they would defend. And I think we talked a little bit about this in our study on 2 Kings and Sunday nights. They would have these certain passes where armies could go through. And what would happen is the defending nation would build up their armies at those passes and be able to defend themselves so the invading army couldn't get in. I believe what the Lord is saying here is these passes in the mountains of Lebanon, at some point in the future, are going to be opened up. They're going to be undefended, and the nations attacking Israel are going to flow into Israel Very freely. Now we could go to other scriptures, and Ezekiel makes reference to this. Jeremiah, I believe, Revelation makes reference to this. So we compare all these scriptures And we believe that this here is the mountains of Lebanon. These passes are cleared to allow invading forces to pour in from the north. Now, if you've been saved any length of time, if you've been under Bible prophecy teaching, you know that during the tribulation period there is a certain nation that Ezekiel makes reference to, again, most Bible scholars all agree who this is, that is going to attack Israel from the north, and that nation would be Not Babylon, they're talking about in the future. Russia. The bear from the north coming down. And a lot of people believe this is reference to that. That Israel is going to be invaded by a nation from the north. They're going to come through these passes of Lebanon, undefended, and just flow in like a broken dam, the water just flowing in. Now look what else is said here. Look what he says. Open thy doors, O Lebanon, that the fire may devour thy cedars. Now, thy cedars is Israel's cedars. Now, a cedar tree, in the Jewish time, in this time frame, the cedar tree was considered one of the most valuable trees there was The cedar tree, it was a excellent tree. It was a very valued tree Now, look what he says. The fire may devour thy cedars. Cow, O fir tree, for the cedar is fallen Question I had when I'm studying this, why in the world would a fir tree how because a cedar tree is fallen? Well again, we're talking figuratively here. The cedar, in the mind of the Jews of this day and the people of this day, when you mentioned a cedar tree, you were talking about something very, very important If somebody had cedar, boy, they were wealthy. They were big shot. The cedar was an exquisite tree, excellent, valuable tree. The fir tree was common. Fur was not that big a deal. Wood wasn't that great. And it was just common as everywhere. Anyone could get a fur tree. So I think the idea here is this: Lebanon's passes are opened up. The enemies are coming in like fire, wildfire. They're just pouring in, burning everything up. And he says the cedar trees are going to be devoured by this fire, and the fir trees are going to howl because the cedar trees are eat up Again, this is what I think he's teaching here. The leadership of Israel is going to be consumed and devastated in this invasion of Israel. It's a future event. The leadership's going to be wiped out. And the fir tree, the common people, just the masses of people, Are going to be in that word howl there means to cry a loud wailing. It's used when somebody has lost hope. They're in despair. We have no hope. Now stop and think with me for a minute. Israel is a nation, a future point in time, and we'll pick that up a little later, in a future point in time is going to be invaded. The leadership of the country is going to be wiped out. The people, the fir trees, are going to cry out. We have no hope. We're done. We have no defense. We have no there's no way we can survive this. Now imagine how many people remember September 11th, of course? How many people, down in your heart you were anxious because we really didn't know what was happening in our nation's capital and rumors going around and different how many people, come on now, a little anxious. I was a little worried, what in the world Now, let's put ourselves in the shoes of these Jews. The shoes of the Jews. Let's imagine that September 11th, they took out the president, they took out the vice president, they took out the entire House of Representatives, they took out the entire Congress, all the senators Our leadership, they had people in each state, the s n the the um governors of every state are wiped out, all the quote unquote cedar trees are consumed Gone. And there's absolutely no leadership in place in our country. How many people would say it would be very difficult for us to defend ourselves as a nation? Absolutely. And the people would say, oh man, what are we going to do? It's every man for himself. We have no leadership. We have nothing in place. And that, I believe, is what is being described here for a future situation with Israel. God is saying. There's a day, and I gave you some wonderful promises, and I gave you some great assurances of this future event. But before that ever happens You're gonna have to go through some tough times. And your nation is gonna be invaded, your leadership is gonna be wiped out. Uh Now let's look here even more. How fir tree, for the cedars fallen, verse 2. Because the mighty are spoiled. The word mighty there has those who are strong in position. Leadership How, O ye oaks of Bashan, for the forest of the vintage is come down. Now this is a bleak picture. What is he talking about, the oaks? Now the oak tree, and uh you arborists Who maybe uh could correct me on this, but in this day and age, in this uh society, the oak tree was the most powerful of trees. The oak tree represented strength It was good, strong, hard wood. It would withstand the storms that other trees would be knocked down. The oak tree would stand strong. And so you have reference throughout the Bible to the mighty oak tree The oak tree was the most powerful, yet we notice here that they are still destroyed. The pride of the forest, the mighty oak, is wiped out. Some have suggested that would imply their military defenses are completely taken out Israel is overrun. Then we read on. Look what it says. We got these trees howling and being burned up and coming down. Then look at verse 3. There is a voice of the howling of the shepherds. For their glory is spoiled. What in the world is the glory of a shepherd that would be spoiled that they would have? Well, maybe it would be the sheep The glory The Shepherd doesn't have any sheep. He's not much of a shepherd, is he? Right? I mean people out visiting sometimes every place, I'll say I'm pastor of them. They'll say, Oh, I'm a pastor too. Uh where do you pastor? Oh, I'm never pastored. I just I'm pastor I said, cool, you know. And uh but so you have a shepherd, and uh he doesn't have any sheep, his sheep have all been wiped out He doesn't I would say his glory is spoiled. Right? You have a shepherd convention. One shepherd says, oh, how many sheep do you have? Oh, I've got a hundred. Oh wow. Now the shepherd says, oh I've I've got five hundred. Good night. Uh how many sheep do you have? I've got five thousand. Wow. How many sheep do you have? Oh I don't have any sheep. What kind of shepherd are you? And so their glory is spoiled. There's nothing there. And these shepherds are howling. The thing they've invested their lives in, the thing most important to them, the sheep, have all been destroyed Now, again, uh uh, all right, how does this apply? What's the message to Israel here? Um you could spiritualize it and talk about things. I think what he's talking about here, this is my Thinking. I think he's talking about the economy of their country. We talked about this in previous messages. The nation of Israel was very dependent upon um Their herds, their cattle, their sheep, all that. That was a huge part of their economy. It is wiped out. Israel is in total devastation The entire land has been invaded, the people have been annihilated, their leadership is annihilated, their economy is devastated, it is a bleak picture Now, let's look at the second part, verses four through six. Actually goes through the end of the chapter, but we won't be able to do that. How many people are still glad you came to church? Raise your hand. Amen. Good. We actually had more of that time than we did the first time. I keep preaching longer, we'll get more yet, right? No. Look at verse 4. Thus saith the Lord my God, feed the flock of the slaughter. That's a strange phrase. whose possessors slay them and hold themselves not guilty. And they that sell them say, Blessed be the Lord, for I am rich, and their own shepherds pity them not. For I will no more pity the inhabitants of the land, saith the Lord, but lo, I will deliver the men, every one, into his neighbor's hand, and into the land of his king, but they and they that sh shall smite the land And they that shall smite the land, and out of their hand will I not, I will not deliver them. Up to this point, God has been telling Israel about a wonderful day that He has planned for them as a nation, the millennial reign. Jesus is going to be their king. They're going to beat their plows into swords. They're not going to beat their plows into swords. They're going to beat their swords into plows There's going to be peace. People are going to come to them, want to know the Lord. Their relationship with the Lord is going to be unhindered. But now, chapter 11, he backs up. He says, before we get to that, you're going to have to go through this. And he says here, we notice the purpose of this judgment. And we're not going to make it to that in this message tonight, but I want to introduce it What is he taking place here? Chapter verse 4, down later into about verse 14. What I believe is taken here before God's promises are for are going to be fulfilled God's promises to Israel before they're fulfilled, Israel is going to be given over to the most severe judgment they have ever faced. Now listen, Israel's faced some tough judgment You've been coming out Sunday nights. We've been talking about Elisha. How do you remember the situation they're in, where we left them, surrounded by Ben Had Ben Hadad and the Assyrian army, and they're eating their own children And God says that's not even nothing. Or I'm sorry, that's not even anything. Want to be right? Oh, forget it. That's nothing. That ain't nothing compared to what you're going to face. Israel's greatest days are still ahead. Amen? Let me say this. Israel's darkest days are still ahead, also. And he's going to give the purpose for this. Israel is going to be given over to the most severe judgment they've ever had. Now, with that in mind, look at verse 4. Thus saith the Lord my God, feed the flock of the slaughter. Feed the flock of the slaughter. The flock's going to be slaughtered. But God says, let's feed them. I see here the mercy of our God. Israel is going into this unbelievably dark period of their history. They've never been through anything like they're going to face. But in the midst of it, God is concerned for his people. And he wants to feed them and he wants to meet their needs. And I believe it's reference here to seeking to save them Now, a lot of people are fascinated by the book of Revelation. You ever find that to be true Um I was out visiting with Ken Lake. This was years ago when Ken was uh up here. And uh we knocked on the door of apartments, old apartments are not around anymore, and uh this guy came to the door. Um I'm not making fun of anything, but he had one eye was looking that way and the other one was looking at me. And he had this long black hair and like black lipstick on and black eyeshadow and his long black coat And uh I said, hey, I'm Pastor Lenin, and this here is Brother Ken Lake. We were just out visiting, we're gonna leave an invitation. You and your family come visit our church. You go to church anywhere? And he looked at me and he says, I'm the Antichrist rep ambassador. I said, you're the Antichrist's ambassador? He goes, yeah. I told Ken later, I said, I think the Antichrist come up somewhat better than that. But um So we got in there and I mean that's just to give you a frame of mind of this guy. And uh so we got in there and and I'll I'll tell you this, make a long story short, it was one of the most strangest conversations I've ever had in my life. Guess what book of the Bible this guy was fascinated with? The book of Revelation. You know why? He could make it mean whatever he wanted And he gave me all that. But if you study the book of Revelation very carefully and commonsensically, if that's a word, You find that the revelation is very clear. And the revelation, for the most part, is a description of God's judgment on the earth, particularly the nation of Israel During the seven-year tribulation period, which coincidentally is what Zechariah chapter 11 is referencing, if you haven't picked that up yet. Tribulation period, Israel goes through the darkest times ever. But this is what I'm trying to get at. Throughout the book of Revelation, particularly the portion that's dealing with the tribulation period You find over and over and over again God trying to reach out to the children of Israel At one point, he has angels. Only time in the history of the world, God has angels preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. Only time during the tribulation period. Why would God go to that type of extreme? You know why? Because he's trying to feed the sheep of the slaughter. They're in slaughter. But God's heart goes out to his people. And even in the midst of his own judgment on them for rejecting him He cries out in mercy. Another place in the book of Revelation we find God has two unique fellows called two witnesses. Now I like these guys. I have in the margin of my Bible, and I think I preached one time, I don't know that I titled it this, but If I ever preach one again, I'm going to title it this fire-breathing preachers. And the Bible says that out of the mouths of these two witnesses, fire proceeds to burn up anybody that opposes them. Now I have prayed for that gift so many times. I would love to be a fire-breathing preacher. Just for a day. I'd go out visiting. But um But what do these two witnesses do? They do exactly what their name implies. They are witnessing the gospel of Jesus Christ, and guess what? Hundreds of thousands of Jews get saved. In the midst of their slaughter, in the midst of God's own judgment on them, God is still his heart's crying out, and he's given out mercy He's giving out mercy. He's giving out mercy. You say, preacher, God is chastening me, chastening me, chastening me. God is my world is falling in around me. Hey, I'm here to tell you, God still loves you. And his mercy is still being poured out. And even in the darkest days of your life, you think God is slaughtering you. I'm here to tell you, God's trying to feed you. God's trying to come out and say, hey, I can help you. I'll save you. I'll change your situation. Just turn to me. Just trust me. Of course, we know Israel's story, they don't. In fact, they cry out for the rocks to fall on them rather than repent. And so, God's mercy is seen here. God is pouring out, He's trying to feed them in the midst of their own slaughter. Now look at verse 5. whose possessors slay them. Now the word possessor there is a unique word. It has this idea, those who have just purchased them. This is a newly, this is a a new owner, the possessors. I just bought it, now I possess it. The possessors of the Jews slay them. These people that have invaded and taken over Israel, they are slaying them, kind of referring back to the fire, devouring the cedars and all. And look, this is what I won't notice though. Whose possessors slay them and hold themselves what? Not guilty. And they s that sell them. I mean, they're just treating them like merchandise And look what they say, blessed be the Lord, for I am I am rich. I got rich off of these Jews by slaughtering them And their own shepherds pity them not. Hey, their own people don't even care about them. Why should anybody care what I do to the Jews? Gentile nations, I believe what is being taught here, justify in their own minds their cruelty towards God's people. Their possessors slay them and hold themselves not guilty. Hey, I am just in treating God's people the way I'm treating them I don't know about you, but as I studied this, I thought of somebody in history that did that very exact same thing. Who do you think of? Hitler. The leadership of the Nazis slaughtered them by the millions, and yet in their own minds were completely just. We are not guilty. It is amazing how depraved man's mind can be. That we can do the most horrendous, ungodly things. And yet justify that in our own minds and say, I am not guilty. Now you say, preacher, I would never slaughter Jews I would never be a Nazi. I would never be this, I would never be that. But wait a minute. What they what is going to happen here and what has happened in Germany on a large scale Christians do all the time on a smaller scale. We violate God's laws And we justify it in our minds. We completely disregard the teachings, commands, principles of Scripture And we say, hey, I'm not guilty. I'm just in this. I have every reason to be this way. And it's I have every right to act this way. It's amazing how we can become bitter in our hearts and minds towards other people and be so cruel to other people and yet completely justify it in our minds. And that is exactly what the Jews, that's exactly what was happening to the Jews. I don't have to do what God says. I don't have to treat God's people this. I don't have to obey the Bible. I'm not guilty. Hey, this is working out for me. I didn't do what God says, and I'm getting rich. That's what they said. Hey, it's working out The Gentile nations justified in their minds their cruelty to God's people, and so often God's people justify on their minds. Their disobedience to God. Now, what I am with this. Now you know why we're not going to make it through the whole chapter. Look at the last part of verse 6. Now, this is a little phrase here that's been misinterpreted, I believe. It says, and out of their hand, these possessors, these sellers that are abusing Israel, slaughtering them Out of their hand I, God speaking through Zechariah, will not deliver them. Now some Bible scholars have said, aha, there is scriptural proof that God is done with Israel God said he's not going to deliver them out of these oppressors' hands. Therefore, all the promises to Israel All these promises of a future kingdom, of worldwide prosperity and peace for the nation of Israel, all of those are no longer good. They're all void, null and void, and they must be applied now to the church. And that is exactly what this is not teaching. Now, granted, if this was the only verse on the subject we had. We could look and say, hey, you know, there might be a point there. But we have literally scores and scores and scores of other verses that tell us that God is not done with Israel. God's promises stand true. So what is he talking about when God says I will not deliver them out of their hand? I believe he's talking about this. At a particular instant. What they are facing, what is being described here, this invasion of Israel at a future point, and this w this devastation on an unprecedented scale, at that given point what's being discussed here, God's not delivering them out of their hand at that point. That doesn't mean his promises for the future are void. Doesn't mean a little bit later when God says he intervenes. It's not talking about that. At this point, I'm not delivering him out of their hands. Listen, it's very much like this for the Christian. God's promised us, do you believe with me? You agree with me? God's promised us a day coming where there'll be no more sickness, no more sorrow, no more sick Sin, no more suffering. Do you agree with that? How many folks here have had to deal with sickness? Yeah, some of us here tonight are. Um uh heartache. Anybody here ever have to deal with heartache? You know what I found out? God doesn't always deliver me from that particular heartache I'm facing. God didn't always deliver me from some particular suffering I have to go through. But God has promised me there's a day coming when all that's going to be behind. So just because I'm suffering now doesn't mean that the promises of God are not true. Just because he's not delivering me from it now doesn't mean the promises of the future are not true. And just because God said just because God lets Israel go through the tribulation period doesn't mean he's not going to step in on their behalf at some time in the future. And I believe that's what's being taught there. I guess I want to end with this. What God says is so is so. And what God says is going to be, is going to be. And when God tells us we should do something, you know what the best deal is? Let's go ahead and do it. And God says, don't do something, let's not do it. And let's not justify in our minds our disobedience. But let's submit to the Lord and obey him. And he may let us go through some tough times. But God has given us so many privileges, so many promises, so many blessings. Let's not forget that we have a responsibility on our part to trust them and obey him in response. Father in heaven, please bless us now. Help us. Lord, sometimes, like Israel, you turn our little globe upside down and stir things up and turn everything upside down and boy we look to you and we pray and we cry out and we get right and boy the blessings fall and Lord, so often like Israel, we just let things simmer down and they just get back to where they were. Don't let that happen in our lives. Not in our church, not in our ministries. Help us to stay on fire I was to keep praying and serving and pressing on and seeking you for an extended period of time. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many say, Preacher, God spoke to my heart tonight about my relationship with Him, my walk with Him, my faith in Him. You say, preacher, pray for me. That God will help me trust the Lord. That God will help put out of my mind a justification for my own disobedience, and I'll just trust the Lord and walk with him. And let him have his way in my life. Is there any like that? My left left hand preacher pray with me. God bless you. You say, preacher, if God's so good to me, why is he letting me go through this? Well, sometimes it's consequences, decisions we made, sometimes it's part of growing. It doesn't mean his promises are no and void. It just means in this time he has to let us go through this. And we can trust him. Father, bless our invitation, I ask, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together.