There, chapter number thirty-three, and I'd like for us, I want to read verse 12 and 13, and for and uh I'll just read down through there if you would follow along. This will be our primary text for this morning. 2 Chronicles 33, this is talking about the reign of a king Manasseh, and uh and the actions he took, the consequences of those actions, and then his response. to the consequences of his actions. And that's what verse 12 is. It says, and when he, that's King Manasseh of Israel, when he was in affliction He besought the Lord his God, and if you'll notice, he did two things, and humbled himself greatly before the God of his fathers, one And number two, verse 13, and prayed unto him. And then God responded to his humility and his prayer. It says, and he was entreated of him, and heard his supplication, and brought him again to Jerusalem into his kingdom. Then Manasseh knew that the Lord he was God. The Lord, he was God. Not completely a patriotic message this morning, but in a sense, I think you'll see. But it is a Bible message. And I believe what I'm going to preach on this morning. I'm getting a little ahead of myself here, but I believe what I'm going to preach on this morning, I believe with all my heart. is the desperate need in the United States of America for today. So if you would pray with me. We'll make a few statements, look at a few verses. And ask God to stir our hearts and help us. Father, we come before you this morning. We are grateful to be an American. Lord, what a privilege. And it's just your grace and your providence, Lord, that put us here at this time in this place. So I ask, dear Lord, that you would speak to our hearts from your word. I don't believe it's a coincidence that those of us that are here are here now today. Those that are tuned in, I believe it's are you have a plan. You have something you're wanting to do So I pray you'd help us be open to your will and your plan for our lives. I pray you'd help us be submissive to your word. And God is your Holy Spirit applies your word to our lives. I pray we would agree with you and follow your leadership and follow your instructions. Lord, I yield my will to you, and I present my body anew. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, and dear God, you would speak through me. Lord, we need you. Lord, our country needs you to revive your churches, revive your people. God, our hearts are broken. We're asking you to have mercy. And God, maybe you'd do something here today in this place that would turn a tide. Maybe at least in our community, see a moving of your Holy Spirit and a turning back to God. So hear my prayer. Meet with us is my prayer. In Jesus' name. Amen. As I mentioned at the beginning of the service this Tuesday, United States of America will be 247 years old. As far as nations go, if you study history at all, as far as nations goes, that's a very young nation. We're just getting started, really, as far as historical context is concerned. We celebrated, United States of America celebrated its first birthday on July 4, 1777. And the way they celebrate it was this, as I understand the history books. That morning of July fourth, seventeen seventy-seven, uh they shot thirteen gunshots at daybreak in the morning of July 4, 1777. Then, as the gun sunset, they shot 13 more gunshots, representing each of the new states and celebrating the birth of the United States. Now we have amazing fireworks displays and all kinds of things, but a humble beginning and a modest celebration on the first birthday. From that humble beginning, we have grown into a nation of fifty states plus multiple territories scattered around the world. We uh now have a population of over 339 million people as of the last census in the United States of America. United States of America in its early days was a pioneer in personal liberty and personal freedoms. Some of the freedoms that our Constitution assures us were unheard of in most countries around the world. The right to free speech was profound. That the people could speak against the authorities that were open. They could freely express their opinions That was groundbreaking. That was pioneering. Now there's many countries around the world that enjoy that same freedom because The establishment of the United States First Amendment. The Second Amendment. I believe we misunderstand the significance and the importance of the Second Amendment, the right to keep and bear arms I'm telling you, if we lose that right, that God-given right, we will lose all other freedoms we have. I guarantee it. I guarantee it. So the United States of America is pioneered in the early days in this whole world. Many, many countries around the world today are enjoying freedoms because of the testimony and the precedent sent by the United States of America. We are now the world's top military power We are now a leader in technology and industry on this entire planet. United States of America It's an amazing place as a testimony to the grace and a miraculous providence of God. Establishing this land. We are not God's chosen people. We are not Israel. We are a nation just like all other nations. The Bible says that nations of the world are just a drop in the bucket as far as God is concerned. But I tell you, for us, it's home. This is our nation. We love it. And our hearts are broken. On this 247th birthday of our nation, our hearts are broken. Like a father whose son It's gone off into riotous living. Destroying his name. Our hearts are broken. Our nation has gone off into riotous living. We are a nation that is morally corrupt, spiritually dead. And I hate to say that. But we look and see what's happening in our media. And the abominable things that are being promoted by people of powerful influence We see the shenanigans that take place on the yard of our of the of the White House. Our nation is morally corrupt. And we have to accept that. If we try to deny that, we'll never have a solution. It'll never be corrected. Spiritually dead. Can here's my question for this morning. And I I'm preaching from my heart, I think, as much as I'm preaching from the Bible. Can a nation as morally corrupt this way, does a morally corrupt and spiritually dead nation like ours have any hope of restoration? That's my question. Some would say no. I know this. There's no political solution to our core problem. There's no political solution. Um, our problem, our core problem, is a spiritual problem And politics cannot solve spiritual problems. A good leader's, statesmen, politicians can solve economic problems many times We can have military strategy, can put military strategies in place, and by the way, and can legislate just and fair laws And by the way, we appreciate those that do. We need more statesmen, less politicians, in my opinion. But that will not solve the core problem of the United States of America. Politics will not restore America back to moral purity and spiritual life again. I think we have too many people looking for hope for our country in all the wrong places. We're looking to this man and that man. My Bible says in Jeremiah, don't put your confidence in man, not in princes. So is there hope for America to be restored to some semblance of morality To any kind of sense of spiritual sensitivity at all, even just a recognition of a holy God. That gave us everything you have. Can we ever be restored back to that place? More than just lip service, but genuine worship of God Can America see that again? Is there any hope of being restored? My opinion. Humanly speaking. I think it's impossible. I think humanly speaking, we've and this is my opinion, I'm afraid we've crossed the line for us to humanly bring us back. I think it's impossible. However, there are multiple times that Jesus said in the Gospels, that which is impossible with man is possible with God. So is there hope for America to be restored? To bring us back, like our memory verse says, to bring us back as to the days of old. There is one hope for America. And again, it's not in the White House. I don't care who's in there. It's not in the capital of state capitals It's not in the Pentagon. It's not going to be found in Wall Street. The only hope for America to be restored. Is in the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. That is the hope of our land. That is the hope of turning things around and seeing a miraculous restoration. In our communities, in our towns, our homes, our churches, is the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I've been accused of preaching the gospel too much. My Bible says that Paul said we preach Christ and Him crucified. Period The gospel has been committed to the local church. God has commissioned The local church, Mount, and that's us, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church and other local churches, God has commissioned the church to proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ throughout our land and around the world. So America's only hope is the gospel of Jesus Christ, and God has commissioned the church, not the government, not the military Not the economic leaders. He's commissioned the local church to preach the gospel to every creature So that tells me the church is vital in the restoration of our land. The church is vital. I put this down. The hope for America is found in the churches of America, in the godly Christian, Bible-believing homes of America. And in the hearts of those who know Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. I believe we need to humble ourselves as Christians. We've been emphasizing that. We've declared June, we declared to be humility month. Here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. And I'm hoping, and I'm praying, I'm seeking in my own life, that that would not just be a fancy title or a clever reaction to the World's Prides Month But it would be a genuine reality in every one of our hearts that we humble ourselves before God. Now that's not a popular message. That's not a message that gets uh people up and swinging from chandeliers and running the aisles. But I think it's a desperately needed message. That we would humble ourselves before God. I believe we need to get thoroughly right with God. I'm not talking about the administration. I'm talking about God's people. I'm talking about you and me. Getting thoroughly right with God. And those sins that are in the back of our minds, even now as I'm preaching, and those things that we know in our life that we know are not right. Rather than ignoring it or pushing it aside and saying, Oh, I'm not going to deal with it, coming and humbling myself before God and saying, God, no, I'm going to make this right. I'm not going to tolerate it anymore in my life. That's what America needs. God's people. Humbling ourselves, getting thoroughly right with God. And then we have to pray. We have to pray. I don't believe we can effectively pray until we humble ourselves. Pride and prayer are incompatible. Humble ourselves and pray. We have to get thoroughly right with God. I don't believe we can pray effectively until we're thoroughly right with God. David said, if I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will what? Not hear me. Is there hope for America? Yes, it's found in the gospel of Jesus Christ, and that gospel has been committed to the local church And until we get humble ourselves before God and get thoroughly right with God and begin to effectively pray for our nation Then we go out and we proclaim the gospel. I believe it is possible under the grace and miraculous power of God to restore this land to some moral sanity and some spiritual sensitivity. Humble ourselves, get right with God, and pray. Now, that brings us to our text. If you would, if you have your Bibles there, notice here. If we had more time, we could look more into the background and the context here. But Israel is on the brink of God's judgment. Israel, at this point in time, when where our text is, Israel is morally corrupt through and through. Israel is spiritually dead. They have blasphemed the name of God. They have defiled the temple of God. They've adopted the world's values and the world's priorities and the world's pleasures, and they brought them in as a part of their spiritual worship. And they're corrupt. They're spiritually dead, and they are on the brink of judgment. They are on the brink of total collapse in one generation. But one man in Israel now get this. Are you with me? Everybody with me? One man in Israel, one man humbles himself and prays. And God turns that whole thing around. And God restores Israel back to the place they once were. Now, here's my contention. If God did it before for the nation of Israel, he can do it again for the nation of the United States of America. But the conditions must be met. And if we don't want it bad enough, it's not going to happen. And if we're too proud to humble ourselves, and we're too caught up in our flesh and our sin and our self-love to pray. Then no, it's not gonna happen. It's not gonna happen. So let's look at this fellow Manasseh. He's the kid. My first thought, and quickly in the little bit of time I've left, I want us to consider Manasseh's roots. And by that I mean his background. Who is this guy? Where did he come from? What did he do? Manasseh, his name, interesting enough, means one who forgets. And if we had time to get into a little more detail than what we do this morning, we would find that Manasseh forgot his God. He forgot where he came from. He forgot what God had done for his nation. And again, I at the risk of being overly negative, but man alive, look at our condition. I'm afraid America's forgotten our God. We've forgotten where we came from. We've forgotten what God has done for us. I appreciate Brother Derek. He's got a burden to put together some sort of curriculum or something. Maybe it's out there, we're looking for it, where he can teach the next generation, the young people, at least as best we can What God has done for this great land. God has been pushed out of our history books. Christianity has been negated and mocked and ridiculed. And we have a burden to get back and say, hey, let's remember God's role in all of this. Let's remember what God has done for us. Israel forgot. Manasseh's name, one who forgets. I want you to notice, first of all, his background, his roots, or his background, he had a righteous father. His father was Hezekiah. Anybody here recognize the name Hezekiah, great king of Israel? If you would come back to chapter 29 just real quickly, and we'll take a look at Hezekiah here. His daddy was king, I believe, for 40 years. I may not have that number correct. But he was one of Israel's great kings. He was one of Israel's godly kings. Now he wasn't perfect like all of us. He had his times. But overall, Hezekiah was a godly king, a God-fearing king, a righteous king. And in chapter 29, look with me at verse number 2. Notice what the Bible says About Hezekiah. And he, Hezekiah, his daddy, did that which was right in the sight of the Lord, according to all that David his father had done. Question, was David good or bad? He was great. In fact, the throne that Jesus Christ is going to sit on in the millennial reign is named after King David. And Hezekiah is compared to David. In a positive way. That's Manasseh's daddy. That's the home he grew up in. Now let me put it in our terminology in our day. He grew up in what we would call a Bible-believing home. He had a Christian daddy. Well, of course, it wasn't Christian there, but in our context, he would be the equivalent of having a Christian daddy and a Christian mama that believed the Bible And worship the God Jehovah, who had faith in the coming Messiah, who believed that what God says is right is right, and what God says is wrong is wrong. That's the home he grew up in. A God-fearing home, a Bible-believing home. A Jehovah-worshiping home that did right and served God. Manasseh, this king, in chapter 33 that we're looking at, he grew up in a home like that. He had a righteous father, a righteous family, a righteous home. But, and again we have to rush through this if you come back to chapter 33, he rejected that God. He rejected everything that he was raised with. All the morals and the principles and the scriptural instruction that was given to him as a child growing up, he rejected it. Look at chapter 33, look at verse number 1 and 2. And Manasseh was 12 years old. This is Hezekiah's son, this godly king. He was 12 years old when he began to reign. Now, some of the Bible scholars tell us that him and his dad probably were like co-regents for a while. But nevertheless, he began to reign, and he reigned 50 and 5 years in Jerusalem. Look at verse 2. One of the sad statements in Scripture. But did that which was what? Evil in the sight of the Lord. Now it may have been popular with the people, but in the eyes of God it was evil. It may have been exalted and celebrated on social media, but in the eyes of God, it was evil. Like unto the abominations of the heathen whom the Lord had cast out before the children of Israel. Hezekiah ruled and reigned. His administration was patterned after David. His son Manasseh steps in, rejects all of that, and he says, we're going to follow. The lifestyle and the pattern of the heathen, of the pagan, the ungodly world You can't find a stronger contrast in all scripture. You know, in Hezekiah the daddy and Manasseh the son, he rejected his God. This was not out of ignorance, this was not an innocent mistake. Some people do wrong because they've never been taught to do right. Some people live in various sins, and I've had people over the years that come and trust Christ, and maybe they're living in fornication or Some type of adulterous situation, and they say, you know, and start studying scripture, they say, wow, I never realized this was wrong. In the eyes of the world, that's not wrong. Right or wrong? Right. Right, wrong, right. I'm telling you, fornication is still fornication. Adultery is still adultery. And Hezekiah wanted to rule after the pattern of David, God-fearing, righteous. Manasseh says, I don't want any of that. I'm going to go by what the world standards are. I'm going to go by the world's principles. What the world says is right and wrong. He rejected his God. It wasn't out of ignorance, it was the deliberate walking away from what he knew was right. It was a deliberate rejection of God. It wasn't some innocent mistake. Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't realize. No, he uh did you ever hear this to me? He walked away, eyes wide open. He knew exactly what he was doing. He was doing it deliberately. No to God. He worshipped what the world worshiped. He prized what the world prized. He loved what the world loved. He valued what the world valued. And he replaced the blessings and righteousness of God's holiness with the wickedness of the world. Notice he received consequences for his actions. Look with me if you would at verse 6. And the very last part. It says he wrought much wit much evil in the sight of the Lord. Look at this. To provoke him to anger. He brought the wrath of God upon himself and upon his nation. I'm here to tell you our God is a loving God. Amen or not. And you're not going to find a man, woman, or child on planet Earth, regardless of what their background is, regardless of what their circumstances are regardless of the color of their skin or their level of education or how much money they got, God loves every single individual enough to die and suffer on that cross so they could be saved. No one excluded. But I'm here to tell you, and we've forgotten this in our churches in America: God is also a God of wrath. And his holiness still, the wrath of God still burns in the holiness of God against the sins of mankind. And until we see ourselves as under the wrath of God as sinners, we'll never appreciate the love of God as our Savior. And Manasseh brought the wrath of God down upon him I don't like people to get angry at me. I don't like people to be mad at me. At any given time there's probably twelve or fifteen people very angry at me. Probably maybe a few more after this morning. I don't like that, but I've learned to accept that. But I'll tell you one thing. I don't want God to be angry with me. I'll do whatever it takes to make things right with God because I don't want God's anger upon me personally. I don't want God's wrath upon my home. I don't want God's wrath on our church And I don't want God's wrath on our nation. But unrepentant, unconfessed, celebrated sin Brings the wrath of a holy God upon an individual and upon a nation. You mark my word. That's Bible preaching right there Manasseh had consequences of his rejection of God, his rebellion against the Word of God, and his embracement of the wickedness of the sins and the pagan worship of this world. And God's wrath was kindled. He lost his freedom. Look at verse 11. Wherefore the Lord brought upon them Manasseh and the nation, The captains of the hosts of the king of Assyria. Now it's hard for us to comprehend the depravity of these Assyrians. It's hard for us to comprehend the violence in their mind and in their culture was incredibly violent. And when they took someone as captive, it was a horrific thing. I got studying this here. Notice it says there in verse 11, wherefore the Lord brought upon them the captains of the host of the king of Assyria, which took Manesseh. Now he makes some statements here that on the surface are, you know, it's hard to understand what he's saying. It says they took Manasseh among the thorns and bound him with fetters and carried him to Babylon. He's taken as a prisoner of war, he's taken as a as a slave to, so to speak. But it says they they took him among the thorns. And I thought, what in the world, among the thorns? And I'm not a Hebrew scholar by any stretch of the imagination. But I did some research, the best I could, and I have some pretty reliable books, reference books, and Hebrew dictionaries, and I did some research And this is what I come up with. And most Bible you'll find Bible scholars will support this. When it says they took him among the thorns, that word thorns there has the idea of hooks or rings. With very sharp things. And what the history books tell us, the Assyrians were known for doing this, is when they took someone captive, they would take that hook or that very sharp it's a ring but has very very pointy edges. And they would take those hooks and they would force them through the nostrils of the prisoner of war and force them through. And they would take those rings and they put them down through their lips And then it says with fetters, it says that uh, and bound him with fetters. The fetters, as I understand it, I did my research, was brass chains And this is what they would do. They would take those hooks and put them through their nostrils, and those rings and hooks and put them through their lips. And they would connect it to these chains. And the chains were attached to their horses and their chariots. And it was that person followed behind. Being pulled by their nostrils and their lips. God have mercy if they fall on the ground. The history that I was reading said it was horrific. Then when they get to the prison there in Babylon, just the prison cells themselves were abominable. And here you have a man that's king of the nation of Israel, God's people, a godly daddy. A godly heritage, raised up in the blessings of God and the obedience to his word. And he rejects all of that. He finds himself in a Babylon prison, nose and mouth pierced through, ripped out, living in squalor, unspeakable conditions. I'm telling you the consequences of sin are never pretty. The consequences Of sin are never pleasurable. Oh, there's pleasure in sin for a season. Oh, he lived it up for a little while Oh, the world thought Manasseh was something for a while, but I'm telling you, a life lived in sin is a house of cards that comes crumbling down. The consequences are horrific. Manasseh finds himself in an atrocious situation. He lost his peace of mind. Look at chapter 12 and verse 8. And when he was in affliction, the word affliction means distress of body and mind. It means to be bound up by stress, turmoil, controlled his thinking, his mind, his life. Reminded me of the prodigal son, to be honest with you. Walked away from his daddy, wasted his life in riotous living, destroyed his life. Manasseh began with a nation blessed of God. He began with a nation that had phenomenal opportunity to build upon the righteousness and godliness of Hezekiah, he could have taken Israel to great heights spiritually. And he squandered it all. Squandered it all. My question is, is there any hope for Israel at this point? Is there any way possible for Israel to come back to even be a resemblance of what it once was? And I'll be honest with you, humanly speaking, I say I see no way. But thank God there's a God in heaven that can do that which is humanly impossible. And I have to end with this. But notice Manasseh's restoration. He says, Surely, no way a king can come back from that. Oh, our God, our God, our God is an expert at restoring that which has fallen. Our God specializes in fixing that which is broken. Our God specializes in cleansing that which is dirty. And Israel's restored. Manasseh is restored. Not just arbitrarily by God. There's factors involved. Here's my question. Is it possible to sin so badly that God cannot forgive? Is it possible to wander so far from God that He can't find you? Is it possible to be so broken by sin that God cannot fix you? Is it possible to be so dirty by this world that God cannot cleanse you? And the answer to every one of those questions is an emphatic no! There's no sin so great that God cannot forgive. There's no life so broken that God can't fix it. There's no heart and mind so filthy that God cannot cleanse it. Our God is an all-powerful God. Israel can be restored, and they were. And by way of application, let me say this America can be restored. But not until God's people do what Manasseh did. And even then it's up to God. What did he do? Well, uh he's restored. God can restore. But notice the place of his rest His restoration, a miserable Babylonian prison cell. He's at the bottom of the barrel. He came to the end of himself. And by the way, coming to the end of ourselves is a good place to be when I want to get right with God. The place of his restoration, the process of his restoration, this is what I want to focus on here and end with this. Verse 12, he says, he humbled himself greatly. Before the God of his fathers. God honors humility Nothing in my heart and mind can lift me from sin and draw me close to God like genuine humility before God and before man. It's coming to God like David did after he sinned with Bathsheba. Can he be restored after adultery and murder? Can he? Yes! David said, I have sinned against you, God. David humbled himself. I'm telling you, nothing will restore you back into fellowship and the blessings of God until we learn to humble ourselves before God. God, you are right, I am wrong. God honors humility. God is looking for humility in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. He's waiting for us to humble ourselves And then he prayed. Verse thirteen and prayed unto him. And notice it says he was entreated of him, of God. God heard him. I hesitate to say this. I've said this numerous times over the years, and every time I hesitate a little bit, but I see it in Scripture. It's almost like God can't resist humility. And every time in the Bible you find somebody humbling themselves before God, boom, God responds in mercy. Even the most wicked, Manasseh, Ahab, and go down the list, a prodigal son wasted his father's living, stained his father's name, shamed his family But he humbles himself, and boom, he's restored. The process is humility and prayer. Effective prayer is rooted in sincere humility. My grandparents, my dad's parents, Sam and Ada Leatherman, been with the Lord many, many years, godly, humble, simple. Family, couple, loved each other till their dying day. And if they were in arm's reach of each other, they were holding hands. Grandpa, I remember as a child, when Grandpa prayed, we got together thanksgiving. When he prayed, it was like God was there in the room with us. I'm telling you, it was powerful. They had a little thing over top of their going into their living room from the kitchen, a little placard across the door. And it said this, prayer changes things. And I believe that. God changes things in response to prayer. And when we humble ourselves and pray, that is a powerful, powerful source of restoration. Manasseh humbled himself and prayed. And the result is the nation was restored. The damage was done, no doubt about it. A lot of people died with no faith in Messiah during that reign. He hurt a lot of people spiritually. He damaged the name of Jehovah for a long time. There's a lot of damage done. But forgiveness was still available. And restoration was still possible. When he humbled himself and prayed. God can restore your Christian wall. I'm talking to someone this morning, you're not, you're, you're, you're backslidden, you know it. I don't know who I'm not names. But I've been doing this long enough. No, I'm preaching to some folks that are backslidden and you know it. God can restore that walk with God. God can restore your family. You're not right with your spouse, and you know it. God can restore that if we humble ourselves and pray. Amen or not? I know, I know it's right. God can restore a tarnished witness. Say, preacher, I messed up at work bad. I kind of blew my my witness, my testimony. Until you tell you if you humble yourself, pray God can restore that testimony again. It's possible. Get it back. God can restore a dead church Now hear me. I'm not even remotely suggesting Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church is a dead church. I don't think that's the case. But Mount Lake Isn't Penant Baptist Church is a church that needs revival. We do. We need the moving of the Spirit of God. And our body of believers again, we need the power of God upon our ministries. I'm still longing and I'm still praying every day, and I'm begging God to see that old-time power. Where communities are affected for righteousness. Souls are saved. Lives are changed. Christ is glorified. That's what we need in this day and hour. I don't believe America is going to be restored until the churches of God are revived. Because that's where the solution is. Humility and prayer, humility and prayer. Father, I ask you to take these thoughts. Lord, you know these are heartfelt on my part. I pray you'd revive us again, dear Lord. We love our country. We're humbled to think that we're even a citizen of this land. But God, you know better than we do what we're dealing with, what's happening. God, we ask you to have mercy. And God, if you could revive our church and restore our homes the way they ought to be, and that our walk with you would be what it ought to be, God, I believe it would have have an effect. We're asking for that, Lord. Heads are bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, Preacher, I share your burden this morning? Share your burden. Any like that? I know there has to be some. Has to be some. Wonder some say, preacher, I've there's things in my heart, my life, I know. You you you hit on it. Holy Spirit dealt with it. I need to make them right. I don't know specifically. That's between you and God. But you'd say, pray with me, preacher. There's got to be adjustments made There's gotta be changes made. I I can't I I need God to restore. Any like that, but the uplifting hand preacher pray for me. I know they're there. I know they are God can do that which is impossible with man is possible with God. We humble ourselves. Pray. So some here say, preacher, I don't know. I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know that God has forgiven me and saved me and that I have a whole uh eternal life home in heaven. Is there anything like that? Preacher, pray for me. I gotta get that settled. I don't want to go on anymore. I gotta know for sure I'm forgiven and saved. Any at all? Any at all Father, I pray you bless our invitation now. God, help us to respond. Help us to humble ourselves. In Jesus' name.