People recognize the name Roger Yodarian. Anyone recognize that name? Roger Yodarian? How about Peter Fleming? Aha. How about uh Ed McCulley? About this name, Nate Saint Anybody, how many folks recognize that name? Nate Saint. No, I got two down front here. Couple around. Now I know this one's gonna light up. Jim Elliott. Anyone recognize Jim Elliott? Anybody recognize those names? Who can tell me who they were? Five missionaries were killed by the Alka Indians. Actually they had a little different name. We call them the Alka Indians. But uh they were trying to reach them a fascinating uh uh captivating story how they very uniquely used the plane. This was an un this was an untouched tribe down in um Ecuador and never been reached, never saw a white man, never been reached by any type of civilization. There might have been some gas workers there down there, I think, that they interacted with. But very dangerous, deadly, cannibalistic. And they were able to reach them. They finally made contact. They landed their planes on the beaches. and um made interacted with them and they've been friendly up to this point. They had no reason to believe anything bad would happen. And lo and behold, today, 56 years ago, 54 year 64 years ago today, uh they were killed down there on the beach of Alonga River in Ecuador. And just a tremendous story. If you're ever able to get the book through Gates of Splendor, what a phenomenal book that is. That's their story. Elizabeth Elliott, of course, was the wife of uh Jim Elliott, he was the leader of the group. She wrote a number of books. And um and just a fascinating thing, just a little trivia. Nate Saint Grandson, who was also named Nathan, Nathan Saint's grandson, uh traveled on neighborhood Bible time a couple years ago. And um uh I was able to meet him uh a few years ago. So uh pretty neat. All right, Psalm chapter forty, and um if you would notice just verse number one with me It says, I waited patiently for the Lord, and he inclined unto me and heard my cry. Let me read another verse or two. He brought me up out also out of a horrible pit, out of a miry clay, and set my feet upon a rock, and established my going. Verse three says, He put a new song in my mouth Even praise unto our God, many shall see it in fear, and shall trust in the Lord. Now we're going to go back and read, get back to 1 Samuel here in just a moment. I've entitled the message Tonight: Humility Last message on this was respect. And we saw David's tremendous respect for a man that was not very respectful. But because of his position, David in his integrity displayed tremendous respect for King Saul. And tonight we want to notice the humility of David before this very real antagonist to David, but nevertheless a man anointed of God. So let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, I thank you for the midweek service. It sure is a blessing to be back to our regular schedule and looking into your word here and spending time in prayer I pray that you would fill me with your Spirit again tonight, Lord. I yield my will to you. I pray that you would speak through me, Holy Spirit, your word, and apply to every one of our hearts, our homes, our circumstances Lord, you know how it applies. You know what truths we need at this point in our life. So please do that, Lord. And I ask these things now in Jesus' name. Amen. I like the Psalms. Anybody here enjoy reading the Psalms? I try to read a Psalm every day. I try to read a chapter of Proverbs and a chapter from Psalms every day. And I love the Psalms. And the Psalms Many of them, the ones penned by David, are really, if you pay attention to them, they're his record of various struggles. And trials he went through. Sometimes they were blessings God did for him. And um how he how God What God did for him in the midst of that struggle, in the midst of the trial. Did you notice in the passage we read, he mentioned a horrible pit and miry clay? And so he's referencing a period of time in his life Where he went through a very difficult time, and that's the that's the terms he uses, the metaphor I guess he's using to describe what he went through is a horrible pit, miry clay And he records how God brought him, brings him through this. Some of the Psalms he records his own failures. He got afraid. He prays for vengeance on his enemies. And, you know, he doesn't always, he isn't always victorious um in his in how he responds to the trials he goes through. However, in the Psalms we see the lessons God taught him, what he learned. And uh what God did for him going through that. Now I can't say uh that Psalm forty is a direct result of David's experience in in 1 Samuel 24. So if you wouldn't come back there, but I did think it was interesting that he references the fact that he was in a horrible pit And uh and in my clay. And God delivered him from that. And David is no doubt here in a horrible pit. He's in a Miery clay. This is a bad situation. It's fearful. Saul is pursuing him just out of envy. Saul has uh uh convinced his military leaders at least. That David is a threat. He's got them behind him, and it is an all-out manhunt for King David. The entire uh m military of Israel is out after David But uh it's interesting in Psalms when he references deliverance from any one of these various situations that he faced and circumstances that God let him go through. Whenever he records his deliverance, it's interesting what he doesn't say. You can learn a lot by think in the Bible what it doesn't say sometimes. He never attributes his deliverance to his own wisdom. He never says, boy, I figured this out and I got myself out of it. He never attributes his deliverance to his own ingenuity or his own skills or his own gifts and abilities and talents or intellect. He never attributes deliverance to his deliverance to himself. He always attributes his victories and his deliverance to who? To the Lord God. The Lord deliver me. The Lord brought me through it. The Lord did this. The Lord did that. And what a testimony of faith that he is able to go through and find himself in these situations Does what's right for the most part, we're going to see exceptions, but often he'll do what's right, he'll trust God, and God brings him through And I venture to say there's a heap of folks in our church, many here tonight, could testify various times in your Christian life where you got in a situation, you really weren't sure what to do, but you made the decision, I'm just going to trust God I'm just going to follow God's instruction and see what happens, and God gets you through. Can I get a witness on that? And David testifies to that over and over and over in the book of Psalms. And we're going to see that here again directly in the record here. If you would notice with me in 24, chapter 24, I want to begin reading in verse 8. We're going to go down through verse 15 And I just want to touch on some observations I made here. Verse 8 says that, well, let me back up and give the background here. Of course, Saul is pursuing David. He got wind, Saul got word uh that uh David was um in uh Engadai, and uh there's caves there, it's a wilderness area, there's although it's kind of a desert area, but there's a lot of water, good place to hide. Saul gets word of that. He's coming in after David. Saul, and it gets a little personal here. Saul, David's up in these caves. He sees Saul coming. And lo and behold, Saul leaves the m the encampment. He leaves his headquarters, his tents, his encampment, all the military, makes his way just by himself up into one of the capes unbeknownst that David is hiding in that very cave. David has withdrawn back in there so Saul doesn't see him. Saul comes up into the very cave that David's in And he goes up there to relieve himself. He's using the restroom. And David's hiding. And David very stealthily goes up and cuts off a corner of the garment of King Saul. Unbeknownst to Saul. Saul walks out, and that's where we pick this up. Saul's now leaving the cave. David's uh and that's where this picks up verse 8. And David also arose afterward and went out of the cave, as Saul's leaving, he's making his way back down to the encampment, and cried after Saul, saying, My Lord the King! And when Saul looked behind him, David stooped with his face to the earth and bowed himself. I put in the margin of my Bible, humility. David also said to Saul, Wherefore hearest thou men's words, saying, Behold, David seeketh thy hurt. Behold, this day thine eyes have seen how that the Lord hath delivered thee today into my hand in the cave. And some bade me Some bade me to kill thee, but mine eye spared thee, and I said, I will not put forth my hand against my Lord, for he is the Lord's anointed. Is that a true statement? Yes, God anointed him. David recognized that and respected that. Moreover, my father, that's how he's referring to King Saul, see ye, see the skirt of thy robe in thy hand. For in that I cut off the skirt of thy robe and kill thee not. Know thou and see that there is neither evil nor transgression in my hand And I have not sinned against thee, yet thou huntest my soul to take it. The Lord judged between me and thee, and the Lord avenged me of thee, but my hand shall not be upon thee As saith the proverb of the ancients, wickedness proceedeth from the wicked, but mine hand shall not be upon thee. After whom is the king of Israel come out? After whom dost thou pursue? After a dead dog, after a flea. The Lord therefore be judge, and judge between me and thee, and see, and plead my cause and deliver me out of thine hand. Let's pray. Father, I think we already did pray, didn't we? Yeah, I prayed when I read Psalms. We'll save that prayer for the next one. I think uh do you ever meet someone, do you ever s have someone maybe you admired them or maybe they uh were a bit repulsive, but do you ever think this way, I'd like to get inside their head and figure out how in the world does that person think. Anyone ever get that way? There's different people I think. What in the world goes on in that skull up there? How do they think? And some are very impressive. We just think, man, this guy's he can figure it out, you know. She she's she's got some wisdom. Others we say, I think it's empty up there. But we wonder what in the world is going on. I believe this passage here we just read, by David's actions and the things he says to King Saul, I think we get a little insight into David's mind frame, how he's thinking through all of this. Now some people can put it put on a pretty good show Some folks can say and act in a way that's contrary to what they really are. Do you ever find that to be true? But my Bible says, as a man thinketh in his heart, what's the rest of that verse? So is he. So is he So whatever's going on up here, for the most part, is going to come out in what I say and how I act. Now we can but we can put on a front a little bit and we can say the right things. It's not really what we are, but eventually it's going to come out So I look at David's actions here as he just delivered Saul. Now he's confronting Saul in a sense after is he safe. Saul's going down the mountain. And he's confronting him and he's approaching him about this whole situation. And David's wanting it to come to an end. David's wanting to resolve this. And so what he says and how he behaves tells me a lot in uh about the thinking of David, the mindset, what goes went on in that skull of his and how he thought And one thing we find out, God, and we've been saying this, God is molding David's mind, which will mold his life. preparing him for a phenomenal responsibility as being king of Israel and establishing a throne that eventually Jesus Christ would sit on during the millennial reign. And so God's working, God's working, God's molding and affecting the way he thinks. Now David had a lot at the table to bring, he had a lot to, you know, starting off, his faith in God as a young child, his tender-heartedness. a heart after God's own heart. He already had that, but he needed development. I was reading about Japanese samurai swords I don't know that I've ever seen one, but I came across this about Japanese samurai sword. It's considered to be one of the best swords in the world. The Japanese samurai sword. I'm told that a high quality one, it takes fifteen men, six months To make one of the high quality Japanese samurai swords. That's what, according to this article. It says, why does it take so long? Oh, and and uh and will be sold, takes fifteen men, six months to make one sword, and it will be sold uh many times worth hundreds of thousands of dollars For one sword. They said, why is it so expensive? Why does it take so much? And they said, one of the reasons is it's uh uh they have to go into the mountains. There's uh certain iron deposits they find And uh they pull them out and they have to forge, of course they have to melt the iron down, then they forge it, and they use two different kinds of iron. A combination of a very, very hard iron and a very very soft iron. Now I don't understand all of it, but somehow they merge those two together and fuse those two together, and out of it they develop these swords. that are considered some of the greatest in the world. Now when I read that I thought about David. I thought about how God is using King Saul like an anvil With a mallet and he is in a mall and he's just pounding David. God is using Saul and molding him into this instrument That God will be able to use uh that will that He's going to be an instrument priceless in the cause of God in the kingdom of Israel And he's pounding him and he's molding him, using soul. But just like that samurai sword had two iron, types of iron they used, I think there's two characteristics God is developing in David that are going to be invaluable and are very, very helpful for you and I, that I think would be helpful to us. One is, we looked at the last time, is respect for authority. David, you can say a lot of things about David, but one thing he had, he respected authority. He respected his father. If you remember back, as he was being introduced, he was sent to the troops by Jesse. And a tremendous respect that David had for his father. And then that uh I believe produced a tremendous respect that he had for King Saul. Not because of who Saul was. Saul was a less than respectable man, but because of what? Because of the position Saul held, because of the anointing of God that was upon him. And in David's mind, in David's eyes, that was a tremendous something to be respected tremendously And so God is instilling, and I believe he used Jesse for a lot of this, and develop in his son a great respect for authority. I believe it would be important for today that our children be instilled with a healthy A healthy respect for authority. Respect for authority. That is a breakdown of society. I got thinking about Satan And Adam and Eve. And I believe one of Satan's tactics, along with a number of others, he's very subtle, but I think one thing he was trying to do in the hearts and minds of Adam and Eve when he tempted them was to break down their respect for God. He says, yea, hath God said. He knows you're not going to die if you eat that. He just doesn't want you to know the difference. And he was chipping it away at their respect for God. I tell you, when we lose the fear of God and respect for God. the the fear and respect for all authority begins to crumble. And so uh David is being developed here. God's he's we see in this displayed in his response to King Saul. But the other uh characteristic, and that's what I want to look at tonight, is uh personal humility. Personal humility. I tell you, we live in a day and age when humility is not considered a positive attribute. We live in a day and age where humility is considered, what would the world consider a humble person as far as characteristic-wise? They would look at him as what? Weak. Very weak person. I'm telling you, humility requires tremendous strength. Tremendous strength. And so David God is working in David's life. He's working on him. He's pounding, using Saul He's molding him on that anvil of adversity. And we're seeing coming out of that, we're seeing David's tremendous respect. For authority, and then his also this sincere personal humility is displaying itself And one of the greatest characteristics in my mind, in my estimation, one of the greatest characteristics in the life and character of a Christian is that of humility. I believe pride is our biggest enemy spiritually speaking. And we have got to fight that tooth and nail and uh and uh be humble. Uh uh did you ever meet somebody that was very proud of how humble they were? I've come across a few. Maybe I've been guilty, I don't know. But uh humility. So let's look at this here. Let's break this down real quick. And notice a few things about David. The first thing I notice in verse number eight, I put it this way, David's posture before Saul. David's posture. Look at verse 8. Says, and David also arose after and went out of the cave and cried after Saul, saying, My Lord the King. And when Saul looked behind him, let's stop right there, put yourself in Saul's shoes. I was thinking about this. Can you imagine the shock that just went through King Saul when he hears that voice? Now, I don't know what the distance are between David and King Saul at this point. He's obviously he's let he's allowed some room so that if however Saul responds, he's going to be able to get out of there. But he's crying out. The word cry there means he is this is loud. He's yelling it out. And Saul is hearing him through the echoes. I don't know if he sees him or not. But the shock That would have uh hit King Saul. What? David? And uh I I just I just that struck me as uh to hear David's voice And then to when David explains to him what just happened and how close Saul was, I mean, I would imagine that Saul's mind at this point is just really. Trying to sort this out. What in the world just happened? How did this happen? I was just up there, you know. I thought I was in the restroom by myself. And then how David responds Look how David responds here. We already read. Look again. And when Saul looked behind him, notice the first thing he sees of David. David stooped with his face to the earth and bowed himself. I got looking at that. He literally, David literally fell down prostrate on the ground before Saul. Now think about that with me. This is a guy that's thrown javelins at him, not just to threaten him, I mean to kill him. He's trying to kill David. He has pursued him like a dog out in the wilderness And he turns around, and here David has had obviously had the opportunity to kill him. He doesn't know all the details yet. And this guy's fallen down prostrate, humbling himself before David. That is not a natural reaction of the flesh. Right or wrong? You read Galatians chapter 5. How would the flesh respond? And somebody with of David's caliber as far as military skills and strength and ability, David can handle himself. David wasn't afraid of King Saul, I don't think, as far as militarily, you know, combat type thing Um the flesh, so the flesh in somebody of David's posture would be what? Boom, I'm going out after this guy. I'm taking him down. You shoot a missile at me, I'll shoot ten back at you. You know, and I'll say there's a place for that. But um David is uh David is not reacting in the flesh here. He his mind at this point, I want to suggest to you, now this is this is assumption on my part probably. But I want to suggest to you, David's mind at this point is controlled by humility. He's not screaming back, he's not responding in kind, he's not throwing accusations, he's not making threats. He's humbling himself before David. So I noticed David's posture. Then I notice in verse 9 and 10, David makes a promise. Look at verse 9. And David said unto Saul, Wherefore hearest thou men's words, saying, Behold, David seeketh thy hurt. Behold, this day thine eyes have seen how that the Lord delivered thee today into my hand in the cave. And some bade me to kill thee. But mine eyes spared thee, and I said, here's his promise: I will not put forth mine hand against my Lord, for he is the Lord's anointed. Moreover, well, we'll stop there. I will not put forth my hand against my Lord, for he is the Lord's anointed. The first thing I notice is David addresses some false information. Verse number nine, he points out the fact that Saul has had some people speaking in his ear that David's out to get them. David is uh David is uh in attempting a coup, a coup d'etat. Take over the kingdom. David's out after you. Your life is in danger. Now question, was that true or false? That's false information. These guys that are saying it to King Saul that what they're saying is not true. It's a it what do they call it today? It's um uh fake news He's getting from these guys. Now I got thinking, how in the world did these guys come up, whoever they are, I would guess they're military advisors, probably Somebody advising the king is telling him David's out after him. David wants to overthrow the throne. Where are these guys getting that idea from? They worked with David. They saw his loyalty. They saw his bravery on the battlefield. They knew what his integrity was. Where are they getting this idea that David's out to kill Saul? The only thing I could come up with was uh they were uh I I think maybe this might be the case. They were simply telling Saul what they believed Saul wanted to hear. They knew what Saul's frame of mind was. They knew what Saul was after. And so they don't want Saul after that They uh they want to be uh what would you call them, yes men? Anybody know what we mean by that? And these guys are just saying what they know the king wants to hear Personally, I have no basis for this other than just my feeling and studying it. I don't think those guys believed that. Now maybe Saul may have convinced some of them, but David's behavior, nothing supported that. uh this idea. So my one idea is that they were just saying what uh they uh King Saul uh wanted to uh wanted to hear. Or they may have just been, when he says they're saying in your ear, David's out to get you, it may have been just nothing more than they're just agreeing with King Saul. King Saul saying, he's out to get me, and they're saying, Yeah, he probably is. Yeah, probably. And it may have been nothing more than just agreeing with them, but I find it hard to swallow than anybody That worked with David believed what Saul was accusing of him. I know his own son didn't believe it, Jonathan, um and and others. So um So it's important, I put this down. If I have to speak slander against a good person in order to keep a friendship with somebody I need to drop that friendship. You follow what I'm saying? If these guys needed to slander a good man in the eyes of the king to hold their position I'd suggest they get out drop out of that position. Just resign from that position. Now that may be easier said than done. But uh do you ever get in a situation, I've been in this a number of times and in the ministry, I hate to say it. But uh with missionaries in different situations over the years, I got in a situation where I knew this person, this preacher, a good man. I respect him, he's a friend of mine And I know this man, a good man, I respect him, he's a friend of mine, but these two guys, they don't get along. You know what I'm talking about? And these two guys are at odds. And uh and so you're in an awkward situation So you got this guy, and maybe he says something, and he wished it wasn't this didn't happen, but it does. He says something critical or whatever, slanderous sometimes of that guy. And I get with this guy and well he doesn't have anything good to say about that guy. What do I do? I just don't talk about it. I just don't talk about it because I have no reason to be critical of either of them. But I made this decision and praise the Lord, I've never had to to act on this decision. But I made a decision that if it ever came up that one preacher told me that I had to slander or think ill of another preacher to be in fellowship with them, I'm going to drop fellowship with one the one that demands me. To be critical of the other. You follow that line of thinking. And um and so I think these fellows are in a situation, if I want to keep my position with King Saul, keep the favor of King Saul. I've got to slander David. I think what you need to do is sever that relationship with King Saul. And so I don't know. There's a lot of speculation there. We're not told who what the situation is, but David uh was aware of the fact, and at least believed the fact that there were some people who were running their mouths against him, slandering him to the king. Now whatever that actually was, we can't say. But the second thing I notice, first of all, David addresses this false information. I'm not out to get you. I'm not trying to do coup d'etat. I'm not trying I'm not after you, King Saul Second of all, he assures King Saul that there's not going to be any retaliation. Look at verse number 10. I just read it. I will not put forth my hand against the Lord. You can't get clearer than that That is a promise of David to the king. Why? For he is the Lord's anointed. David's uh, I I I thought, why is David so So holding on to this respect for King Saul, after all he's done, he's lied, he's attempted murder, he's killed innocent people Why is David maintaining this respect? And I tell you what, this is the conclusion I came to. I believe David's reverence for God Produced a respect for God's anointed, and that in turn produced humility before him. before King Saul. I thought why in the world would he bow himself and be so humble before this terrible person? What he's doing. And uh his reverence for God produced respect for King Saul Which pr which displayed itself in humility before him. And I'll I'll try and bring that out here in a bit. So we got David's posture. He falls down on the ground bowing before him. You have David's promise. I'm not going to lift my hand against you. Look at verse 11 and 12. We have David's protest. Moreover, my father, what a term to use for King Saul, just again out of respect See ye, see the skirt of thy robe in my hand. I imagine he's holding it up there, and Saul's probably looking around. God, night he cut my new suit coat that Ron gave me He cut off the uh uh and uh Saul sees it there, and he says, For in that I cut off the skirt of thy robe, and I kill thee not. So now he's gonna protest Know thou and see that there is neither evil nor transgression in my hand. I have not sinned against thee, yet thou huntest my soul to take it. Verse 12, the Lord judge between me and thee, and the Lord avenged me of thee, but mine hand shall not be upon thee. So David is protesting here. He is speaking up, and he is saying this. Did you ever hear this statement? It was kind of big here the last few years in the news. Speaking truth to power. Did you ever hear that statement? The idea is confronting somebody in authority and confronting somebody with power, but saying the truth to them and not fearing what they're going to do, even though they're very in a powerful position That's the idea, speaking truth to power. That's what David is doing. He's humbled himself, he's assured King Saul, I'm not going to touch you, I am not out after you. In any way, shape, or form. I view you as God's anointed. But I'm not doing anything wrong. And you are wrong in pursuing me. And he's protesting against it. He's telling Saul, he's telling Saul what Saul needs to hear. He's telling them the truth. And I tell you, sometimes we get in church service. I've been in revivals and different meetings over the years where I sat down, the preacher's preaching, and man, he's getting all over me. You know what I mean by that I mean he's dealing with me and I don't know you've probably never been this way but sometimes initially I'm time's gone by more so now but man I would get a little my hackles up a little bit You know, uh this guy he's uh he ain't no it ain't no and by the time by the time it's done it's saying, all right Lord, you're right, I was wrong, I needed that Well, that's what David's doing. He's just telling King Saul how it is. Listen, respect for authority, and David had that. There's no doubt about it. He respected Saul's position, the authority he had uh given to him by God, he respected that. But respecting authority does not mean I never confront authority when it's wrong. And that is a real, real danger. Sometimes somebody that is an authority, even a biblical authority, but they're doing wrong We need to, we don't just say, well, they're anointed of the Lord, so we'll just let them do wrong, you know, we're going to do fine. That's not scriptural. Respect for authority does not mean I never confront authority when it's wrong, but respect for authority determines how I confront them when they're wrong. Follow my thinking Yes, there is a place. If uh you know if the guy is doing wrong, it needs to be addressed. It needs to be some cases confronted. But out of respect, I do it very carefully. I do it very humbly. You see all through the Bible different folks that prophets that would approach the king, and boy, they were just straight up, said, King, you're wrong. You're living in sin. But they always did it with respect for that position. You see Paul in the book of Acts, when he's arrested and the high priests approach him. And you see a tremendous respect there. He doesn't hesitate to confront them where they're wrong, but he always does it in a respectful way. There are two dangers in dealing with authority that is wrong, that authority that is doing wrong. One danger is to simply overlook the sin because there's someone in authority. Well, they're in that position. God's put them in that position, so we're just going to turn the other cheek. I'm not going to mess with it. That's not right. The other one is to attack that person with vengeance and hatred and arrogance and to reject the authority they have. That's also wrong. So David's very, very careful here. He bowed himself. He showed humility. He displayed his intentions were not to hurt him. But now I need to address something, Saul. You're hunting an innocent man. You're doing wrong You're mistaken. And uh he points that out. He protests that King Saul. And then I like what he says in verse 12. Look at verse 12. The Lord judge between me and thee. He just said up in verse 11, he says, I have not sinned against thee, yet thou hunest my soul to take it. He's rebuking him But then he says, The Lord judge between me and thee. The Lord avenge me of thee. But my hand shall not be upon thee. You know what David's saying? David's saying, I'm going to let God deal with this. King Saul, I have not pursued you. I spared your life. I could have killed you. I did not. I'm not out after you. And yet you're hunting me, an innocent man. Tell you what we're going to do. Let's let God deal with this. I'm just going to let God be the judge. Let God be take a vengeance of me. I'm not taking any vengeance. I am not going to touch you. What a tremendous response. I found In my limited experience, a little bit of experience, I've found that God is a whole lot better at dealing with conflict than I am. God's a whole lot better at resolving issues than I am. This is the way I get. You're probably not this way. This is how I get. Oh yeah, we need to take care of this. We need to take care of it right now. Let's go. I don't care who you are. We're gonna settle this. You know what I found anytime I had that approach, it usually turned out bad. Because I found most people are bigger than me. Most people are stronger than me. And uh I found a whole lot of times if listen, I'll just say the truth, I'll just deal with it, humble myself. And say, Lord, I need you to take care of this. God, let you be the judge. Let you resolve this. And I found out God's pretty good at what he does. God usually comes through. Not usually. God comes through all the time. And so I want to suggest to you a lot of our issues, a lot of our conflict, a lot of the things we get worked up about David's case, it's legit, but a lot of times it's just stuff, you know, let's just let the Lord be the judge of this. Let's just let God deal with this and take care of it. Doesn't mean I ignore it, doesn't mean I don't address it, but uh I let the Lord deal with uh the vengeance and all of that Then we have a proverb David brings up real quick, verse number 13. He makes this statement. At first I didn't follow what he was saying here, what he was coming from, but then I got looking at it, I think I figured it out Verse 13 he says, As saith the prop. Now he just said, he's yelling out to King Saul down the side of the mountain, the Lord's going to be the judge, I'm not going to raise my hand against you. As saith the proverb of the ancients. Imagine Saul thinks, okay, what do the proverbs, what do the ancients say? Wickedness proceedeth from the wicked But my hand shall not be upon thee. I thought, what in the world is he saying? Is he saying, is he calling King Saul wicked? And all of that, maybe indirectly, but I don't think that's what he's after. You've got to understand what a proverb is. Anyone want to take a shot? What how would you define a proverb? Somebody See what you think. We quote a proverb. We got a book of Proverbs. Well, advice would be what? Encapsulated wisdom. There you go. Anybody else? This is the definition I came up with. I looked at others and and it includes both of what you you guys said. It's a short statement encapsulated, a short statement stating a clear truth or giving wise advice. You read through the Proverbs. There's a lot of just simple, very obvious statements there. He that keepeth his mouth keepeth his soul from troubles. How many people say that's a very obvious truth. That's a proverb, a witty little statement that has a profound truth, or it's giving advice. It's giving advice out. So David is quoting this proverb, not from scripture, it's from the ancients. They've been saying it for years You know, we've got little proverbs uh things uh people say that aren't in the Bible. Uh trying to think of one. There are some. A stitch in time says nine. Cleanliness is next to godliness. Uh there's others. Uh I had an old farmer tell me one time, he says, You know why the d uh the cows lay down? in the field facing the east, when all the cows are laying down facing the east. He says, You know what that means? I said, I have no idea. He says, it means they're tired. And um very pithy statements like that That was the but anyway. So David's quoting this proverb from the ancients, and this is how the proverb goes. He says, Wickedness proceedeth from the wicked. I said, all right, what's he trying to say here? I think this is what he's getting at. I think he's saying, Saul, wicked actions come from wicked character. Wickedness proceedeth from the wicked. He's saying we do what we do because we are what we are. Wicked actions proceed from wicked character. Now, is he commenting on Saul's actions or David's actions? I think he's referencing his own actions. He's saying, King Saul, if I was wicked, if I was this terrible person that you believe I am and that people are telling you I am, I had an opportunity to act on that wickedness. I had an opportunity to kill you And I didn't do it. Wickedness proceedeth from the wicked. There was no wickedness. There was no vengeance. There was no death. There was no violence. I didn't kill you, stab you in the back. Slice your neck when you're in a vulnerable position. I didn't do any of that. And so the accusations that I'm being wicked and I have I have ill intentions to you, don't hold up because wickedness proceedeth from the wicked. You follow what I think he's saying? And it's a defense of himself, saying, listen, my actions are telling you, King Saul, what I am, what my heart is. And um uh Jesus put it this way, you can tell a tree by its fruit. And he's saying, Saul, look at my actions. You can tell what my intentions are. Look at my behavior. You can tell where my mind is at. And so he's defending himself. And then last of all, and with this, verse 14 and 15, he makes a pronouncement. Verse 14, he says, after whom is the king of Israel come out? After whom dost thou pursue? Who are you chasing King Saul? Think about it. Look what he says. After a what? A dead dog. And after a what? A flea. What's he saying? David's saying, King Saul, I'm no threat to you. You're spending all this time and energy and effort. investing resources into chasing me around someone that's not a threat. I'm no more a threat to you than a dead dog. How many people walking down the road if there was a big uh let's say Rottweiler and uh got someone's attention Uh big rottweiler there and you're walking down that thing's coming screaming out of the park out of the yard, out of the garage, coming out the yard uh driveway right towards you walking down the road. How many people would be a little concerned Yeah, I'd be in the car by now. I used to go so and this was my sewing, I used to go sewing, knock on the door, or go in. If there was a dog there, I'd say I'm just going Trust God. I don't care that dog. I'm going to go witness them no matter what. I've been bit six times now. Now when I knock on a door, I see a dog, I just go to the next door. I don't even mess with it As long as that dog's barking and growling and going on and foaming at the mouth, I'm scared. But if you walk up the thing and that dog's laying there, it's dead The the vultures are eating on it. I'm not scared of that dog at all, right? And he says, who are you chasing? You're chasing a dead dog. I'm no threat to you You're wasted time. A flea. You know, a flea might irritate you a little bit, but it's not a threat. It's not something you bring the whole army out after. And so David's making this pronouncement. He says, I'm not a threat to you. Nobody values any of these. I'm no more of a threat to you than a flea would be. We could put it this way in modern terminology. Saul, I'm a low level uh uh uh how do I put it? Um I'm a low value target I'm a low-value target. Why are you investing so much time and effort in somebody that's no threat at all whatsoever? So he says, uh Saul, I'm not a threat. Sometimes perceived enemies may actually be our friends. Sometimes we look at somebody and our first impression is, man, they're terrible. And we end up, we get to know them, we find out they're not anything worse. Listen, before you go, listen, before you go to fight someone you think is your enemy, you better make sure they're actually your enemy first. Before you invest the time and effort to eliminate something, make sure it's not something you might need or it might be helpful for you. Best thing in the world for King Saul would have been to have David on his side Would it have been David right there with him? But he got messed up because of envy. And now he perceives an actual friend as an enemy. And David says, I'm not. So David says, I'm not a threat, and then David says, I'm not your judge. Look at verse 14. Verse 15. The Lord therefore be judge, and judge between me and thee, and see, and plead my cause, and deliver me out of thy hand. Listen. I'm just going to let God deal with your heart, King Saul. I'm going to let God deal with this. I'm not a threat to you. Rather than taking the situation in his own hands, and that's what David's men advised You need it. Here's your chance. Kill him. David said, no, no, no. I'm going to put this whole situation back into God's hands. I'm going to put this whole thing into God's hands. I wish we had more time. I wanted to go to Matthew chapter 5 where the Lord is giving the sermon on the mound and we don't have time. But he makes this statement. He says, love those that hate you. Bless those that curse you. He says, do good to them that hate you. Pray for them and bless them that curse you. That's exactly what David's doing. You know what the Lord was saying there? I think one aspect of what he was saying was, you just let God be the judge. They're cussing you out. They're all worked up. There may be so much information about that situation you don't know about why they're reacting to it. You let God deal with that. You let God take care of that. And I think that's what David is saying to King Saul. I'm not going to deal, I'm not, I'm not going to re-there's no vengeance from thee. God's going to be the judge of this, not me. So go to God. Let God deal with it. Again, I read about a fella years and years ago a package was sent from England down to a fella in South Africa. Now I don't know any of the particulars about it. I believe it's a true story the way it's presented It got down there in the Postal Service, whatever version of there is down there at the time, they brought it to the man. It was sent from England. You know, it took a long time to get there. He brought some man. He had to co sign co-sign for it, uh sign off on it, and he had to uh there was a small delivery fee, if I think if I remember correctly, it was a dollar or something, almost nothing The guy was kind of arrogant and he says, I ain't paying no dollar for this. I don't know, and I don't know if he and he refused it. He wouldn't pay the dollar to get this package from England. And so they brought it back, and it was too much effort to send it all the way back, and this guy wouldn't accept it, so it just sat around the post office for 14 years. The record said that they would use it for a footstool, this package. So finally they were remodeling the post office there and This thing was there and a couple others and they said, we're going to have an auction. We're just going to sell off everything, get what we can for it. So they had a little auction. They sold a bunch of stuff and this box went up And one fellow, nobody was bidding anything on it, it was just a package, who knows what's in it. So a guy g bid fifty cents, got the package, he got home and opened it up, and there was several thousand dollars worth of cash. inside that box. All those years sat there. The guy got it for 50 cents. You say, what in the world does that have to do with David? Here's what I thought. David could have been proud and said, no, I'm not humbling myself before him I'm not letting him get away with that. And David would have lost everything that God had planned for him. But David paid a little price of humbling himself. of not seeking vengeance. Just put it in God's hand. And God does an amazing thing. Delivers him and uh he eventually becomes uh the greatest king that Israel ever had up to that up to our day. Lord Jesus will be next. And that's something. So it it it it doesn't cost a lot to humble ourselves. But I tell you, uh he that humble himself, the Lord exalts. God gives grace to the humble. I think one of the greatest characteristics for you and I as a believer is to learn to humble ourselves. Let's pray. Father, I ask you'd help us. In every situation, in every circumstance, help us to trust you. Lord, help us to respect others and whatever. And I pray, Lord, you'd help us to be humble, even when it's difficult, even when it doesn't seem uh to our minds the thing to do would help us just to trust you. I wonder if our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, I need to learn to develop this characteristic of humility I need that in my life. And now my hands raise, any others, I need that. God helps us. He sure does. He wants us. And uh Jesus was a meek man, Moses, tremendously humble, meek man, and that's what we need in our life. Father, bless now our invitation. Teach us, help us to be humble ourselves deliberately on purpose. In Jesus' name I pray. Let's stand together, heads about, eyes closed. If we want to give opportunity, maybe just kneel on an old altar and