They're the only guys I know that amen their own singin'. It was good though. It was good. James chapter 4. You have your Bible? James chapter 4. We're looking at a very significant verse here. And uh along the l and by the way, I got a compliment today on my jokes. So all that did was encourage me. Uh Lion was uh very proud. And that's the subject where pride and humility is our text. And so this lion was very, very proud of himself. He was the king of the jungle. And he wanted to be sure that everybody knew That he was the king of the jungle. So he decided to go out and he was going to confront everybody and make sure they knew that he was the king And so he he was so confident of it he didn't even bother with the little animals. He went to the other big ones. So he found a um bear And he approached a bear and he says, Who, Mr. Bear, is the king of the jungle? And the bear said, very kindly, said, Why, of course you are, sir. The lion roared, That's right. I'm king of the jungle. Next he goes to the tiger. He says, to the tiger, who is king of the jungle? The tiger quickly responds, Well, Mr. Lion, everybody knows. that you are the king of the jungle. Roar! That's right. And he uh lets out a mighty roar. Next on the list was the elephant And when he over the elephant, he looked the elephant in the face and he says, Who, Mr. Elephant, is the king of the jungle? Without responding, the elephant took the lion by the trunk uh with his trunk, grabbed him around the neck, swung him around in circles, slammed him down on the ground, then picked him up, threw him against the tree, went over, grabbed him by his trunk, held him down in the wa under the lake water till he just about drowned Then pulled him up, threw him on the ground again, and stomped on him ten times. The ti the lion's like, oh Barely alive. And he looks up and he says, Listen, Mr. Elephant, just 'cause you don't know the answer doesn't mean you have to be mean about it. How is that one? Pride and humility. Look at James chapter four, look at verse number six. Now we started this verse last week. But he giveth more grace. I'm glad God gives grace. As I said last week, the one thing I need in life more than anything else is God's grace. I need that. But he giveth more grace. Wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace, the one thing we really need more than anything else, God giveth grace to who? The humble. Humility brings God's grace. So let's pray and we'll look at this verse one more time. Father, I ask you to bless now our time in this passage. As we look at this again, I ask that you would challenge us. Lord, I am the least probably qualified perhaps to be able to speak on pride and humility And so I ask, Lord, that it would not be me speaking tonight, but I pray it would be your Holy Spirit speaking your word through me to each of our hearts. I present my body anew tonight, and I yield my will to you, and I pray with all my heart that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and that you would do just what I ask, Lord, speak through me. Help us to be receptive I pray that every one of us tonight, as a part of this church, every last one of us, you would help us to make a conscious decision to humble ourselves before you and before one another Because we need your grace, God. Please bless and have your way in Jesus' name. Amen. I think one of the most sobering statements in scripture, one of them at least, is in this verse here that I just read where it says, God resisteth the proud. The word resist there, when it says God resisteth the proud, it has this idea. Now think about this. It has the idea of going to battle against A man or a woman gets proud. Even as a Christian, we get proud. And that's who this book is addressed to, the believers. We get proud. And the Bible says God resists us. God, according to the definition of this word, goes to battle against us. Another aspect of that word resisteth has this idea to put oneself in opposition to In other words, if I when I if and when I get proud, God puts Himself in opposition to me. He goes to battle against me. I don't know about you. I don't want God to be in opposition to me. I've read this Bible through. scores of times. I'm working on my I think it's my 38th time, something like that, 35th time. And I've read that enough to know nobody goes to battle with God and comes out a winner. It never ends up good when God resists somebody, when God goes in opposition against. This statement is actually repeated almost verbatim in 1 Peter 5. 5. The second part of the verse, he says the exact same thing. God resisteth the proud. The last thing in the world I want to do is be resisted by God. The last thing on the world I want to happen is for God to go to battle against me, or God to be in opposition to me And so I've got to fight pride. And we preached on that last week. I have got to fight pride. I cannot let pride get a foothold in my life, in my thinking. I cannot allow that to happen. Because that's disaster. That's disaster. Somebody said if you want to make God laugh, tell him your plans It's a pretty good statement. And we're actually the our this book of James addresses that a little bit later on. I had tweaked that statement a little bit. I put it this way. You want to make God laugh? Tell him how great you are. Tell him how you want to make God laugh, tell him how much you deserve God resisteth the proud. God resisteth proud. As I said, no one has gone in opposition to God and ended up a winner Nobody is going in opposition to God and ended up in good shape. You don't believe me? Ask Pharaoh how that works out. When he stiffened his neck and hardened his heart against God and in pride refused to submit to God's clear instructions and God's obvious will And didn't work out too good for him. History is the history of man is littered with the corpses of those who have acted proudly. The history of man is littered with the corpses of those who have stiffened their necks against God. The Bible says in James chapter 4 and verse 6, God resisteth the proud. We preached on that last week. But look at the rest of the verse. But he giveth grace unto the humble. He giveth grace unto the humble. I need grace. The Christian life is made up of the grace of God. Everything about my relationship with God, everything about my salvation, everything about my Christian life revolves around and is dependent upon the grace of God I need that grace. I need that grace. So God giveth grace to the humble. To the humble. I put this down. The first test of a good Christian is his level of humility. The very first test of a mature Christian is, are they humble? How humble are they? Having a biblical view of myself, a correct, proper biblical view of myself, and a correct biblical estimation of myself Is the first test of being whether I'm a mature Christian or not. How do you define humility? Humility, this is my attempt at defining humility, humility, someone said this, is humiliation or a lowliness of mind. Humility has to do with my way of thinking, about myself in particular. How do I think about myself, my value, my merits? My uh uh my standing. Humility has an a lowliness of mind, a And I thought the word humiliation in the definition that I found was interesting, a humiliation of mind about myself I found a good definition. If you would, keep your place here in James, and we're going to look at a number of verses here in the next few minutes. If you would, go back to Romans chapter number 12. And I think Paul, again, under the inspiration of God, addresses this subject of humility. And uh and I think it would help us maybe in our understanding of What he's talking about when he says God giveth grace to the humble. Romans chapter 12, and look with me if you would at verse number 3. Romans 12, 3 The Bible says, For I say, through the grace given unto me, that every man that is among you not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think But to think soberly. The word soberly there means to be under control. Think soberly, according as God hath dealt to every man the measure of faith. See what he says there? He says, uh not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think. I thought it was interesting when I was reading this and studying this. How grace is tied into. Do you see what he says there? Through the grace given unto me? How grace is mentioned in the same sentence with his instruction not to think too highly of yourself Humility and God's grace, God's grace, I should say, being poured out is very much conditioned upon my attitude of humility. Now, what is humility? Lowliness of mind, not thinking too highly of myself. Let me tell you what humility is not Humility is not groveling. How many people know what I mean when I use the term groveling? You know what I'm talking about? Uh I knew a fella years ago. Uh he would uh he would put on and and I love the man, I'm not trying to be critical of him, but he would put on an air of Obviously phony humility. And he would walk around like this. He would almost always be hunched over a little bit, and might some of it might have been physical. But uh am I on here? Jamie on the I don't want to this and maybe uh I'll stay behind here. But um uh he would he would always talk about how terrible he was and how I'm nobody and I'm just nothing and I'm uh and uh he was always just down on himself and grovelling and I'm nothing and I'm not worthy of anything and uh and uh it was statements like this I'm not this and I'm not that and I'm not much of this and I'm not this and I'm not Do you catch a word that's being used a lot through there? Aye, aye, aye, aye. That is not what humility is. In fact, I suggest that that is a ver a form of pride. Where it's an obsession, a focus on myself and what I'm not and all of that. So it is not groveling. Humility is not going around thinking how terrible I am and how lowly I am and how nothing I am. It's not that. Humility is not. I like this one. We have to be careful. Humility is not necessarily being unaware of the abilities that God has given me God has given to every one of us, Corinthians teaches us very clearly, God has given to every one of us gifts, different abilities that He intends for us to use for the advancement of the kingdom, for the glory of God. And so being humility, being humble isn't denying some ability that God has given to me. It isn't n negating some gift that God has given me and designed for me to use for his glory. That's not what humility is. And I don't mean to put them on the spot and it it's interesting I didn't plan it this way, but Brother Williams is here. I think he's a tremendous example of someone that very humbly acknowledges a gift that God has given to him. If you've been here, is this 23 years, I think, Brother Williams, you've been coming. I've been saying twenty-two, but I actually think it's twenty-three. And um If you've been around any of these years, you've heard him say this several times. He'll do his chalk drawing up there. I think we all agree he's definitely gifted. God has gifted him with that artistic ability, no doubt about it. But if you've heard, if you've paid attention over the years, you've heard him say this on numerous occasions. He'll finish it up, he'll step back, and he'll say something to this effect. Wow, that's really good. That's not pride. If you talk to him, and he says it from the pulpit, he says it publicly often, he'll say something like this Sometimes it amazes me what God has enabled me to do. He's given glory to who? He's not saying, boy, I'm really something. I'm this, I'm that. It's not what he's saying. He's saying, God Has given me an ability. God has gifted me, and I stand in amazement of what God does through me So humility is not denying or denying some gift or ability that God has given me that's to be used for his glory. It's not humility. Humility isn't groveling and focused on what I'm not. Humility is not insecurity. Sometimes I get in a situation, I'm sure none of you all are ever like this, but sometimes I get in a situation where I'm very insecure Anybody ever know what I'm talking about? Just not real secure in that situation. I'm not sure how to deal with this. I'm not sure what's up. I don't I just very insecure. I feel uh uh uh insufficient or incapable of this. Um uh I'm I'm grasping for a word, I can't get it, but I I I'm very insecure in that situation. I'm not very confident Fact of the matter is, a person can be humble and yet very confident in what they're doing. Yes, I know how to do this. Yes, I am able to handle this. That's not pride knowing what I'm capable of doing, knowing what I'm able to do That's not humility saying, oh no, I couldn't do this. If I can, that's a gift of God. You follow what I'm saying? Am I making sense? So it's not insecurity, just walking around say, oh, uh Humility is not thinking too highly of myself. It's being lowly of mind. It's hard to define, but you know it when you see it. I put a few statements down. I put this down. Humility and gratitude go hand in hand. I've found that a truly humble person is very, very grateful for everything they have. I was thinking of uh and for some reason she's been on my mind the last couple weeks, a dear lady lived down in Chattanooga, Tennessee. I had a bus route. We ran the buses Sunday afternoons. They would run, they had forty-some buses when I was at Highland Park. They would run most of them in the morning. They'd run buses all over They bring in kids. Then the afternoon we had a different shift come in. I was in the afternoon shift on Sundays, fuel the buses up, hop back in them, and head back out again. And we had afternoon Sunday school And they ran probably half the buses on Sunday afternoon and go to other parts of the city that weren't covered in the morning. And we brought in hundreds and hundreds of kids in the afternoon, six, eight hundred kids in the afternoon uh we would bring in. And uh I w the r the section that I was with um uh the buses they had it divide up in different groups and our section was the inner city projects of Chattanooga. I mean what we would call today the slums. It was all government housing, just rough, rough, rough, rough. Gangs. uh drugs, prostitution, all that. It was just a rough area. And uh in the midst of these projects There was a little home, and the fellow that had worked the route before I got on, he introduced me to Anna Nixon-Tate was her name. This dear precious little old lady, she grew up in Alabama, and we would visit her, and she was, without a doubt, And Kathy met her. Kathy knew her. She was without a doubt the most godly, humble Christian gal I have ever met in my life. She was the sweetest thing in the middle of those projects and we would come by and and uh I was introduced when I first came and we got to know her and we became friends and I would knock on the door and say, Mrs. Tate Oh, Brother Danny. I let her call me Brother Denny. Oh, Brother Denny, come on in. And go ahead. And she could hardly say And just the most humble home. She had a little transistor radio she had on WDYN, the Christian Station in town there. uh that the church had. She had a little transistor radio, no TV, nothing else, just very, very m very, very poor home and setting. And I'm telling you, my highlight of the week was to go visit Mrs. Tate. What a godly humble woman. And I'm telling you, she was the most grateful person I have ever met in my life. She had nothing, relatively speaking, she had nothing. And she'd say, oh, God's so good to me. God has blessed me so much. And she would pray. I called her home my haven of rest. I'd go in there and I'd pray with her and she would always say this. You got me going, I'll meditate now. But uh she would say this, Brother Danny, I'm trying to work on my memory. Can uh I want to quote a It's a passage of scripture. You get your Bible, make sure I'm quoting it right. And she would quote entire chapters from the book of Psalms. I mean talking forty, fifty, sixty verses at a shot. She'd quote them to me I'd say you got it right. She was word perfect every time. She was in her late 80s back then, and this was like 1982 1983 in that range, 81. I'm sure she's with the Lord by now. She had survived three men. She had uh outlived three husbands. She grew up picking cotton down in Alabama, back in the old days. She was a precious little black lady. And I thought, when I was when I wrote that statement down Humility and gratitude go hand in hand. I thought of Mrs. Tate, how humble she was, and how grateful she was. I put this down. Genuine humility and genuine humility produces genuine holiness. Holiness. Now maybe we don't think of humility and holiness, but they really do go together. Holiness without humility produces hypocrisy. If I'm trying to live a holy life and I'm trying to do right and I'm trying to be every uh godly and I want to be I want to be holy, but if I'm not humble about it, I become very self-righteous. I pick up an attitude of holier than thou, and it begins to produce a hypocrisy because holiness begins in the heart. And the Pharisees are a classic example of someone who tried to be holy, but they were not humble. And it was hypocrisy to the core. I want to suggest to you genuine biblical holiness, which we don't hear much about in churches today, which God still expects from his people today. Must begin with humility, a right understanding, a right attitude about myself and my standing before God and my standing before others. And so humility and gratitude go hand in hand. Genuine humility will produce genuine hypocrisy And so God says He giveth grace to the humble. So I'm concerned about being humble. I want to know what He means by that. I want to know how to apply that. I got two Two thoughts here, I'm going to give you two points, and then uh we're going to have the Lord's Supper. Number one, the prototype of humility Now how many people here what do I mean when I use the word prototype? What am I talking about? If something is a prototype, what is it? Alright, it's the model or it's somebody else said something. Uh-huh. It's the standard or the pattern. uh for something else. If they have a new car and they put a prototype out, that's what the other all the others are patterned after. That prototype. All the others are designed after the prototype. So here's my question. What is the who would be the prototype For Christian humility. Who would be the one that we would pattern ourselves after? Who were the one that we would model ourselves after if we're going to be Uh if I'm going to be humble, I I want to prototype, I want a pattern to go by, I want a model to follow. Uh if I'm going No, don't I didn't mean for you to answer it I'll get there. Hold on. So who am I going to pattern my if I need you I need God's grace. I desperately need God's grace. My home, my marriage, my ministry. If I get proud, God's going to resist it. It's going to cut off his grace. So I cannot be proud. I must learn to be humble. I must humble myself before God and man But I'm not sure how to do that. I need a model, I need a prototype, I need a standard, I need an example. Who do I follow? There's a lot of examples in Scripture of humble people. I thought of Joseph. How many people agree with me? Joseph was an incredibly humble man. In prison all those years? Praising God? And then his brothers come and he makes that phenomenal statement. You meant it for evil. But God meant it for good. There was no vindictiveness there. There was no getting back or making them pay and Well, none of that at all. He's just humble before God. God's in control. God takes care of all this. God worked it all out. Man, what an example. What a pattern for you and I To follow in our lives, to be humble. So we've got that. I thought about Daniel and the lion's end. How many people agree with me? Daniel's a pretty humble guy. Now he's not insecure, he's not groveling around, he's very confident, he knows exactly what's right, he knows exactly what he needs to do, but there's not a hint of pride about Daniel at all And he just prays and he trusts God. I thought of Daniel I put down, I like this guy, Gideon. How many people like the story of Gideon? Slew the Midians. How many people like it because your kid's name is Gideon? Anybody? But anyway, I don't know what I'm talking about, so just disregard that. Gideon, what a neat guy. Everybody says that Gideon was afraid. Remember he was hiding behind and he was threshing the wheat and the Midianites are out there. How many people remember that story? And he's hiding there. Oh, Gideon was scared. I don't think he was scared. I think he was brave. The fact that he was out there doing that. Nobody else was, and he's out there threshing the wheat. What a neat story But Gideon was very, very humble. He says, God, you're calling me to do something. I don't feel qualified. God, I can't. And God just reassured him and God showed him until finally he trusted God and stepped out. So we got Gideon, we got Daniel, we got Joseph. We could look at uh John the Baptist. John the Baptist's great statement. He must increase, but I must. Boy, what a good what a good way. How many of you agree with me? That would be a good philosophy of life Christ must increase and I must decrease. So we've got John the Baptist. We go on down through here, but The prototype for humility is, all right, now's the time, is Jesus Christ. Amen. What an example. Take your Bible with me, and we're going to look at some verses that talk about the humility of Christ. Philippians chapter 2. You would turn there to Philippians chapter 2. Jesus Christ is the supreme example of humility. Philippians chapter 2, verse number 5. Y'all are being very humble tonight and working with me. Philippians chapter 2 and verse 5. Now notice verse 5 is an instruction the Lord is giving us. He's telling us to do something. How many people agree with me when God tells us to do something, we ought to do it? Amen. Now look what he says in Philippians chapter 2 and verse 5. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. The word mind there is this, have this attitude or this way of thinking. So he's saying the way Jesus, the attitude or the mind that Christ had is the attitude or the mind that you and I should have The way Jesus Christ thought is the way we ought to think. He's telling us to do that. Who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God. Alright, Jesus claimed the deity, was not robbing God of anything. He was a correct statement. But made himself of no reputation, look at this, and took upon him the form of a servant. How many people agree with me, Jesus Christ deserved to be treated better than a servant? Yes, he's God. He ate of anybody, he had the right to be treated like a king. But he wasn't. He humbled himself. Look. Took upon him, made the made himself no reputation, took upon him the form of a servant. Now you and I are supposed to think that same way We're supposed to take on the attitude, the mentality, the position of a servant, serving others. Not demanding that others do what I say, but serving others. And was made in the likeness of man, and being found in fashion as a man, look at this, he what? Are you there? Verse 8: Being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself. Humbled himself, became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Then verse 9 and 10, God highly exalts him. And one day every kneel bowed, every tongue confessed that Jesus is Lord. What an example What an example. I'm not going to demand that others serve me. I'm not going to demand that others do my will. No, no, no. I'm going to humble myself. I'm going to take on the form of a servant And serve, not to be ministered unto, but to minister. And give of myself. Take your Bible, if you would, turn over to 2 Corinthians. We're going backwards here, 2nd Corinthians. And chapter number eight. 2 Corinthians 8 and verse number 9. I have this verse underlined in reading in my Bible. 2 Corinthians 8-9. For ye know that the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, are you there? For you know that the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became what? Poor. That ye through his poverty might be rich. Would you agree with me? That verse is saying that Jesus Christ humbled himself. He put aside the riches of heaven. He was rich, but he became poor. He had nowhere to lay his head. The foxes had place to lay their heads, the birds of the Arab nest. But he had nowhere to lay his head. He did all that deliberately for your sake and my sake. Let me put it this way Jesus suffered loss So you and I could gain. What a blessing. Humility, humbling himself. One more I want to show you, Matthew chapter 20. And verse 25, all the way back in Matthew chapter 20. I'd like you to turn these. I want you to see these. Maybe highlight these in your Bible. Underscore them. Philippians 2 thought it not robbery equal to God, but he laid aside his reputation, took upon the form of a man, humbled himself, became obedient to death 2 Corinthians 8, he became poor. Look at Matthew chapter 20, verse 26. It shall not be so among you, but whosoever will be what? Great among you, let him be your Minister. Exact opposite of the way the world thinks. And whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your what? Servant. Why would I do that? Look at verse 28. Even as the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to what? Minister. And to give his life a ransom for many. What is this telling us? Jesus put aside his own rights. Jesus put aside his own glory. He put aside his own glory And he humbled himself and he gave of himself for the good of others. How does the world think? How does pride think? Pride thinks you owe it to me. Pride thinks you need to serve me. You need to do what I insist on. And Christ says, no, no, no. The prototype is no no no, you die to self. We humble ourselves, we serve others. And so the prototype is the Lord Jesus Christ. I am most like Christ when I'm humble. And I am most like the devil when I'm proud. And I want to suggest to you the key to humility is getting the focus off myself and off of my concerns and get the focus on Christ and on his concerns. My last thought is this. I have one more point. Number one, the prototype for humility. Number two, the promises of humility. I tell you, you could do a series on this. I'll just list them to you. Some of the most amazing promises in the Bible are given to those who will humble themselves. In Proverbs 3, we won't have time to turn to these. Proverbs 3 verse 34, write that down. James 4, 6, our text. 1 Peter 5. 5. God giveth grace to the humble. Those that humble themselves receive God's grace. We receive God's favor. We receive God's strength. God's enablement. There is no promise of grace to the proud. Nowhere does God promise you get proud, you get focused on yourself, you think the world of yourself, and I'll give you grace. Never promises that. In fact, he says, I resist that. He says, but you humble yourself. You don't think so highly of yourself. You bow before you put aside your reputation and you take upon you the form of a servant, and I'll pour grace out on you. I'll pour my strength out on you, and I'll pour my enablement out on you, and I'll pour my provisions and my care and my protection out on you. If you humble yourself So one of the promises in Scripture for those of humility is we received God's grace. A second one of this, and I would like you to turn real quickly with me back to Proverbs It's amazing how much we end up in Proverbs when we're in uh James. Proverbs chapter eleven. Is everybody with me? Are you all hanging in there? Proverbs chapter eleven and verse number two. Proverbs eleven and verse two Notice what it says. When pride cometh, then cometh what? Shame. We looked at that last week. But look at the rest of this statement. But with the lowly, we could say, with the humble. is wisdom. Wisdom. What is wisdom? Just briefly, it's the ability to make right decisions. It is the ability to go in the correct direction for my life. It is the ability to take the right actions. I'm telling you as a Christian we need wisdom. Do you agree with me? We need wisdom. We need the ability to make the right decisions, to take the correct action, to go in the right direction for our life And the only way that comes is when we're proud is when we're humble, not when we're proud. When I get proud, I start making stupid decisions I get caught up in myself and I think too highly of myself. I start going in the wrong direction. I start taking bad actions. I act foolishly. When I humble myself before God, then I have wisdom and I know and I understand. I'll go over to Proverbs 22 and verse 4. Humility. Proverbs 22 and verse 4. I just got just another statement or two. Proverbs 22 and verse number 4. I love this verse. I'll be honest with you. I don't know how this all plays out, how this all is applied, but I know it's true. Look what it says. Verse number three, verse number four, Proverbs 22. By humility And the fear of the Lord are, look at this, riches, honor, and life. The world says you dog-eat dog, you've got to demand your way, you've got to bulldoze your way through, you've got to take the bull by the horns and just take charge. God says, oh no, no. You humble yourself and lowly, I'll give you riches and honor and life. Humility brings God's blessings on my life. Brings God's blessings. I'll throw this out there. I'll suggest to you: there's no salvation without humility. I get proud and say I deserve heaven. I deserve eternal life. Person thinks that way, I'll tell you one thing, they don't have it. And they ain't going to get it that way either. You know how salvation comes? And I bow that stiff neck. I say, Lord, I'm a sinner. I'm a sorry, sorry sinner. The only thing I deserve is to burn in a devil's hell. I've broken your law. I've sinned against you. God, I humble myself before you, and I receive that gift of the Lord Jesus Christ, eternal Lion. You come as a beggar, humble before God, receiving salvation. Not proud, stiff, and I demand it, I deserve to be saved. No, no, no, no, no. Humble humility. The promises of humility. All through Scripture. All through Scripture. Those who humbled themselves before God and man found God. Their needs were met They found forgiveness of sins. They saw God do miracles. They saw lives change. They saw God honor them. I thought about that widow lady that came, or not the widow lady, the lady with the issue of blood, and she came and touched the hem of Jesus' garment. And Jesus, turn around. Who touched me? Virtue went out of me. Very humbly, it was me, Lord. It was me And God healed her. I thought about the woman that came and asked the Lord to uh be gracious and and uh take uh cure her and uh sh and the Lord says now I'm not sent to the Gentiles, I'm sent to the children of God. She says, Yes, but even the dogs Deserved crumbs from the table. She humbled herself and God met her request. All through scripture you find God honoring those who humble themselves God giving grace to those who humble themselves to be victorious and live happy Christian lives. The more I remove myself from pride, The more God pours His grace out on me. My experience has been this: Proud people are angry people. The more proud a person gets, the more angry they are. I deserve to be treated better. I deserve what I, I, I, I But I've found the more humble a person becomes, the happier they are They become grateful for all that God has done for them. They be grateful for the privilege of being a part of the family of God. Humility. Humility. A German prince, I read this this past week, a German prince went into a prison. And as he came to the gate, he told the prison guard, he says, I'm going to release one prisoner today. Who do you recommend? I don't know who to release. He goes, well let's go in and meet the prisoners and maybe you can help decide. So they went into the prison gallery gallery there where all the prisoners were and he began, the prince began talking to different prisoners one by one. He'd come up to their cell And he asked them this question. He says, Why are you here? He went to the first fellow. He says, Why are you here? And the first fellow said, I've been done wrong. The evidence was tampered with. I'm innocent. He said, okay. And he stepped on down to the next one. He said, Why are you here? And he says, Oh, it was set up. The judge was bribed, and somebody gave wrong judgment. I don't deserve it. He said, okay, he went to the next cell. He says, Why are you? He said, I had a bad lawyer, and he just bots the whole case. Finally, he gets to one prisoner sitting in the back, and he wasn't up hollering and yelling, just sitting there. He said, Sir. Why are you in prison? The man hung his head and he says, Prince, I'm ashamed. I deserve to be here. I'm guilty. I did wrong. It says to be honest with you, I'm far more guilty than anyone here even realizes. I deserve my judgment. Guess who the prince let loose? The man who humbled himself and says, I'm sinner. I don't deserve it. You know who God blesses? You know who God blesses with happiness and life and joy? The one that says, God, I'm a sinner. I don't deserve the least of your favors. Humble themselves. God giveth grace to the humble. We're going to go to the Lord's Supper here in just a moment. I want to challenge all of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior. Let's make a conscious decision tonight to put pride from our hearts, self-will, push it out, confess it as sin. And let's deliberately humble ourselves before the Lord and say, God, if I got what I deserve, I'd be in hell. You've been so good. I love you, Lord. I want to humble myself before you And I tell you, God pours his grace out. God giveth grace to the humble If you're here and you never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, I plead with you, humble yourself and accept Jesus Christ. He'll save you, give you eternal life. You can know you're going to heaven. What a wonderful, wonderful promise. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us now. Give us the grace we need to deliberately humble ourselves before you and acknowledge how badly we need you and need your mercy and your grace. Heads bowed, eyes are closed. How do you say, preacher, I want to do what you challenged us tonight from God's Word to do. I want to humble myself before God. Put away my self-will. And let the Lord's will be my main concern, my only concern. And you'd say, Preacher, pray with me. God would help me humble myself before the Lord. How about it? Any like that? Uplifted hand. God bless you all across here. What a wonderful thing to end the Sunday night, the Lord's Day, finish out the Lord's Day at an old-fashioned altar. As we come to the Lord's Supper, saying, Lord, here am I, search me, try me. God, I acknowledge my pride. I confess it. I forsake it. Lord, I want you to pour out your grace on me. If you're here tonight and you've not trusted Christ as Savior, we want to pray for you. We want to help you. We want to show you. How to be saved. Father, bless now our invitation. May ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed