Uh did we get the visitor packet gifts? Do we have do we get them out? Do you all get them? Okay, good. What? I wasn't paying attention, huh? Well now I know how you feel sometimes. Matthew chapter 5, if you would, turn your Bibles there. Matthew chapter 5, we are studying the Beatitudes. The attitudes are really the introductory statements in the Sermon on the Mound, the greatest sermon ever preached in the history of man. And uh we're breaking these down. We've looked at the first several. Blessed are the poor in spirit. Verse 3, verse 4, blessed are they that mourn. Verse 5, blessed are the meek. Now we're on verse 6, and we got stuck This is a great verse. Matthew chapter 5 and verse 6, the fourth beatitude, and I'm telling you, we could do, and it's turning into that a little bit. Am I turned on, Dave? I don't Yes, now I am. Um this verse is turning into a series. You could really do a lot. I was thinking today, you know, Jesus could say one word and you could make a whole series of sermons just out of one word, the Lord says a lot of times. But uh these verses are great. And notice verse number six, Matthew chapter five. He says, Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness For they shall be filled. And tonight I want to ask you this question. How hungry are you? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now our study of this passage. I ask that you would challenge us to live the life that the Beatitudes present to us here, that you presented us, Lord, through these Statements, I ask Lord, that you would please fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield myself to you. I present my body anew And that you would speak through us. And again I ask that you would challenge us, that our desires, that our hunger would be in line with the Word of God We can experience your blessings on us. And uh have your way now, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. We were pointing out when we began to uh Look at this verse here that it's important that we learn to look at the world through the lens of Scripture. In other words, to see things the way God says they are Not the way that our limited mind understands that they are. You follow what I'm saying? That we see things the way God declares it to be, any circumstance, situation, world events uh that we see it from God's perspective. The fact is your understanding and my understanding is very limited. How many folks are old enough to understand that Found that to be true. My understanding is very limited. And not only do we have a limited understanding, but our understanding is stained, if you will, by our sin nature. And we tend to look at events and we tend to look at circumstances from a very self-centered point of view rather than God's point of view. So that tells me this we have a skewed view of things. We have an incorrect perceptive on what's taking place. So we have to take the lens of scripture And then we can look at world, world events, situations in my life, circumstances I face, actions of other people and myself And I can see it from God's perspective in a much clearer situational thing. So that tells me that what the world needs is more Christians. The world needs more Christians who see things from God's perspective. I mentioned this before, but that fiasco out in Ferguson, Missouri. And all of that going on. You know, if there was if if everyone involved in that was a godly, born-again, godly, growing, mature Christian, you wouldn't have seen any of that. Right? If the Middle East was populated by biblical Christians living by the principles of God's word, spirit-filled, we wouldn't have any of that mess we have in the Middle East. So what I'm saying is this, what the world needs are Christians who are what the the beatitudes present here. And I want to rema reiterate this the Beatitudes are not a plan of salvation. God's not saying here this is how you get saved. You'd be poor in spirit, you'd be meek, you Hunger and thirst after righteousness, be merciful, pure in heart. That's not what he's saying. This is not a plan of salvation. And a lot of times liberal churches will present this. Well, you live this life, you live this way, then You'll d earn heaven. God will accept you into heaven. Sometimes we get accused of presenting a gospel that is too simple. But the fact of the matter is the gospel is a very simple thing. It's not always easy, but it's simple I struggled with it for several months before I got saved. I struggled with it accepting Christ as Savior. Not because it was a difficult thing to do, not because it was A complicated thing to do is very simple, but it wasn't easy for me to give up my self-will and say, you know, I need Jesus Christ to do this And so sometimes we get accused of uh preaching a simple salvation. Uh particularly religious folks like that. We get out and knock on doors. Say, do you know for sure you're going to have we'll go through the gospel and they'll say something like this. Well that's too that's too easy. That's what you're saying's too simple. It can't be that simple You've got to go through these rituals. You've got to do this, that, and the other. You gotta be baptized. You've got to do this. You gotta be confirmed. All this type of stuff. It's too simple. But then other times I've found that sometimes people who are living in just really blanton sin, I mean living horrendous sinful lifestyle, sometimes you give the gospel to them and they'll say it's too simple They'll say, well, I've sinned too greatly. It can't be that easy just to accept the free gift of salvation. I've been so bad it has to be more than that. But the fact of the matter is, salvation, from our perspective, is impossible. God's requirements, God's standards for salvation are so high that there's not a person alive that can earn that, can deserve that. I cannot live up. to the holy standard that God's righteousness requires. I thought Romans 3. 23, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. So salvation has to be simple in the very fact that there's no way we can live up to what is required of us. We need God to do for us what we cannot do for ourselves. I cannot be good enough to for heaven. I cannot be righteous enough. I cannot be pure enough for heaven. The only thing way I can possibly make it to heaven is by God being pure and righteous and holy for me, which He was in Jesus Christ. And then paying for my sins and offering that as a simple gift that I either accept or reject it. So we all understand that And so salvation uh is uh uh is is a very simple thing. This is not the plan of salvation given here. What Jesus is giving to us in these beatitudes here is really what the Christian life should be. If I'm going to be the Christian God intends for me, then I need to have the attitude that He presents In the first three verses there. Poor in spirit. I recognize that in and of myself I have absolutely no righteousness. I am absolutely in poverty as far as any righteousness is. I understand that as a Christian They that mourn, blessed are they that mourn. I grieve over my sin. You know, before I got saved, some of you can relate to this. Before I got saved, I could say bad words. I could take God's name in vain. Didn't bother me one bit But Monday night I got saved, not this past Monday night, 1979, I got saved Monday night. Tuesday I went to work and I let a couple words fly, and I'm telling you, it pierced my heart. I was mourning over that sin. I grieved me that I would say that. Something changed. God saved me. And many of you have the same could testify the same thing. And um so uh uh so this is the attitude that a Christian has. Blessed are the meek. If I'm gonna be a godly, spirit-filled Christian, then we get to verse 6: Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness. And uh what a great, great uh statement this is. And uh I just want to give over my outline. I'm trying to get caught up to what I want to say, but I want us to be all be on the same page. We noted first of all that there's a real passionate desire needs to be here. Hunger and thirst. That is not a craving. I I get a craving sometimes for tomato sandwiches. I think, and this is Brother Charles' fault. I think I have become addicted to tomato sandwiches. I mean to tell you, I just can't hardly we are going through loaves of bread like crazy. And he keeps stacking every time I go back in the office a big bag of tomatoes That's not what he's talking about here, having a craving for something. This is, blessing of hunger and thirst, this is absolute, I am starving. I am desperate for this. It is the most important thing of my life. So it's a passionate desire. Then the point of the desire, and this is important to notice, and we keep repeating this Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst, not after blessedness. Doesn't say blessed are they which hunger and thirst after happiness. This world is hungering and thirsting after happiness This world is hungry and thirsting after blessedness, but you don't get blessedness and happiness. What we need to do is hunger and thirst after Righteousness. And then the blessedness comes. And then the true happiness comes. The world wants happiness without the righteousness. The world wants God's blessings without living up to God's righteousness, and it fails every time. And you can just look at the lives of m rich and famous. The movie stars on men are taking their lives. Uh they're miserable, they're angry, because they're hungering and thirsting after the happiness and all that, and it's elusive. The Bible says we hunger and thirst after righteousness, then that blessedness falls in place. It's the result of that And so we talked about that. And then the promise for this desire, they shall be filled. They shall be filled. Now that brings us to what I want to say tonight. Here's my question. As I said before: how hungry are you? For righteousness. How hungry am I for righteousness? How badly do I want it? Um One of the key indicators of a person who is not well, one of the key indicators of illness is a lack of appetite. Am I right or wrong? You get sick, last thing I want to see is a tomato sandwich when I'm sick. Uh you get you're ill, boy, you you're not hungry. Hey, you ready for supper? I don't feel well, I'm not hungry tonight. Right? So, what about this hunger and thirst for righteousness? What if I'm a Christian and I have no hunger, I have no desire, no thirst for righteousness? That tells me what? Something's wrong. Something's not right. And so, how hungry are you? How hungry am I for righteousness? How thirsty am I for righteousness. Now remember we spent a good bit of time on what we mean what the Lord means by righteousness here. What he's talking about is not the righteousness that's imputed to me, there's a good theological word, not the righteousness I received when I accepted Jesus Christ as Savior. That's already in place and God's standing uh uh uh in uh legally my standing before god as a christian, I am as righteous as Jesus Christ. Understand that. That's our positional righteousness. That was given to us at one the moment we trust Christ. What he's talking about here is our practical living. How righteous, what does he mean by living a righteous life? Well it means being spirit-filled, means being Christ-like And uh all these types of things. We spent a bunch of time. So if a person is truly and uh a Christian is truly hungering and thirsting after righteousness To live that life God intends for me to live. That's what I want. I'm hungering for that. And I think these a list of things will be true in our life. I would encourage you maybe if you've got a pen and paper, jot these down. I think they'll be helpful. Number one. The person who's truly hungry and thirsting after righteousness, number one, get this, is dissatisfied with their own righteousness. Is dissatisfied with their own righteousness. In other words, I look at myself and I'm trying to do right and I'm trying to live good and I'm trying to be righteous and I'm trying so hard to be righteous. And I look at that and say, you know, I'm not living up to it. As a Christian, you know, I just I don't got it in myself. to be as righteous as I know God wants me to be. And so if I'm going to hunger and thirst after the righteous life that God intends for me to live, I look at my own life of what I'm doing, and I say, you know, it's not cutting it. Isaiah I read in my devotions this morning, Isaiah chapter 64 and verse 6. By the way, every Christian should read their Bible every single day Amen. That'll be that is a habit. Every Christian will again read a Bible every day. This morning I was reading Isaiah chapter 64. And uh and listen to verse 6. For our righteousnesses, our righteousness are as filthy rags. Now we use that in salvation, but the fact of the matter is, even after I got saved, These attempts to try and do or be whatever I should be, as far as God's concerned, they're just filthy rags. We have no righteousness of our own. Listen to the Apostle Paul in Philippians Verses 8 and 9, speaking of his own righteousness, he says, I count it but as dung. Now that's repulsive. That's disgusting. And Paul says, you know, I'm striving to be what God wants me. I'm pressing towards that mark. I've not attained And when I look at my own life and my own standard that I'm trying to live up to, man, it's just like refuse. It's dumb. I don't have it in and of myself. And what Paul was expressing there is he had a hunger and a desire to be more righteous, to have a righteousness that he was not able to produce himself. I hope you get this point. The Christian life, listen, the Christian life is a supernatural life The successful spiritful Christian life is not something I can work up. It is something I look to God for and have No, there's not one Christian going to stand at the judgment seat of Christ and say, boy, you know, I lived a successful Christian life because I was such a great person. No, no, no. If I'm going to live a successful Christian life, I've got to die to self. I've got to put aside my own glorification, my own effort. In fact, when we do get there, God's going to crown us. What are we going to do with those crowns? We're going to cast him at his feet. You know why? Because we know it wasn't us that did it anyway. Because Christ in me, it was Christ working through me, Christ's righteousness being lived through me. And so if I'm going to hunger and thirst after righteousness, I've got to get dissatisfied with my own. Too often we're satisfied with our own level of Christianity, and we never have a desire for that level of Christianity that God has to offer for us. We're living sub-par Christian lives, and we're happy with that. Because we never really see our own righteousness as really not much. and hunger and thirst after what God can give us. How many folks here have ever been on a diet? I'm on a diet, a seafood diet. Right? Tomato sandwich diet I don't think that diet's too bad. It's the bread that kills you, isn't it? We could somehow make a tomato sandwich without bread. But anyway, I digress. Anybody here been ever been on a diet? Anybody here want to go on a diet next week? They have, get this, they have a diet pill, I understand. That if you take that pill, it makes you feel like you're full and you're really not. Sarah, do you ever hear that? No, it's true. It makes you feel like. Am I correct on that? Yeah, yeah. Somebody say yes, you're gonna ruin my illustration. Thank you. You guys know better than that. Um I understand that that you can take this and it makes you so you're not hungry. You feel like you're full and you're really not full. And uh I've I've read other places you can drink a bunch of water before you eat a meal and you feel like you're full and then you don't eat as much, right? You all know more about this than you're letting on, I know. Here's the problem with that. It makes you feel like you're full and you're really not full. It's an artificial satisfaction. Right? Hey, here's the problem. We've got Christians who feel like I'm righteous. Yeah, I'm a pretty good Christian, but they have an artificial Satisfaction for their level of righteousness. You follow what I'm saying? We're not we don't have that Christian life that God has for us, that vibrant, spirit-filled, godly, pure, genuinely happy Christian life We've settled for something else because we have all this artificial religion we've come in, even as Christians, and it makes us satisfied, and we're not really full. Now, let me give you some illustrations. One, I think, is uh this whole and I'm not a big fan of contemporary Christian music. Anybody ever notice that, pick that up? Really not. And the whole philosophy, to me, the whole Christian, contemporary Christian music, that is a whole different version of Christianity from what I understand scripture to teach Now here's the problem with that. We had a fellow one time I was working with and he says, Man, I went to this Christian concert and they were rocking out and and smoke and blasts and drums and blah blah blah and he came out of there and he says I felt so close to God. You know? And uh to me that's kind of like this artificial diet pill. It makes me feel good, makes me feel religious. But when I look at what scripture says righteousness is, it falls way short Follow what I'm saying? Now that's one end of the spectrum. Let's look at the other end of the spectrum. Now this may be where it hits home with us a little bit. There's also, and I use this term, I hesitate to use this term, a legalistic or an outward righteousness. I think you know legalism is work salvation. But if we're not careful, as Bibin believing independent Baptists, we can get the idea, because my hair is cut right, therefore I'm righteous Follow what I'm saying? Now I believe men ought to have their hair cut right. It's not a big issue with me Uh well because I dress a certain way, therefore I'm righteous. And I'm depending on this outward form of righteousness and think, well, I'm right with God because I have all these outward things in place when inwardly I'm a mess. You follow what I'm saying? And we can get satisfied. Well, because I've got these outward things in place, well then I'm really righteous. And God says, no, you're falling away short. Take your Bible with me, if you would. Turn to Matthew chapter 23 I'm telling you, there's just so many areas where we have to be so careful. If we if uh we don't get off on one end, we'll get off on the other end. And we've got to keep a biblical perspective. Look at Matthew 23. And I'm going to start reading in verse 25. Matthew 23 and verse 25. The whole point here is I'm dissatisfied with my own righteousness. I'm not substituting my righteousness or these artificial type righteousness for the true righteousness that God offers. Look at verse 25 of Matthew. 23. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! Now look at this. For ye may clean the what? Outside of the cup. I'm telling you what, that outside of that cup was just right. It was the right color, it was clean, it was scrubbed, it was dry. I mean everything outwardly was just everything it ought to be And the uh you clean the outside of the cup and the platter, but what's the next word? Within They are full of extortion and excess. Thou blind Pharisee, cleanse first that which is within the cup and platter. That the outside of them may be clean also. Is he saying it doesn't matter whether the outside's clean or not? No, he's not saying that. The outside needs to be clean. The outside ought to be what it ought to be But just because the outside's clean doesn't mean the inside's what it ought to be. Read on. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. I mean, this is some of the strongest language Jesus used. He was passionate about this. The Lord felt strongly about this. On these scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for ye are like whited sepulchres, which indeed appear beautiful outward. But within are full of dead man's bones and of all uncleanness. I mean they had the outward to the T. They walked in that independent fundamental Baptist church and they had everything in place. They just They looked apart, but in what side they were a mess. And that is an artificial type of righteousness. That is a man-made righteousness That is not what God is talking about. And when I look and say, you know, my heart isn't what it ought to be. My heart is corrupt. My mind is impure. I've got everything outward what it ought to be. But inward, let's read, let's finish what he's saying here Indeed appear beautiful outward, but within, but are within full of dead man's bones and of all uncleanness Even so, ye also appear, ye also outwardly appear righteous unto men, but within ye are full of hypocrisy and iniquity. You know what the Pharisees need to do? They need to stop and say, you know, my own righteousness isn't coding it. This is not the righteous God's talking about. And what Lord is talking about here, if we're going to hunger and thirst, if I am really hungry to live that Christian life, the godly, joy-filled power of God upon me. That Christian life, what I what uh what God intends for me to live, then I've got to get dissatisfied with my own righteousness. Just being outward, just going through the shows, just having some religious feeling That's not going to cut it. And I've got to look outside of myself and hunger and thirst for righteousness. So our first one is dissatisfied with her own righteousness. How hungry are we really? For God's races. How hungry are we? Are we hungry enough to say, you know, I don't got it myself? The little stuff I work up doesn't cut it has to be something only God can give me. We're longing for a righteous Christian life that only God can produce, that supernaturally begins in our heart. And so, number two, let me give you a second thought. How hungry are we? The person who's truly hungry and thirsty after righteousness, number two, avoids anything and everything that distracts from or is opposed to true righteousness. Let me say that again. If I'm hungry and thirsting after the Christian life, the spirit-filled, godly Christian life God intends for me to have, I'm dissatisfied with what I've worked up. That didn't cut it And I want to avoid anything and everything that keeps me or hinders me from having the righteous life that God intends for me to have. Now, you and I cannot produce genuine godliness in and of ourselves. We need the Lord to help us do that. Our nature is corrupt. We can't produce that. But we can And we should shield ourselves from unrighteousness. I'm looking to God to work in my life and make me and live his life through me and live that Christian life I need him to do that. But in the meantime, I'm going to do everything I can to keep that which is unrighteous or keep that which would hinder the Lord from living his life through me Get that out of the way. I can never of myself live the righteous life of Jesus Christ, but I can't avoid living like the publicans. Right? I can't be as righteous as he is. He needs to live his life through me. Paul said, I'm crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live. Yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. A life which I now live a flesh, I live by the life of I live by the faith of the Son of God. Paul's saying, no, I'm not working up this Christian life. This Christian life isn't something I'm really great at He said I was crucified with Christ. It's Christ living his life through me. I can't produce this Christian life. But on the other hand, I don't need to live like the publican either. That would hinder Christ living his life through me. I don't want to have the attitude, I don't want to be like the Pharisee I don't want to live like a publican. I don't want to be like a Pharisee. I want to avoid these things that hinders the righteousness of Christ, the life of Christ being lived through me. And so I need to be careful about that. Again, take your Bibles if you would. Turn with me to Hebrews, chapter 12. Now again, this is a passage of scripture that's addressing Christians, folks who have been born again, saved, and they're wanting to live for God. And they really want to please the Lord, and I want my life to be everything God wants it to be. Well, hungering and thirsting after righteousness. Look at Hebrews chapter 12, again in verse number 1. Hebrews 12, 1. This is important. This whole chapter is so important. Wherefore, now you just went through the whole list of these great heroes from the Old Testament. Wherefore, seeing we also are compassed about so great a cloud of witnesses, look at this Let us lay aside every weight and the sin which does so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is before us. Let me let me put it in the context of our thought tonight, our message tonight. Listen, you're hungering and thirsting after righteousness. That's the race set before you. You're wanting to be that That young man, that young lady, you're wanting to be that Christian daddy, that Christian mother, you want to be that church member, that soul winner, I want to be that Christian God wants me. I want to, I'm hungering for that righteous life that God saved me to live. Well, I gotta lay some things aside. I can't produce that. It has to be God do that in me. I want it. I'm looking hungry for it But there are a couple things I've got to get lined up so that Christ can live his life through me. Notice the first one he mentions there is wait. The word weight simply means a bulky mass, something that is encumbrance, an encumbrance. Anybody that's that's a $64 word there, encumbrance. Well, how would you what do we mean by something that encumbers you? What's talk to me? It gets in the way. Keeps you from accomplishing something. It's uh something that weighs me down. Um it's not necessarily something bad. Notice he distinguishes this from sin It's not necessarily something that is sinful. It's not something that, ah, that's so wicked. No, it's not that at all. It's something in and of itself is fine. Nothing wrong at all. But it keeps me from being the Christian God intends for me to be. It's a weight. It weighs me down. I heard it illustrated years ago, a guy that's going to run a race, a hundred-yard dash. And he shows up and he pulls his big hunting boots on, puts his big heavy socks, puts his hunting boots on, uh he puts uh insulated uh uh pants on, big heavy pants, pulls a big jacket over, puts a helmet on, pulls big leather gloves on. He gets up there and he's going to run the race. All the other guys just have their regular racing suits. Is that guy going to win the race? No. He's going to be all way down. Those guys will be zing. Now, is there anything sinful about wearing boots? No, there's nothing wrong with wearing boots. Nothing wrong with wearing a heavy jacket, nothing wrong with wearing a helmet. Those are all fine. They have their place. But if you're going to run the race You've got to lay that stuff aside. And there's a lot of things in life, there's nothing in the world wrong with them. But when they start to take the place of the Lord in my life, And they start to hinder my walk with God, and they become so important to me that God's righteousness and the Christian life that God intends for me to live become secondary, then it starts hurting me. And so if I'm hungry and thirsting, if I'm really hungry and thirsting after righteousness, I'm going to make sure I lay these weights aside that get in the way of God producing that in me and setting it aside Even good things, even things there's nothing in the world wrong with them in and of themselves. Hey, if I have anything that becomes more important to me than my faithful church attendance, it's becoming a we I appreciate folks here on vacation and in church on Wednesday night. That's a good testimony. Um and so we've got to Avoid anything and everything that distracts from this righteous life God wants to give me. Good things that replace the Lord's things in my life. Now we're talking about being hungering and thirsting after righteousness. Let's use the food analogy. Is there anything wrong, sinful, about eating peanuts? That's not wrong. Peanuts are good for you, right? Um nothing so sinful about eating tomato sandwiches. I told you I can't get them off my mind. There's nothing wrong with eating tomato sandwiches. But suppose Kathy's got dinner ready. She's got a good healthy meal. And um uh she's got all laid out there, vegetables and fruit and everything. She's got all laid out, uh venison and all that laid out there. And squirrel gravy and all all laid out there and uh twenty minutes before it's supper time I'm over there making tomato sandwiches Because what are you doing? I mean a tomato sandwich, why? Uh I got dinner here. If you eat that now, you're not going to be hungry for the meal. You're gonna take the edge off your appetite and you won't appreciate what I prepare. Ain't nothing wrong with tomato sandwiches, woman. You know. This is striking a little close to home here now. But what I'm doing is something that's not in the world wrong, but I'm taking that and it's taking the edge off my hunger for that which is good. That which is right, that which is best. And I'm afraid in the United States of America, we have so much out there. We are so prosperous that the life that God intends for us and the priorities that God has for us We've replaced with good things, but they've replaced the best things that God has for us. And if I'm hungering and thirsting after being the Christian, God wants me more than anything else in this world. I want to be what God wants me. I want his blessings. I want him to use me. I want his power. I want to be pure in my heart and mind. Then there's some things that are good things. I just need to make sure they're not in the way, not blocking that. But he gives something else. Look at back at Hebrews. Lay aside every weight. Now notice this. And the what? Sin. Now I looked at that word sin there carefully, and I noticed it's singular. Wonder why that is. Looks like to me, I mean if I was writing this, I would lay aside the weight and those sins, all those sins. That so easily beset us. But he does it. He uses the word, the singular form, sin. I think there's two possible reasons for that. One is he may just be referring to the general principle of sin in our lives. May just be, you know, we're all sinners. We understand that and lay that aside. That doesn't really fit. I think, and this is me, I could be wrong, I doubt it, but I could be wrong. And if you can correct me, don't. But um do it later. But I think what he's saying here is I think he's referring to the fact that for many of us There's a particular sin we're vulnerable to. Notice what it says after that. Lay aside the sin which doth what? So easily beset us. And Paul understood that. And of course, God understands that. And what I need to do is yes, there's a sin principle there, and it's a constant battle my whole life. But for every individual, many of us, we have a particular area that we is a little bit more besetting, a little more vulnerable to that area. I'm hungering and thirsting after righteousness. I want God to fill me, and I want to be that Christian God intends for me. And He promised if I hunger and thirst that He would fill me and that blessings would follow And if that's the case, I need to be dissatisfied with what I'm coming up with. This ain't cutting it. And I need to uh I need to look for every opportunity. I I need to um uh let me give you my second thought there. Um look avoid anything and everything. That distracts me from finding that righteousness that God has, attaining that righteous. I've got to set it aside. That one particular sin. Now, there's a couple other factors here I think will characterize someone who is hungry and thirsting after righteousness. I'm going to end here. Let me ask you this: how hungry are you? Are you satisfied with simply living the Christian life that you can work up? I'm here to tell you, God has for us a life that we can't imagine. It is possible, and God's will is for every one of us to be pure. I mean live victoriously And holy. God's intention for us to have the presence of His Holy Spirit in our life and the power of God upon us, that we really do make a difference in the lives of people around us. God working through us. And when we get to the point where we say, I want that, I am hungry for that, I am thirsty to live a real, spirit-filled, Christian life that God intends for me to live. Get dissatisfied with my own righteousness. Alright, this ain't cutting it, what I got. Just being outward, just being a show. No more of that. Uh I've got to do some inventory here. There's some weights, nothing wrong with them, but they don't they they're taking a place. I I need something better. Sin, that one sin keeps hounding me I've got to deal with that. I've got to get that taken care of. Why? Because I'm hungry and thirsting after righteousness. Amen? Now maybe you say, well, I don't feel that way. I'm saved. I know God saved me. I just don't have that intense desire. My advice would be fall on your face before God and say, God, give me that hunger. God put that desire in my heart to be what you want me to be. And if it's already there, then say, God, help me to do these things Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, that you would challenge us. I pray for myself as pastor that my hunger, my thirst for this righteous life, this righteousness That you have for us that my hunger and thirst would be greater. I pray you challenge us as a church. That we not be satisfied with just an outward show, that we not be satisfied with just some religious feelings But God, we want the real deal down in our hearts and souls, and we do whatever it takes to get that true in our lives. Paul said, I die daily. Because he wanted you to live through him daily. I wonder with our heads bound, eyes closed, I wonder if there's any here this evening, say, preacher, down inside my heart and soul, there is a real desire. To be that Christian and live that life that God intends for me. I'm not there. It's not there. But boy, I have a hunger. I really do. Preacher, pray with me that God will help me I do have that desire. Any like that, testify uplifted hand. God bless you. And we need the Lord to help us. We need him to open our eyes. How many would be honest enough tonight, and our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed, how many honest enough tonight and say, Preacher, you know that desire really isn't what it ought to be? I know I should want that more. I'm ashamed to admit it, but I need God to inflame that hunger. I need God to strengthen that thirst. That it it would be, the desire would be what it ought to be. And I I gotta admit, it's not what it ought to be, and I want God to make me hungry, make me thirsty. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand, preacher? I know it's not that desire what it ought to be. God bless you. Bunch of hands around. Tells you honesty is what begins the beginning of revival Now, Father, you, I saw hands, you know our hearts. And Lord, maybe tonight we just take a moment and bow before you at an altar and say, Lord, Make me hungry, dear God, make me hungry. Maybe some of us need to say, Lord, I got some weights here that I'm awfully fond of, but they sure have come in the way. Maybe some sins. Maybe it's been an outward and we want it to be real in our heart. Let's ask God to help us. Father, help us in Jesus' name. Let's stand together.