I'm going to begin reading in verse number two. I'm going down through verse six. We're stuck on verse six Look at verse 2. And he opened his mouth, Jesus, and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Question, is he saying it's more spiritual to have a little bit of money than it is to have a lot of money? No, he's not talking about money at all. He's talking about poor in spirit, our understanding of our spiritual poverty for God. Then he says, Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted Of course, here he's talking again about mourning over our sinful condition. Number five, verse five, blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Now verse six. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. Hungering and thirsting after righteousness. Now we've been looking at this for about a month now. This is the final message, but I just want to ask The question I asked last week, and uh we'll look at it, is how hungry are you? How hungry are you? Let's pray. Father, bless our study of this beatitude here. Lord, it's um It's pretty significant, and I pray that you would use this little statement to challenge us, to help us see clearly what our focus should be in life. And uh help us. I yield myself to you, Lord. I present my body in you. I pray you'd speak through me. I pray we would be a church that hungers and thirsts after righteousness. And that that would be true for us individually. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. If you remember we pointed out last week, sometimes people say the gospel is too simple. That it's not just accepting Jesus your Savior. That's too simple. There has to be more to it than that. Fact of the matter is, it's so difficult. The gospel is so difficult. Being saved is so difficult. We can't do it ourselves. We need God to do it for us. So there's really, in a sense, there's nothing simple about the gospel, Jesus Christ. In fact Providing salvation was so difficult that Jesus prayed to God, if there is any other way that people can be saved, God please do that. And then of course nevertheless not my will, but thy will be done. And the only way for people to be saved is through Jesus Christ dying on that cross, shedding his blood, suffering the judgment for us being buried and rise again, and then we just simply accept him as our personal Savior. Now it's simple, but it's not always easy, is it? Sometimes people struggle with that. Sometimes people um you know really struggle with the uh just making that decision except Jesus their Savior. For me, I'm telling you, it was five months. I knew in January of 1979 that I needed Jesus Christ as my Savior. I knew that. And January, February, March, April, into the beginning of May Uh I've fought that, I struggled with that, I went back and forth until finally uh I accept the Christ area. How many folks here You knew how to be saved, you knew you needed to be saved, but you struggled with that for a bit before you actually trusted Christ. Anybody here like that? Several around. And uh that's the way it is for a lot of people. So salvation is very simple, it's not always easy. The beatitudes here are not telling us how to be saved. This is not a plan of salvation. This is for folks who are already saved, and he's describing the characteristics of what a spirit-filled Christian is, what the genuine the attitude of a Christian who is who is everything God wants to be, this is the attitude we should have Now, we look at verse 6, very significant. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness. We emphasize, I think this is a key thought. It's not hungering, thirsting after happiness. It's not hungering and thirsting after blessedness. I want, how many folks here would say, preacher, I really do with all my heart, I want God to bless my home? Sure, I do. How many people say I want God to bless my ministry and my witness? I would like for God to bless my efforts to win the loss to Christ and be a testimony. How many people feel that way? Sure. But he doesn't say, Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after those blessings. The blessings of God, the happiness that comes as a result of that, the joy of the Lord, Is a result, not the goal, the byproduct. He says, blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after what? Righteousness. And when I had that intense desire in my heart to be thoroughly righteous, not in my standing before God, that's settled when I accept Jesus as my Savior, but in my life. And how I live my everyday life is righteous. Wow. God says when we get to that point when we want it that bad When we are hungering and thirsting after just being right with God in every area of my life, right with the Lord, He says, When you want it real bad, hunger and thirst for that, I'll give it to you. In other words, get this We can live good, godly, righteous lives. We can do that How many people here ever get the opinion, boy, it just seems like it's impossible to live like I should? It's just, man, I try and try and try and fall short. Anybody get a witness? You ever feel that way? God says we can't If we hunger and thirst after righteousness, we will be filled. That hunger, that desire will be met. And so the question comes up, we're trying to answer, is how hungry are we? How badly do we really want to be live a life that God wants us to live? C. S. Lewis, I'm not a big fan of, but he makes some great statements. Uh he had said that uh our problem is we're uh too satisfied with what the world offers. We're too satisfied with living worldly par subpar lives When God has so much more for us, and there's so much more joy there, so much more fulfillment, so much more purpose, so much more confidence. That we can have in our lives if we hunger and thirst after righteousness. So how hungry are we? Number one, we're trying to look, all right, how do I determine how hungry I am? How do I examine myself? How do I evaluate myself On my desire for righteousness. Well, if I'm really hungering and thirsting after righteousness, remember last week we said this, I will be dissatisfied with my own righteousness. In other words, and here's the problem. A lot of Christians are satisfied with just living a righteous life according to what they understand righteousness to be. And um uh we have to be careful for that. I use the illustration, um you know you just never know. Uh I use the illustration that there is some diet procedures and pills and and stuff that uh if you take it it makes you feel like you're full, but you're really not full. Right? Remember me saying that? And um uh Crystal Rush was here last week and she had Kathy given her a whole bag of diet stuff that when you take it it makes you feel like you're full and you're not really full. And Kathy says, um, I don't know what that has to do with anything. But anyway, uh anyway, it it makes us feel like we're full, we're not really full. And it keeps us the cut back from eating. Well, that's kind of like the way self-righteousness is. The Pharisees, they were satisfied with their level of righteousness. But Jesus came through and said, You guys aren't righteous at all. And their righteousness, if you remember, we pointed out was external righteousness. So they w they had the right outside, but inside they were terrible. Now, I think I've often said this, God's concerned about every detail of our lives. He addresses what kind of friends we should have He addresses how we should use our time. He addresses how we should use our money. There's a verse in Corinthians talks about how uh about men having long hair and women short hair and that type of thing. How many people knew that? God does all these areas he addresses in our life, clothes we wear And all those types of things. And uh and they're important and and we need to pay attention to that. But if all I do is think, well, I've got my hair cut the right length as a man, therefore I'm righteous Then I have a phony righteousness. Follow what I'm saying? That's not sufficient. And I need to get past saying, well, I got all this outward. And the other extreme end of that is, well, you don't have to do anything, there's nothing As long as you feel right with God, as long as you feel the presence of God, then you're righteous. And the point of the matter is this. I've got to get to the point. If I'm really wanting to be right with God I put aside all this self-righteousness, all this phony righteousness, all this stuff that I come up, and I want the righteousness that God can give me. I want to I want what uh the life that God is able to give me. So I get to satisfy with my own righteousness. Then we said, number two, we avoid anything and everything that distracts us or opposed is opposed to true righteousness. I can never be as good as Jesus Christ in and of myself. There's no way I can be that good. But that doesn't mean I should go and live like the publicans do. Follow what I'm saying? Doesn't mean I should just, well Uh I can never be like Jesus but I can I can't be as righteous as Jesus but I can sure enough try and keep some unrighteousness out of my life I can avoid living like the publican. I avoid trying to have any attitude of the Pharisee. Remember we look at Hebrews chapter twelve, running the race before us, let us lay aside the what the weight and the sin which this easily beset us. Um if I'm hungering and thirsting after righteousness, there's some things I've got to just put off, I've got to put away Even some good things maybe that are hindering me from being everything God wants me to be, I've got to put it off. I really did I mention I like tomato sandwiches? Did I mention? It keeps going through my mind the whole time I'm preaching. Tomato sandwiches. But uh something else I really enjoy, and this is what I want to get to, is uh I really enjoy going fishing. I just love it. If I could do anything I wanted, I just I would uh I would go fishing. That's I just enjoy fishing Now I've got to be careful, I learned early on, I've got to be careful the question, I'll be honest, is there anything sinful about fishing? No. Half the disciples were fishermen There's nothing simple about fishing. But if I go fishing when I'm supposed to be soul-winning, is there a problem? Sure. If I go fishing when I'm supposed to be studying, is there a problem? Sure. And that fishing, though there's nothing wrong with it in and of itself, if it replaces those things that God wants to be, it's not a sin, but it's a what? It's a weight. It's keeping me back from being what God wants me to be. And you could put anything in the blank there. Whatever if people have a hundred different things, thousand different things. And so if I'm hungry and thirsty after righteousness, I've got to put some of this weights away, these things that are fine in and of themselves, but they get in the way of me being what God wants me to be I've got to lay that aside and then plus this in. Now, I want to pick up new uh ground here tonight. Uh number three, how hungry am I? If I am hungering and thirsting after righteousness, now jot this one down, number three, I am going to constantly be aware of my hunger for righteousness. If I am really hungering after thirsting, well, I want to be what God wants to be. I want my life to be right. I want to be spirit-filled, godly Christian that the Lord is pleased with, that God can use If I genuinely have that desire, I'm going to always be aware of that fact that I have that desire. How many people here have ever been really, really, really hungry? Anyone ever been in that I mean not dying and starving, but really hungry. I mean hungry to the point you start getting irritable Anybody can I get a witness? Uh I'm not saying you are right now. I'm saying at some point in your life you've been that way. Sure, I've been that way. And um you know what I found out when I get where I am really, really, really hungry I don't forget that I'm hungry. Right? You don't forget it's on my mind constantly the whole time I'm working Uh the whole time. I'm studying. When's Kathy getting home? I'm starving. And uh, you know, and uh it's on my mind the whole time. All I write down is tomato sandwiches, tomato sandwiches, tomato and uh, you know You don't forget, when you're hungry for something, you don't forget that you're hungry. It's on your mind constantly. And I want to suggest to you That when we really want to, when we get to the point in our Christian lives where we decide, you know, I want to be everything God wants me to be. It's the most important thing in my life. I am hungry and thirsting after being the Christian God wants me to be. When I'm at that point. I don't forget about that. It is on my mind constantly. It is something I am focused on constantly. In other words Get this. I want to do right, do and be right and live right on Monday just as much as I do on Sunday. A lot of people want to do right Sunday. Sit in the Sunday school, they hear the songs, boy, that song stirs their heart. Word of God is preached or taught, boy, it stirs their heart, and they come out, boy, I really want to do right. Uh this we I really want to live a kind of life. I really do. Then Monday morning the alarm comes off, they get up, they forget all about what they want to do Sunday, right We forget all about that. Now I'm suggesting that if I genuinely hunger and thirst after righteousness Monday morning at work or Monday morning in school or Monday morning whatever in the office I'm wanting just as much to be right with Lord and living for God as I did Sunday morning in church. I don't forget that I'm hungry. Um uh I'm just as hungry uh to do right and be right and live right at work as I am at church. Or in the house as I am at church or in a service. How many people here have ever been to a revival service and God stirred your heart in a revival service? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Man, God stirred my heart. I really want How many people within a few, three, four days, you went right back into the same rut you were in three days before the revival? Come on, we've all been there. You know, the problem is we're not hungry enough. And that hunger, we forgot what all we want. And what we need is God to stir us and show us and make us hungry enough that that desire doesn't abate or isn't dependent upon my environment. If we can get to the place where we really want to do right and be right and live right regardless of the environment we're in Boy, then we're in a position where God says, All right, I'll fill that desire. I'll enable you, I'll help you, I'll make you, I'll fill you with my spirit, and you'll be able to live right and do right. Uh when we uh when we want to live right And be right when things are going well just as much as we do when things are going bad. How many times have we seen that over the years? Somebody I'm now please don't I'm I'm not trying to do anything, not trying I won't tell us all I'm trying to do is preach the word of God and illustrate it. But sometimes somebody will be a diagnosis of cancer scares them to death. By the way, that word is a scary word. They never paid attention to God. They never gave any thought to the Bible. Never got And suddenly they're scared to death, cancer, I might not live, I gotta get right with God, I want God to make me well. So all of a sudden they're very hungry. And boy, they want to live right and they want to do right and they get in church and maybe if they're not saved, they get saved and baptized, and if they are saved and they're away from the Lord, they're getting things right and all of that And finally, you go through the procedures or whatever, and everybody's praying. The church is praying for them. And the doctor says, you're cancer free. Suddenly they're not hungry anymore. See what I'm saying? Suddenly it's, oh, okay, good. And it's right back to where they were. That is not the hunger the Lord is talking about. That's not hungry enough I gotta be hungry. I'm gonna do right when everything's going well for me just as much as I want to do right. What? They're laying off, they're inspiring guys at work. I need to get right with God. I made the cut. They didn't lay me off. Alright. See what I'm saying? And so a person, if I'm hung am I really how hungry am I? If I'm really as hungry as this is saying, blessed are they which you hunger and thirst after rights says I'm going to be constantly aware of that desire, that hunger, uh, on Mondays, Sundays, at home, as much as at church, when things are going well, as long as things are going bad, as much as when things are going bad. Let me give you a fourth one How hungry am I? Well, if I'm hungry and thirsting after righteousness, I like this one by the way, I will look for every opportunity to attain that righteousness. If I'm really, really hungry, I'm going to look for every way I possibly can to God make me that righteousness, that make me that l help me live that righteous life that I desire, that I hunger. I'm going to look for every opportunity We go down a couple three times a year to Johns Hopkins with Kathy. Uh sometimes, depending on what they're doing, she can't eat before she goes down. like midnight before different things depending on what tests they're doing or whatever. Anyway, sometimes she's not supposed to eat or sometimes the the meeting is so the appointment is so early that uh we don't have time to stop really and eat. We get up and travel And so until we get down there and it's always several hours there. And uh then when we get out of there, we get out of there, there are times we're coming out of Hopkins, we are starving. I mean we are so hungry. Uh the roadkill's starting to look good. And uh I mean we are hungry. And you know what I noticed, and I can say this, Kathy's not here tonight, but uh you know what I noticed We pull out of Hopkins, we're going through the city there. She sees every sign for every restaurant we pass. I mean we're right downtown Baltimore, you know, in areas where it's probably not a good idea to get out of the car. You know what I'm saying? And she'll say, there's a McDonald's. I said, Kathy, we ain't stopping at that McDonald's. Uh there's a fried chicken. We ain't stopping at that one. There's a seat, but we ain't stopping at that one. And I mean every sign we go. This exit, there's Cracker Barrel, Burger King, there's Pizza Hut, and there's Bob Evans. And uh she sees every possible opportunity there is that we can eat. Now to be honest with you, I see some she don't see. I'm looking for them just as much as she is. And we got these certain places we stop. But here's the point. When I'm really hungry, when I really, really, really want to be right with God, I am going to see every opportunity that's available that will help me be what I'm desiring to be. Take your Bible with me if you will. We're going to look at a couple verses here. I love this verse for some reason. Proverbs chapter 27. Now, there's a missions aspect to this verse, I think, which I'll have to bring out in another passage sometime, but Proverbs 27. And verse number 7. Proverbs 27:7. Did you find it? Look what it says here. Now look at this and keep in mind the context of our message. The full soul loatheth and honeycomb. So let's stop right there. What's he saying? When I'm full Nothing really looks good. Right? I mean in this day, a honeycomb in the in the day and age that this was written is like a chocolate eclair. Now you know what I'm saying? That is a honeycomb. A honeycomb in this time is like a crispy cream donut. Now you know what I'm saying? Uh I don't know I've ever been so full that I would have loathed a Krispy Kreme donut. But what he's saying is, and the principle is this: when I'm satisfied with what I am, even that which is good for me, even that which is better, I have no desire for it. But look at the rest of the verse. A full soul loatheth a honeycomb, but to the hungry soul, every what? Every bitter thing is sweet. In other words, when I'm hungry, even something that really probably isn't that great for me, it still looks pretty good. You know, if you know if that sun shone a little longer on that possum there, you could probably eat a little bit off of that thing And I think he's saying here what I'm trying to say. When I'm if I'm really, if my desire of my heart is to be right with God and to be thoroughly right with God I'm not going to neglect opportunities to be influenced so that I can be right with God. I'm going to be determined to get myself in any position where that hunger can be satisfied. Sometimes do you ever do this? Sometimes do you ever you were so hungry that you would eat you ate at a restaurant which you normally wouldn't eat at, it's not that nice or whatever, but you're just so hungry and you really don't want to wait until you get to another restaurant So you pull in that one there, eat there. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And you say, you know, there's another one up the road 30 miles, but I am so hungry. Let's just eat here And uh uh why? Because you're hungry and you're looking for every opportunity to fill that desire, to meet that need You know what we need? You know what we need, what kind of Christians we need? We need Christians who are so hungry for God's will to be done in their life. They'll take advantage of every opportunity that God gives to develop that in their life and to get into the will of God. Let me give you some examples. Turn with me. Let me give you a few more illustrations. Turn with me back to Mark in the New Testament. You see this throughout the Gospels. Mark chapter ten And I want to begin reading in verse 46. I'm afraid for a lot of us, we're just satisfied with not living righteous lives. We're not hungry for it. And so thus, when we have opportunities to get into situations and opportunities to meet that need, we're not hungry for it and we don't take advantage of it. Look at Mark chapter 10, verse 46. Here's an illustration of somebody that wanted God to do something for them terribly bad. And they came to Jericho, and as he went out of Jericho with his disciples, a great number of people Oh, came out of Jericho with his disciples and a great number of people. Blind Bartimaeus, the son of Timaeus, sat by the highway's side begging. Alright, so we're familiar with this story. And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out and say, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me. Alright, would you agree with me? Bartimaeus was hungry to be healed. Right? Now the question is, how hungry was he? He was hungry enough to raise his voice up, say, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me. But let's read on. How hungry really was he? Verse 48, and many charged him that he should hold his peace. So all these people, many, we don't have know how many, but it was a bunch, they started telling Bartimaeus to what? Shut up, be quiet, hush. Shh. Uh stop that. You're bothered. You're getting on our nerves. Quit. The peer pressure The peer pressure was for him to be satisfied with where he's at. Right? We want you, Bartimaeus, to be satisfied with the condition you're in. Now, how hungry was he? Let's read on. Many charged him that he should hold his peace. But what did he do? Cried the more, a great deal. Thou son of David, have mercy on me. I think if he could see, he'd have been going like this. Look at the people around him. I don't care what you said. I want my eyes healed. I don't care what every Barnama's no one else is hollering like that. I don't care if anybody else is hollering or not. I want my eyes healed Bartimaeus, you're getting on people's nerves. I don't care if I'm getting on people's nerves. I'm hungry. I want to see. Jesus can make me see And he was hungry enough to go against the crowd. He was hungry enough to make a scene. He was hungry enough, in other words. Here was an opportunity to have that desire fulfilled, and he was not going to miss it. Boy, that's pretty hungry, right? Uh turn over, if you would, to Luke, chapter 19 Now our thought is this, how hungry am I? Well, if I'm hungry and thirsting after righteousness, I'm going to look for any opportunity I can. To attain this righteousness, to have this hunger met. Luke chapter 19, and look at verse number one. Another story we're familiar with, but think about it in the context of our message. Jesus entered and passed through Jericho, and behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus. Here he is. Which was a chief among the publicans, so he wasn't a real good guy, and he was rich Looks like to me, if you've got authority, you've got position, you've got a lot of possessions, he should be full, right? He should be satisfied. But he wouldn't. Because it wasn't. Fulfilling. So he's hungry for something real. He's hungry for something that money and popularity and position will not give him. Now read on. He was rich. Three. And he sought to see Jesus who he was. So there was something in his heart that was thinking this guy has something that would be good for me. And he could not for the press because he was little of stature. That phrase little of stature means he was a wee little man, and a wee little man was he. I did a study on that one time. That phrase of little stature literally means he was what we would call, what we used to call a midget. They have a different term for him now, but a very little person. And that's what he was. Now here's the question. He's rich. He's got a he's a head of the publicans. He doesn't have very many morals, so he can do whatever he wants. He basically My understanding is he can basically have what he wants. He didn't have any mortals holding back. He has got money, so he can buy it. It's got influence. But he's hungry. There's something in his heart and soul that's not being met. And there's something about Jesus Christ that tells him Jesus has something that can meet this need in my life. Now, here's the question, how hungry is he? He's got several things going against him. One, there's a huge crowd between him and Jesus, and two, he's short. I mean, really, really short. He's just a wee little man. So how badly does he want what Jesus has to offer him? You know what some would have done? I have no doubt. Some would have said, forget it. That's a hassle. How would I ever get there? But not Zacchaeus, he was hungry. So what'd he do? Climbed up in a sycamore tree for the Lord he wanted to see. And as the Savior passed that way. Look at verse 5. And when the Lord came to the place, he looked up and saw him. Imagine walking along. Also, look up. There's a little guy up in the tree. Now I know the Lord Saul there. When I was in Bible college, my friend Randy Miller out in Illinois, he's a nut Uh I lived off campus. I was walking down and there was these big trees hanging over the roof, over the sidewalk. And I'm walking down there and it was afternoon I was going back to the apartment. I was had to get changed. I was going to go to the hospital and had to work that evening. So I'm walking along, just nobody around I got my books, I'm thinking about everything I gotta do, I'm kind of on my mind. I walk by and I hear this little noise up a tree. And here's Randy Miller sitting up halfway up the tree I said, what are you doing? He's waiting for his girlfriend to go by. He's gonna scare her. So that has nothing to do with the message either. But anyway So Zacchaeus, Jesus comes by, looks up, and he said, Zacchaeus, make haste and come down. Here's the thing I'm trying to illustrate. Zacchaeus wanted what Jesus had for him bad enough to go out of his way, make a fool out of himself, maybe But he wanted that really bad. And that's what the Lord's telling us. When we are hungry and thirsty after righteousness, when I really, really, really want to be right with God as a Christian and I want to be everything God wants me to be and I want my life to count for God. I want when I stand before Jesus Christ for him to say, Well done, I want that so bad I'm not going to let opportunities go by that will enable me to fulfill that desire. Bartimaeus didn't, Zacchaeus didn't If our if I'm full, if I'm really not that hungry, I'm gonna be satisfied with the bit with the uh I'm not gonna be hungry for what the Lord has, I'm gonna be satisfied with little things. But boy, if I'm really hungry, my soul is really hungry for righteousness. Stuff that people in the world wouldn't consider much, to me it's really important. Now let me give you some illustrations of what I mean by this. If I'm really hungry For righteousness, I believe I'll take advantage of every opportunity I have to be in the house of God. Huh? to get under the teaching and preaching of the Word of God, because that is where my faith is built up. That's where I get stronger. If not, now listen to this If being in church is not important to me, if getting under the teaching and preaching of the Word of God is not important to me, then I'm obviously not very hungry. The TV shows when church is on will satisfy me They're not hungry enough, climb the sycamore tree and get into the church house. See what I'm saying? Well, so nice out. They got hunting on Sundays now. I'm not that hungry. I'm going to be faithful to church and I'm going to go out and go hunting on Sunday. That's my pet peeve And you can think of a thousand different things. But if I'm really, really hungry, you know, God's word's being taught tonight. They're going to sing hymns about Jesus Christ. There's going to be other Christians there that love God. I want to get in on that because I really, really, really want to be the Christian God wants me to be. I really want to do that. And if I get in on that crowd That'll help me and that'll meet that need and that'll help me fulfill that desire. See what I'm saying? Let me give you something else. If I'm really, really hungry, I'll look for every opportunity to be around the people of God. I want to be with Christians. You know, I notice a restaurant that is really good, they have long lines. You know you ever notice that? Restaurant that's not great. They don't have very big lines. And what I do is I look for where, hey, there's a whole lot of people that are hungry just like I am. And they're getting their hunger met there You know what I want to do as a Christian? I want to get out around other Christians that want to be right with God also. You see what I'm saying? I want to be around other Christians that are hungry for righteousness. Why? Because we can help each other. We can encourage each other. I'm suggesting to you, church is important. Amen? You're here Wednesday night. But not just the preaching of the Word of God. If all church was designed for was the teaching and preaching of the Word of God, we could just make CDs, y'all stay hold, we'll just send them to you. Or you can tune in the internet. We don't need to get together. But there's more to church than just the preaching of the Word of God. There's the interaction of God's people. And being around people that love God helps me love God too. And being around people that are trying to please the Lord with their life helps me please the Lord with my life And so if I'm really hungry after righteousness, I want to be around other people that are hungry after righteousness. I found out if I get around other people that like to listen to rock and roll music and like to listen to to all the stuff the world has and wants all that. I found out that I'm not getting fed very much. They're gonna draw and fool me that way. Um uh I was somewhere. Sometime for something. But anyway, um uh I want to get around the people of God. Let me give you another one. Be in the house of God, be around the people of God, get in the Word of God. If I'm really hungry after righteousness, I want to read this Bible. This Bible helps me. This Bible teaches me, and I want to be in the Word of God. I'm telling you, a person that has their Bible brings it to church Sunday lays it on the coffee table on Sunday when they get home, and then next Sunday morning they pick it up off the coffee table, wipe the dust off, and carry it to church. That person isn't very hungry Because in that Bible is the righteousness of God teaches me and shows me and helps me and gives me promises and gives me warnings and gives me instructions. On how to be righteous. And if I want to be righteous, I want to know this book. Let me give you another one. To be in prayer to God. Praying and asking God, how hungry am I? I'm going to look for every opportunity to be in the house of God, to be around the people of God, to get in the Word of God, to be in prayer. Let me throw another one out. This might not be one we normally think of, but reading about great men and women of God, reading good books about God. God has given us tremendous, tremendous men and women of years gone by that knew the Lord and walked with God and were righteous before God. And they taught things and they wrote things down. And we have an opportunity to read them. When I first got saved, books, I would devour them. Look in my library I just wanted if it was and if they said this is a good author and I after a period of time I figured out which guys uh had the same heart that I was wanting and which guys saw knew the Lord the way I wanted to know the Lord And I started devouring their books and reading them. You look at them, they're marked up and underlined in notes and thoughts. And if they said something wasn't right, I crossed it out, put a skeleton there beside it. I did. And hungering and thirsting after righteousness. You know, there was a day, there was a day when Christians would drive an hour, hour and a half, go to revival meeting, together the teaching and preaching the Word of God There sure was. There was a day just since I've been saved, back eighty seventy-nine, where if if there was a great preacher, evangelist Somewhere. There would be churches and preachers from two hours away would come in to hear that preacher preach. How many people know what I'm talking about? Several years ago, Dr. Lee Robertson was preaching in Morgantown, and Betty and Frey had a big suburban or whatever it was, excursion, some fancy million-dollar car. And uh they could see a whole slew of people. So we got that and I think we had a van, the church van, and they had theirs and we packed that thing out. And we went up to Morgantown to hear Dr. Lee Robertson preach, this great man of God and great faith in God. We got there Monday night. You know how many guest preachers were there to hear Dr. Robertson? One. You know who that was? It was me. I couldn't believe it. They said all the pastors are here to hear Dr. Robertson stand up. I was the only one I thought, man alive, there was a day when every Christian, independent fundamental Baptist from two hours away would have been in there to be in that meeting. You know what happened? We're not hungry anymore We're full. TV and games and stuff and things. We're just full. And we loathe the honeycomb Because we're not hungry. And you know what I found out? Because we're not hungry for righteousness, we are not very righteous. And the church is getting worldlier and worldlier and worldlier. And sin is getting more prevalent and more prevalent and more prevalent. And now you have Christians justified, ungodly music. And now you have Christians not ashamed of the some of the filth they look at, and now they stand up and say, there's nothing wrong with that. You know why? We're not hungry for righteousness and we're not being filled. See what I'm saying? Some of the people that tell me that this is Yeah. That's a good point. We were down in Dominican Republic in nineteen ninety-seven. Uh ninety-eight, we went ninety-nine. 2000. No. We went down there and I preached up in the mountains of of Dominican Republic and uh there was literally this big pickup truck came in like like Paul Harvey used to have. He had this big pickup truck It was dump truck is what it was. Not pickup truck, big dump truck. That thing came in. They had 35 or 40 people packed in the bed of the dump truck sitting on the bumpers on top of the hood And uh Dr. Creed was with me, he said they drove two hours to be here to hear the preaching of God's word. Isn't that incredible? You know what that tells me? They were hungry. They were hungry. And we're so full. We're just not hungry for it anymore. Remember Jacob? I gotta quit. Remember Jacob wrestling with the angel? And boy, he would not let that angel go. Now that's mind-boggling. That same angel probably killed 75,000 soldiers, you know, a little bit later on I think the angel was letting them. Hold on. But he said, I will not let thee go unless thou what? Bless me. You know what Jacob was? He was hungry for God's blessing. He wanted to be what God wanted him to be. And when you and I get to that point, say, God, I am not going to quit going to church. I am not going to quit reading my Bible. I'm not going to quit praying. I'm not going to quit quit hanging around with godly Christians. until my life is everything you want it to be. And God says when we get to that point, he goes bingo. I'll fill you with that. You'll be what I want you to be. You'll have victory over sin. You'll have the joy of the Lord. You'll have an influence on the unsaved. And when you stand before me at the judgment seat of Christ I'll say to you, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. But how hungry are we? How hungry are we When we begin to understand how glorious and fulfilling and joyful it is to live a godly, righteous, spirit-filled life that God intends for us, we will not be satisfied with anything else. The problem is we're too full of the world, and we're not very hungry for righteousness. Let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord, my heart's challenged as I studied this, and now even as I preach it again, Lord, I pray you'd stir in our hearts a hunger for righteousness I pray, Lord, you'd stir in our hearts a dissatisfaction with the with the artificial filling of this world and of empty religion. And Lord, we could just thoroughly be right with you, be filled with your Holy Spirit, have your presence, your power in our lives. Give us a desire for that, Lord. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many, along with me, would say, Preacher, my hunger and thirst for righteousness is not as strong as it should be? I know that. It's not as strong as it once was, maybe. You say, preacher, I see what Jesus said here, and my heart stirred, and I want that hunger back, and I want that thirst back. And I need God To help me be hungry again and be thirsty again. Is there any like that? Uplifted hand, my hand's raised. Now, why don't we tonight ask God to do that for us? God, make me hungry. Help me to be dissatisfied with the other stuff and desire your will more than anything else. If we ask God for that, I believe He'll help us, He'll do it. They'll put that hunger there. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed on