Matthew chapter six, uh we're going to start reading in verse number five. We're into what I'm considering the second major point in the greatest sermon ever preached by the greatest preacher that ever preached The Lord Jesus Christ and the Sermon on the Mount. We looked at the introduction, the Beatitudes, uh in chapter 5. I think it's like verse uh 2 or 3 down through verse 12 or 13 gave an introduction, then he made a few statements there about our role in the world. We're the salt of the earth, we're the light of the world. Then he made his first major point, the Lord Jesus did, at least as I see the sermon And he says that there, that as disciples, and again, he's preaching to saved people. This is not evangelistic message. It's to his disciples. uh and not just his twelve immediate disciples, but all those that have trusted him and are seeking to follow him. And he his first major point is this and unless our righteousness exceeds that of the Pharisees uh will no ways enter the kingdom of heaven. And she's saying that, listen, Christianity and being a disciple of Jesus Christ is more than just a facade. And he gave six illustrations. He went down through there, took um really in a in a lot of ways were really hot bus button issues. Anger, divorce, adultery, these types of things, forgiveness uh and all of that and he illustrated how that as a disciple of Jesus Christ our our Christianity, our relationship with God is more than just a facade. It's something that comes from what we are. When we trust Christ, He changes us and He gives us uh a a new nature. And and so our our relationship with the Lord comes from within. And we looked at that at at length, and we looked at that very thoroughly. Now chapter six is beginning what I'm taking as the second major point of this sermon. And maybe I'm imposing onto this my way of breaking down sermons. I like three points, a poem and a tear-jerking illustration uh in my sermon. So I'm kind of maybe imposing that on the Lord's. But I see a second major s uh point on verse number one of chapter six where he says, Take heed then to be seen of them Otherwise, you have no reward of your father which is in heaven. And if you remember, we looked at that a month or so ago, a couple months ago. And I'm taking verse number one as just being a general statement. He's not necessarily here addressing directly almsgiving. as he does in chapter two. Then he comes back to that. I think he's just making a general statement. Your Christian life, your Christian life uh is not to be done simply to be seen of others. Very similar to his first point. He says if that's the case, if if your Christian service, you're living your Christian life, is just to be seen a man, just to put on a show, uh, then you're not getting any reward. And of course his first illustration of that was in alms giving or what we would call our charity, our charitable giving. Um the biblical term is almsgiving, but it simply is uh cheryl giving. Now we get to verse 5 and he's giving a second illustration of something in the Christian light that we should not do just to be seen of men. or it's not effective. Now look look at verse 5. I'm going to read down through verse 13. I believe 14 and 15 are tacked on, but we're going to look at that separately. Verse 5 And when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are, for they love to pray, standing in the synagogues and on the corners of the streets, that they may be seen of men. Verily I say unto you, they have their reward. But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet. And when thou hast shut the door, pray to thy father which is in secret, and thy father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly. But when ye pray, use not vain repetitions, as the heathen do, for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking. But be ye not therefore like them unto them, for your father knoweth what the what things ye have need of before ye ask him. After this manner, therefore, pray ye, Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory forever. Amen. So here you have, he's addressing this matter of prayer. Now, our series is the Sermon on the Mount. Our subseries under that is Not doing stuff to be seen of men. Our sub-sub series under that is how to pray. And our little series within that series is how not to pray. And so the Lord's giving instructions here on how to pray. Can everybody get all those series down within series? You lost me about halfway through. So let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless our study on how to pray. I pray that you would fill me with your spirit and that uh you would speak through me and uh challenge us that our prayer life would be exactly what you intend for it to be, that we can have the right motives and the right methods and uh again bless and challenge us and help us. In Jesus' name we pray Amen. Now, there's a couple things I just want to touch on to get started here. I want us to notice a few things that the Lord takes for granted, so to speak. He takes for granted. Look at verse number two. Here is talking about giving alms or what we would call charitable giving. He says, therefore, what's the second word there, that next word? When thou givest, when thou doest thine alms. That word when, what is that assuming? What is the Lord taking for granted there? That we're actually going to do it The Lord takes for granted that his disciples are going to be very charitable. They're going to be very giving. They're going to be very compassionate. They're going to be very gracious with people. So he takes for granted. Look at verse number five. And what's the next word? When? He's taking for granted that his disciples are going to do what? Pray. He takes it for granted that his disciples pray. Now come over to verse number 16, which is his third illustration, we're going to look at eventually. He says, um, uh, moreover, next word, when You do what? Now here's the kicker. The Lord assumes that his disciples are going to be charitable. He assumes that his disciples are going to pray. Verse 16 tells us he assumes what? His disciples are going to fast. Now we the charitable part, yeah, we're on board with that. The prayer part, we're on board with that. What about fasting? That's uh unheard of in this day and age That's something that you hear very, very little of. So eventually we're going to get to that. But as I was looking at this, I thought, hmm, that's something the Lord just Again, if God can assume things, that's something He assumes that we're doing. And so we'll look at all of these eventually. Now, verse 5 through 13 is our Lord's instructions on how to pray. Now, everybody, uh, there's all kinds of folks out there that want to tell us how we should pray. The books on how to pray are unending. I think the one subject I have in my library, I have a fair-sized library, the one subject of books I have more than any other subject is on prayer. A huge section of books on prayer, how to pray, uh prayer promises. I mean just pray, pray, pray, pray, pray. Probably more sermons on prayer. We talk a lot about prayer. We have prayer meetings every week Everybody has all kinds of instructions on how to pray. I came across this. The proper way for man to pray, said Deacon Lemuel Keyes, the only attitude is down upon his knees. Nay, I should say the way to pray, said Reverend Dr. Wise, is standing straight with outstretched arms, with rapt and upturned eyes Oh, no, no, no, said Elder Snow. Such posture is too proud. A man should pray with eyes fast closed and head contritely bowed Seems to me his hands should be austerely clasped in front, with both thumbs pointing to the ground, said Reverend Dr. Blunt. Well, last year I fell in Hodgkin's well head first, said Cyril Brown, with both my heels a stickin' up, my head a pointin' down. And I done prayed right then and there the best prayer I ever said. The prayinest prayer I ever prayed was a standing on my head. Everybody's got ideas and suggestions on how we ought to pray. But the Lord gives us some instructions here, and He's telling us how we should pray. It's like the Lord is discipling. His disciples. He's saying, listen, fellas, and he's speaking to the big crowd, actually, not just the twelve, as I said. He's saying, this is where you need to pray. When you pray, this is how you need to do it. This is the way to go about it. I think it's interesting here, in these few statements, five through, actually it goes down through 15. We just read the 13, but in these few statements, you These brief statements, he touches on some very profound truths about prayer He says more in these few verses and gives us clearer instruction, these few verses, on prayer than some of the entire volumes I have of books on prayer. And so this is a tremendous passage. Um I have a feeling this passage, particularly verse 9 where we talk about the Lord's Prayer. is probably one of the most popular or and favorite passages of scripture with the exception maybe of Psalms 23 in all of Scripture. I've been I I've seen this this portion quoted at funerals I've heard it quoted at weddings. I don't know if there's a connection there or not. But um uh I mean any type of service, anything, you'll see this quoted. So it's a very, very popular passage of scripture, very well known But it's very significant in what he teaches here. And so we're going to take some weeks and br work our way down through here and really break this down. Because of the importance of this passage. He tells us here how to pray and how not to pray And he's very clear. I think it's interesting. I just we'll do a little study here and then we'll get into it a little more. But verse number six, if you look at it carefully, is really an answer to verse number five. Verse 5, he says, When thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are. They love to pray, standing in the synagogues in the corners of the streets, that they may be seen amen. Verily I say in thee, they have the reward. But thou, when thou prayest So he says, listen, verse 5, he says, don't be like these guys. And then he responds to that. This is how you should do it. And then in verse number 9 through 13 is actually a response or an answer to his statement in verse 7 and 8. Verse 7 and 8 says, But when you pray, use not vain repetitions as the heathen do. And it expands on that then verse 9. After this manner, therefore, pray ye So he tells you, don't do it this way, do it this way. Don't do it this way, do it this way. And so he's working his way down through here. Verse number five. Is a hypocritical prayer. He's addressing hypocritical prayer. In other words, this prayer is characterized by having a wrong motive A wrong motive, to be seen of men. You get down to verse 7 and 8. It's not a hypocritical prayer there. That's a heathen's prayer. Notice verse 5 he says, When thou prayest, thou shalt uh Verse 7, when you pray, use not vain repetitions as the heathen. So verse 5 he's addressing hypocritical pray Verse 7 he's addressing keethen prey. And the heathen praying is characterized by wrong method They're going about it the wrong way. They think if I say a lot of words and use vain repetitions, then God will hear me. Whereas verse 5, the hypocritical prayer is they're praying But the whole motive is to be seen by men. So you see the difference there. I want to look at this hypocritical prey and see what the Lord says about that, hypocrisy and prayer. No doubt I'm convinced that the highest position that a man or a woman, a child of God can hold, the highest position we can be in The greatest position we can be in is to be humbly on our knees before the throne of God. That is a powerful, powerful position. The fact, and as I studied this, I was just humbled by this. The fact that you and I through Christ, have access to the throne of God is an amazing thing. Amazing thing Would you agree with me, humanly speaking, for a person to have unfettered access to the President of the United States, most powerful man in the world, he can access him at any time. Would you agree? That's a pretty privileged position. That's a pretty powerful. That's a pretty high position for someone to attain to that. I have un unfettered access to the president. Hey, you and I got unfettered access access to the God that created that president And so what an amazing thing for us to have the privilege to be able to pray. There's no greater uh position. Now, I'll I'll make a few statements and we'll we'll get into this. Now, with that in mind, the phenomenal privilege that we have to access God in prayer, I want us to think about for a moment, and really this is what the Lord is addressing, is this matter of sin. When we think of sin, if I make this statement, that guy is a wicked sinner. What type of person comes to your mind? You hear that? A real evil person? What type of behavior do you think of? So you say, man, that guy is just a wicked sinner. Yeah, that would be a drunkard or some adulterer or a thief, a murderer, just a nasty guy. He's a drug dealer. He's a wet wicked sinner, a sex offender, that type of thing. That's a wicked sinner. Can I suggest to you our thinking about sin is a little skewed If we come to the throne, the very throne of Almighty God, with wrong motives, selfish motives, using the access to the the throne of God as a means to draw attention to myself, I want to suggest to you that is just as sinful as the guy that lives that lifestyle We have a wrong concept of sin. When we think of sin, we think of it as some terrible, terrible thing, and it is. But the fact is, sin is so deceptive and so subtle that it creeps even to the throne of God in the hearts of men and women. Women. Isn't that an amazing thing? And that's what the Lord is addressing. He says, don't be like these people that bring self and pride and sin to the very throne of God. Don't be like that. Don't be like that. So he's telling us how not to pray. How not to pray. Alright, how should we not pray? Number one, here's the first thing he points out to us how we should not pray. Number one, do not use a wrong pattern for prayer. Do not use a wrong pattern for prayer. Look at verse 5. When thou prayest, again he assumes we are, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites. And that whole phrase there, thou shalt not be as, that whole phrase has this idea. Do not pattern yourself after these guys. Do not pattern your prayers after the way they pray. Do not pattern your motives after these guys' motives. Don't use a wrong pattern. You know, there's all uh there's all kinds of ideas out there about how to pray. Catholics have their ideas on how to pray. The Buddhists had their ideas on how to pray. I watched a little documentary last night on a bunch of people that were killed on Mount Everest and they were saying that they're in um uh Nepal and by the way we had lunch today with um Akeem Devcota. They passed through, they stayed in the mission house, and so we got to talk with them a little bit. But there before they try and climb that Tremendous mountain. Oh, I think it's a requirement they have to go through a Buddhist temple and spin these prayer wheels and get permission from the mountain gods or whatever to climb up there. And so they've got ideas on how to pray and and uh all these different patterns and different ways to pray. The Lord says, be very, very careful. About who you go to for advice on how to pray. Be very careful on who you pattern your prayer life, Esther. In fact, the Lord gives strong warnings all through Scripture about being very, very careful about wrong teaching on spiritual matters. He gives us strong warnings about false and phony spirituality and false and phony Christianity. And especially in the last days We have got to be especially careful as to who we go to for advice and where we go to pattern our Christianity over, not just our prayer life, but all our We have to be very, very careful with that. I want to show you a few verses that the Lord uh places where the Lord gives us pretty strong warning on this. If you would turn over to Matthew chapter 24 Now this is a you might qualify this as a bit of a rabbit trail, but this is really what he's doing. He's warning his disciples here, listen, there's people out there that are going to want to influence you, particularly in your prayer life. And don't follow them. Don't follow that pattern. And as we go to other portions of Scripture, he extends that warning into other areas of the Christian life. Matthew chapter 24. And here He's addressing the last days in particular. Look with me at verse number four. Jesus answered and said unto them, What's the next two words there? Take heed. What does that mean? Watch out. Pay careful attention. You be careful. You be on alert. Take heed that no man deceive you. Say, Brother Leatherman, nobody in Christianity would ever try and deceive anyone. If they're a Christian, you don't have to watch out for anything. Ha! Look at verse 5. For what? Many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ, and shall deceive many Here he's given a real careful warning. This matter of spirituality, this matter of your Christianity, you've got to be very, very careful. Come down to verse number 11 And many false prophets shall rise and shall deceive many. And because of iniquity, the Sh uh shall abound, the love of many shall wax cold. So he says there's going to be a lot of false prophets come up. And he's addressing, especially in the last days. He's going to have to be, he says, listen, you need to be very, very careful. You need to be very, very careful. Look at verse 24. There shall rise false Christs and false prophets, and shall show great signs and wonders, insomuch that if it were possible, they shall deceive the very elect. Even saved people may be fooled by this. And so he gives very, very careful warnings. Come over. I've got a bunch more here. Let's just look at a couple more. Romans chapter 16. Last chapter, the book of Romans. Now this is you don't hear much preaching on this. I I can almost guarantee you're going to hear very few messages on TBN on watching out for false prophets. Gotta be uh this isn't this isn't touched on much, but it's very clear in Scripture. This is one of the things I call the uh the neglected doctrines of the Bible. Look at verse 17. Now I beseech you, brethren, mark them which cause divisions and offenses contrary to the doctrine which ye have learned, and what? Avoid them. Is that not what the Lord is telling his disciples in Matthew chapter 6? Be not like the hypocrites that pray this way? Isn't he not saying he's marking them? He's identifying them. He said, listen, you avoid them, don't follow that pattern. For sake of time, we won't well verse 18 he goes on, for they are such as serve serve not our Lord Jesus Christ. We're going to see that's exactly what these hypocrites weren't serving the Lord. Their concern wasn't the Lord But their own belly, and by good words and fair speeches, deceive the hearts of the simple. Again, we could go to other verses. Galatians 1. 8. Colossians 2. 8. 2 John 1. 10. We're not going to turn to all these, but 2 John 1. 10, the second epistle of John, there's only one chapter there, verse 10. But he says this, do not, if somebody comes, I'm This is paraphrasing here. It says if somebody comes by your house and they're teaching something contrary to the Word of God, they're teaching something contrary to the Lord Jesus Christ in the gospel, he says, Do not invite them into your house, do not wish them God speed. So what is he doing here? He's warning us. He's saying, listen, there is false teaching. There is wrong patterns. There's things you've got to be very, very careful about. If we want to summarize this, if we want to boil it down to one thing, if it is contrary to the word of God, don't mess with it If it's contrary to the teaching of Scripture, stay away from it. And we've got to be very careful. And that's really what he's doing here in Matthew chapter 6 with the disciples. He says He's saying in so many words, there are people out there and their ideas about prayer, their methods of prayer, their motives of prayer are wrong. Don't get caught up on that. Don't pattern your prayer life after them. So let's come back to Matthew here. And again, 2 Thessalonians 3, 14 and 15 addresses that another passage, so we won't take time to do all that. What I'm trying to say is this, and what I believe the Lord is touching on here, is we must be very vigilant in our walk with God. We've got to be very, very careful. Um, you know, you Google in, you Google in, how should I pray? Brother, you better be very, very careful what you comes up on there. Be very, very careful what you go through. Just uh There's all that out there. And the Lord says, listen, don't pattern yourselves after these guys. Now, the specific group that he says not to pray as here is hypocrites. Now he addressed this when he talked about the almsgiving or charitable giving. He addressed hypocrites. And a hypocrite, as we said before, is simply what we would call maybe a stage actor Somebody that gets up and plays a part that they really are not. Sometimes we'll watch a show. My wife hates to watch a show with me because I keep saying, that's dumb, that's stupid, that's not They're not even really that way, you know. Any can I get a witness? Anybody like that? Especially, especially Anne of Green Gables. That just gets under my But uh Mark likes cats and Anna Green Gables. But um anyway This hypocrite is somebody that gets up just like an actor gets up on the stage or gets in front of the camera and he acts like something he really is. He'll be some superhero, he'll be some great guy and all that, and he gets off and he's really a wimp You know, he's not anything what he put on that he was. And the Lord says there are people like that spiritually. They're pretenders. What's another word we say? They are Hypocrites, the word I'm thinking of is phony. They're not legit. They're phony. They're just putting on a show. Hypocrisy has devastating effects on our spiritual well-being. We've got to be very, very careful that we do not allow ourselves to slip into a hypocritical condition or even a hypocritical way of thinking and it's more subtle than what you and I think And it's more common. In fact, if we were honest, probably all of us are hypocritical to some extent. We put on. You know, we'll come to church and uh you know I'm right, I'm uh in this with you. But we'll come to church and we'll put on, oh yeah, amen, praise the Lord. The whole way to church we're just as soon as we get a car pastor stand back there, oh praise the Lord. Hallelujah. Right or wrong. We've got to watch out for that because that has devastating effects. Now you say, well, you want us to get out and argue in the church? No. Praise the Lord in the car. Go the right way. But it has devastating effects, and it is so subtle, and if we're not careful, we can allow ourselves to slip into a hypocritical mindset. Or our Christianity degenerates into a show, an independent fundamental paved Baptist can slip into that way of thinking if we're not careful. And we've got to be for real. We've got to be for real. Hypocrisy really, I believe, began in the Garden of Eden with Satan. Remember in chapter 3 of Genesis, he shows up to Eve and he comes across as a serpent And I don't know about you. How many people here are uncomfortable around snakes? A little bit, yeah, especially when they're 12 foot long and 8 inches across. But ease at total ease with this serpent. And the serpent begins talking to her, and what's he putting on as? He's putting on as if he's very concerned about Eve's well-being, right? He's very concerned about her being ripped off by God and her somehow missing out, and God's withholding all this wonderful stuff from her, and he's just being a hypocrite He's putting on as if he really cares about her. He doesn't care a lick about her. All he wants to do is get at God And so we've got to watch out for this mentality of hypocrisy. Listen, if my walk with God is not what it ought to be, the solution is not putting on a show as if it is. The solution is making it right. Making it right. And so he says, don't don't pattern yourself after these hypocrites, these people that put uh uh put on a show that they're one thing and they're really something else. That put on a show that they're all great men of prayer and they're really not. He says, don't pattern yourself after them. Don't allow yourself to get into that frame of mind. Hypocrisy is more than just a show I put on. It begins with a way of thinking. That somehow this is acceptable, that this is this is uh uh uh this is okay. I'm getting away with something, my uh uh everything's fine as long as it appears that way. He says don't don't allow yourself Don't pattern yourself to that. We must not allow that to happen. We must avoid hypocrisy at all costs. We must So number one, he says how not to pray. Don't use a wrong pattern in prayer. These hypocrites, don't pattern yourself after that. The second area that uh that we should not pray is do not go to the wrong place. To pray. Do not go to the wrong place to pray. Look at me at verse number 5 again. And when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are. For they love to pray standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets Standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets, what is he talking about? He's talking about highly visible places. These guys love to get in front of people and put on these prayers and say these prayers. They want to get to highly visible places. If they had cell phone cameras back then, these guys would be taking selfies of themselves praying. And they would be posting it on Twitter and Facebook and all that stuff because they would want everybody to see how much they pray. They would want everybody to know how much they pray. The place to pray is not in public positions. You say, preacher, is it wrong to pray publicly? No, I think it's fine to open a service in prayer and have a time of prayer here or there and pray in homes and different things. Nothing wrong with that. But that is not what we seek. If I'm looking to get a hold of God, I'm looking to pray, do not go to a public place. He's going to tell us here later how we should do it. But they wanted to give this impression, they wanted to communicate, they were very anxious, that they were known as men of prayer. I want everybody to think of me as a great man of prayer. I want everybody to view me as somebody that really prays. In fact, um it's almost the idea here in the in the street, corners of the streets, it's almost like They were so earnest to pray, they didn't even have time to get to the temple. They just stopped in the middle of the street and prayed. You know, that was the image they were trying to present. I'm this tremendous prayer warrior. I have a reputation as a great man of prayer. That is not the place to pray. That is the wrong place. Don't pray that way. That's the way hypocrites pray. Don't pattern yourself after the hypocrites. Don't go to the places to pray where the hypocrites Go. Don't go to the wrong places. So number one, do not pattern yourselves. Do not have a wrong pattern in prayer. Number two, do not go to the wrong place of prayer. Number three, now we're going to look later how to pray. That'll be another message. But we're just looking at what not to do. Don't pattern after hypocrites Don't go big in public places, they're going to pray. Number three, do not have a wrong purpose in prayer. Why am I praying? What is the whole purpose? Look at these guys. Look at verse 5 again. They love to pray standing in the synagogues and in the corner of the streets, highly visible places, big public places, that they may be heard of God. Uh no. It's not why they're praying. That they may be what? Seen of men. Seen of men. Their focus was more on how they looked. Than how God heard them. Their concern was more: what do people think of me as a Christian, so to speak, than does God even hear what I'm saying? That wasn't their concern. Their concern was not that God heard them, but that men saw them. That men thought highly of them, that men would praise them. Their concern wasn't how their prayers were received by God. Their concern was how their prayers sounded to men. Sometimes people say something, oh, that was a beautiful prayer. I'm wondering, is genuine prayer really beautiful? You read your Bible, genuine prayer in the Bible is pretty humiliating. Is pretty uh uh tough, pretty rough. I think about the two men in Luke, I think it's 18, went to the temple to pray. And one man prayed a beautiful prayer Lord, I thank thee that I am not as these other men. I tithe and I do this and I give that, and I'm not like this guy. Oh, what a beautiful prayer he prayed. The other God prays a pretty ugly prayer. Lord, be merciful to me, a sinner. You know, the Lord said only one of those prayers was heard, and it wasn't a beautiful one. It was a pretty sad, sorry one. And so these guys, their whole purpose in praying was to impress people, to be uh have a beautiful prayer. And people would say, oh, what a great man, oh what a wonderful prayer. This can be very subtle. We have to watch out when we pray That we have to remember that we are asking God for something when we pray. We're not putting on a performance. Right? For these guys, prayer was a performance Genuine prayer is asking God to do something or force something or help me in some way or meet some need. I'm going to make this statement. I believe this is true. And I think Spurgeon said something along these lines. There's very little genuine prayer takes place in public. Very little genuine prayer. I'm confident of this. Very little effective prayer takes place in public. The most effective prayers, I believe, are prayers that people don't even know are prayed, but only God knows. That only God knows. It's not important, I'm going to make this statement: it is not important that anyone knows how much or when I pray other than God. Because prayer is between me and God, no one else. No one else. I'm not praying to anyone else. I'm not praying. Now you understand what I mean. I'm not praying for anyone else. Not that I'm praying for them, but I'm not praying for their attention. For their entertainment, for their enlightenment. I can pray for my wife that God would help her and bless her, and I should But I don't pray for my wife so my wife hears what a wonderful prayer warrior husband is. Follow what I'm saying? I think my prayers for my fellow man are more effective sometimes when he didn't even know I'm praying them. Now I want to be careful, and I talked with my wife about this a little bit before, but you know, sometimes we'll say someone, I'm praying for you. And that's good. And we ought to pray for them. But me telling them I'm praying for them does not make that prayer any more effective. It would be just as effective, maybe more effective. If I didn't put on that show and draw attention to the fact that I'm praying for them. I've said this about people before, and I think it's true to some extent, so I don't want to go overboard on this. But um I often thought, oh, so-and-so is praying for me. Oh, that's good. And it is good. But me knowing that, you follow what I'm saying, it's not a show, it's not something. It's between God and I. So the Lord gives a very strong statement here. And he says, look what he says. Verily I say unto you, they have their prayers answered. No, that's not what he says. They have their what? In other words, prayers that are prayed to be seen, that are a show, that are all just based on hypocrisy, those prayers, all you get out of them is attention. I'll be honest with you. I need my prayer. I need answers to my prayers more than I need attention to my prayers. And we're all in the same boat, aren't we? So he tells us here hypocrisy in prayer, and he tells us how not to pray. Now when we get down to verse 78, he's going to tell us something else not to do in our prayers Don't pray as the heathen do in the wrong methods. But here he says, don't pray as the hypocrites do with the wrong motives. So our challenge tonight from this passage is, what are our motives in prayer? Put on a show to be people think I'm some great prayer warrior? Or is it to get a hold of God? I think we're going to get to heaven. I have a sneaking suspicion. And we're going to get to heaven and find out that the people that move the throat of God and change things through prayer are people we never even heard of, we never even knew that they prayed a whole lot. Because it never drew attention to themselves. It was all them and God, humbly, singly, before God, seeking I'm suggesting you there are prayer warriors in nursing homes all around the world. There are prayer warriors in humble little kitchens. And little bedrooms that nobody ever heard of. Nobody even knows how much time they spent in prayer except God. And that is what made the bedroom. Difference. God has blessed us here so much. I've often said to my wife, somebody somewhere is praying. Because that's the only explanation for God's blessings on us all these years. I feel that way. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, we do ask you to help us to pray and to be have the right motives in our prayers That you would stir us to actually pray, not just at church or in show, but in our personal, private lives, being men and women of earnest prayer, just between you and I. And I wonder with our heads bowed eyes closed. I know studying this, the Lord worked me over. I wonder how many tonight, with our heads bowed eyes closed, would say, Preacher, you know, I really need a revival in my prayer life. I need a reassessment. of my prayers and my motives and you know my effort in prayer. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. I need God to revive my prayer life and get it in line with what it needs to be Does anybody like that? Anybody feel that way? I certainly do. God bless you. Hands all around. Maybe it'd be a good thing, just an old-fashioned altar. Just kneel before a little bit tonight before we go on and say, Lord, I need you to help me in my prayer life. I need you to stir. me and and uh make my heart and my mind my my frame of mind about this what it ought to be. Father bless, I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Kathy's gonna play a few verses