It's been a good week that I've enjoyed and it's always it's always great to be up here in the mountains. And uh I appreciate this church so much and I love you folks. Appreciate you. You've always been good to us and uh appreciate your hospitality and You guys work hard when we come up and I appreciate that. I mean we got visitors and that that helps too. We've got uh six chalk drawings now completed and uh I'm curious now as to which one's going to come out on top. So if you'll do me a favor and only vote for one instead of like some people that I talked to recently that voted for all of them If you just vote for one, it helps me know which ones are popular and and uh many times those are the ones I put in print next. So If we can just uh go through the whole thing now at the at the end of the service after the invitation and everything is over, we'll take the uh portable black light and we'll go to each one of the the pictures and and uh show uh the hidden effect in it. And the uh uh the black light uh images. So uh but right now let's just uh go for one just one. You know, y you can pick it out for the head in the factory, you can pick the picture for you know, for just the uh uh the picture itself. And so either way, it didn't make any difference to me, but if you like it, you you raise your hand. How about the first one up here with the Lady Liberty and the in the memorial to the our vets. How many like that one? The best. Okay, you got about four or five. I saw one back there. And then we did the the next one there That uh has a little lake in there. I believe that's the one that has the hands of the the Father uh presenting his son on the cross and there's the hidden effect there's blood in the water. How many like that one the best? Let me see your hands. Okay, got one on that. And how about the bridge? How many like that one the best? Ah, okay. We've got a few more. About six or seven. And we did the bear. How many like the bear Alright. We got about 10 on that, looks like. Alright. And then we did the waterfall last night. How many like that one the best? Yeah, that is new and I I kinda like that. I may change it a little bit next time. You like this one up here then the best. Oh this is the favorite for the the week. You like that one, huh? Well I I tell ya, I don't understand that. I mean it's snow. My wife wanted me to paint this snow picture. Not she oh me, well We got a little taste of the snow this week and and we survived it and so I thank the Lord for that. But uh All right. Pastor, thanks for having us in all these many years. We've been appreciate your your faithfulness and and what the Lord's doing. It's a far cry from what it was back in 93 when when I was interim interim here. And uh I th I look around and and I thank the Lord for what uh this church has done through the years. And it's uh it's not a result of just one man You know, it usually the focus comes in on one guy, but but the truth of the matter is each one of us have a a a little part of this uh of seeing the church grow. Because we are a part of the church. And uh So uh I I just uh praise the Lord for for the way God is working up here and and uh keeping you guys busy. I've never s seen a church so busy. Busy, busy All right. We're in the uh the book of John, if you would please. Book of John, we're going to be in chapter 10. And uh I'm just gonna read one verse of uh one verse of scripture, and that's in verse nine. Where the Word of God says, I am the door. By me, if any man enter in, he shall be saved, and shall go in and out and find pasture. Heavenly Father, as we once again come to the preaching of the Word of God, we uh again yield ourselves best we know how. And we ask you, Lord, just to uh speak to our heart, pray that you'd keep our minds clear and and uh that you would uh Help us to see the the truths that we need and the principles we need to to live uh a life that glorifies you and that that uh uh that is a is a blessing to you So I pray that you'll you'll bless our time around the Word of God. Bless the chalk drawing, Lord. I thank you for it. And it uh looks it looks good to me tonight. So I thank God for that I ask you, Lord, to uh to speak to our hearts in a special way. Thank you for the these good folks that have been so faithful uh in every service, many of them in every service they've been here And uh I I many of them invited. I mean sometimes the visitors didn't come, but uh they still was out there working and And that's what's important and know that you'll one day will uh reward us uh according to our works. So I ask your blessings now upon this service and the remaining part of it. May there be decisions made tonight that will change lives. I ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Amen. Well, Jesus says in these verses here, he's just in the previous chapters, if you if you r would remember uh the previous chapters. Uh he was dealing with Pharisees that uh was giving him a hard time and and he uh made a comment back here in one place where he he uh says that he he was um In verse 58 of chapter 8, it says, Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily I say unto you, and he's speaking to Pharisees now, he's speaking to the religious leaders, he says, Before Abraham was, I am. That's a pretty heavy pretty heavy verse. I don't know how the Jehovah's Witnesses get around that verse. They say that Jesus isn't God. I don't understand that because certainly uh he makes the implication here that uh uh before Abraham was I am, that tells me that Jesus was not only believed that he was God, he was God. So uh uh but that that's where these next verses are coming from. Uh he he leaves the the temple there and they wanted to kill him at that particular time and but he walked through the midst of 'em, walked out of the the uh uh the temple and and uh on his way out then he he heals a blind man and and uh he was uh uh the uh light of the world. And uh now we see him as uh get into chapter ten here. He says, I am the door. This is not the first time that we see some symbolism here concerning the door. Because if you go back in the Old Testament, and there there was there's several of them, but there's there's just two that I would uh would bring up uh here. And this for this message. And one of them was uh in Egypt. And uh you'll remember that uh after all the plagues that had taken place, you know, and the the the lice and the you know, the frogs and and all that all of that until Pharaoh finally You know, he just he was really getting angry and and he kept saying, No, you can't uh you can't go can't go and you can't worship an uh any other gods. Anyway What happened was uh God said, okay, I'm gonna take your firstborn. So he tells Moses, he tells the, and he says, Moses, I want you to tell the people I want you to to uh uh get a cat, uh a uh lamb that is without spot or blemish. And I want you to, on this particular night, I want you to to um Uh bring the family in, or you're gonna slay that lamb. You're gonna take the blood of that lamb with some hyssop. You're gonna splice the the two sides of the of the door and and across the top And uh uh and and when the death angel comes to take the firstborn of Egypt, if he sees the blood, he will pass over you, and that's where the the Jewish Passover comes from. And so it wasn't a physical door that kept the death angel out, but it was it was the the the blood And if you of course you can see the cross in the in the uh the way it was put on the uh the top of the door, you know, on the two sides, you can you can see the cross in that And so we first see the door as a as a symbol of Jesus Christ or at Calvary there in that place. But then you can see it in later on when God gives Moses the directions for the tabernacle. And you'll find that the there's a a curtain that goes around the the entire uh tabernacle. And uh that curtain is, you know, it's like uh eight feet, uh I can't remember exactly how high is seven and a half, eight feet high. And uh it's pure white And there's only one way in and that's that's through the front, through the door. There's only one door there. And that door had uh had uh red, purple, blue, and white stripes. That was the colors of it, which is a picture of uh of Jesus also. So we see the symbolism early on in the Old Testament and And uh now once again Jesus is uh is uh likening himself to a door. That's a pretty lowly thing, isn't it? You know, uh it wasn't a gold door he was talking about. It wasn't made out of silver, it wasn't made out of platinum or anything expensive. It was a it was just a plain old door, but but in reality it was a sh uh a a sheep. shed door. If I can put it that way. It was a door that uh uh for to uh to keep the sheep in When the shepherds were out in the out in the wilderness away from their home and they had their herd of sheep, many times they would they would build a barrier to put their little herd of sheep in And uh they would gather up uh a bunch of thorn bushes and and uh they would kind of uh crowd those things together and kind of weave them together to a where it was a pretty uh high uh fence and uh they would make a a big circle there and then there was just one little opening there and that one little opening was where the sheep would go through and he would get the sheep to go through there. He could count the sheep as they went through one by one. And when he was satisfied that all the sheep that he had was in there and believe me he knew exactly how many sheep uh he had. Uh after they were all in it was time for him to, you know, take their nap and wait for the next day to to go out and And find Pastor Yenwai, uh he would put himself, he'd sit down in the in the uh doorway there, and he literally became the door. And this is a picture that Jesus is is laying out here In that verse of scripture, I noticed there was uh uh I'd written down uh seven things that uh uh that kind of expounds this particular verse. For instance, says I am the door, that's the proclamation or the declaration, you could use that word, uh, and by me as a designation Because you only win by him, so he's des uh designating himself as the uh the the door. Uh the uh if any man, that's the invitation, and then there's the The entering in is the condition. He must enter in. Uh and uh see he shall be saved at salvation. And then you shall go in and out, that's liberation. He has the freedom to come and go. And uh then and find pasture and that's that's a provision. So there's uh there is seven things that kinda you gives you a good outline for the for the verse itself. But the simplicity of the of the door itself tells me that uh uh uh uh how Jesus wants us to look at him He does not want us to see him, and although we know that the fear of God is the beginning of wisdom and the beginning of knowledge At the same time, God came down and took on a human body in order for us to see God in him. In the human flesh. And so his when he says I am the door, he is he has picked a home uh a homey uh uh What can I call it? A holy symbol to illustrate his loneliness and his desire to be on a level where you can grasp the truths of God. And will listen to the truth of God. He says, I am the door. The first door, the first thing I would say about it, is he is the door of salvation He's the only door. To get into Jesus' flock, you must come through him Now we know the verses there in the book of Acts where in chapter 4 and verse 12 it says, Neither is there salvation any other, for there's none other name under heaven given among men whereby one must be saved. There is only one one way to be saved and one person and it must be Jesus Christ. He is the door. You're not a door like some would would like to include all the religions of the world, you know, and say, well, uh, you know, h here is Buddhism is a door and Jesus is a door and and you know uh Uh the Muslims have a door and and all these religions. That's that's not that's not what Jesus is saying. They can say whatever they want to about these other religions, but Jesus who uh is the son of God who is very God of very God. He says, I am the door There's none of the name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. In 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 and verse 9, it says, For God hath not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation. Not by our works, but by the Lord Jesus Christ. In Romans chapter 1, verse 12, it says, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it's the power of God and the salvation to everyone that believeth. So the criteria to enter through this door is simple faith in Jesus Christ. He is the way, the truth, and the life, and no man cometh to the Father but by him. To try to come any other way, the scripture said says in other verses there, that you'd you'd be a thief and a robber. They're the kind that goes uh uh come tries to come in some other way other than through the door In Matthew twenty-two, if you'll slip over there with me. In Matthew 22, verses 1 through 14, I'm not going to read all of those verses, but in this particular case, Uh this is a a parable about the concerning the kingdom. And he's talking about uh uh uh How that uh this man uh uh was uh marrying off his son, I believe it is, and and uh he's gonna have this big wedding party. And so uh when he t told his servants to go out and and gather in the people for the for the wedding, uh they come back, they they found that they couldn't hardly get anybody. So he tells them to go in on the highways and the byways and uh to compel them to come in. Now I'm looking at verse eleven it says and when the king came uh in to see the the guests he saw there a man which had not on a wedding garment. And he says unto him, Friend, how comest thou uh cameest thou in hither, not having a wedding garment, and he was speechless. And then said the king to the servant, Bind him hand and foot, and take him away And cast him into outer darkness, and there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. For many are called, but few are chosen. Once again we see that there is a requirement. Uh in this particular case, he's talking about a wedding. Well When uh uh back in those days, whenever there was going to be a wedding, then the host would send the wedding garments to those that he's invited. If they had a wedding garment and they came to the door, they were automatically allowed to come in. But if they did not have a wedding garment, If they they came in in their street clothes, why uh they were they were they were taken out. They were not allowed to to enter into the house. And so once again, he's setting up the criteria of what it takes in order to be in uh, in this particular case, it was in the wedding feast. Which is a picture of the bride of Christ and so forth. And so he's telling us once again that there is something required for you to be able to come in to God's presence. In the the case of the wedding feast, it has to be, it is the the the righteousness of Jesus Christ, which is uh s uh emblematic of the of the white uh uh robe that the uh the people the guests were to wear. So Jesus is just simply saying, I'm the door, and if you're going to get into heaven, if you're going to get in into my sheep fold, you must come just like every other sheep And that is, you must come by repenting of your sin and trusting Jesus Christ, believing on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. He that hath the Son hath life, and he that hath not the Son of God hath not life. So you must have the wedding garment, and that is the perfect righteousness of Jesus Christ. He hath made him to be sinned for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. He is the door, not only the door of salvation, but he's also the door of safety. The thieves and the robbers. Jesus was not the first to uh to come claiming to be the Messiah. There's there have been false Christ all along. And one of the things that uh we're warned about over and over in the New Testament is not to believe every spirit and and uh particularly those who come and say I am the Christ, we're not to not to believe that And uh even even today we have those uh those characters, the religious leaders and that uh claim uh uh some kind of of uh spiritual uh powers and so forth. But there were they uh there were the the wicked religious leaders in the temple who uh cared about lining their own pockets and And I'm not going to get into those stories, but uh one thing about it, Jesus pronounced the woes uh there in the book of Matthew in chapter twenty-three uh woe unto them and and he he lays on all these uh woes or uh I almost call them curses. And uh because these these religious leaders they they they like to uh be seen. They like to be called rabbi. Rabbi that's uh the uh uh a uh a monocle of uh of uh leadership and and power and so forth. And they enjoyed that that kind of stuff. And they were in it for the money and in it for the for the uh you know for the The the door of safety. We have to realize that uh uh with the with the shepherd at the entrance in of the of where the f the flock is housed With the shepherd there, when the wolf came and uh he would smell the sheep and he he would he would start circling trying to find that that little hole. Uh perhaps try to dig a hole. But the uh the uh the thing is that that that uh uh with the shepherd there uh they had their safety already built in I'm looking in in uh let's see in John chapter ten And I'm looking in verse ten. It says the thief it just again It says, The thief cometh not, but for to steal and to kill and to destroy, and I am come that they might have life, that they might have it more abundantly. The thief he's talking about, I don't think there's any question about it, but he's he's speaking of the devil himself. We're warned over and over about the snares of the devil. We're told in Peter to to be s serious minded and and and alert to the attacks of Satan and and uh his desire to uh to kill us. Uh The one thing that Satan wants to do with every one of us, if he could snap his finger and every one of us would drop dead, he'd be tickled to death. Particularly the lost person. And one thing that I that always kind of uh brought fear to me was to realize that that Satan was just like a uh just like a uh uh hound of hell that was uh on my trail and that uh uh if I wasn't careful that uh he was going to catch up with me And destroy me. Satan has only one desire, and that's to do whatever he can that brings God tears in his heart. The one thing that Satan would enjoy more than anything else was uh is to hurt God by hurting you. Every person that's lost, every person that dies and goes to hell, I believe is a burden to God. Because He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance That's why it's so important that we as Christians see the heart of God, know the heart of God, and then do the will of God. Because that's that's that's God's heart. And Satan is out there doing his best. And everything that he gets people involved in is something that will eventually take their life. It just it doesn't make any difference what it is. Everything that you can get involved in that would be considered contrary to the will of God or sin, Satan knows that the end result of that, as the Bible says, the wage of sin Is death. He knows that. And so his desire is to continue uh to do his best to destroy mankind. Now the believer is different. The believer, he knows that he can't uh uh he can't touch him unless uh uh unless God gives him uh just like he did with Job. Uh you know, lets him out on his list just a little bit farther. But the good thing is that that uh uh Satan cannot uh destroy a Christian without uh without God being uh involved in the whole process and for a purpose that will glorify God. When when anyone uh I'll see let's let's do something else here. Satan goal Satan's goal is to kill the body, and that's through suicide, murder. carelessness, lifestyle and lifestyles, whatever. But he knows if he can just uh get you out of this world before you can accept Christ that you'll spend eternity in the lake of fire. That's what he's his desire is. In John chapter 10 and verse 5, he says this, and a stranger will they not follow, but will flee from him, for they know not the voice of the strangers. And there he's he's talking about the sheep and how that they uh that they will follow their leader and won't follow those who uh that they don't recognize that they turn as as a uh uh as a stranger. Over in uh First Timothy in chapter uh six in verses nine portion of scripture that uh many of us uh uh have read and enjoyed because it gives a a testimony of uh the apostle paul And he says in verse 9, he says, but they that will be rich fall into temptation And a snare, and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition. For the love of money is the root of all evil, Which while some covet after, they have erred from the faith, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows But thou, O man of God, flee these things, and follow after righteousness and godliness and faith and love and patience and meekness. Fight the good fight of faith, and lay hold on eternal life, whereunto thou art also called, and hast professed a good profession before many witnesses. God is just simply simply telling us that we need to continue the fight. We need to continue on being faithful to God and uh and be used of Him. The third thing is that he is not only a door of salvation, a door of safety, but he is the door of satisfaction. I think of the freedom, first of all. We get to go in and out. Repentance and forgiveness gives us freedom to live without guilt We get to go in and out in and out to the pasture and we find rest and come back in. We have that uh that kind of freedom in Psalm twenty-three Which we all of us probably remember that psalm pretty well. In Psalm 23 and verses 2 and 3, he says this. I'll find her here in a second. He says, He maketh me to lie down in green pastures, and he leadeth me beside the still waters. And he restoreth my soul. He leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his namesake. The freedom to go in and out, the freedom to to have to uh uh Find a good pasture and a place of safety. The second thing is not just the freedom that he provides through this door of satisfaction, but the fruitfulness. We find that that's what really matters. For the fruit of the Spirit is all goodness and righteousness and truth. And he goes on in Ephesians chapter 5 and verse 9. And then in Galatians chapter 5 and verse 22 to 23 he says, But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, and long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance, and against such there is no law. You know the the one thing that a Christian uh should be, and that is besides faithful is to be fruitful. So we have the freedom to serve God and to rejoice in His protection. We have a life that is dedicated and should be dedicated to fruitfulness that we might uh uh multiply ourselves. He that goeth forth and weepeth bearing precious seeds shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his shees with him. And then then there's this this thing of fullness. We have the satisfaction of having a good life. Look there in John chapter 10 once again. Because he he mentions that in in the uh uh see in the last part, I believe, of uh verse verse ten of chapter ten. Talks about the thief in the first part of it, how he's does out there to steal and kill and destroy. You know, just those three words uh would uh Entice me to get saved. If I could find a place of safety in the arms of the Lord. And the Bible says that He's our refuge, a very present help in time of trouble. If I just those three words would drive me to the to the Savior's bosom. But look at the last half of verse 10. He says, I am come that they might have life. Well that's one thing. He's come that we might have life, but that's not where he stopped at. And that they might have it more abundantly. You know that in 1 Timothy in chapter 6, there's a verse that says, but the goodness But good n uh good I'm sorry, godliness and contentment is great gain. We're In this world of chaos, I don't know how people I don't know how people live through all that goes on in this world. I think of all the turmoil that's even in in our country, and this is a a country that is is supposed to uh be the the you know the the focal point of the world. I mean everybody wants to come to America And yet within the very bosom of America there's the the there's the heartache and the and the turmoil that's going on presently, with our country actually s you know split in two different directions going. And uh uh to me that's that's one of the most tragic things. But in the midst of all of that, he has promised us uh not just life, But life and abundance. In other words, he has something better for us than to constantly worry. about the the political s scene for instance, or for the uh you know the terrorists that are out there and uh and all those things that most people are getting their mind on and and it's and it's tearing them up inside But the Christian uh has has this has this shepherd that is a shepherd of safety That we can run into and and he protects and watches over us. And this is the same one that gives us a life that's more abundant. I remember my life before I got saved. I only wasn't a bad life as far as I was concerned. I had a good wife and children. And it had a good job and everything was just going pretty smooth. But you know there was there was the emptiness inside. There was something missing. I wasn't really sure what it was all about But uh the turmoil that was around me was very real and I could see that. But whenever whenever God saved my life and saved me spiritually, He gave me a peace within that in the middle of the worst circumstances, I can still enjoy the peace of God. I can still enjoy his abundant life. And he promises that to everyone who will come to him. Come unto me all ye that labor in the heavy laden, and I'll give you rest, he says. Take my yoke upon you. That's what God is is pleading with us today. There's many of us that's uh in here. I I don't know everybody that's in here But I know the majority of the folks in here are have already trusted Christ as their Savior. But I the only question I'd ask you is, is do you have this abundant life that God speaks of in that verse of Scripture? Or is there still is uh is there still this this uh uh I don't know the caring and the and the uh the worry that uh constantly is beating you down and keeping you from being what God wants you to be Jesus says, I'm the doer. And he's saying, Come to me. I'm the doer. I'm the way, the truth, and the life. And if you'll come to me, you'll have an eternal life. You'll have a Life of salvation and safety and a life of satisfaction. If you're here today and you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, then I invite you to come. When we start this invitation after I show the chalk growing, this will be your opportunity to come and let somebody take an open Bible and show you how to enter in. to the sheep hole through the door. The door who is Jesus Christ. If we can have these lights out, we'll show this chalk drawing