Matthew chapter eight and uh we're gonna look at verse number eight. Matthew eight eight Uh they've been doing a lot of research down on the Titanic and they've found all kinds of artifacts and different things down there. They send these little submarines down. It's amazing uh what they're able to do and determine how that thing broke apart and sank And uh they found out what kind of coffee that they served on the Titanic. And uh do you want to know, anybody take a guess what kind of coffee they served on the Titanic? Sanka. They served Sanka coffee on the Titanic. Sanka coffee. And uh the lettuce they had in the kitchen that they served was iceberg lettuce And um so they're just amazing research here on the thing. And I got all kinds of little tidbits this week. I've got all kinds of useless information. Um Do you know uh they uh you know what Eskimos get when they sit on ice too long? Polaroids. And um What do you get if you cross a Jehovah's Witness and a Unitarian? Now you have to know your teachings of your church denominations here a little. If you cross Jehovah's Witness in Unitarian, you get someone who goes around knocking on doors for no apparent reason. They just How does a spoiled rich girl change a light bulb? She says, Daddy, I need a new apartment. So that's how. So I thought I'd share those great truths with you. Matthew chapter 8, if you would notice verse number 8. This is the centurion has approached the Lord Jesus about uh his servant who is very sick. In fact, he uses the term in verse number 6. He says he's grievously tormented. And that implies to us that his servant was not only sick, but is in great pain, uh tremendous pain, uh, very, very serious condition. As I said, he approaches the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus um agrees with the centurion. He says, Yeah, I'll come and heal your servant. And I'm sure that was good news. But the centurion takes it another level. And look with me again at verse number eight. The centurion answered and said, Now remember, Jesus agreed that he would come with him and heal his servant. He said, Lord, I'm not worthy that thou shouldest come under my roof. Wow, what a statement. But speak the word only, and my servant shall be healed. Lord, I'm not worthy. That these should come under my roof. And that's what I want to speak on this morning. I am not worthy. Let's pray. Father, bless now or study your word. I ask with all my heart. Dear Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, that you would challenge us in this fundamental characteristic of people whom you bless. that of humility. And so I pray that would be true, that you would help me make that true in my life. Help me, Lord, to communicate others what you've spoken in my heart about, and it will be true in all of our lives and us as a church, that we would just be humble before our God And so blessed now I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Did some research on this centurion try and find out what we know about him. Not a whole lot we don't know anything about them other than what the Bible tells us. And the Bible doesn't tell us a whole lot about them. We have to speculate uh on a good bit of this, but um apparently from what I can tell about this centurion, he is a pretty good guy Um we have no reason to believe that he was anything other than a a noble, uh uh upright man. He was a centurion, that means that uh he was a soldier, he had given his life for the defense of his country. Uh he was a centurion, that means he apparently was a very responsible man uh someone that could be counted on and trusted and he was putting trust of a hundred men were under him as a centurion as the name implies He was responsible for organizing and and uh leading and training these hundred men underneath him. So apparently he had he was a very responsible man, as I said. Uh he was a man of great authority. And uh he points that out to the Lord when he tells the Lord, you know, just speak the word. He goes, Listen, I have authority, and I can tell this guy to do this and that guy to do that, and and uh they do it. So Apparently the men under him trusted him. Uh he was respected. Uh we pick that up here. We have no reason to believe that um uh he was a drunkard. There's nothing here to imply that Uh he had any flaws in his character as far as uh being a drunkard or an adulterer or a thief or dishonest in some way As far as we can tell, he was upright in all this. As far as I can tell, uh and again this is speculation, uh I don't can't say dogmatically, but as far as I can tell, uh I think he loved his wife and loved his children and was an honest, hardworking man. And so for him, when I read about this centauri, and he says, I am not worthy. I think is he just being is he is he just putting on a facade and this this is it's just some phony humility when in reality he doesn't think that way. You know, sometimes people will do that. They'll put on a phony humility. Uh I tell you, don't don't ever go around just talking to people, oh I'm just nothing. Oh I'm not worthy. I'm Uh you know what that I think is a form of pride. It's an absorption with myself. Now I don't believe that's what he was doing here. I think he was a good and the Lord's response tells us this wasn't a phony humility. So what was happening? If he's a good man, he's honest, he's upright, he's a Man of integrity, as far as we can tell. He's very responsible. He's trusted. Why in the world would he say to the Lord, I'm not worthy? When he stands in man's eyes, he's a pretty good guy, I think we can safely say. But when you stand him up by the Lord, he falls far short of the Lord's glory. And you put him up when he's going to come and make a request of God. And you take this centurion, as good of a man as we can imagine he would be, you put him beside the Lord Jesus Christ, and he's not anything close. To being good. You know what Romans 3. 23 says? For all have sinned Now, I'll be very frank with you, when I get out visiting and knocking on doors, I was out this week a couple days, just going door to door, trying to talk to people like the Lord Uh you know, I very seldom, and it's occasionally, and I'll bring a few illustrations here in a minute, but most of the time folks do not have a difficult time agreeing with me a and agreeing with the Bible, I should say, that they're sinners. Most people recognize that. But here's where the struggle comes in. Sometimes people have often people have this idea. Well, I know I'm not perfect. But I'm not as bad as so-and-so. I, you know, I'm a sinner, yeah, but I'm not as bad as this guy. I've used illustration a number of times over the years. When we were in Indianapolis, we had a uh ministry to the jail, Marion County Jail there, large uh jail for the city and uh we were uh pastor and I went and visited a guy and um uh he had killed someone and we were talking to him going through the gospel and he says, Yeah, but I I I didn't yeah, I killed someone, but I didn't kill three guys like the other guy in the cell. You know, here's the thing: we can always find someone else who is worse than we are You can always find someone else that sinned in ways that I haven't, maybe. And say, well, I'm not perfect, but I'm not like that. But our standard of acceptance to the Lord is not, am I better than someone else? The standard is, am I living up to God's standard? So the Bible says Romans 3. 23, for all have sinned. Alright, we don't have a problem with that. But then it goes on, and come short of the glory of God. Yeah, you may not, humanly speaking, you may not be as bad as your neighbor or your cousin or the guy at work or whatever But when we stand ourselves up against God, when we put ourselves up against the glory of God, every one of us falls way short. And I think that's what's happening here with this Centurion. Honest, hardworking man, reliable, trusted, respected. No reason to think he has any of these flaws in his character that uh are often prevalent prevalent. Uh pretty good guy But when he sees the Lord Jesus Christ, when he senses the holiness of this of Jesus Christ, he says, you know, I'm not worthy for you to even come into my house. All through Scripture, we find that those who experienced great blessings of God were people who were very humble Those who had great miracles performed were those who genuinely humbled themselves before God. Those who received amazing answers to prayer, and particularly in the Gospels and really throughout the Old Testament also, those that God Answered prayers in amazing ways, without exception, were folks who were very humble before God. Even some of the most wicked kings. In the Old Testament, so perverse kings, when they humbled themselves before God, God did great things for them. Isn't that something? There's one guy, I hate to say this, but it I'm I'm going to be honest. If I'm ever honest, I'll point it out to you. Um, but I cannot stand Ahab Anybody know who I'm talking about? I mean in the Old Testament, Ahab, that guy gets under my skin. In fact, I'm dreading in my devotions getting to the point to read about Ahab. Uh I get mad every time I read about him. I cannot stand that guy. He was a sissy, he was a wimp, he was a coward, he was wicked. Yuck. I didn't like it. If he lived next to me, I'd move. But Ahab, the Bible says, humbled himself greatly before the Lord, and God answered his prayer. One of the most ungodly men in the Bible, but he humbled himself and God responded. Without exception The people in the Bible, both men and women, who were used mightily of God, were those who humbled themselves before God Answered prayer, marvelous blessings used of God, miracles done on their behalf, without exception It was people who had this Centurion's frame of mind. God, I'm not worthy. God, I am not what I ought to be And so, uh let me give you a few two thoughts this morning about humility. Number one, and this stirred my heart. I was I was Saw this statement in my devotions earlier this week, and uh he says, I'm not worthy. I it stirred my heart. I put this down. Humility is the beginning point for God's blessings. I don't know about you, but I want God to bless me in twenty thirteen. Anybody else feel that way? I want God's blessings on my marriage. I want God's blessings on my ministry, my service to the Lord. I want God to bless it. I want God's blessings on my finances, on my children's lives. I want God's blessings. Now, where do you start? What do you have to do? What do I have to do to get God to bless me? Well, the beginning point is to humble myself before God. Every one of us here, I'm looking out at the congregation this morning and I'm seeing folks that have different needs, different struggles, different issues going on. We all got them Uh I have a little song I've been singing the last year to my wife. Uh everyone's a weirdo in their own way. It's true. And um, you know, we all got issues and we all got struggles. We're gonna I'm gonna submit that to Byron Fox putting a hymn book. You know, that would be a nice song. But uh what I'm trying to say is this We all have struggles. We all have issues. We all have things that we need God to help us. Am I right or wrong? We all do. So how do I get how do I get to the point where I see God working in my life, where I see God blessing God doing things? The Bible is very clear. First thing is I humble myself before God Humble myself. There is no salvation without humility. No salvation without humility. What do I mean by that? James chapter four and verse six says this: God resisteth the proud. The proud, self-righteous, me, I My Bible says God resisteth the proud. That word resist means to say no to. Has the idea of a football player stiff-arming, somebody trying to tackle them. God resisteth the proud, but listen to the rest of the verse, but giveth what? Grace to the humble. The grace of God is available only to those who humble themselves. Humble themselves. I've had many people tell me over the years. That they believe they're going to heaven. We have our little spiel. I've done it for years. We've tried to teach folks here, you know, just a helpful way to uh introduce the gospel in conversation. And that we ask folks, do you know for sure if you died now you'd go to heaven? Die now, if you know for sure that when you die, your sins are forgiven, you go to heaven. Ask people that that type of question. You get a lot of answers. Many times folks will say something like, Yeah, I believe I will. I think I'd go to heaven And over the years I've had a lot of people say something like this. Oh, they'll say that and then I'll say, well, how do you know? What what makes you think you're going to heaven? What gives you that assurance? A lot of times folks will say something like this, well, preacher, I'm just not that bad. I'm not perfect, but I'm not that bad. God wouldn't send someone like me to hell. You know what that is? They're saying I'm good enough to go to heaven. I am worthy Of God doing this for me. When in reality, the exact opposite is true according to Scriptures. The Bible says there is none righteous, no, not one. The Bible says, talking about salvation, the wages of sin is death. Only like sheep have gone astray. Listen to me. Not one of us deserves to have our sins forgiven. Not one of us deserves to dwell in the presence of God. The Bible is very clear. I get tired of hearing people say stuff, well, we deserve this. These stupid commercials, everybody deserves to drive a BMW. Everybody deserves. You deserve this. We deserve that. We deserve this. Where did we get that idea that we deserve anything? Listen, we are sinners We have broken God's law. We are guilty of sinning against a holy God. We do not deserve the least of his favors. We deserve judgment. We deserve God's wrath. That's what we deserve. And until we get to the point in our lives where we recognize I have sinned against the Holy God, I am guilty of violating God's standard of acceptance. I do not deserve God's blessing. I do not deserve God's mercy. I do not deserve God's grace. And only when we humble ourselves will God show grace. And we humble ourselves before God, realizing we're guilty sinners under the wrath and judgment of God, and we accept what Christ has done for us on the cross and receive Him as our own personal Savior only then. Do we find forgiveness and new life and a home in heaven? Humility is the beginning point for any of God's blessings, salvation. You have your Bibles here in Matthew. Would you turn over to Luke, the next book, or three books, two books later, Matthew, Mark, Luke? And go to Luke chapter 18. Luke chapter 18. I'm just going to read a few verses beginning in verse number nine. Luke chapter 18 and verse number nine. The Bible says, and he spake Jesus, spake this parable unto certain, which what's that next couple couple three words there? Trusted in themselves. Does that sound like he's describing somebody who is humble before God? No. These are not humble people. These are people who think very highly of themselves. Look what it says. Trusted in themselves that they were righteous and despised others. Now, this is the parable he's speaking. Two men went up into the temple to pray. That's good. One a Pharisee, and the other a publican. Now you need to understand, a publican was an undesirable. Publican would fall into the category of thieves, and uh uh in Europe they would call them uh maybe gypsies. Uh people dishonest and and you didn't trust them and and that type of category. So keep that in mind Two men went up in the temple to pray. One is a Pharisee, very religious, highly respected, the other a publican, whom nobody respected. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself. God? I can hear him praying. This is my imagination. God always talk that way. I thank thee that I am not as other men are: extortioners, unjust, adulterers. Who do you think he's describing? That publican beside him. In the next statement, he tells us that. Even extortioner, or even as this publican. I fast twice in the week. I give tithes of all that I possess. Now let me stop there and ask you for a moment. Is it a good thing for a person to give their tithe to the Lord? Yes, that's a good thing. That's what Christians are supposed to do. Um, is it a good thing uh to fast? Is that a good thing? Fast and pray, sure. Um that's scriptural, nothing wrong with that. Um he says uh he's not an extortioner, that's good. He's not unjust, that's good. He's not an adulterer, praise the Lord. And so all these things that he's, all these characteristics that he's highlighting about himself are not bad things His problem wasn't his lifestyle. His problem was his attitude about his lifestyle. He was proud. Proud of what I am. Proud of how I live. Proud of how good I am. Look at the next guy. And the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven. But smote upon his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. He had nothing to offer. He was saying basically the same thing the centurion was saying. God, I'm not worthy of you to answer my prayer. God, I am not worthy of you to forgive my sin. I'm not worthy of you being merciful to me. God, I don't deserve it. I'm a sinner. Now look at the Lord's conclusion. I tell you Now the Lord's making an emphatic point here. I tell you, this man, the publican, went down to his house justified rather than the other. Now the word justified is a very important Bible word, but what other word could we say? Just for sake of you're going to explain this passage to somebody, what other word could we say there? Saved. This guy who humbled himself and saw that he had nothing to offer the Lord in and of himself, that his own righteousness, if he would have any righteousness, they were nothing but filthy rags. That guy was justified. That guy was the one that had his sins forgiven. That was the one that was saved from judgment and hell. The other guy. Humanly speaking, no doubt he was a much better person. From this parable, appears he died and went to hell. He was lost. There's no salvation apart from humility. The fact of the matter is, when compared to God, both these fellows were rotten sinners. One was just self-righteous about it, and the other was acknowledged it and humbled himself. So there's humility is the beginning point for God's blessing. There's no salvation without humility. Let me take it a step farther. How many folks here are you saved and you know it? Say amen. You know you've trusted Christ, sins are forgiven, it's settled, I'm a new creature in Christ. That's all settled. Amen? Now, what about for us who are saved? Well, praise God, I'm saved. I'm saved, and you're not. Better be careful. There are no blessings without humility And you know what I found out? I found out that you and I, as saved people, as Christians, as saints of God, we can get awfully proud. And we can lose the blessing of God. Thank God we don't lose our salvation, but we lose the hand of God's blessing on our lives. We need to be very, very careful about this. In 1 Samuel chapter 5 and verse 17, we're not going to take time to turn there, but King Saul was uh uh was the was a new king leading up to this point. Uh God had anointed him and he was the king of Israel. And boy, you know, he was doing a great job. And God was blessing them. But as God blessed, and as this his uh uh administration was uh succeeding and prospering Something began to happen in the heart of Saul. He started getting proud. And he started mistakenly thinking that He was the one producing the blessings of God rather than God in his mercy blessing them. And in 1 Samuel chapter 15 and verse number 17, Samuel says to him, He said, I'm putting this in my own words. He says to him, something to this effect, when you were small in your own eyes, God blessed you greatly. But now, and I'm putting this in my words, now it's gone to your head, and you think you're something. And God has removed his blessings from you. Brother, we need to be very, very careful about that I've often made this statement over the years. You've heard many of you heard me say it many times. God has been good to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Amen. God has been I think he's been better than the response we just got there, to be honest with you. God's been good to this church. Now we need to be careful. He's not being good to this church because we are wonderful. He's been good to this church because he is wonderful. And we start thinking we deserve the blessings of God, we deserve the mercy of God, we deserve the goodness of God, brother, we'll lose it like that. We need to stay humble before God, realizing that in and of ourselves we are nothing. In and of ourselves we are sorry, sinful beings. Listen, don't look down on the unsaved. If you know Christ and someone else doesn't, don't look down on them. Don't think highly of yourself. The only difference between that sinner and you is your forgiven. Not any better Any better than the loss? We are simply forgiven. I like what the Apostle Paul said in Galatians 2. 20, for I am crucified with Christ. This is talking about the Christian life. I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live, yet not I. Christ liveth in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. You know what Paul was saying there? Would you agree with me? Paul was a successful Christian. Good night. That's an understatement. He's a powerful Christian. You know, we dream of being half the Christian Paul was, and his walk with God and his commitment. You know what Paul was saying? He's saying, don't you get mixed up and think that I'm something. It's simply Christ living through me. I'm just trusting him. He's the one living this life through me. He's the one giving the victory. He's the one living the successful life, not me. In fact, he goes on and elaborates throughout the New Testament, elaborates, says something to this effect, the more I get out of the way, the more Christ is successful in my life. The less I have to do with it, the greater the success. So we need to be very, very careful, even as saved people, that we maintain this Attitude of humility that it's not us, it's no longer I that liveth, but Christ that liveth in me. It's not my works. Paul said repeatedly He said, I am the least of the apostles. I am chief of sinners. It's like he deliberately wanted folks to understand, it is not me, it is Christ, it is Christ, it is Christ. Um so humility is the beginning point for God's blessing. What do you need God to do in your life? Are you here this morning? Do you need to be saved from sin and know you're going to heaven when you die? The beginning point is humbling yourself before Christ, acknowledging your sin. Until you do that, the cross doesn't do you any good Christ didn't come to save the righteous, but to call what? Sinners to repentance. We humble ourselves, God, guilty sinner. I've broken your law. Oh I I like sometimes when I'm witnessing the folks, um I'll uh depending on how it's going and whether I feel like they're you know, really comprehend what I'm saying. I'll get to Galatians of the Bible out and I'll get to uh Romans chapter six and verse twenty-three. For the wages of sin is death. And I'll explain to the person that I'm going through the gospel with that wages is what we deserve as sinners, the payment that we deserve. uh as sinners and uh death the word death there if you'll read it in context it's not talking about physical death so much as it is about spiritual death separation from God for all eternity and later in the Bible we find he's talking about hell And I'll say, according to this verse, if you died now, where would you go? And I'll say, Well, I'd go to hell according to that verse. Sometimes if they're if I feel sense that they're not understanding the gravity of it, I'll say something like this. According to this verse, where do you deserve to go as a sinner? You know what I've had over the years? I've had several people say, Well, I don't know that I deserve hell. I'll say, Well, you're missing the point then. Because we do deserve hell. We're not good enough for heaven. Humility is the beginning point. I'm not worthy. Salvation, there's no salvation without humility. There's no success in the Christian life without humility. I put this down: uh there's no power and service without humility. I want God, I want God's power on my preaching. I want, when I'm preaching the Word of God, I want God to be speaking to people's hearts. convicting them of sin, encouraging them to live and trust live for the Lord, trust the Lord. And I want the God to be working their hearts, changing their lives. And my prayer for the last several years has been last year I should say has been God, I pray that the Word of God, you would use it to help people to trust you and have victory in their lives and come to know Christ. Now that's the power of God. How does a person get that? I know I'm sure I'm talking to many Sunday school teachers. Your desire is that God would use your teaching and the Word of God to change the lives, save the souls, and change the lives of those that sit underneath you. Busworkers. I know the choir, Brother Mark and the choir, when they sing that God would empower their singing to touch hearts and put people's hearts and minds to Christ. Am I right or wrong? Sure that's what we want. Now how do we go about having that happen? We humble ourselves. Lord, I don't deserve to be singing in this choir. I'm a guilty sinner. How in the world? All the stuff that's come off of my tongue? And for me to stand here and sing praises to God, that mentality is the mentality God blesses. I don't deserve to stand behind this pulpit. Good night. I was thinking this week, you know, it just I see myself as just another person in the church. I don't have any more access to God than you do. I don't have any more righteousness as a pastor or preacher than you do. We're all sinners. God calls us to different roles. And when we start thinking that I deserve God using me, I'm somebody. Brother, God can write anathema over that ministry like that. Henry Morison, they called him, his name was Henry, but for some reason they called him Harry Morrison. He was an evangelist in England in the 1860s. They called him the baby boy evangelist because he had such a baby face, just young. He got saved and got on fire for God. And God was using them. And just in a little aside, a little church history trivia, uh Harry Morris, as they called him, uh had a profound influence on D. L. Moody. Anybody recognize that name? D. L. Moody, they called Harry Morris the man that moved, the man that moved the world Uh Harry Harry Morris was preaching in the United States, I think in Chicago. Moody's wife went to hear him preach. Moody was preaching somewhere, and uh Moody didn't like him And uh his wife came home and said, I went to hear Harry Morrison preach. She goes, How'd he do? She says it was pretty good. He said, What do you preach on? John 3:16. He said, what did he say? He said, God loves even the worst of sinners. D. L. Moody said, Mr. Morris, Morrison is wrong. Dial Moody up to that point had been preaching the wrath of God. That God judged sinners, that God was going to condemn sinners, and God, and he preached the wrath of God, the wrath of God, the wrath of God. He said, I'll go hear them. And for seven nights in a row, Harry Morrison preached on John 3. 16, seven sermons, one-hour sermons on John 3. 16. God so loved the world. God stirred D. L. Moody's heart, and he changed his approach to that of compassion. And he said, I preached many of the same sermons after that experience as I did before, but now God's hand was on it. God was blessing. That's the caliber of evangelist that Harry Morrison was. He was holding meetings in England. And um Nothing was happening. There was no decisions, there was no response, they were dead, they were dry, something was not right. And Harry Morrison began praying and fasting. God, what is going on? Why are you not stirring? Why are you not saving souls? Why are people not responding? And he prayed and prayed and prayed. And one day he's going down in his carriage, down outside of the city where he was preaching, and they had big billboards up, as they did back then. And the billboard said, Come and hear Evangelist Morrison, the greatest evangelist in England. And he saw another one, is here the great Harry Morrison. He got convicted. He called the leaders together and he said, We've made a grave mistake. You guys have all these signs you've been promoting how great Harry Morrison is. He said, Harry Morrison is nothing but a sorry sinner saved by the grace of God. I want those banners down. The story goes, they took them all down, and God began blessing. Souls started getting saved. Revival started happening in people's lives. Humility. Humility. Let's put out of our condemnation. Let's put out of our vocabulary. I deserve this. Let's put that out of our vocabulary. Let's replace it with this. God has been very gracious. God is very merciful. What do you need God to do in your life? What do you need? What is it you are asking God above everything else, God, please do this? First thing you've got to do for God to step in and help is we've got to humble ourselves. We've got to humble ourselves So my first thought is humility is the beginning point for God's blessing. My second and last thought is this: humility brings benefits into my life. When I humble myself before God, suddenly things happen and I receive benefits that I never get. When I'm proud. In fact, I wanted to incorporate pride into this, but man alive, that's a whole nother series on what pride does to the heart and life of a person. What does humility do? Well, according to 1 Peter 5, verses 5 through 7, when I humble myself before God, he's going to start meeting my needs. God giveth grace to the humble. And in verse 7 then of 1 Peter 5 he says, casting all your care. God resisteth the proud, giveth grace to the humble, casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. You know what that verse is telling me? That verse is telling me that God, when I humble myself before God, and I see myself as undeserving, as not worthy of the least of his favors And I cast my care, God. I don't deserve you to answer this prayer, God. I I I deserve nothing but your judgment. But in mercy, God, this is what I need. God says, oh, that's the one That I'll take care of. God will meet the needs of the humble believer. I put this down. God gives mercy to the humble believer. I hate to admit this, and we're going to talk about this tonight and in the message this evening, but sin uh Christians sometimes sin. What? How many people found that to be true? Come on, some of you are sinning right now. Not raising your hand. Christians sometimes sin. And how do we respond to that sin? It's not that bad. Well, I mean, come on, everybody's You know what Proverbs 28 verse 13 says? He that covereth his sin shall not prosper. But whoso confesseth and forsaketh findeth mercy. You know what he's saying He said, you stiffen your neck and you harden your heart against that sin and you won't acknowledge it and you won't uh humble yourself and say, Yes, I'm wrong, I did wrong, I'm guilty. You're not going to find God's mercy and grace. But when you come and say, God, I'm wrong, I sinned. I've broken your law of my own free will. I'm guilty. I confess it. God, I don't want that in my life. Then God shows mercy. Isn't that something? God meets the needs of the humble believer. God gives mercy to the humble believer. God gives special attention to the humble. Psalms 9:12, He forgetteth not the cry of the humble. Psalms 10 and verse 12. The Lord hath heard the desire of the humble. There is one thing God cannot resist, and that is humility. We genuinely humble ourselves before God. God cannot resist it. As I said before, even Ahab. When he humbled himself, God stepped in, was gracious and merciful, forgave him. Isn't that amazing? If that centurion Would have said, Lord, I want you to come to my house. We deserve you to come to our house. God, I deserve you to come and heal my servant. His servant would have died in grievous torment. Bible's very clear. God would not, Jesus Christ would not have come there and healed that servant. But because he humbled himself, God are not worthy, God, you're powerful, you can just speak the word. Now, his humility didn't say, oh, I'm not going to ask anything of God. No, he knew he could come and ask of God. But he needed humility. Don't get this idea, well, I'm so I'm just I don't even deserve to ask God anything. No, no, no. Come and ask him Come pray to them, but don't come with pride. You follow what I'm saying? Am I making any sense? Humble ourselves before the Lord. In Bonn, Germany, I'm told. There's a museum for Beethoven. There's a Beethoven museum in Bonjour. I've not been there, I've read about it. In this museum, apparently they have various musical instruments, pianos and whatnot, that Beethoven wrote some of his great music on. The story goes that I was reading that there was an American student, a young lady, that was studying music and was on a tour of Europe and musical things as part of her studies. And um she was at this museum in Bonn, Germany, the Beethoven Museum, and she was looking at this one particular piano that Beethoven had written a bunch of his very, very famous music on, and the actual genuine Piano where Beethoven sat at and played. And there are guards all over the place. Everything, of course, is very valuable. And she said to the guard, she had the story go, she had quite a bit of money in her hand. She said to the guard, I would like to sit and play a few chords and whatnot, play a little bit at the piano there if you would let me. And she handed him the money. The guard took the money and said, sure. And so she sat down and story goes, she planked there at the piano that Beethoven had written some of his great music on. And for a few minutes and the place was pretty empty and nobody noticed. And she got up and said, Thank you. And she goes, I assume all the great piano players of Europe all come and want to play at this piano of Beethoven. And the guard shook his head. He said, no, as a matter of fact, just last week, and I don't know how to say the guy's name, Petarowski Some great Polish piano player, world-renowned, said just last week Patarowski was here. And he would not play the piano. They asked him to. He said, I am not worthy. To touch the piano of the great master. And the girl hung her head And walked away. Isn't that exactly what we do? We think, well, I deserve this. I'm afraid we'll get to the judgment seat of Christ. We're going to find out everything, everything that we've given we have not been worthy of. We did not deserve. When we realize the depth of our sin, when we realize how far we are From the acceptability of God, we realize how gracious God has been to us. Centurion said, I'm not worthy. I'm not worthy. I think we're going to get to heaven. Those of us who saved, we'll get to heaven. I have no idea. But I can see this happening. I can see us falling on our faces. And saying God. In fact, that's what Revelation says. They fall before the throne and they say what? Thou art worthy. Nobody gets to heaven around the throne and says, I deserve this. Let's humble ourselves. Let's go into 2013. Humble. Father in heaven, bless us, I pray. Holy Spirit of God, convict us of our pride. Convict us of our self-confidence, our self-righteousness. Lord, we have so many needs, and we don't deserve you to meet one of them. But we ask you, God, in your mercy. And your grace that you would help us. Use us. Glorify yourself in our lives. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I have a need in my life this morning?