Where we're at, we're in our series on Psalms 40, working our way through this uh great, great chapter here in Psalms, one of my favorites. And we're down to verse number, I'm going to read verse 6 through 9, but we're going to focus on verse 7 and 8 tonight And so if you have your Bibles there, follow along. Verse number six, it says, sacrifice and offering thou didst not desire. Mine ears hast thou opened. Burnt offering and sin offering hast thou not required. And look at verse 7. Then said I, Lo! I come, in the volume of the book it is written of me. I delight to do thy will, O my God. Yea, thy law is within my heart. Then he goes on, verse 9, I have preached righteousness in the great congregation. Lo, I have not refrained my lips, O Lord, thou knowest. I've entitled it, I Delight to Do Thy Will. That's tonight's message. So let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven And thank you for the time we can get together through the uh amazing technology that we can join together uh all around the country, around the world. And we can Look into your word. And so I ask now, as we study these verses here, these important passages, that you would please Fill me with your Holy Spirit. Lord, I present my body anew, and I yield my will and my heart and mind to you. I pray you guide me as I preach my words I pray you guard me from not saying anything that would be unscriptural or ought not to be said, and I pray you would guide me to say exactly what these verses are teaching and what you would have said So again, I present my body to you. I pray with all my heart that you please fill me with your Spirit, speak through me, and help us to grow in our understanding, our faith. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I've said this, I've shared this numerous times before, but whenever we study Scripture, there are three, I believe, important principles that we need to follow in Bible study. Now, this is if you want to if you want to get serious about studying the Bible, if you want some in-depth understanding of what the Bible says. I think these three steps will help. And again, I've shared these before, but I just want to touch on them again tonight for a reason. Whenever I'm going to study a passage of Scripture, I'm getting ready for a sermon, or just for my own benefit, the very first thing I do is I number one I get the definition of the words. I want to go and see what those words mean. Sometimes we just assume we know what a m word means and sometimes words are used in in ways that they really don't mean. And so when God says something in his w in his uh in the Bible, I want to see what those words, what does he mean by those words? So a good dictionary is helpful, concordance I want to look at the word it came from and and what that word meant. I want to look at how it's translated other places in the Bible. I'm convinced the Bible is the greatest Bible dictionary in the world. You look find a word, you find out how it's used other places Gives you a great, great biblical definition of a word. So number one, find the definition of the word. Number two, I want to have an understanding of the context These words are used here, but what is the greater context? That means I have to look at the passages before and after and see what the context is. A word may be used in one context and have a specific meaning and when used in a different context, it may affect how what is meant by that word in that context. So one, I want to know the definition. Number two, I want to understand the context where that passage is. And then the third one, and this one is very important, it is comparison of scripture with scripture. In other words, this passage here we're looking at, I want to look at other passages of Scripture that deal with that same subject That deal with that same topic. Maybe it is quoted other places in Scripture. A lot of times there'll be an Old Testament passage in the Gospels. We'll find Jesus quoting that And often we find in the New Testament an explanation of what the Old Testament passage means And so I don't want to keep a word, a passage isolated. I want to compare scripture with scripture. And I'll tell you, those three things will keep us, I believe, will keep us from biblical error. Well, keep us from getting uh off track on what God is saying. Now I said all that to say this. When we look at this passage here that I just read, verse 6 down through 9 We look the words up, which will be part of the message tonight. We'll give some definition of words. I think that helps us. But we also find when we compare scripture with scripture, we find that these verses here, 6 through 9, these four verses, are actually quoted almost verbatim in the book of Hebrews. In Hebrews chapter 10, verse 5 through 9, we have this very same passage. And when we notice, when we look at This passage in Hebrews, where it's, as I said, it's almost verbatim, we find that this is actually a prophetic statement about Jesus Christ. This is actually a prophetic quote of Jesus Christ. And so that we come back here and we look at this and we realize this is not talking about David. This is talking about Jesus Christ. And we looked at that at the message last week for those that were in on that. We tried to explain that as best we could. You can go back and listen to that maybe if you're interested. But um And so, uh, this is Jesus Christ. Now, did David know when he was penning this under the inspiration of God that he was referencing Jesus Christ? We we don't know if he did or not. I suspect probably he did not. But nevertheless, the Holy Spirit did, and he led David to write this. So verses six through nine is actually referencing Jesus Christ, and verses seven and eight Are actually quoting Jesus Christ. It is a statement of Jesus Christ. And so let's look at this here a little bit. Verse number seven, the first thing I want us to notice Is Jesus' decision. Verse number seven, the first part, we find a decision made by the Lord Jesus Christ. Look at what it says here. Then said I. Now again, that I is not David. Under inspiration, it's a statement of Jesus Christ. Then said I, Jesus, lo I come. In the volume of the book, it is written of me. Lo, I come. I see a decision on the part of the Lord Jesus Christ, and I get that from the word then. I got looking up that word then. That word then there is actually referring back to verse 6. Now let's remind ourselves briefly what verse 6 was about. If you remember, we pointed out last week, this is the Lord speaking here, sacrifice and offering, speaking about the Lord, I should say, sacrifice and offering thou didst not desire And we know that God instructed Israel to offer sacrifices and offerings, to bring offerings. Now it says God doesn't desire them. He said, Mine ears hast thou opened, burnt offering and sin offering thou hast not required. And if you'll remember, we pointed out that what we're being told here, God's ultimate desire was not just this ongoing, never-ending year after year after year sacrificing of bulls and goats and sheep and all these blood sacrifices and all these ceremonies and all these meal offerings God saying that's not my desire. That is just a means to my desire. That is just a temporary ceremonies that have been put in place. What I really want. God is telling us is I want sin dealt with once and for all. I want that payment to be paid in full and get it taken care of for the rest of eternity once for all. And so verse seven is the Lord's response to this desire of the Lord to eliminate sin's sin once and for all, the sin factor that separates us from God Not this ongoing sacrifice over and over and over and over and over. Uh just never takes away sin, doesn't take away uh sin. And so God's and so in verse 7, Jesus says, then So he's referring back to that because of God's desire to deal with sin once for all. He says, I then said I, lo, I come. Now that then is not a chronological event. He's not saying after the Lord said that, then I did this. What it is, is because of the truth of verse 6. Well if that's the case, if God is not desiring ongoing sacrifices, he wants a once-for-all sacrifice, deals the death blow to sin. Then I'll step up. Then I'll step up. So I find here a decision on the part of the Lord Jesus Christ To do what the sacrifices of bulls and oxen, all those blood sacrifices, they could never accomplish. They could never Fulfill God's desire to eliminate sin, to have the final payment for sin once for all. So Jesus says, Lo, I come, lo, I come. What he means by that, I resolve to do that. What the sacrifices could not do, I'll do it. Lo, I come. I am determined. To fulfill the desire of God to make a final payment for our sin. What this said when Jesus says, Lo, I come, what he's doing is he's making an offer of himself To be the ultimate and final sacrifice for my sin, for your sin, for the sins of all mankind. He steps up, so to speak. God says, these sacrifice offerings, that's not what I want. I mean we're doing them, they're necessary for for the time being But what I want is sin dealt with. I want this sin debt paid once for all. Jesus says, all right, in that case I present myself. I give myself to make that final, fulfilling, eternal once-for-all payment And so there's a decision on the part of the Lord Jesus Christ. He offers himself. In Luke chapter 22 and verse 42, when he's in the Garden of Gethsemane, if you remember this. He's praying and he's sweating as it were great drops of blood. He's about to take the wrath of a perfectly holy God For every sin ever committed by mankind, all the sins, and that judgment, and he's about to take that on himself, and the anticipation of it is uh overwhelming Not just the physical suffering, but the wrath of a holy God poured on, the guilt, the depth, think about the depth of guilt. That was on Jesus Christ's heart and soul, not just for one sin and how guilty we can feel over one, not just for the sins of one individual's lifetime. But for every human being for all eternity, that guilt is now on him. We can't even fathom that And he prays this prayer, and he says, Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. And then here's what I think this verse may be referring to. Nevertheless Not my will, but thy will be done. I think what he's saying is, Lo lo, I come Here I am, I submit my will, I present myself, I offer myself for that sacrifice. And there in Gethsemane, he was carrying out that decision that he had made. Billy Sunday made a statement. Billy Sunday said, the greatest offering ever given was when Jesus Christ offered himself to be sacrificed for all of man's sins. The greatest offering ever. So first of all, I see in verse number 7 the first part when he says, Lo, I come, I see a decision on the part of the Lord. I will be that sacrifice. I will fulfill what all those others could never do. Second thing I notice here in verse number seven, in the last part of the verse, is the declaration. Look what he says. Lo I Then said I, Lo, I come. Then it has this statement, In the volume of the book it is written of me. In the volume of the book, it is written of me. When Jesus made this decision, and we're using human terminology here, but when he made that decision, it wasn't an after-the-fact decision In other words, when sin entered the world by one man, Eve uh Eve was uh was um uh fooled by the devil, deceived by the devil And Adam willingly, knowingly, ate of the forbidden fruit, introduced sin into the world. It wasn't when that happened, then all of a sudden in heaven, God is like The Godheads there, God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, all sudden. Oh no, what are we going to do? Man's sin. We've got to come up with a plan. He said, oh, let's see. I'll I'll pay for it for him. That's not how that played out. This wasn't an after-the-fact decision. It wasn't a spur-of-the-moment decision of the Lord Jesus Christ. Well, you know, if nobody else, well, I'll do it. That's not the way it was at all. This wasn't a result of a heavenly discussion. Sometimes songwriters will try and uh uh picture how the Godhead came to this decision to deal with the sins of man. I'll be very honest with you. If I understand scripture correctly, this is on a whole nother level above our ability to comprehend. how God would have uh framed this and and um uh uh um designed this plan of salvation But here we're told that it was written of him. All this decision on Christ's part to be the sacrifice was written before time. It says in the volume of the book, it is written of me. I think what he's saying is this was determined outside the realm of time. In other words, God created the world. We're not sure exactly how much time we know. There was at least seven days until the fall of man. Probably not a long period of time. But it didn't happen in the limitations of time. This is where it becomes mind-boggling. God transcends time. God is not limited by time. You and I are. We're prisoners of the moment. We can't go back five seconds. We can't go forward two seconds, one second. But God transcends time And so this decision on the part of the Lord Jesus Christ was outside the realm of time. It wasn't in response to something. It was something in place before, uh uh outside of time. Take your Bible, now we're going to come back here, but come with me to the last book of the Bible, if you're following there online. I hope you'll turn here with me to Revelation. And uh chapter number thirteen, there's a little statement here that I think sheds a little light on what I'm trying to to get across what I believe uh is taking place here. Revelation chapter 13. Go to the end of your Bible. About the middle of the book of the Revelation. You'll find chapter 13. And if you would, come down to verse number 8. And here we have a reference about Jesus Christ offering himself for the sins of mankind. Look at verse 8. And all that dwell upon the earth shall worship him. That's the Lord Jesus Christ. Whose names are not written in the book of life of the Now look at this. Not written in the book of the life of the book of life of the Lamb. Look at this statement Slain from the foundation of the world. Now, when was Jesus slain? When was he crucified? Well, it wasn't from the foundation of the world, it was uh 2,000 years ago But in God's economy, in God's time, unlimited, God not being limited by time, as far as God was concerned, this was a decision made Before time even existed, it was part of God's incomprehensible design. Before anything ever took place. And so he says, and again, this is beyond our comprehension how this can function outside of time. But Jesus says it was in the volume of the book it is written of me. The volume of the book. I believe what he's saying was. I think what we're being told here through Scripture is this plan of salvation, to pay and deal with sin once for all, was designed in the mind of God, in the counsels of Godhead Outside of time, but God recorded it long before it actually physically took place, transpired. He recorded it in the Word of God, the volume of the book. Most likely, the book there he's referring to, most likely, is the law, the Pentateuch. The first five books of the Bible. And I think he's referring to all the sacrifices that were given in the law, the book, as the Jews would refer to it. Um, and all those sacrifices and all that bloodshed. I think he's saying that's all talking about me. The message of these ceremonies and these sacrifices and these offerings, all of that, that message, what they're communicating, it is me. The volume of the book it is written. It's all my sacrifice, my offering. They were all a picture of Christ. Perhaps the book, here he's saying, in the volume of the book it is written of me. may include the prophetic books later on, Isaiah and ones that Isaiah 53 is one of the most detailed uh depictions of Christ's crucifixion in the Old Testament, years, hundreds of years before Christ actually carried out I think he may be referencing the fact that the Word of God prophetically stated over and over and over and in pictured it in the sacrifices This decision Christ made that I will give myself. So it's declared, it's in Scripture. The fact that Jesus Christ fulfilled God's desire and paying for sin once for all It's not a new it's not a unknown message. It's in the book. It's been in the Bible all through there. In fact, the Jews were rebuked for not understanding that. You read the message, the sermons in Acts. The disciples are rebuking the Jews because you should have known this. It was there. It was in the book. And they never saw it. So first thing I notice is Christ's decision. Lo, I come I'll be that pay that final price. Then the declaration, it's all that decision's all in the book. It's not hidden. It's given to us very clearly. Then thirdly, I want us to notice in verse number 8, back in Psalm 40, he says, I delight to do thy will, O my God. I delight to do it. So I notice his delight. First his decision, then the declaration. It's in the book. Now he says, I delight. His delight. It's interesting. The word delight in verse number 8 comes from the exact same word As the word desire in verse number 6. God says sacrifice and offering. Thou didst not desire. That's not what you want, God. He says, this is what I delight. My desire is to do what you desire. My delight is to fulfill your desire, God. That was Jesus' attitude. I want to, my delight, my joy, my the greatest desire in my life is to fulfill the will of God my Father. To do his will. That's what Jesus is is saying here. He's telling us his delight. Now I do not believe that his The sacrifice of himself for sin was his delight. I don't think he's saying, oh boy, I just I I'm just thrilled. I just desire, I delight so much to be crucified, to take all sins on me. I don't believe that for a moment. In fact, the Bible is pretty clear. Again, if you would, go with me to Hebrews chapter number 12. I already referenced Luke 22, where he says, Lord, if it be possible, remove this cup from me. He didn't delight in taking the guilt of the world. He didn't delight in the crucifixion. He didn't delight in God the Father forsaking him because of man's sin. He didn't delight in that. Look at Hebrews chapter 12, and notice with me verse 1. He says, Wherefore see we also are encompassed about, let's go to verse 2. Looking unto Jesus. That's what this passage in Psalms is having us do. Look to Jesus. Looking unto Jesus. The author and finisher of our faith, look at this, for the who, for the joy that was set before him, notice these next three words. endured the cross. It doesn't say he enjoyed the cross. He wanted God to remove that cup if there was any way possible. Not my will, thy will be done. I want to do your will, Lord. My delight is to fulfill your desire. But he did not delight in the crucifixion itself. The joy The delight wasn't in the crucifixion. The delight was in what the crucifixion accomplished. For the joy that was set before him, that was on the other side of the cross, what the cross would accomplish, what the judgment on the cross for man's sin would accomplish. That is where his joy was. That is where his delight was. Lord, my greatest delight and desire is to do your will. And it's going to be a horrendous price. It is going to be a horrendous to fulfill your will, but I want to, because I know in doing, going through that valley of the cross, going through that darkness of the cross. I know it'll fulfill your will. Sin will be dealt with once for all. Man can be reunited with his Creator and have eternal life And so the delight of the Lord Jesus Christ was in fulfilling the will. I got thinking about that. There's a lot of things in Christian service that are not pleasant. There's a lot of things in the Christian life. There are many, many things in fulfilling God's will that are not pleasant. They're very difficult. Sometimes they're very dark, heart-wrenching. But we want to do God's will as a believer. We want to fulfill the desire of God for us, His will for us. And so we go through these dark valleys. We endure these difficult things we have to face, knowing That doing the will of God is going to bring great joy and great blessing. And so Jesus' great joy was in fulfilling the will of God. That's where the joy was, not in the Not in the suffering of the cross, but knowing I'm doing God's will. In John chapter 4, verse 34, he said, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me Meat there is talking about nourishment. The disciples had gone into town, got some food. Jesus was witnessing to the woman at the well. He was accomplishing the desire of God that her sins would be forgiven and removed. And they come back with food, say, here, eat something. He goes, Oh, I'm good. My meat, my nourishment, my joy, my delight is doing the will of God. In John chapter 5 and verse 30, he made this statement: I seek not mine own will, but the will of the Father which hath sent me. That's what my desire is. My desire, my delight is to do God's desire, fulfill his desire Again, in John chapter 6 and verse 38, he said, I came down from heaven not to do mine own will, but the will of him that sent me. I think that's what he's talking about in Psalms. I delight to do thy will. John chapter 6 and verse 40 This is the will of him that sent me, that everyone that seeth the Son and believeth on him may have everlasting life. And I will raise him up at the last day. Jesus is saying the will of uh the Father is that people will believe in me because I'm going to pay the price for their sin and they will have everlasting life, and God will raise them up. And will be together with the Lord for all eternity. Sin's effects will be removed. And that's what God's desire is. Jesus delighted To pay the price for sin. Jesus delighted to do God's will in spite of the horrendous price. In spite of the horrendous price. And I'll end with this. Look, come back there to Psalm Verse number 80 says, I delight to do thy will, O my God. Look at this. Yea, thy law is within my heart. I wonder if that phrase, thy law, isn't referring back to the volume of the book in verse number seven. I wonder if he's saying Doing God's will, paying the final, ultimate, once-for-all price for sin of mankind, doing that, there's not some sort of external pressure on me It's not like, and I know this is probably ridiculous, but it's not like the Holy Spirit and God the Father are staring at Jesus and saying, you're the one, you've got to do this. And somehow the pressure is on him externally. All right, uh, okay, I'll do it. Uh I don't believe that for one minute. That's the way it was. There wasn't some sort of obligation on Jesus' part to do this. I think what he's saying was, fulfilling God's will, paying this price was in my heart. It was part of it's uh uh uh it's in my heart to do this. I love God, I love my Father. And he tells us in John 14, I love my Father and I do the things he commands me. I want to please him. I want to fulfill his desire. Not some external obligation. I found as pastoring and preaching. I think, you know, I I try to understand the Word of God and I try and teach people what God's Word says, how we should live. And sometimes I've been in situations where pastors will put a lot of pressure on s on the believers, the members. uh to do this or not to that man they'll just put they'll just twist their arms and get them to do it and maybe dress uh you know what we understand biblical way or whatever you whatever you come up with music whatever it may be And as long as that pressure's there, they'll conform to the pressure in the church to do this. But as soon as that pressure is removed, they revert back to what's in their heart. I think Jesus is saying this isn't something that I'm just doing because I have to. I think Jesus is saying It's in my heart, the law, all those sacrifices, all those ceremonies, I embody them. That's what they were all pointing to me. They're a picture of me and what I'm doing is the embodiment, is the fulfillment. Of what all the law was talking about. And it's part of me, it's my heart to do this, to fulfill my Father's will, my Father's desire. I put it this way, Jesus embodied the law with all its sacrifices and ceremonies and requirements. In Matthew chapter 5, in the Sermon on the Mount, early in the sermon, he made this statement Think not that I am come to destroy the law. I am not come to destroy, but to fulfill He's saying it's all what the law was about was me, my life, my sinless, godly life, and then the the substitutionary sacrifice of myself for man's sins. All of that fulfills the law. It's in my heart. It's what I am. I believe when we trust Jesus Christ as Savior, The Holy Spirit moves into us at that moment that we trust Christ. I believe the Holy Spirit puts that same desire in the heart of every believer. I'm convinced every person that genuinely knows the Lord has been born again somewhere deep down inside the heart and soul of a believer is a desire. To do God's will for my life, just as Jesus, his desire, his delight was to fulfill the desire of God. I believe that same is put in every one of our hearts as believers. Now we can quench that. We can push it down, and sometimes it's way down and shows little effect on our lives. But I'm still convinced way down, deep inside of every believer, there is a desire to do the will of God. I think that's sometimes when we do wrong and we disobey our Father, we get out of His will. There's something in our heart that grieves us. And we feel conviction it's because that desire to do God's will is down there somewhere. Billy Sunday again said the greatest offering ever given Was when Jesus Christ offered himself for the sins of mankind. And because he did that, because Jesus so willingly gave himself for my sins How much more should I be willing to give myself to him? The greatest offering I could possibly give isn't an offering to pay for my sins. That's what Jesus did. The greatest offering I can give. is to say, Lord, I give myself to you to fulfill your will for my life. God's desire with Jesus Christ was to pay the price, God's desire for you and I It's to dedicate our lives to Him and live for Him and love Him with all our heart, soul, and mind because of what He's done for us. Lo, I come The volume of the book it is written on me to do thy will. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to use these thoughts tonight and challenge us. Those of us that know you as Savior, oh, I pray that that desire, that Holy Spirit desire down in our hearts, I pray it would grow. And I pray it would consume us from within to live for you and serve you and witness for you and bring others to Christ. And Father, if there's some tonight that have tuned in that do not know Jesus Christ as Savior, I pray your Holy Spirit would move in their hearts and open their eyes. They would turn to Christ and trust Him for forgiveness of sins and eternal life because of the price he paid. So please bless now. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, there wherever you're at, at the kitchen table, in a living room, wherever you may be, in a study. On earn, just bow your head and heart and just say, Lord, here am I. I give myself to you. Paul put it this way. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies, a living sacrifice, wholly, acceptable to God. Which is your reasonable service, that we may prove the perfect and good and acceptable will of God, the desire of God to give ourselves to Him. Father, bless now. We ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.