You will to Mark chapter six. Mark chapter six. I always uh fear that I uh uh uh will forget to be thankful for something and I I do appreciate everything you've done for me I appreciate uh the work of the church, the preparation uh for the conference. It is not an easy task, uh though it is a rewarding task. uh to have uh such a conference and it's an honor to be a part of a conference with the name uh Sword of the Lord and the Western Pennsylvania Sword of the Lord Conference and I'm glad to be a part of it this uh 30th or 29th or 30th in uh the preacher's thirtieth year. Mark chapter six, verse number five and six will be our text verses. And if you'll stand with me, we'll read Mark chapter six and uh the verses one through six. Mark 6, verse number 1, the Bible says, and he went out from thence and came into his own country. That's Capernaum to Nazareth. And his disciples follow him, and when the Sabbath day was come, he began to teach in the synagogue, and many hearing him were astonished. Now that that that's a powerful word Uh the word amazed is in the Bible, but this is different than the word amazed. Uh impressed uh it's more than that. Just astonished beyond uh explanation of how they felt when they heard him uh teach. They were impressed in many different ways at saying From whence hath this man these things? And what wisdom is this which is given unto him that even such mighty works are wrought by his hands Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary, the brother of James and Joseph and of Judah and Simon? And are not his sisters here with us? And then notice they change. Their mood, their attitude, it changes. And they were offended at him But Jesus said unto them, A prophet is not without honor, but in his own country, and among his own kin and in his own house. Notice verse number five And he could there do no mighty work, save that he laid his hands upon a few sick folk and healed them. And he marveled because of their unbelief, and he went round about the villages at teaching I'm hesitant to use the title that I'm going to use for the message tonight, but it comes from two lines, one in verse number five and verse number six where the Bible says, and he could there do no mighty work. And verse number six, and he marveled at their unbelief. I'm going to preach tonight on this subject. I don't want Jesus to fail. Now that's that's an odd thing because you say, well, Jesus can't fail. I understand that. God can't fail. I understand that. But the Bible does use these words, and he could there do no mighty work. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, I pray that you bless the preaching of your word. I thank you for answering that prayer this morning. And Lord, I enjoyed the church service this morning, and I enjoyed the preaching But here we are in need again, knowing that you are more than able and desiring to bless us again tonight. So our hunger, our desire, our prayer is that you would use the Word of God to speak to our hearts in both messages tonight. In Jesus' name I pray, amen. That you may be seated This is an interesting passage of Scripture to me, both by way of text and context. It just seems that it can't be what it's saying when it says, and he could there. he could. You remember asking the question of your teacher in school, can I? And she would say, I don't know if you can or not, may I is the question and uh you're not asking for ability, you're asking for permission. But the word here is could, and he could do no mighty work there, and he marbled because of their unbelief. That text gets my attention. But the context does as well. And it's an interesting context to understand. Jesus is coming to his childhood home And he has been busy in ministry as I understand uh the uh the timeline of the work of Christ. He has healed the sick, he has raised the dead, he has called the bl caused the blinded eyes to see Many multitudes have received uh eternal life by receiving him as Savior. And for some time the Lord Jesus has made Capernaum uh His headquarters. Now from what I understand That's about 40 miles, and it would have been about a four-day journey from Capernaum to Nazareth, to his hometown. as I understand it, about a year before Jesus had been to Nazareth and had been to this same synagogue. And when he came then he read, as Luke records in chapter four, verses eighteen through several verses there uh from the book of Isaiah where he read uh that he had come to fulfill his ministry. And the Bible said that they not only cast him out of the synagogue, they took him and they cast him out of the city. The Bible says headlong. That's the word the Bible uses. They they threw him out of his own town. So for the next year he has worked out of Capernaum, and multitudes have heard him, not all have received him, but many mighty and marvelous works have been done to the place when he came back to speak. The people were astonished at what they heard he did. and the wisdom with which he spoke. And at first they are amazed, and then they say, but wait a minute, he he is not that big a deal. He's one of us. Is not he the brother of? Is he not the son of? Is he not just a carpenter, a carpenter? And the Bible says that they were offended in him And then it concludes he could there do no mighty work. And then the Bible says he marveled because of their unbelief. I believe those are connected. I believe the reason he was limited in his work is because of their lack of faith in him. Now, as I look at what Christ has done in his ministry, I ponder the question, what did he intend to do in his own town? When I look at what God did for his people, making the nation of Israel from a group of slaves, taking them across the Red Sea on dry land uh defeating every army that stood in their way, making them a great nation, God certainly favored his people, the apple of his eye Certainly the Lord Jesus, when he comes to Nazareth, after his year of ministry, healing the sick, touching the blinded eyes, making the leper cleansed, he certainly intends to do a great work. in his town. And I wonder tonight what Jesus intended to do in his hometown. Now, throughout history we've known people that have been successful in life and maybe they come from a small town or maybe not so small of a town but they become a very successful in life and and a career and uh they become successful and and uh they want to come back to their hometown and say thank you. They want to say thank you to the teachers and to the town that help them to become somebody. And sometimes they'll build a a football stadium or a baseball stadium or a hospital in their name because they want to do something special in their hometown. I really believe that Jesus intended to do a greater work in Nazareth than he had done in Capernaum or any place else. And it is so sad, it is so sad when you read, and he could there do, doesn't say no work, he could there do no mighty work. I wonder what Jesus intended to do But that's not the purpose of the message tonight. The purpose of the message is not to ponder what Christ wanted to do in his hometown. The purpose of the message is to ask the question, I wonder what he wants to do in my town today. I wonder if God wants to do a mighty work in our towns. I wonder if He wants to do a mighty work. That's the question I want to ask. And may I say tonight I don't want Jesus to fail. You say, well, preacher, what do you have to do with it? Well the Bible says, the Bible says he could there do no mighty work And he marveled. Now it's interesting for me to just read the words of Christ, that Christ would marvel at something, and he marveled at their unbelief. Friend, I want to know what God wants to do in my town. There was a time in life in ministry that I made this statement and I did it with a pure heart and motives. I wanted to do a mighty work for God. I really did. I had known uh folks that had done a great work for God, and I grew up in a day where uh some of the greatest preachers of the past generation uh lived and and uh I just I wanted to do something for God But then I came to the realization I really can't do anything for God. But I could give my life to Him and let Him do whatever He wanted to do. Through me. There's a great big difference. You see, it's not the music the piano can play, it's the music the musician can make with the piano It was advertised that the world's most expensive violin would be played in a music concert hall in New York City. And they they quickly sold out all the tickets the folks wanted to see and hear the world's most expensive violin. And uh the night of the concert the The place was full and the folks were anxious to hear and the musician began to play and they were just overwhelmed at the beauty of the music and number after number they gave standing ovations and then after about an hour uh the musician shocked the crowd. He took that violin, raised it over his head, and smashed it over a wooden chair that was on the platform. The people gasped. They couldn't believe what he had done. And then he said, What you just saw was not the world's most expensive violin, and what you've heard for the last hour is simply a copy of a violin model that you can buy anywhere here in New York City. The world's most expensive violin is in that box And I'm going to play it now. But I want you to understand uh the music is na made not just of the violin, but of the musician. And the day I realize it's not what I can do for God But if I give my life to him and yield to him, have faith in him, it's what God could do through me. When I was a boy, of course, my dad was my hero. I used to shine my daddy's shoes every Saturday night, and uh we we we didn't have any blacktop roads where I grew up for several miles. I mean we lived up in two different hollers and and uh we we we didn't well we had gravel during election year is what we had. During election year we'd get gravel on the road and And uh and and my dad didn't like dirty shoes. He said dirty shoes are like a Cadillac with mud grips. It just didn't go right. He he said I like my shoes shine. I'd shine my dad's shoes every Saturday night I wanted to work for my dad. I never wanted to grieve him in any way. And uh it always bothered me. Now my dad died at the age of forty when I was at Tennessee Temple uh where uh uh the preacher uh graduated from school and and uh when doctor Robertson was there is when uh we went to school there and And that my dad died. And when he died, I I I was proud to say, never one time did I ever talk back to my dad. There was two reasons for that. I loved him with all my heart, and second of all, I was equally afraid of him. As I read through the Bible, I find that we can grieve the heart of God The Bible says in the book of Genesis, chapter five, and God saw the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually, and it repented the Lord that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him at his heart. Paul wrote to the church at Ephesus these words, Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth, but that which is good to the use of edifying, that it may minister grace unto the hearers And grieve not the Spirit of God, whereby ye are sealed unto the day of redemption. The psalmist pinned the words in Psalm 78 But he being full of compassion, forgave their iniquity, destroyed them not, yea, many a time turned his anger away and did not stir up all his wrath, for he remembered that they were but flesh, a wind that passeth away and cometh not again. Listen to these words. How often did they provoke him in the wilderness and grieve him. He didn't want them to do anything. He wanted them to trust in him so he could do through them. He is the one that made them a mighty nation. The Bible goes on to say in Psalm 78, yea, they turned back and tempted God. And listen to these words, and limited the Holy One of Israel. Israel is the greatest nation on earth. All the nations of the world have been blessed by and through Israel But Israel never reached its potential of what God wanted it to do. Now, dear friend, I don't want I don't want God to fail in my town. I hunger to know. I hunger to know this morning as we uh talked at breakfast time. I shared with Brother Smith the blessings of the Lord and then where we are today and my heart's desire and what I I I want God to uh be able to accomplish in our town and I enjoy it Talking about ministry. I want God to do what God wants to do in our town. I don't want him to be limited because of my unbelief In August of two thousand nineteen, I got a text from my good friend, then Governor of Kentucky, Matt Bevan. And he said to me, he said, uh President Trump is coming to Kentucky in a month or so, and uh I would like for you to go with me to greet him. Would you do that? And I said, sure, when is he coming? And he texted back, he said, I can't tell you the dates until we get close to it. But if you'll send me your driver's license, we'll do a background check and make sure everything he said, I'm sure it's clear, but we have to do that So they did a background check, they found out that I was a biter in the nursery and I stole cookies in the nursery and uh sometimes I fell asleep in church. But other than that I was cleared and uh I was able to go and so I asked the I asked the governor, I said, What do you want me to do? He said, Well and and I thought I'd be in a crowd of a thousand people that would wave to the president. He said, Well there'll be uh some military folk there And then there'll be five civilians that will greet the president and uh when uh uh and and I want you to be in that line, one of those five And I just want you to welcome him to Kentucky. And so I did. He got off the plane. I was last in line. I was standing behind a uh a general there. Uh he stood in full salute Uh uh from the time the plane uh was in sight until it landed and the president got off the plane and I I I remember standing there behind him and what an awesome day it was. In fact I thought, buddy A little old boy from Kentucky in southeast Kentucky, you're out of place. And I said, I know I am. And I'll tell you what I said. I said, God, I'm glad I got to talk to the King of Kings this morning And I'm I'm thankful for that. And I'm honored by today, uh, but I'm honored that you're my Heavenly Father. So the President came and I said, President Trump Welcome to Kentucky. We're glad you're here. I said, thank you for what you're doing for our state and what you're doing for our nation. On behalf of the pastors and the Christians in our state, we pray for you and I pray for you every day. Then it's surprised me. He said, man of God, he said, get in my car and you ride with me today. And he pointed to the to the limousine. He turned to the Secret Service. He said, put the man of God in my car. You talk about feeling out of place. I went over there and I sat down. I mean you talk about out of place. I sat down in the limousine. There are buttons everywhere Buttons ever I'm a button pusher. I love cars. I love cars. Especially new cars, just figuring out what does that do. And I thought I wonder if that button shoots a missile to Russia right there. Button right there over my head. He went down, he shook hands and waved at a few folks, and then he came back door open, he said, Scoot over, you're in my side So I I scooted over. The first thing he did was push that button. And I thought, oh, and it was a mirror that came down. He fixed his hair and you know and put that back up. I thought I could have pushed that button right there and it would have caused any damage I spent three and a half hours with the president that day and went to various meetings and one meeting there was uh governors and attorney generals from several states and I imagine 25 people. I'm sitting there taking pictures. And and and the chief of staff of the governor said, What are you doing with that phone? I said, I'm taking pictures. He said, You're not supposed to have a phone. Secret Service walked over to him and said, He's with the President I said, I'm with the president. That's why I'm taking pictures. It was an overwhelming feeling To sit in a room and listen to their conversations for an hour and talk about various things. And I the power that was in that room. Oh, but listen to me, dear friend The creator that we met with this morning. He has no terms. He has no limitations. Pharaoh came and Pharaoh went. God's still on the throne. Nero came, Nero went. God's still on the throne. That's who I serve. That's who we serve. That's who wants to do a mighty work. We're not trying to figure out what you can do and what I can do for God. We are trying to figure out what it is that God wants to do through us. And I want to challenge us tonight to think about that and to pray the prayer, God, what is it that you want to do in my life? You will be amazed at what God would use you to do if you would yield yourself to Him. You'd be amazed how God would use you to be a personal soul winner. You see, you and I, we we don't have to save anybody. It's our job just to tell them what Jesus said in his word. It's simple. It's simple. Everybody knows we're all sinners. And there's a sin that and by the way, you don't even have to convince them That's the work of the Holy Spirit. For when you use the Word of God, He begins to do the convicting work. So there can be a converting work in their hearts and in their minds. And so many people. I've seen and I thought, Oh my goodness. This is going to be the last person I'll ever speak to, let alone witness to. They looked as mean as the devil himself And I said to my mother-in-law, I said, I've just seen if you've listening, I'm kidding, I'm kidding. I just see if you're still listening How many times have I spoken to that person and they've been the nicest person? It's that religious person I hate to knock on their door and talk to them. But how many times, how many times have I heard folks say This is the oddest thing. My grandmother called me yesterday and said, George, you've got to get in church. And here did my grandmother call you? I said, no, she didn't But I'm glad I mentioned it. How many times, oh, can I tell you, dear friend, what God can do if we would determine in our hearts and lives to give ourselves to God and yield ourselves to Him? You may say, I can't teach a Sunday school class. Oh, you'd be surprised at what you could do if you'd yield your life and you would work and you would prepare and let God use you. You'd be surprised how many teenage boys and girls How many children that you could change a life by just letting God work through your life? What a sad thing the Bible says, and they could there do no mighty work. Take your Bible to go to Mark chapter 2. He's in Capernaum in Mark chapter 2. Verse number one, again he entered into Capernaum after some days, and it was noise that he was in the house, and straightway Many were gathered together insomuch that there was no room to receive them. No not so much as about the door, and he preached the word unto them. And they come unto him, bringing one sick of the palsy. He's paralyzed, he can't walk. So they have a s uh they have a cot of sorts, and they're carrying this man. And when they could not come nigh unto him for the press They uncovered the roof where he was. Now some may say, well that was no big deal. They they all had uh doors on the roof. It's amazing how Folks waste their efforts trying to explain away the Word of God instead of just taking what it says. You read the next verse and when they had broken it up. They broke it up. They let down the bed where in the sick of the palsy lay. Now look at it. Look right at it. When Jesus saw their faith, plural pronoun. He said unto the sick, Article I. He saw their faith, he said unto the sick of the palsy. Son, thy sins be forgiven thee. You know why he did a mighty work in Capernaum? Then faith in him. April of last year. Our bus workers were Signing up kids to ride the bus. A little boy, eight years old. He came and he said, What's going on? The little fellow was blind. He had a stick, he was uh a walking stick, and he was out there with with the other kids playing. He said, What's going on? What's going on They said, Oh, Malachi, it's the church people. They're getting people to ride the bus tomorrow. He said, I want to ride the bus. I want to go. So the bus worker went to Malachi's house and said we're from Claysmill Baptist Church. We were on a bus to pick up children for Sunday school. Can Malachi ride the bus, Sunday school? And the mother said no. And what had happened Just after COVID, a man drove by their house and just shot into their house just a drive-by shooting. Malachi was in bed with his mother, and he caught a bullet to the back of his head that came out his right eye. Now it did not it did not hit his brain, but it destroyed his optical nerves and he lost his sight. And and and Malachi from that time and during that year had been to school and had learned to use a uh uh sight cane and and learn to get around and he was an ambitious little boy and always wanted to be out with everybody else but mom was mad at God because this happened And he said, Mama, will you please let me go? Tomorrow they're having an Easter egg hunt. Now he's blind. They're having an Easter egg hunt. We're not having an Easter egg hunt to worship the Easter bunny. We're doing what we can do to get children to church to hear of Christ. I'll do anything that's legal and moral and right to get children to come to hear the gospel of Christ. Jesus gave water, and he said, if you give a cup of water in my name, I'll bless it. Malachi talked his mama into letting him come to on the bus. And he got there and he heard the kids playing. He said, What are they doing? And and and they said, Well, they're hunting Easter eggs. He said, I wanna I wanna I wanna do it So he took some eggs and they put 'em on the asphalt there and they said, All right, he had his cane. He said, All right, go ahead, Malachi. He said He tapped his cane, he said, no, no. He said, put them in the grass, put them over there, and put them over there where everybody else is hunting. And so they did. He took his cane, he's going through the grass, and he tapped an egg and he yelled, I found one, I found one, and he said this, what color is it? And they told him. And they said, Malachi, that's a candy egg. It's plastic. You can open it. There's candy inside. He spent some time finding those eggs and eating the candy. Went to Sunday school, went to his class, he went home. The next Saturday bus workers were doing the same thing. He said, Mama, can I go back tomorrow? She said, No, I told you you could go just one time and that's all He said, Mama, please. They they they they've got games that they're going to play. Please let me go. She said, I'll let you go one more time, and that's the only time she let him come twice He said, What are they doing? They said, Malachi, they're they're they're coming down an inflatable slide. He said, Let me do it. So a bus worker took him up the stairway and he came down the twenty foot slide and I've got video of it. He said, Whee, that's fun. He said, let me do it by myself. And so they said, all right, and they they they they they put him and then they followed him up and he did it again, again, again. They're in class. Teacher's teaching the Bible. Malachi raises his hand in the middle of the lesson. The teacher stops and says, Yes, Malachi, can I help you? They actually thought he wanted to be dismissed to go to the restroom. Malachi said, Can I get saved? Can can can I, as Jesus in my heart, I want to go to heaven? Malachi trusted Christ as Savior. Let me tell you why Malachi got saved. Let me tell you why 34 children got saved this past Sunday. 800 folks in the bus ministry and Spanish department last Sunday. We had a record attendance of 1700 on buses just a few months ago. Now the re the the the the miracle is not seventeen hundred kids coming the miracle we got them all back to the same house we picked them up in. That's a miracle. Let me tell you why Malachi got saved Because bus workers believed that Jesus can make the difference. And we've got to carry him, we've got to bring him, we've got to bring them and let Christ do his work. I don't know about you. I want him to fail in my town. I want to know what God wants to do, and I know he's not willing that any should perish, so it's my job to make sure everybody Here's the gospel. Heavenly Father, thank you for the Word of God. And Lord, how obvious it is that we're supposed to have faith in you. Oh, dear God May you not be limited in your work, in our churches, in our classes, in our towns, in our nation. Because of our unbelief, help us to have faith in you. I pray that you'd bless the remainder of this service, Dr. Smith, as he preaches in Jesus' name. Amen.