Look at verse number eight. Second Peter chapter one, verse eight. We've been we spent a good bit of time. Now it's been about a month, I think, since we've actually been back here in Second Peter But we spent uh, I think, eight messages on verses five, six, and seven, these lists of characteristics that Peter tells us under the inspiration of God God is telling us that we need to add diligently. Notice verse 5, besides this giving all diligence. And then he lists these things, add to your faith. Virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, godliness, brotherly kindness, charity. Then verse 8, he gives the reason why these are so important He says, For if these things, that little phrase, these things, referring back to these eight characteristics in the previous verses, if these things be in you and abound. They make you that ye shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. I've entitled my thoughts for tonight. I've entitled this. I don't want to be barren or unfruitful. I don't want to be a barren Christian. I don't want to be an unfruitful Christian. So let's pray. Let me give you a few quick thoughts here. Father, I pray you'd bless now. And Lord, it's sure been a good day, and you've sure been good to our church. Lord, we see what you're doing in our young people's lives, our teenagers' lives, and how they're responding. uh to your leadership and your will for them. We're so grateful. God, we've seen what you've done, the building, and how you blessed that effort. Or as we look forward, expand a little bit and improve. I pray that in all of this we not lose sight of our personal walk with you, and we would stay close to you in these last days. So I ask, Lord, you'd fill me with your Spirit. I pray you'd take this verse and the principles here, the truths given here, and apply it to our lives. And that you'd speak these principles through me, your word through me, and help us to respond in faith and trust you and uh follow your direction here. So please bless. Please have your way. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I think one of the great concerns for myself as a Christian, I think for all of us as Christians, is not necessarily, shouldn't necessarily be how gifted we are Some people say to me, I hear people often over the years I've heard people say, well, preacher, I'm just not that gifted in this area. Well, I'm just, you know, I don't I don't know what I could do for the Lord And we get all worried about whether we have these talents, these abilities. We get worried about our lack of abilities to do certain things I don't think that ought to be our main concern, how talented we are or are not. I don't think our main concern ought to be how we compare to others. And sometimes we get guilty of this. I'd like to I'd like to think I've been able to push this out of my mind, but I know early days of my ministry I used to look at other churches and things they had and what they were doing. And I think, boy, we're not, you know, boy, if only we could have that, or if only we could do this. I don't think that ought to be our concern. how we compare to others. In fact, Paul told the church at Corinth that comparing themselves among themselves, they were not wise Here the fact of the matter is you can always find a Christian who's better than you, quote unquote. You can always find a Christian who's worse than you You look close enough, you can find somebody that sins differently than you do. And that ought not to be our concern, how we compare with others. He's a better Christian than I am, or I'm a better Christian than she is. That ought to not even be in our thinking. I don't think we ought to be so concerned about how educated we may be or not be. Um and I want to ask if folks uh think this would be a good time to put our phones up and just keep them away during the preaching time. I just have the opinion the preaching of the word of God is the most important thing going on. And so we just um ask you to think about that. But how educated I may be or how educated I might not be. Ought not to be our major concern. Now don't misunderstand me. I think if you can get a chance to get a good education, you ought to do it. Read Proverbs. He says, get knowledge, get understanding, get wisdom. I mean, he tells us multiple times in Proverbs that we ought to learn. We ought to get understanding. We ought to get knowledge. But that ought not to be the most important issue in my life. or how uh how popular I may be, or how prosperous I am. I think our concern ought to be this. Many of us have been saved a long time. This ought to be our concern. Am I growing spiritually? Am I becoming more and more like the Lord Jesus Christ? Am I growing in my faith? Am I developing Christ-like characteristics in my life? Do you know you can be Christ-like and not be wealthy? You can be Christ-like and not be poor. In fact, my financial standing has absolutely nothing to do with my Christian character, at least it ought not to. You can be very educated and be a Christ-like Christian. You can be very uneducated and be a Christ-like Christian. But when it's all said and done, as I mentioned this morning, we stand before the judgment seat of Christ The issue is not going to be how educated I was, or how popular I was, or how talented I was. The issue is going to be: did you grow spiritually into the person I intend for you to be? Chapter 1, verse 5 through 7, we're given, as I said, these eight characteristics that he says we are to diligently add to our faith. I think these characteristics depict the characteristics of the Lord Jesus Christ perfectly. Jesus Christ was the most virtuous man that ever walked this planet. He had perfect knowledge. He was temperate, self-controlled, perfectly. He was patient and godly. He displayed brotherly kindness and charity in its purest form. So what we have here is description of the The virtues, the characteristics of the Lord Jesus Christ. And as I add these to my life, as I develop these in my life, I become more like the Lord Jesus Christ. You follow my thinking here I think he's telling us we need to develop Christ-like characteristics. And he names them, he lists them specifically. Some of the most mature and effective Christians I've known in my life had no great talents. Just ordinary people that were able to do what they needed to do, but yet they were godly men and women. Some of the most godly people, and I'm thinking several names and people are going through my mind right now, had no dynamic personalities. But they possess the characteristics of Jesus Christ. What I'm trying to say is this, you could see Christ in them You could sense the presence of Christ in their life, the way they acted, the way they conducted themselves, how they interacted and treated others. Displayed the characteristics of the Lord Jesus Christ. Had nothing to do with their talents, had nothing to do with their wealth. Had nothing to do with their level of education or popularity. It had everything to do with their walk with God. And as God developed these characteristics in them. Apparently, as I've been studying this passage here, I've come to the conclusion God's emphasizing the fact That if these are if these characteristics, in verse 7, 8, in verse uh 5, 6, and 7, if these characteristics are not in my life, there's very negative consequences Look what he says in verse 8. For if these things be in you and abound, they shall make you that ye shall be neither Barren nor unfruitful. So the implication is if these things are not in me, if I'm not developing these characteristics, if I'm not developing these virtues. Then I'm going to be barren and I'm going to be unfruitful. Now I did a little study on those words barren and unfruitful. The word barren means to be idle. It's translated some places to be lazy. To be useless and unproductive. I don't know how you feel, but under no circumstances do I want to be considered an unproductive Christian. I don't want to be lazy spiritually. And the spiritual life, the Christian life, is never accomplished by a lazy man. It is never accomplished by a lazy woman. It requires diligence. It requires effort. It requires application of energy And he says, if these things be in you, then you won't be barren. You won't be a lazy, unproductive, spiritually, uh lazy and unproductive. You know you can be the hardest worker on the job and be lazy spiritually. And so there's negative consequences if you and I are not applying ourselves and diligently working to make these part of my life. We end up becoming lazy spiritually. I looked up the word unfruitful. It means exactly what you think it would mean to bear no fruit, to be, to produce nothing. I know there's been times in my Christian life where I got lazy. I look back and I look at times in my life where I was very spiritually, very unproductive, unfruitful in my Christian life. And I don't like that. I don't want to be that way. And so I need to make sure that these characteristics here are true in my life. I don't want to be spiritually barren. I don't want to be spiritually unfruitful. I put this down, it's possible to be a busy Christian at the same time a barren Christian. We can be busy about this and that and doing this and running there and got this ministry and got that ministry and I'm At this service, I'm doing this, I'm doing that, and yet neglect these characteristics that he says I have to diligently add to my life, neglect that and be spiritually barren, yet be very, very busy. You follow what I'm saying? Now I'm not saying don't be busy. I like being busy. I can't stand it if I don't have something going on Uh this week was a quiet week. My wife went down to her visit her mother for a little bit and there wasn't anything going on at church. And if you look carefully, I have less hair than I did before because I was it drives me nuts I need to be about doing something. It's possibly busy, Christian, and be a barren Christian. I put this down, it's possible to be the favorite church member But also be an unfruitful church member. You could be the most popular church member in the whole body of Christ and yet not be very fruitful. I don't want to be barren and I don't want to be unfruitful. And so I've got to diligently work at adding to my life these eight characteristics that we spent a message on each of them studying them. Number one, quickly and I've got a few minutes. Number one, I want us to understand the importance of these characteristics. I noticed something, and I just noticed this as I was studying. I've read this scores of times And I noticed something I was reading down through there. Look at verse number 8. Look at the first part. It says, For if these things be in you, question, what are these things he's referencing? Somebody help me. Are you with me? Everybody wait. Yeah, that list of eight that right above it. If these things, these eight things be in you. Look at verse number nine. But he that lacketh these things. What things? Those eight characteristics. He references them again. And he says, if he that lacketh these is blind, cannot see afar off, hath forgotten that he was purged from his old sins, I think, how in the world can that even happen? The Lord will we'll look at this in a future message, but go to the end of verse 10. He says, For if you do, look at this, these things. The eight characteristics he lists there. This is the third time he's mentioning these things Come down to verse 12. Wherefore I will not be negligent to put you always in remembrance of what? These things. He says, I'm going to keep on reminding you and keep on reminding you and keep on reminding you that you need to diligently add to your faith virtue and to virtue knowledge and to knowledge temperance and to temperance patience and to patience godliness and to godliness brotherly kindness and the brotherly kindness charity. I'm going to keep reminding you that and keep reminding you that Sounds to me it's important, huh? Come down if you would to verse number fifteen. Moreover I will endeavor that ye may be able after my decease, after I die, to have what? These things always in He's saying this. Listen, after I'm dead, I want you to keep on remembering that you need to add to your faith virtue and to virtue knowledge and the knowledge temperance and the know and the temperance patience. Patience, godliness, and the godliness, brotherly kindness, brotherly kindness, charity. I saw that and I thought, man, alive, he keeps referencing back to this list. It must be very important There must be serious effort put into this. Then my second thought is this: if you look there at verse 8 again, he says, For if these things be in you, Not only are they important, but they need to be internalized. In other words, they have to be part of who and what I am, not just a show I put on. How many people ever heard this statement? You cannot judge a book by its cover. What does that mean? Yeah. Yeah. Uh what you see on the cover may have nothing whatsoever to do with what's inside. Did you know that's true on Christians? You can have two Christians sitting beside each other. They both look like ideal Christians. And one may be barren and unfruitful, and the other one may be very fruitful and very alive spiritually. We can put on a show. Mankind has perfected the ability to put on show. Some of our most famous people in the world are actors. You know what actors do? They act. Oh, I just love um Tom Cruise You know, he's an actor. He's acting. Oh, I just love I don't even know who they are. Oh I uh she uh who's a girl actor, Pastor Matt They're acting for Pete's sake. That's not what they are. And I tell you, Christians have gotten pretty good at that also. He says these things need to be where? In you. They need to be part of who and what you are, not just a show we put on. People are not always what they appear to be. These things are not just a list to be memorized or some act to put on when I go to the church folks, go to church meetings I'm afraid too often our Christianity is more of a show than it is of substance. He says, these things need to be a part of who and what you are. I need to work at being Virtuous, not acting virtuously, but being virtuous Of actually having a knowledge, a working understanding and relationship with Jesus Christ, not just spitting out information I need to have a genuine heart of brotherly kindness, not just acting kind. But being kind. You see the difference? And he emphasized these have to be in you. They have to be part of what you are and who you are. These things must be a part of what I am sincerely and genuinely. I'll give you my last thought here as I looked at verse 8. Not only do are they important, not only need to be internalized, but I need to increase in these. Notice what he says. For if these things be in you, and then he adds a little statement to that, and abound. It's not enough. I just have them in me. They need to abound. The word abound there means increasing more to abundance and abundance. has this idea, and this is almost verbatim, one of the definitions I found, to become more and more and more and more and more Just growing and growing and growing in my walk with God and developing these characteristics. I learned something a long time ago. The Christian life is a lifelong endeavor. None of us have arrived. And I need to constantly be diligently abounding in this. I need to be adding to my heart and life this virtue and knowledge and patience and uh temperance and patience and God I need to keep adding and more and more. All right I've learned to be patient. All right now I need to work on being more patient Oh, praise the Lord, God's helped me have some brotherly kindness. I need to work at having more brotherly kindness. Working on a uh the picture I got, I was looking up the definition of the picture I got. Do you ever go to those I do you ever go to a golden corral? I mean that fancy restaurant. And you go to the ice cream thing. Anybody ever do? You get the little cone and you have three choices. You got vanilla And you got chocolate and you got my favorite, the twist in the middle. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I went up that one time years ago and I got that twist and I pushed that bar in. And that uh you know how it goes, that ice cream's coming out. I mean you're trying to squish it down in the cone as deep as you can, and it's coming out and it's going up and it's going up And I pulled my cone away and the thing was stuck in there and it kept on coming out and kept on coming out. And it's like I can't stop it. I think that's the idea of abounding. Just becoming more charitable, having more charity and more love and more virtue and Being uh and just adding and adding and adding and adding and adding. It's our whole life we're growing. Uh wouldn't it be wonderful if the last day of our life was the best day of our Christianity Wouldn't it be something if I was the best Christian I've ever been on the day just before God calls me home? Just growing and growing and growing and growing. The thing I took away from studying this passage is how important these eight characteristics are. I preached down through them the last month or two ago. Man, these are good. Man, this is good stuff. And then I get to the following verse, and I come back and look at it and say, wait a minute, these are vitally important. A lifelong endeavor. I've had God has given me through Bible college and just over the years, different meetings and conferences, God has given me the opportunity To hear what I consider some of the greatest preachers of our generation. He was able to sit under Dr. Lee Robertson. What a man of God! Bob Gray down in Tet uh in uh Jacksonville. Uh Lester Rolfe. I got to hear Lester Rolf preach about three weeks before he was killed in a plane wreck. Jack Hiles. And all you just go down Curtis Hudson was one of my favorite. These were some of the greatest preachers of my generation. But I'll tell you One of the most godly Christians I ever met in my life. One of the most Christ-like Christians I ever met in my life. was an 80-some-year-old little black lady down in Chattanooga, Tennessee, lived in the inner city projects, and I've told you about her many, many times. Anna Nixon Tate. She's about that tall, about as tall as Jackie. And she lived in those projects. I'm telling you, I'm not exaggerating a little bit. Drugs and gangs and prostitution, the ground just covered with beer bottles and syringes. Everything you picture in inner city ghetto is exactly where she lived. Government housing. spray painted up with graffiti, knock on her door, come in, who is it? And they called me Denny back then. I said, Brother Denny. Oh, come on in. Little light bulb hanging in the middle, old ratty sofa, old kitchen there, smiling ear to ear. She could hardly see, Brother Danny, come on in And I got thinking about this. Here I am 40 years later, 40 years later. And that Christ-like lady still influences my Christian life. I'm reading this and I think back to her and what a testimony, example she was to me of a humble, godly Christian. And that's what he's talking about. Developing Christ like not being the biggest or the best or having the most of anything, not being the coolest. Not being the richest or the sharpest, but being like Christ. Being like Christ. And if these things be in you And you'll abound. You'll be won't be barren, you won't be unfruitful. Let's pray, Father I ask you to stir our hearts to want to be like Christ. Put a desire in our hearts to be humble, to be loving, to be pure and clean. To be disciplined. God, I ask you'd help us. Don't let this flesh. Don't let this flesh control us, dear Lord. Don't let this flesh Squelge what the Holy Spirit wants to do in our lives. I pray you'd help us Heads bowed, eyes closed, how many say, preacher, God stirred my heart. I want to be like Christ. That's a hunger desire. Sure. What Christian wouldn't want it, young and old. I tell you an old-fashioned altar, just kneel before the Lord and say, Lord, here I am. Take me, God, do what you need to, so that these characteristics can be true in my life. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name.