It says, and he put them all together into ward three days. Let's do a little quiz here. Why was he putting him in into the ward? Why was he putting him in prison? He didn't think they were spies. He accused them of spies. He knew they were his brothers. And he answered them roughly. And so they're in prison. He told them, what he told them was Uh I'm gonna keep all you guys in prison. I'm gonna send one of you back, go get your father and pro get your little brother and prove to me you're not spies So that's the situation. So he put them all together in toward three days. Now notice verse 18. This caught my attention. And Joseph said unto them the third day, this do and live For I fear God. If ye be true men, let one of your brethren be bound in the house of your prison. Go ye, carry corn for the famine of your houses, but bring your youngest brother unto me, so shall your words be verified, and ye shall not die. And they did so. And they said one to another, We are verily guilty concerning our brother, in that we saw the anguish of his soul when he besought us And would not hear. Therefore is this distress come upon us. That's what made me think about Joseph when they sold him, the anguish of his soul. I would imagine he was pleading with them crying and begging them, Don't do this, don't do this. Verse 22. And Reuben answered them, saying, Spake I not unto you, saying, Do not sin against the child. And you would not hear Therefore, behold, also his blood is required. And they knew not that Joseph understood them, for he spake unto them by an interpreter. And he turned himself about from them and wept, and returned to them again, and communed with them, and took from them Simeon, and bound him before their eyes Then Joseph commanded to fill their sacks with corn and to restore every man's money into his sack and give them provision for the way For the way, and thus did he unto them, and they laded their asses with corn and departed thence Joseph says, right in the middle there, he says, For I fear God. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father, we thank you for the Word of God and these Old Testament accounts that you preserve for us. And Lord, the lessons that are here for us in our day and age and living by faith. And so I ask, dear Holy Spirit, that you would take this account here, this brief account. And help us to see principles and lessons that we can walk with you and please you with our lives. Father, I yield my will to you. I want you to control my thinking as I'm speaking and preaching. You would guide my thoughts and words. Lord, I present my body anew that you would fill me and speak through me. And I pray that tonight would be a time we can grow in the Lord And so bless now I ask in Jesus' name, Amen. As I said, they're well into this seven-year famine. The situation is desperate in the world, in that part of the world. Egypt is the only nation that has any food available. I mean, period. They are absolutely depleted. Supplies are depleted in the nations around. It is hard for you and I, just reading this on the surface, we read through here, we don't think about it. It's hard for us to comprehend how desperate this situation was, how dire it was Egypt's the only place with food. And so Joseph's brothers show up, as we said. Joseph is able to recognize them immediately. And the interesting thing, and we talked about this last time, but I want to mention again to kind of set the groundwork for what's going to happen here, is he treats his brothers, the Bible says he speaks to them roughly. And if you remember, we said that has the idea it was very, very unkind to them, disrespectful. It has the idea of being cruel to them I mean, right from the bat, uh uh, he starts giving them a hard time. Now, I wonder why that is. Why does he treat them this way? We're not told why. I have my theories. I mentioned before. I'll touch on it again. But one thing I'm certain of, one thing is clear that Joseph is doing to his brothers. He is making it very, very clear right from the beginning, he is in charge He has authority over them. He has power to let them go. He literally has the authority and power to give them life or take their life. You notice there he said a little before that you not die. He could have just said you're spies and executed them on the spot. He could have kept them indefinitely in prison. So he's answering them roughly. He's accusing them of being spies. He's treating them very, very harshly And he's making it very, very clear. Listen, fellas, I'm the one with the authority here. I'm the one in charge. He can do to them whatever he wants to do to them They are completely at his mercy. Now, sometimes You listen to much preaching about Joseph, and I study commentaries, I read what others say about him. Sometimes you get the impression by some preachers, some commentators, that Joseph is almost sinless. That he has no flaws. And we mentioned before, a lot of times Joseph will be compared to the Lord Jesus Christ, not in the fact, not in the idea that Joseph is divine or any kind of deity, he's not. But it's he's there's parallels between his experiences in the Lord Jesus Christ. And I'll grant that I can see that to a degree. But the fact of the matter is, in Joseph was a man just like you and I. He was a human being with a sinful nature. He had emotions that he had to deal with. He had hurts, the anguish of his soul, that affected. him uh uh personally no doubt the point I'm trying to make is this Joseph was still just a human being now he's exceptional in many many ways his integrity Is exceptional, but he still has a sinful nature. He still is affected by what people say and do around him. And so he is uh uh he's dealing with that. I think he's dealing with that when he sees these brothers and the hurt of the past and the and what he's been through the last 17, 20 years. All that I imagine is coming back. First thing he does, he accuses them of being spies. Now that's a realistic accusation. Nations are hurting. They're wanting to jockey, no sh no doubt there was some uh adversarial nations to Egypt that would love to have gotten control of the supplies and thinking, you know, what money they could make, what power they could have. So there's no doubt there's a lot of espionage and there's a lot of drama national uh drama between nations going on here. So for him to make the accusation that they're spies is not unrealistic that in and of itself. Now he knew they weren't. He knew exactly who they were So he makes this accusation that they're spies. And then he says he puts the puts them all in prison And he says, I'm going to let one of you go back and get this younger brother that you talked about. You bring him down. When I see him, I'll know your word's good. I know you're not lying to me. I know you're not lying and spying. How do you like that little poetry there? So he allows one return, go get their brother. He puts the rest in prison to wait. Now think with me a little bit, and I think we may have mentioned this before, but think with me about this just a little bit. All these brothers here, these eleven brothers are here, they're in prison. He's sending one back. Now, this is a long journey. From Egypt back to Canaan doesn't happen in a day or two days or three days. This is weeks, perhaps months of travel Number two, he's taking back with him the supplies, grain and supplies for an entire family, extended family. Got the eleven boys here, ten of them are in prison, uh or uh uh nine or ten of them are in prison, but the rest of the family is back there. There's there's a large, large, he has got a lot of supplies. For the family, he's taken back on a long journey. On top of that, this isn't a highway that has state police every so many miles patrolling this thing. This is dangerous territory. There are highway men normally when everything's going well In the world, there's highway men. Now that is exasperated with this famine, and people are out for themselves. So here you got he's sending one brother back with this huge amount of supplies. How he'd be able to handle that himself would be a challenge. For a long journey that is very, very dangerous. So that's the situation they're facing. Extremely dangerous, extremely difficult. So that's where we that's where we're at. Now look at verse number 17. And he put them together in the Ward three days. Verse 18. So And Joseph said unto them the third day. This do and live, for I fear God. My first point tonight is this. Joseph reconsiders what he's doing. He reconsiders what he's doing. Now I'm operating on the assumption that Joseph is struggling with revenge. I'm a little out of line with a lot of the commentators that give reasons he's doing this. But I is and the more I study this, the more I'm convinced. That Joseph is really struggling with anger and revenge and bitterness towards his brothers. Now, I can't prove that, but it looks to me that way. And initially he treats them roughly, he accuses them as spies, I'm going to throw you all in prison, one of you go back, you take all of that, that's your problem. Bring your little brother back here. But three days go by And he reconsiders what he's doing. Notice their time in prison, three days. Now I'm not sure if there's any significance to those three days necessarily, but I do think this is a factor. They've had three days to sit in prison and think. Joseph had three days to think this through. And you know, God, time is a powerful tool in the hands of an eternal God. And I think as they're sitting in prison, their mind's working, the Spirit of God's working on their hearts, and I think Joseph's mind is working. And God is dealing with Joseph's heart. And he gets thinking about his brothers. He gets thinking about what he's instructed them to do. And he reconsiders. He goes, uh, I need to think this through a little bit. God often uses time to get our attention. God often uses time to test our faith a little bit. He'll put us in a situation where we have no control over what's going on. He puts us in a situation where we have no control what the outcome is. And he keeps us there for a while to teach us, to trust him, to teach us. And sometimes he'll use this time, God will use that to change us if we let it. And so this time in prison, God's timing is perfect. And I believe that three days where everybody had to just sit still for a little bit and got thinking this through. And Joseph changes his mind about what he's going to do. Um, God's timing is always perfect. Old-time evangelists, years ago they would have evangelistic meetings, they'd have revivals. And those old-time revivals weren't like the ones we have today where we go a Sunday through a Wednesday Um uh you know we used to have when I first got involved in ministry we had week-long revivals. That's all you ever had, Sunday through Friday. Sometimes you'd go Sunday through Sunday, occasionally, but not too often And now it's pretty much uh Sunday through Wednesday. Do you know back in the day when they actually had revivals? They would go two weeks, three weeks, sometimes month-long revivals, and that was the norm. Then, you know, they would have been appalled that you have a meeting for three days, a three or four-day revival meeting. And what a lot of those old-time evangelists would do is they're coming into a church Coming into a community, they're going to have a revival meeting, and they would preach hellfire and brimstone. They'd preach the Bible and uh preach their hearts out for about a week, sometimes two weeks. Before they'd even give an invitation. Before they'd even give any kind of response. And their reasoning was this We want God to have some time to use his word to work on the hearts of the people, to work on the minds of the people, and then when it comes to that point where we know God is uh working and people are ready. Then we'll give the invitation and many times I'd see a great flood of souls saved. That time where God can work on our hearts and God can work on our minds and bring about That transformation in our thinking, about ourselves, and about our circumstances, and about our situations. I tell you, time is a powerful, powerful thing in the hands of an eternal God. To change things. Now, I do want to say a little caution about that thinking, about not giving an invitation till late into the service. There's a little risk that comes with that. Proverbs 27:1 says, Boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. You know, you delay that opportunity for folks to trust Christ. There is a risk that comes along with that. You follow what I'm saying? And if I remember correctly, I think D. L. Moody was in Chicago and he had preached on a Sunday and he did not give the invitation. He made the statement, I want you to go home this week Think about what was preached, come back next week and then respond to it, and that week was the week of the Great Chicago Fire And many, many people were killed, and Moody said, I'm not going to do that ever again. I'm going to give invitation right away. So there is a risk to that method they use, but nevertheless, the point is this These brothers are sitting three days in a prison. Joseph is up in his palace or wherever his oval office is. Whatever he officiated from and he's sitting there three days thinking about his brothers sitting in that prison, thinking about the one brother that's going to have to make this incredibly dangerous journey back to his family and then somehow bring his brother back down again and he gets thinking, thinking, thinking, and he reconsiders what he said. So the time, uh the time in prison, the second thing I notice under this head is the surprising testimony we find. Again, look at verse number 18. Three days goes by, Joseph makes his way down into the prison, or he calls them up to him, whatever the case may be, and he says to them on the third day, they've been thinking this through This do and live. He says, Here I'm going to tell you what to do, and you'll live. It'll be fine. But notice the statement he makes. I underscored it in my Bible. For I fear God. Something's changed in Joseph's thinking. He's reconsidered his actions, and he makes a statement that should have, whether it did or not, I don't know. We're not told. But it should have caught his brother's attention. When he says, I fear God, the word God there is the Hebrew word Elohim. That is the true and living God. That is the Jewish God. This is the God the Hebrews worshiped This is the God that Joseph's brothers were trained up to worship as the true, only true, and living God. They are in Egypt. They are standing before a powerful, high, super high level Egyptian authority. All they know about him is he is superpowerful. He is Egyptian. And this Egyptian ruler says, I fear Elohim. I fear the God of the Hebrews. Now, I don't know if his brothers caught that or not. You would think somebody in Joseph's position, and they understand him to be Egyptian. He's raised up, no doubt, in Egypt. He's w he's uh uh fought for this position, you would assume he would fear Ra, the sun god Or he would say, I fear one of the Egyptian gods. But he doesn't reference the Egyptian gods like every other Egyptian authority would have. He references the Hebrew God. Now, whether the brothers caught that or not, I don't know. We're not told. I kind of get the impression they completely missed it. But Joseph, whether he did it on purpose, and again, that's something I question in my mind, did he say that phrase on purpose? To maybe give a little to a little suggestion there, a little uh hint or uh A clue as to what the circumstance really was. I don't know if he did it on purpose. I don't know if it was just part of his walk with God, his love for God. It just came out. I fear God Do you ever be ever in a situation, maybe out in the market or somewhere, and something good happens, you don't even think. You just say, well, praise the Lord Just comes out. You don't deliberately say it, it just comes out. Maybe that's the way it was with Joseph. Uh I don't know. Maybe um uh but I think his brothers, if they would have been paying attention, they would have caught that. This is extremely unusual for an Egyptian authority to say they fear the God of the Hebrews Were you ever have you ever been away on vacation or anywhere really and you're in around people and you hear somebody say something, well God sure is good, and it catches your attention. Anyone know what I'm talking about? You say, oh, you hear that? Or somebody will say, well, praise the Lord. Beam. Your ears go up. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And what do you ask yourself? You say, oh, I wonder if they are A Christian. I wonder if they're a Christian. Do you hear what they said? Oh praise the Lord. Man, God's good And I think that's the little bit of the situation here. Now, again, whether the brothers caught it or not, I don't know. Whether it was deliberate on Joseph's part or it just came out, we don't know. But it's a surprising testimony. here. And then I notice his tenderness for this family. Look at verse 19. If ye be true men. Now, before he says you're lying to me. I know you are. You're spies and you're lying. You're going to have to prove it. So now he's changed his tone a little bit. If ye be true men. Let one of your brethren be bound in the house of your prison. Go ye, the rest of you, carry corn for the famine of your houses. But bring your youngest brother unto me, so shall your words be verified, and ye shall not die. This is a whole different tone. This is a his his harshness has softened here. And he's saying, listen, I fear Jehovah. I fear Elohim. And tell you what, I'm going to let all of you go except one. So up to this point, his whole focus had been treating his brothers roughly. But I wonder in those three days. Joseph didn't get thinking about daddy back home. I wonder if he didn't get thinking about his sister-in-laws and his nephews and nieces. And the neighbors and extended family. They got thinking, you know, they're really hurting. And God used, I think God used that time. To transform Joseph's whole approach. And from here out, now he goes back again. Later on, he gets a little rough on him again. That's where I think that struggle is going on in Joseph's heart about dealing with these guys But he is definitely softened up. Look at verse 19, the last part. He says, Go ye carry corn for the famine of your houses. He's thinking about the family back home. And so he reverses his treatment. He says, all right, tell you what, I'm not going to send one. I'll send all you. I'm going to keep one. I'm going to keep one. So number one, Joseph reconsiders. There's a whole different tone here after these three days. Number two, I notice his brother's remorse. Look at verse 21. And they said one to another, these are the brothers now. Joseph is out of away from them. They're talking, well, he's there, he hears them, but um They get talking among themselves, not knowing that Joseph understands what they're saying. And notice what they say. They said one to another, We are verily guilty concerning our brother. In that we saw the anguish of his soul when he besought us, and we would not hear. Therefore, is this distress come upon us? And Reuben answered them, saying, Spake I not unto you, saying, Do not sin against the child, and you would not hear. Therefore, behold, also his blood is required. You know what this is? This is what you call a conscience. This is a guilty conscience. Now the question is: what is a conscience? Say a person has a conscience. A conscience is part of our spiritual, mental, and I believe emotional makeup. It's part of our design. God created us within our very system, our mental, emotional, moral system. He's given us a conscience Now, what a conscience is, it's moral. Bear with me as I try and define this, and I think we understand what it is, but I won't try and put it in words. It's a moral awareness God put within our very being a system that alerts us when our own morals have been violated. Our own understanding of what is right and wrong. If we do something that violates our own understanding of what is right and wrong, this alert comes up, this guilt Develops in our soul. We all understand what I'm saying, right? That's where our conscience is. It's an alert system. It's a security system Our church has a security system. Do you agree with me? It's a shame we live in a world that a church needs a security system. But nevertheless, it's the way it is. Our church has a security system And when that thing is set, if somebody violates the perimeter, violates the secure portion of our buildings An alarm goes off. Alarm goes off. We had uh in fact just yesterday I was at home. It was late in the afternoon, or it was about five, six o'clock in the afternoon and uh I got a call from the alarm company. Your alarm's going off? Is there a problem? Do we need I said uh I don't know, I'll go over and check, I'm fine. And so I come over and here there was a uh flown one of the little sensors and had set our alarm off And I come over here, the thing is going on. That is what what that alarm is to our security system, that's what a conscience is in our hearts and minds. It goes off. We do something, we feel guilty. How many people know what it's like to feel guilty? Sure. We have this conscience. Now, the fact of the matter is our conscience, it's possible Uh-uh let me back up. Let me say this. Our conscience is not flawless. Our conscience is not perfect. For instance, our conscience can be seared. It can be hardened. We can We can have something we do that violates, we know it's not right, and our own understanding of right and wrong, our own personal morals, that's not right, we do it and we feel guilty. Then for whatever reason we do it again and we feel guilty again. And we do it again, and we do it again, and we do it again, and then do it again. And after a while, that conscience, that alarm, that alert that we're doing something wrong becomes hardened, becomes seared. And we can actually develop the ability to do something we know is wrong and not bother us one bit. Conscience becomes seared. That is a very dangerous place to be. Very dangerous. So our conscience isn't flawless. It can become seared. We can harden that conscience where we end up doing stuff that doesn't bother us. Our conscience can be ignorant. Maybe something that is genuinely wrong, but We've never been taught that that was wrong. We've never been exposed to the idea that that is wrong. For instance, we're living in a day and age, and this is uh just a tragic, but we have little children growing up in homes and environments were s the most filthy language you can ever imagine. They're exposed to it from the smallest child and they grow up and become and become adults, never even realizing that that type of language is wrong. And they can say the all most awful things, and it doesn't bother their conscience because that conscience is ignorant. It hasn't been taught what's right and wrong. That's why it's vital we teach children what the Bible says is right and wrong. It's possible for us to have something that we don't even know is wrong. It doesn't bother us, and we're doing it because our aunt conscience is ignorant of whether uh of the morals of that that that uh activity. So our conscience can be seared, our conscience can be ignorant, our conscience can be twisted. In fact, again, we're living in a day and age, and it's probably not totally unique to our day, it's just we're seeing it so much. But it's possible for a conscience to get so twisted that a person feels guilty when they're doing something right and they are pleased when they're doing something wrong. And good can be made to appear so evil. And evil made to appear so good that the conscience gets twisted. So the conscience is a God given mechanism that's part of our very makeup, our spiritual and Mental and emotional makeup. It's a mechanism that helps us avoid that which is wrong and do that which is right But it's imperfect. It's imperfect. It's flawed. When man sinned, like everything else, it became flawed. The brothers here, their conscience has been activated. And guilt kicks in. Notice again, they said one to another, verse 21, we are verily guilty. Concerning our brother. I put down undealt with sin leads to unending guilt. This has been twenty plus years, probably, that they have been in their hearts and minds, they knew they did wrong They knew this was a violence that they had did their brother wrong. And for all these many years, they have been dealing with that and pushing that to the back of their mind. And now guilt sets in in their hearts and minds. They could, listen, they could not remove from their memory what they did to their brother They could not, as hard as they tried, they could lie about it, they could deny it all they wanted, covered up all they wanted, they could not remove the memory what they did to their brother A guilty conscience is something God will use to bring about repentance if we let him. If you would, keep your place here. I want to go, if you would, come with me to Psalms chapter 32. Just real quickly. Psalms 32 is penned by David. It was at some point after his horrendous sin with Bathsheba. He had made things right, and uh we don't know the time frame exactly, but at some point he sat down under the inspiration of God. And he went back to what he experienced when he was hiding his sin with Bathsheba and finally came clean and acknowledged it. And he gives a little insight into what this guilty conscience, this conviction of the Holy Spirit is. Look at verse 1. He says, Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man unto whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity, and whose spirit there is no guile He's confessed his sin. He's found forgiveness. He's rejoicing in it. He says, oh, it's blessed to be forgiven. But look what he says in verse number three. He refers back previous. And he says, When I kept silence. When I refuse to acknowledge it, when I refuse to confess it, when I refuse to deal with it and come clean and be honest. When I kept silence, look at this, my bones waxed old through my roaring all the day long. Brother, he was dealing with conviction and guilty conscience all the day long. Look at verse 4. For day and night thy hand was heavy upon me My moisture is turned into the drought of summer. David is giving a very vivid description of what it means. To deal with a guilty conscience over a period of time, to deal with a conviction of the Holy Spirit. Now you go back to verse 1 and 2, and he says, Oh, blessed is a man. Finally, I came clean, I confessed it, I acknowledged it, forsook it. Oh, God forgave me. But boy, it was a miserable time when he was hiding that. That is what the brothers are going through. Their conscience is pricked hard. They're feeling guilty. I read about the U. S. Treasury. Did you know that our U. S. Treasury, how many people filed your taxes last month? You got them in. How many people still haven't done it? No, no, I don't want to know, please But we file our taxes. And I found this out. I didn't know this. But from early on in the history of our country, they had established what they call a conscience fund in our US Treasury, in the tax system, a conscience fund. And it wasn't long after they began taking taxes as a nation, as our own independent nation, we began taking taxes And they would find after a period of time, every year around tax time, some money would show up, usually anonymously And it would have a note or something like this. I cheated on my taxes the other year, and I can't sleep, and it's bothering me, and I want to make this right And so this money would come in that they didn't know, and so they put it into what they called the conscience fund. Um guilt over fraud. I read this little article about it. It says donations uh to the conscience fund vary in size and in reason. Years ago a nine cent donation was made by a person from Massachusetts who had reused a three cent postage stamp and felt guilty about it. So they sent nine cents in to this conscience fund. A new person in New Jersey sent $40,000 in several installments for $8,000 he had taken, stolen from the Treasury in years gone by. Another donor sent in handmade quilts in an effort to settle her tax bill. I don't think it was Marion. Marion Wade, I don't think it was her Most gifts to the conscience fund are from anonymous donors. Others are forwarded by clergy who receive deathbed confessions. They're on their deathbed and say, Well, you give this to the treasury. I rip the government off and I feel bad. Conscience fund. The sincerity of some donors' repentance can be uncertain Uh the IRS received a letter one time saying, Dear International Revenue Service, I have not been able to sleep at night because I cheated on last year's income tax. Enclosed, find a cashier's check for $1,000. If I still can't sleep, I'll send you the balance. Conscience. These brothers are dealing with a guilty conscience. Now some commentators, and again, this is where I'm a little bit off the reservation in my understanding interpretation of some of this. A lot of commentators suggest that this is the brothers repenting. They are repenting of their sins they committed against Joseph. I don't see it. They're talking among themselves. Talking about my sin does not equal repenting from my sin. Remembering my sin does not equal repenting from sin. Feeling guilty about my sin is not repenting from my sin. Repentance is when I confess my sin to the one I sinned against, and then do all I can to make it right, to restore that. It's agreeing. Repentance is agreeing with God's judgment, not feeling guilty about what I did wrong. Repentance is changing my attitude. Repentance is seeking to make things right. I don't see that on the part of the brothers at this point I just see them feeling guilty and talking about what they did. And by the way, did you notice, Reuben? He's blaming the others. I told you not to do this. That doesn't sound like repentance to me Sounds like a bunch of guilty boys not owning up to their own responsibility. And then last of all, I've got a couple minutes. I noticed Joseph's reaction. Look at verse 23. And they knew not that Joseph understood them, for he spake unto them by an interpreter. And he turned himself about from them and wept. And returned to them again and communed with them and took from them Simeon and bound him before their eyes. He hears their conversation and he breaks down. That word wept there in verse 24 means to bewail. Means to weep bitterly and intensely. Joseph's heart is broken I think, and again, I'm assuming I'm correct that Joseph is dealing with anger and resentment towards his brothers, assuming that's the case. I think when he hears them talking about what they did, it absolutely breaks his heart. I think that resentment, if I'm correct, that resentment, that hardness towards them is absolutely broken. And he weeps bitterly, and he weeps intensely, in spite of all the family hate and And pain, Joseph loved his family very, very much. Joseph loved them And so he breaks down and weeps. Then I notice he binds up Simeon. Now this is a little interesting. Bear with me as I'm trying to wind down here. He turned himself about from them, wept, and returned to them again and communed with them, and he took from them Simeon and bound him before their eyes. Now, I'm always asking questions. I'm studying this, and the question comes to mind, why Simeon? And there's a whole slew of brothers here. Why did he pick out Simeon? Well, we're not told. Like most of my questions, we're not given the answer. We do know this: that Simeon was known for his cruelty. If you would, just come a few chapters over to 49. And Jacob gives his assessment of his boys before he dies, and he gives his assessment of Simeon. Now this is Simeon's daddy saying this about him. 49, chapter 49, look with me at verse 5. And he includes Levi here in with him. But he says, verse 5: Simeon and Levi are brethren. Now look at what he said. This is what Daddy's saying about his boys just before he dies. Instruments of what? Cruelty are in their habitations O my soul, come not thou into their secret, unto their assembly, mine honor. Be not thou united, for in their anger they slew a man, and in their self-will they dig down a wall. Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce, and their wrath, for it was cruel Simeon was known for his cruelty, and we could go back and went on time look at uh earlier accounts of Simeon just slaughtering people. Perhaps Joseph had been the target of Simeon's cruelty. Maybe growing up, this boy that his brother that He's known for his cruelty and expressed it. Maybe Joseph had been the target of that. Again, listen, I'm first to say, I'm speculating here. I don't know But I find it interesting that of all the brothers, the one that's described as being cruel and angry is the one Joseph singles out to be bound and kept in prison. So I don't know. But he binds Simeon, and then last of all, he blesses them secretly. Notice, if you would, verse 25. Then Joseph commanded to fill their sacks with corn, and to restore every man's money unto his sack, and to give them provisions for the way, and thus did he unto them. So he's being Very, very generous, and he's restoring their money secretly back into their grain, their baggage, their uh compartments of grain. He's putting the money back in there. And they laden their asses with the corn and departed, not knowing what Joseph had done for them. It seems like Joseph's heart is broken. In verse 24, when he wept, turned himself and wept bitterly, something's changed. Those three days thinking about what was going on, he softened his tone. He wept bitterly I think God is working Joseph over. And Joseph is coming to the end of himself. And he's learning the importance of forgiveness. He's learning the necessity of forgiveness. He had integrity down. He could do right in the most difficult circumstances under the most intense temptations. He could stand and say, No, I'm going to do right. But I think now he's learning to forgive others that did not do right. Sometimes a person that is committed to doing right becomes impatient with folks who struggle with doing right. And I think Joseph is learning he needs to forgive. He needs to forgive. I think it's taking place. God is turning his heart towards forgiveness. You know, a broken heart is a powerful thing in the hands of God. A forgiveness, a forgiving heart is a powerful thing in relationships. I believe unforgiveness is one of Satan's most effective tools to destroy. Relationships, ministries, churches have been absolutely destroyed. Because of an unwillingness to forgive. Unwillingness to forgive. Forgiveness is one of the most powerful tools against Satan's devices. If Satan can keep me from forgiving, if Satan can harden my heart in bitterness towards what someone else has done, Then Satan has won the victory. Satan has won the victory. Joseph's learning to forgive, I believe. One of the greatest virtues in the Christian life is the ability and the willingness to forgive. You say, preacher, how can I forgive? What they did is unexcusable. How can I forgive? Joseph said, how can I forgive my brothers? What they did was inexcusable I want to remind you that our sin against God is unexcusable also. If God, a perfect, holy, sinless God Can and does forgive me, then surely me as a sinful person can forgive another sinful person. Amen? I think Joseph is learning that. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. Help us to learn from Joseph. Help us learn to forgive. Help us learn to love. And to emulate Christ. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed. And I don't know how God may abuse some thoughts tonight in your life. Maybe there's some unresolved sin there, some guilt that's carried, and for all these years it's never been dealt with, it's never been acknowledged, it's never brought to the Lord, confessed and forsaken. Maybe tonight be the night I need to deal with that. I need to make that right. Maybe it's someone has done you wrong. And you just held on to that. Boy, that revenge and that hardness towards him is just destroying. And maybe tonight you need to come and say, you know, I need to forgive. God's been so merciful to me. I need to be merciful. Father, bless our invitation now. Help us, Lord, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.