51. We're studying the life of David, and um as you know, our our uh context of where we're at now is David had committed this horrible sin of adultery. He had Bathsheba's husband killed. Inadvertently, there was a number of others who were killed, along with his scheme to take out Uriah. And Nathan confronts him. After about a year and a half, maybe two years, Nathan confronts him. David finally comes clean. He acknowledges his sin. And Psalm 51 is David's prayer of confession concerning the sin of Bathsheba and Uriah. So let's read this. I'm going to read the whole thing, and um, and then we'll uh we won't get all of the message tonight, but uh I want to read the whole chapter again. This is a prayer of David After Nathan has come to him, confronted him, said, Thou art the man, David said to Uriah, he says, I have sinned against the Lord. Now at some point he wrote this psalm. We don't know when. At some point after his confession to Nathan, he wrote this, sat down and wrote this under the inspiration of God. So that's the context. Verse 1. Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy loving kindness, according to the multitude of thy tender mercies, blot out my transgression Wash me thoroughly from mine iniquity and cleanse me from my sin. I acknowledge my transgression, and my sin is ever before me. Against thee and thee only have I sinned and done this evil in thy sight, that thou mightst be justified when thou speakest, and be clear when thou judgest. Behold, I was shapen in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me. Behold, thou desirest truth in the inward parts, and in the hidden part thou shalt make me to know wisdom Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. Make me to hear the joy and the gladness that thy that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice Hide thy face from my sins, and blot out all my iniquities. Create in me a clean heart, O God. I'll renew a right spirit within me. Cast me not away from thy presence, and take not thy Holy Spirit from me. Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. Uphold me with thy free spirit. Then will I teach transgressors thy way, and sinners shall be converted unto thee. Deliver me from blood guiltiness, O God, thou God of my salvation, and my tongue shall sing aloud of thy righteousness. O Lord, open thou my lips, and my mouth shall show forth thy praise. For thou desirest not sacrifice, else I would give it. Thou delightest not in burnt offerings But the sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and a contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise. Do good in thy good pleasure unto Zion. Build thou the walls of Jerusalem. Then shalt thou be pleased with the sacrifices of righteousness, with burnt offering and whole burnt offerings. Then shall they offer bullocks unto thine altar. Can't you hear David weeping as he's praying this prayer, writing it down? Um He is broken, and he's confessing his sins. So let's pray, and we'll look at a little bit of this tonight, get us started. Father in heaven, We come to unite as we continue our study in the life of King David, and we pray that this whole event that we've been studying that he went through That you would help us to learn from it. I pray the principles that are displayed here The cautions that were given, the instruction that we're given through this, I pray you'd help us take it seriously and take it to heart And Lord, maybe you would keep us from making bad decisions and falling into sin. So fill me with your spirit is my prayer. Lord, I yield my will to you Present my body anew with all my heart. I ask for the filling of your spirit. Speak through me, Lord. Be the teacher, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. It's a little repetitious as we looked at what's 2 Samuel 12 and David confessed his sin and we analyzed that brief confession there Now we come over and we look at this Holy Spirit-inspired confession of David. And so there's a little bit of repetition between the two. But I've been saying this before. I think this event is so significant and so important. God gives a tremendous portion of Scripture to this very dark time in David's light. And the reason being is so that we can learn from it. It's so that we can be a little stronger in our walk with God and maybe a little more careful in living our lives. I suggested that if we want to avoid serious sin in our lives, and we want to avoid all sin, but if we want to avoid serious sin in our lives, we ought to study David's fall with Bathsheba and Uriah. We ought to study this very carefully, and that's what we're doing. And one thing we can take away, and I've already said this, but I want to reiterate again because I think it's important One way we've learned to avoid getting ourselves into a situation like this or similar to this or any bad situation. is if you remember we said one thing is I need to be where I'm supposed to be. And if you remember David was supposed to be off in battle with the kings go forth to battle, but he where was he He was back in Jerusalem when the kings went forth to battle. And one great thing we can do, one one important thing you and I can do to help us avoid making bad decisions and and uh ending up in a bad place is just always make sure I'm I am where I'm supposed to be. I mean physically where I'm supposed to be Dr. Creed said a number of years ago, and it just struck me as he was preaching, I jotted it down in my Bible, I cannot be where I'm supposed to be spiritually if I'm not where I'm supposed to be physically So if I'm putting myself in the situations and places where I shouldn't be, boy, I'm setting myself up. So we talked about that. Be where I'm supposed to be. The second thing we learned from this to avoid making a mess is guard my eyes and my attention. Be very careful what I give my attention to. I tell you, these eyes can get us in big trouble. And uh uh David later on, Psalm 103, I believe it was David penned that, but in Psalm 103, I think it is. It's either Psalm 101-3, maybe it is, but it says this: I will set no wicked thing before my eyes Why? Because my eye affecteth my heart. And so be very, very careful. You say, preacher, how do I avoid messing up? Number one, make sure I'm always where I ought to be when I ought to be there. Number two, guard my eyes. Be careful what I give attention to. Number three, we said this, is uh keep my heart in check Or let me put it this way: keep my desires in check. David saw Bathsheba and he desired her I need to guard my eyes, my attention, and I need to keep my heart in check. Proverbs 4 says, keep thy heart with all diligence. For out of it are the issues of light. So guard what I desire. Keep wrong desires. Keep them at bay And right desires pursue them. And then thirdly, we learn, control my actions, control my actions. And we're going to see that here in a little bit. But ultimately, every one of us are responsible for our own actions. Right? That's amen. We're responsible for our own actions. Like I said, we're going to look at this here in a little bit. But I tell you, it takes strength of character to do the right thing even if I don't feel like it. I think we have a we have a we have a pandemic in our world, not of a virus. But of a spiritual pandemic where every man does that which is right in his own eyes. Rather than doing what is right, We do what we want to do. And right or wrong, as long as if I want it, if if it if I desire it, if I want it, I'm going to have it. Right or wrong, that's not the issue. It's if I want it And that is becoming very characteristic, not just of the world, but of many Christians. What I want takes preeminence over what is right. And so we study this whole experience, and we have been now for several months, and it's very beneficial to us. It helps us No, if I want to avoid a mess, follow those principles we see from David's experience. How about I've made a mess? Preacher, I've messed up. How do I get back on my feet? How do I confess my sin? How do I find forgiveness from God? I'll tell you, study Psalm 51, which is what we're going to do. This is a classic biblical example of how to confess sin, how to forsake it, and get back in tune with God. I put this down. David's confession of sin here in Psalm 51 is the most biblical confession of sin I can find anywhere in all of Scripture. And you have a number of people throughout Scripture confessing their sin. But I'm telling you, David nails it. This is the most biblical confession of sin, and we're going to go through and look at it. You can't get more thor thorough. You can't get more biblical on addressing our personal sin So it's the most biblical confession of sin in Scripture. And I put this down, it's the most public confession of sin in all of history. Anybody here old enough to remember the name, and maybe I shouldn't bring this name up. Anybody here old enough to remember the name? Jimmy Swaggard? Jimmy Swagger, it messed up, Dindy. Yeah, pretty bad. And I'll never forget it was in all the news. It was on all the TV, it was in the papers, it was everywhere. Him standing before a big crowd. Remember, and he had those big old tears rolling down his eyes, and he says, I have sin. Anybody anybody remember that When I'm studying this, that picture came to my mind. Now, I'm not going to debate whether he was sincere in that or not. That's between him and God. But I tell you what, as as pop as um as uh not popular isn't the world, as public As that confession was, it doesn't scratch the surface of the publicity of David's confession. Look what you would, right above verse number one. There's a little statement here. What's the very first statement in the title above verse 1? It says, to the what? Chief musician. What do musicians do with uh m manuscripts that's given to them? They sing it. This was given to the chief musician of Israel for the purpose of him putting it to music and to be sung publicly In the congregation of Israel. And if that isn't enough, God inspired it and had it included in the canon of Scripture, preserved for all eternity. You realize 100 million years from now we're in heaven, new earth. Well, we'll be in the new earth, I guess. 100 million years from now, we'll be able to get the Bible out and read David's confession of his sin. Now, I don't know about how, I don't know how you are, but I'd just as soon keep my confession of my sins between me and God. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Now there's not that many, but the ones that are, uh, the ones that are, uh just as soon they not be out on the internet. Everybody in the world reading them in their own language. But that's the way it is with David. Now here's a question I ask myself: why in the world? Would God have something as personal and as heart-wrenching as this confession of sin that David is making? Why in the world would God make it so public? For all eternity. I can only come to one conclusion. We're told in Corinthians, it was recorded for our admonition. is recorded for our help as an example and a lesson and a model for you and I when we do mess up, we can come and Lord willing, not to the extent he did, but when we do mess up, we can come and we find the most scriptural, the most thorough, the most sincere confession of sin you will ever come across. In Psalm 51. I cannot overemphasize the importance of Psalm 51. By the way, I thought it was interesting as I studied this, I thought it was interesting. The same heart That penned down Psalm 51, it's the same guy that penned Psalm 23. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. You talk about two ends of the spectrum. One is about as spiritual and is about as victorious and as about as tender in love with the Lord as you can possibly get, Psalm 23. And the other is an absolute broken, shattered man falling before God, pleading for mercy. Before a holy God. Same guy. Isn't that something? Now my tendency is, as you know, is to take a passage and go almost word by word and work my way through it. I like to be very thorough in my study. We're not going to do that in Psalm uh uh 51, I've broken the chapter down into three sections. We're just going to look at the first one tonight I noticed in verse number one down through verse six we have David's confession, his prayer of confession. That's where he's actually confessing the sin, and that's what we're going to look at tonight. Then I have in verse number 7 down through verse 14 his prayer for cleansing, for correction. First six verses, he confesses the sin. The next seven verses or so, he pleads with God, please correct me, get me back, cleanse me of this, get it out of my light. And then from verse number 15 down through the end of the chapter, verse 19, I see a prayer of consecration. He says, Lord, I'm yours. I'm yours. Confesses his sin very thoroughly, very biblically, very sincerely. He pleads to be cleansed of it and get it out and make things right, get corrected, and then he prays and says, God, I'm all yours. I am completely yours. And that is the model of dealing with our sin. Let's look at this. First, I want to make some observations, then we'll look at that prayer of confession. My first point tonight is some observations. The first observation I see here is the intensity of David's sorrow. The intensity of David's grief over his sin. I'm telling you, as I was reading, as I've read it before and studying many, many times, and even just tonight reading it publicly here, I could almost hear David weeping While he's praying this prayer to God, the intensity of his sorrow. David is thoroughly grieved. over what he's done. And you can't help but pick that up as you study through here. So that's my first observation. The intensity of David's sorrow. The second observation I make, just a general observation as I look at this prayer of confession, this prayer of David's, is I see his insight into God's holiness. He's intensely broken. He's intensely sorrowful. But he sees, and the reason for that, I believe, is he sees the holiness of God. In contrast to the sinfulness of his sin. I think that's the primary reason David's sin was so grievous is because he understood how holy God is and what he had done. I wrote this down. I think this is important truth. God will not compromise His holiness for any reason God will not compromise his holiness for any person, not even a man after his own heart. David is going to, God's going to use David to establish the throne of David, which Jesus Christ will rule from during the millennial reign. And yet, even when David's sin, God's holiness was still in effect, it must be dealt with David's sin could not be overlooked. David's sin could not be minimized. God could not just disregard his sin. It doesn't matter who it is. God's holiness will not be compromised. Our God is a holy God. It doesn't matter who violates that holiness, it will be addressed. It will be dealt with. And you and I make a grievous mistake if we think that somehow we are the exception to God's holiness and our behavior. Not even David could escape the consequences of sinning against the holiness of God. So two things, two observations, just general observations. As I look at this chapter, I see number one, David is intensely broken. And number two, he still has insight into the holiness of God, which makes what he's done even more grievous Now, let's look at the outline. I gave you the three areas: the confession, the cleansing, and the consecration. But let's look at his prayer of confession tonight Look at verse number one with me. He says, Have mercy upon me, O God. Charles Spurgeon said that a plea for mercy is a confession of guilt. The very fact that he's asking for mercy, don't mercy is not getting what I do deserve. He's saying, God, have mercy on me. God Don't deal with me in the way that I deserve to be dealt with. Have mercy on me. And so doing, he's confessing the fact that he has done wrong. He sinned. In 2 Samuel 12, verse 13, David is confessing his sin to Nathan, the prophet. I have sinned against the Lord. We looked at that last week. Now, perhaps in his private chamber, on his face, he's penning this out, I think in broken tears He's confessing this to God. He's addressing God. Now, before he addressed Nathan, I've sinned against the Lord. Now he gets to before God and he says, God, have mercy on me. Have mercy upon me, O God. I see three aspects of his confession, three ingredients to biblical confession. And we touched on this a little bit before But look at verse number three here. He says, for I, and then he uses a key word there, I acknowledge my transgression. I acknowledge my transgression. I looked up that word acknowledge, how it's used and the word it comes from, and it means this. It means to declare It means to make known or to reveal. He says, Lord, I'm declaring my sin. I'm stating it. I'm pulling back all the covers. I'm pulling back all the curtains. Lord, here's my sin. I acknowledge it to you. When you go through, if you ever travel out of country, some of you have travel out of country and you come back and you come through customs, or when you get to the other country, you go through customs. And they often ask you this question, do you have anything to anybody know what do they say? Declare. Do you have anything to declare? Is there anything in your luggage, in your baggage, on your person that may not be uh uh in line with our uh our um uh uh customs things, maybe some illegal stuff or stuff that needs to be dealt with. Do you have anything to declare And that's what David is saying. He says, I've got something to declare. Yes, I've sinned. I acknowledge my transgression. Oh Lord. So first thing he does is he acknowledges sin. There's no cover-up. There's no, not anymore. There's no denial. There's no justification. Lord, if you understood the circumstances, then you would know why I did this. You know the fact that he's violated the holiness of God. Why he did it is a non-issue. The fact that it happened is a violation of God's holiness. So there's no cover-up, there's no denial. There's no justification. There's no negotiating with God. We were talking about Jacob. Nate and I were talking about Jacob. Jacob loved to negotiate, try to negotiate with God. Listen, when it comes to our sin, there's no negotiating with God I tell you the best thing to do when you and I mess up, not just the best thing to do, the right and only thing to do when you and I mess up is first of all, acknowledge it to God. Don't cover it. Don't justify it. Don't argue about it. Don't try and excuse it. Say, I acknowledge my transgression. That's exactly what David did. He is coming clean. So the first thing I notice here, he acknowledges his sin. In his confession, he acknowledges his sin. Now, if you remember, we pointed out before, that is not the end of confession, just acknowledging its presence. David goes on and he accepts personal responsibility. Now I took my pen and there's a little couple words here I circled that I think are very important. You'll pick them out here, I'm sure. The end of verse number one says this. He says, According to thy loving kindness, according to the multitude of thy tender mercies, blot out my transgression. I circled that little word my. Now look at verse 2. Wash me thoroughly from what? Mine iniquity. Cleanse me from My sin, for I acknowledge my transgression, and my sin is ever before me. He's owning up. He's owning his sin. It's mine. I accept responsibility. Mine, my, my, my. I did this. It's me. No blaming Bathsheba. Well, Lord, you know, if she wouldn't have been out there like that, this never happened. None of that stuff. Uh, well, you know, uh no blaming uh his own wives. Well, if my wives treated me right, then uh this wouldn't have happened. No blaming anybody but himself. Anybody notice that? Let's stop and evaluate ourselves. Don't think about anybody else right now. Let's just evaluate ourselves. Do you notice how our instant, our first thing when we do wrong, the instant reaction is to find someone else to blame. Am I right or wrong? Right or wrong. That's one of the fruits of marriage. There's someone to blame. Well my if you knew what my husband was like, if you knew what my wife was like, and I tell you this world comes up with clever ways to blame someone else for our own actions Well, I was raised, my dad didn't take me fishing, and my mom didn't do that, and they paddled me. That's why I'm a serial killer. There's none of that on David's part. Did you see that? My transgression. My sin. My actions. I did this. He owned it. He owned it. No blaming. No blaming Bathsheba. Question, could Bathsheba have been a little more careful, maybe? Sure, there's no doubt about that. Not in my mind. But David accepted responsibility for his actions. Now listen, I think people could behave better and dress a little more helpful, but nevertheless, the bottom line is if I sin, it's me It's me. It's me, O Lord. And no blaming. He accepts personal responsibility. He acknowledges his sin. I did it. Lord, I acknowledge my transgression. I reveal it. Here it is. This is what happened, God. And I sinned. It's my transgression. It's not my wife's transgression. It's not Bathsheba's transgression. You know, if Uriah was the husband, he ought to be, they should have never. No, none of that. None of that. I accept responsibility. Listen, if you and I ever want to find forgiveness from God for our sin, we've got to own our sin. Yes, Lord. As long as we are blamed. There is no forgiveness to be found in blaming someone else for my transgressions. I'll never find forgiveness from God. I've got to own it. I've got to accept personal responsibility. I have sinned. A fundamental ingredient, the fundamental ingredient to genuine confession is personal responsibility. Personal responsibility. Adam and Eve struggled with this. I said, you know, our first instinct is to say, well, we want to blame somebody, society. We don't blame our parents, our kids, our boss, our wife, our husband. We don't blame somebody, that preacher Adam and Eve struggled with that. I think we get that from them. When God confronted Adam, what was his first response? That woman you gave me And when he confronts that woman, what was her first response? That stupid serpent Blame everybody. And ever since then, humanity's been doing that. And we have got to get past that. We've got to get victory over that and say, no, Lord, it's me, my transgression, my sin, my iniquity. True character I like this statement. I don't know where I got this. It came across somewhere. True character is displayed in accepting personal responsibility for my actions. I tell you, you agree with me, we live in a society that's blaming everybody and everything. You can burn down houses, you can burn down cities. It's not our fault, and society goes right along, oh, it wasn't their fault. We'll blame the police. We'll blame the white guy. We'll blame the black guy. We'll blame this. We'll blame that You know why somebody burns down a building? Because they decide to light a match and throw it in there Personal responsibility. You know why you told a lie to your boss or whoever? You know why? Because you chose not to tell the truth. Wasn't the boss's fault, wasn't anybody else's fault. Personal responsibility. True character. True character is displayed in accepting personal responsibility for my actions. Anybody that will not accept personal responsibility for their own actions has poor character. Let me just be honest. Poor character. David says it's mine. It's mine. Biblical discipleship is rooted in personal responsibility. Jesus said, if any man come after me, let him take up his cross and follow me. Let him deny himself. It's personal responsibility. I've got to decide. I'm going to take up my cross. I'm going to follow the Lord. Well, preacher, I'd be a better Christian if I just had a better home situation. No, no, no, no. You and I can be as good a Christian as God wants us to be if we will just trust Him and obey Him. Amen? It's true Well, if I had a better church, if I was just this, or that what if this was if I had better income, I'd be a better Christian. No, no, no, no. Bottom line, discipleship Being a disciple of Christ begins with accepting personal responsibility. I'm the one that has to do this. Biblical Christianity begins with Personal responsibility. Spiritual restoration begins with personal responsibility. I got thinking about that. David said, it's my iniquity. It's my transgression. It's my sin. I got thinking about that. There's only one person. Think about this with me. There's only one person. That can keep me from being forgiven by God. It's only one person keep me from being forgiven by God. Who is that? It's me. It's me. Nobody else, doesn't matter what anybody else is doing. If I'll come to God, I acknowledge my sin, I accept my responsibility for my actions, I can be forgiven from God. Doesn't matter what anybody else in the world does. And nobody in the world can keep me from doing that. So only one person can keep me from God's forgiveness. Only one person can keep me from being restored. After I've sinned against God, and that is me. And that is me. I'm here to tell you tonight, God is eager to forgive us. God is eager to restore us. But God will never compromise His holiness. And if we want forgiveness and we want restoration, we must come His way. And that is acknowledging my sin and accepting responsibility. I see a third ingredient here real quickly. In David's confession, first, he acknowledged his sin. Two, he accepted responsibility for it, personal responsibility. Number three. I see that he agreed with God as to the severity of his sin. Look at verse number four with me, if you would. He says, Against thee, and thee only have I sinned. Against thee, thee only have I sinned. And look at this. And done this what? Evil in thy sight. That thou mightest be justified when thou speakest, and be clear when thou judgest. And then he goes on. He says, I was shapen in iniquity and sinned, and my mother conceived me. Now he's not blaming his mother for his sin. You understand that, right? And by the way, he's not saying that the act of conception on the part of his mother was sin. There's certain little groups that say that. That's not true. What he's saying was, Lord, I've been a sinner since I was conceived. I've had a sinful nature since my very conception. He says, and sin to my mother gives, behold, thou desirest truth in the inward part. You know what he's saying? He's saying, God, you are holy. And what I've done is a very severe offense against your holiness. We live in a world that mocks sin We live in a society that laughs at sin. I can't even watch television hardly at all anymore. I dropped these situation comedies 25 years ago. They're mocking sin. Just making a joke of that which is such an offense against our holy God. We live in a world that nowadays even celebrates the most perverse sin. You live a certain lifestyle in this world, you're a hero. You're to be celebrated. But sin is no joke with God. And nobody in heaven celebrates sin. And nobody in hell celebrates sin because they understand the severity of it. They understand how bad it is. This world is blind. We have Christians that toy with sin, excuse it, justify it, coddle it, trivialize it I'm here to tell you, sin is no game. It's not a game to be played. Nobody toys with sin in heaven. Nobody in heaven thinks sin is a game. And nobody in hell thinks sin is a game. But we've got Christians and we've got churches that toy with it and play with it and joke with it. And it's an offense to God. And David understood that. He agreed with the severity of his sin. Against thee and thee only have I sinned and done this evil in thy sight. Tell you, there's a lot of things we can do. The world says, oh, that's fine, but it's God's sight that matters. It's God's evaluation. It's God's judgment that matters, not this world. I saw a quote here recently. I'd far rather be judged I'd rather be judged by this world as um as a as a freak rather than stand before be God and be judged as a sinner. I don't know, I didn't quote that right But it's not what this opinion, this world's opinion is not the issue. What does God say? What does God say? And David said It's evil in your sight. That's how we address our sin. That's how we confess our sin. We acknowledge it. We accept personal responsibility for it. Then we accept God's judgment on it. We agree with God's judgment on it. I put three things here about sin. Number one, God hates sin. Mark it down. God hates it. Come over with me, if you would, to Psalm 45. Just a page or two back. And look with me, if you would, at verse number 7. Psalm 45 and verse 7. The first statement here, it's actually quoted, I think, again in Hebrews, he quotes this. But look at verse 7. Thou lovest righteousness, speaking to the Lord, verse 6: Thy throne, O God, is forever. Thy scepter of thy kingdom is a right scepter. Thou, O God, thou lovest righteousness. Look at that next statement. What's it say? And what? Hatest wickedness. God hates sin. To minimize sin is to minimize something our God, our Creator, our Savior hates. Second thing I put down: sin is a cause of death and eternal separation from God. It is sin that brought death into this world. It is sin that sent people to hell. Romans six twenty-three for the wages of sin is what? Death And if a person dies unforgiven without trusting Christ in their sin, they're separated from God for all eternity because they're a sinner. Now, thank God if you accept Jesus as Savior, Jesus paid that death for us. But sin causes Death and eternal separation from God. Sin is the cause of the Christian's ruin. It's interesting. We'll see this here in a little bit when we get past back to Samuel again, 2 Samuel. But Nathan makes an interesting statement to David. He says, and I'm putting my own words here, he says, but because you've done this, you've given occasion to the enemies of God to blaspheme. You've ruined your testimony, David. You've heard it. Sin. Sin. God hates it Sin is the cause of death and eternal separation from God. And the third thought down here, David agreeing with God's as to the severity of sin, sin is what Jesus died for. Now we say amen, and uh I was at Brother Forney's funeral today, and they talked about the forgiveness of sin. Jesus died for sins, and we're all amen, and I'm for it, amen. Thank God he did die for our sins, amen. But stop and think a minute. He died for our sins. Jesus on that cross is. Because of the love of God for me, even though I've sinned. It is our sin that Jesus died for. And we're glad that he died for us. But let me ask you this question. If you have a child, particularly if you have a son If your son died and suffered hell for my sin If it was your child that was crucified and suffered hell for my sin, would you take my sin very seriously? Yeah What you did cost my son. And that's what we did to God. Listen, don't think for one moment God thinks sin is funny. Don't think for one moment that God considers sin to be a joke or insignificant. It's intensely severe. And David agreed with God, God, you're right. This evil in your sight I say it again, God will not compromise his holiness under any circumstances for anybody, not even a man after his own heart. God stepped down and confronted him, and David, he responded as sincerely and as biblically as you possibly can. And he confessed his sin completely. Next week we'll look at his plea for cleansing. He doesn't just want God to forgive him. He doesn't want just God to show mercy. He says, I want it out of my life. I don't want it to be a part of me anymore. Purge me with hyssop. Hit it out of me. Then he says, Lord, I give myself to you completely. I'm yours. We had a fellow years ago got saved and he kind of played around Christianity. He would come to church, but he wasn't really sold out. He just kind of toyed with it a little bit and he was growing some And he made a stupid mistake and got in trouble. He got busted. Police arrested him, hauled him out of the house in handcuffs in front of his kids. I tell you, God broke them. He called me up weeping. He got out, they didn't keep along. It wasn't major, but he got out, he called me up weeping. He says, Preacher, I've been playing too long. I tell you, God got a hold of him, turned him around. And he went on and live for God. He went on and live for God. Some of you maybe know who I'm talking about. I tell you, broke got his sin broken. And he said, I'm going to live for God. Enough of this plan. I'm going to live for God. That's what David does. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. Lord is very serious. This is a very sober situation subject. But help us, Lord, not to play. Help us, Lord, not to toy around. But Lord help us take this very, very seriously, to do right, to trust you and keep our hearts and minds pure. And Lord, when we do mess up, help us to follow David's example and come and acknowledge it and agree with you, Lord. And Lord, accept responsibility for it. Our heads above, eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I need God to help me in my Christian life? I want to be closer to the Lord. I want to be more cautious. I want to be that Christian God wants me. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand? Wonder how many would say I'm willing to take responsibility. No more blaming, folks, no more excusing. I'm going to take responsibility And live for God, do what I ought to. Father, bless our imitation, I ask. In Jesus' name, let's stand together, heads above, eyes are crossed