All right, first Samuel uh Second Samuel chapter twelve, verse thirteen, same little phrase we looked at last week, but boy is it powerful We, every one of us, ought to learn how to say what David said right here. Look at what he says, verse 13. For thou, verse 13, and David said unto Nathan Read that next phrase with me, would you? I have sinned against the Lord. Anybody, I know this might be a little too personal, but anybody here ever have to say something along those lines? Come the Lord. Lord, I've sinned. I've sinned. And I tell you, David gives us a textbook response to his sin. There's so much to learn. So let's pray. And ask the Lord to teach us tonight. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, that you love us with all our warts and failures and sins. We thank you, Lord, you don't leave us alone in our sin, but you come and you confront us and you uh uh work in our hearts to get us back restored into fellowship with you. I'm grateful for David. And what we can learn from Him. We're sad that this happened, but so many lessons. And so teach us tonight, Holy Spirit. I pray your presence to be here. Help us learn from this. And fill me with your spirit. I pray it would be you teaching tonight and speaking to our hearts, not me. And so I yield my will again. This hour is every preaching hour. I present my body anew I ask that you would fill me and speak through me in Jesus' name. Amen. Now we know Nathan's confronted David under the direction of the Lord. The Lord sent him We said last week that he very clearly addressed David's sin, very cleverly addressed David's sin with that parable. uh just tremendous, set David up and boy David condemns himself with his own words. And he was courageous in confronting the king. And so we looked at that and then we talked a little bit about confession, what it is. And I think it's important if we're going to confess our sins, Lord, we need to understand what confession involves and what it entails, what all it is. uh certain element of uh quote unquote Christianity that has taught millions of people that you can just go to a priest and repeat your sins to that priest And then he'll give you some penance you need to do because of your sins, and then he's able to forgive your sins. That is not biblical confession, and by the way, that's not legitimate forgiveness from God either And so we need to understand what confession is. And if you remember, we pointed out last week, and I just want to uh review this so we have the stage set for uh to look at David's confession. But we pointed out last week that one aspect of confession is acknowledging sin's presence or the reality of sin That simply says, yes, I have sinned. Yes, it's there. I did this. Now that is not full confession. That's very shallow. Just acknowledge it's there. Acknowledge sin's presence However, it's a beginning. I'll never find forgiveness if I deny that I've sinned. If I disobey God and sinned, I deny that. uh I'll never I'll never find f uh genuine forgiveness. So I need to acknowledge it. But that's not far enough. Then we said the second aspect of confessing our sin is to agree with God's assessment of my sin. In other words, see it the way God sees it. View it from God's perspective And we even went so far as to say we should condemn my sin even as God condemns it. Now that's where true confession comes in. And as I said before, we're going to look at Psalm 91. Lord will, and we're going to pick that up next week. And we're going to see that David did exactly that. He condemned his sin even as God condemned it. And so self-uh confession of sin, we said, was is self-condemnation And by the way, I think as I was reviewing this a little bit this week, um, I think if we confess, if we go if we've sinned against somebody, our brother or sister, we said or did something that was wrong, we come to them and we want to confess, we want to make it right. We need to condemn what we did towards them the way they would condemn it. You know, he said, you did me wrong, and we need to agree with that. Yes, I did you wrong. I agree with you And that would be genuine confession. So it's a sort of self-condemnation. We said quickly, I just want to go over these. We said confession of sin is the beginning of the Christian life. Romans 10, 9, and 10. Confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in thy heart God has raised him from the dead thou shalt be saved. So confession is the beginning of our Christian life. We get saved. There's an aspect of confession in that. I'm a sinner. God, I'm under your wrath. I'm under your judgment. And then there's a confession we said is the normal part of Christian life. With a sinful nature within me and the Holy Spirit within me, I am going to Say and do things that grieve the Spirit of God, that are sin against God. The Holy Spirit's going to convict me. I need to deal with it. And so it's a normal part of our Christian life And then it's a necessary part of our Christian like confession. We pointed out, if you remember, we'll never have forgiveness of sin if we don't confess our sin. We looked at that little word, if We confess our sin in 1 John 1. 9. He's faithful and just to forgive us our sin. There'll never be revival. 2 Chronicles 7. 14, if my people humble themselves There'll never be answered prayer. Psalm 66, 18, if I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. And then we said there's no spiritual prosperity. He that covereth his sin shall not prosper, but whoso confesseth and forsaketh Proverbs uh 2813 tells us. So confession is important. Did I have I convinced you, anybody, have I convinced you confession is important? Yes, because we sit We said. And so we need to be able to deal with it, and confession is the beginning point of that. Now, if you would, let's uh let's look at what David says here And I have four observations from this little statement when David says, I have sinned against the Lord. I have four observations about this. Number one David's confession is a simple confession. It's a simple confession. Somebody count there how many words are in that confession. Six, right. There's six words. Now think about the gravity of a sin. Think about the consequences for generations. That are a result of David's sin. But yet the turning point for him to be restored back to fellowship with God, the turning point of all of it Is a six-word statement that he makes to God and to Nathan. I have sinned against the Lord. Just a simple little thing, nothing lengthy. Uh he's not making any long explanations. Well, Nathan, you know, if you knew I sin, but you know, if you knew all the circumstances around it and If you knew all the situation, if you knew what I was dealing with at home, none of any of that. No detailed descriptions. He didn't go into Great detail. Well I did this and I did that and I didn't do this and I didn't do that. And there may be there may be a place sometimes to go uh itemize our sins against God or against others. I don't know. But I know here, David just simply makes a simple statement. I have sinned against the Lord And that is what God's looking for when you and I sin. He doesn't need explanations. He doesn't need details. He doesn't need any of that. He doesn't need a 15-minute oration on my sin. He just wants me to, from my heart, agree with him About what I've done and how serious it is. And that's exactly what David did. I found in the Bible that there are some very lengthy prayers, and they're wonderful prayers But you know what I found? Some of the most powerful and significant prayers in the Bible have been very brief Very simple. Does anybody remember when uh the disciples were out in the ship and they saw the Lord walking on the water? Anybody ever remember reading that, studying that, preaching that Lord's out there walking? And they thought it was a ghost. They thought it was a spirit. Ah! And the Lord said, Be of good chair, it is I. And Peter, you know, before he can even think, he says, Well, if it's you, bid me come to you on the water. And uh uh I think the Lord has a sense of humor. The Lord says, All right, come on And Peter climbs out of that boat in a storm. You know, I like to always try to illustrate that a little bit, but he climbs out that boat in the storm. Waves, wind blowing in his face, rain beating down on him, four or five foot waves, no doubt, shh shh. And he's climbing and walking over those things. And he sees the winds and the waves, and he begins to what Now I've never seen anybody sink slowly. So he's going down fast. But he has just enough time to say what? What's he say? Lord save me. You agree with me? That's a pretty simple prayer. That's not a confession of sin, but it's a simple prayer, and the Lord saved them from drowning. God, we don't have to use uh sometimes people, sometimes a new Christian, I was thinking of Mike Stubler, he started coming down to men's prayer meeting And he told me before he came down. He was he wanted to grow. He was growing. He wanted to be a part of everything. But he's a little unsure of himself. And before we went down, he came pulled me aside. He said, I want to come to men's prayer meeting, but I I don't want to pray because I I'm not sure I know how. I'm not sure I know how. And sometimes the new believer will think, you know, I don't know the right words to say, and I don't, you know, I You know, there's really not a whole lot that needs to be said. It's just a simple little expression of what the case is. And that's what David did. I have sinned against the Lord. If you would take your Bible now, just keep your place here because we're going to look at this. But come back to Luke chapter 18. There is an event there in the temple that just strikes my heart every time I read it or I think of it. Luke chapter 18 and verse number 9. Now it's a completely different context than what David is in. But it illustrates the point I'm trying to make in the simplicity of us confessing our sin and getting things right with God. Luke chapter 18, look with verse 9. The Bible says that the Lord spake this parable unto them, unto certain which trusted in themselves, that they were righteous and they despised others. These are holier than thou, rollers. These are self-righteous people. They're looking down on everybody else. He says two men went up into the temple to pray. The one a Pharisee and the other a publican. And the Pharisees stood and prayed thus with himself. Here's his prayer. God, I thank thee. I think he said it this way: God. I thank thee that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, even as this publican. I fast twice in the week. I give tithes of all that I possess. A couple observations there. Who exactly is he talking to? Look at the first part of verse 11. He prayed thus what? With himself. Jesus was careful to point out God wasn't in on this at all. You see, he was talking to himself. He was wanting to press himself and everybody else. And the other thing is, there's a word he repeats throughout there, a small little one-letter word he repeats over and over and over. What is it? I Aye, aye, aye, aye. So this is a fairly self-centered, self-righteous, elaborate prayer. Now look at this next guy, the publican, who is a sinner. The publican, verse 13, standing afar off, look at this, would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven. But smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful unto me, a sinner. Was that seven words? God be merciful unto me a sinner. And look what the Lord says. I tell you, he's being emphatic, I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other. Now he's talking about self-righteousness. He's talking about holier than thouness. But what I observed here is this publican who is genuinely broken. Over his condition as a sinner to the point he can't even lift his eyes to heaven. And his prayer that Jesus says Was his confession, his acknowledgement that Jesus says he was justified was just a simple little statement God, be merciful to me a sinner. I tell you, if we can get if we can get to the point where we can pray simple prayers, I think we'll start seeing things happen. And when I've sinned against God, God doesn't need detailed description. He doesn't need elaborate explanation. He just wants to hear me tell him exactly what the story is. I have sinned against the Lord And so I see here coming back here to 2 Samuel, Nathan's confronted him. He is hit broadside by the Spirit of God And he says, I have sinned against the Lord. A very simple confession. Second thing I notice about this confession of David, it's a voluntary confession. It's a voluntary confession. Nathan's not twisting his arm. They don't have him in some interrogation room with a spotlight on him, using all these psychological techniques to get David to break. And uh confesses, force him to confess his sin. They're not threatening anybody or anything. Nathan just straight up said, You're the man, David. And David voluntarily confesses this sin. A forced confession is never true confession. Um sometimes in the uh we you'll read about sometimes in uh um communist countries or dictatorships or even again, and I know it may seem like I'm picking on the Catholics, but it's just history How the Catholics and communists sometimes would force, get forced confessions, and they would torture people till finally they would confess things sometimes that aren't even true I mentioned several times throughout this year a book I'm reading of folks, uh modern-day martyrs for the faith and people who are persecuted faith. A lot of them are in Muslim countries and a lot of them are from under the uh communist in Romania and places like that. And uh somehow and and how these people would go through intense torture to try and get them to confess that they were something they were not. Get them confessed the crimes against whatever. And uh Tortured and forced confession is no confession at all. Is no confession at all. David's confession was a voluntary confession. I put it this way, and I think I might have referenced this last week. But David's confession, when Nathan said, Thou art a man I'm telling you, David's heart broke. That stiff neck was broken. That hard heart was shattered. And David's confession flowed from that broken heart just like you'd break a bottle, and water would flow out of that bottle. I mean, there was no force, there was no coercion. There was no pressure put on him, just the truth presented to him straight up. And David's heart broke. And he voluntarily, I have sinned against the Lord. So I looked up that phrase, I have sinned in the Bible. That's an interesting study. I have sinned. You know, there's a quite a number of people in the Bible said, I have sinned. Can you can anybody think of anybody in the Bible that said, I have sinned, besides David? Think of anyone? Do you know Pharaoh said that repeatedly when Moses was confronting him about releasing the children of Israel And he sent, God sent the frogs all night, and then the next day, uh Pharaoh calling Moses, I've sinned. Then they sent the lice, I've sinned. He must have said it three, four times. I have sinned, I have sinned, I have sinned. Let me ask you a question. Was that really a very voluntary confession on Pharaoh's part? No. God was destroying his country. You know, God was just killing, wiping out his crops and polluting the water and killing his cattle. I've sinned. And every single time, you know why I say that wasn't a genuine confession? Because every single time he turned around and went right back where he was. Did I spark your thinking? Is anybody thinking at all out there? How about any others? Can you think of anyone else in the Bible that said, I have sinned? How about Balaam when his when his donkey starts talking to him? And he says And then finally the angel peers says, I was going to chop your head off if that donkey hadn't brushed you up against the wall in Fort Scorpio. And he said, I have sinned. You know why he confessed that? Because he thought his head was going to get chopped off. Um I got Pharaoh, uh, Balaam, King Saul. Remember when David cut his hem of his garment and David confront, oh David, I've sinned. How about Judas? Remember after Jesus was crucified, Judas came in with the money and he says, I have sinned. I've betrayed what? Innocent blood. He threw the money back down to the Pharisees and the scribes and I've sinned. I tell you what Volunt uh co-coerced confession is not cook confession. Worldly, temporal Sorrow over my sin. You know what? We talked about this before, but sometimes people confess their sin not because they're sorry they sin, but because they're sorry for themselves. Over what the consequences are. David's confession was voluntary. It came out of a broken heart. Hard hearts do not confess sin. They might lip some words, but they do not confess sin. Stiff necks do not confess sin. They might lip the words There's no confession there. David's confession was a simple confession. David's confession was a voluntary confession. I've got a third observation here about David's confession. Number three, it was a direct confession. Now I have two ideas behind that. One is this, it wasn't just some general statement like, well, nobody's perfect. Well, everybody sins. No, he was responding to a very specific event that Nathan had brought out, that Nathan addressed. He was addressing a very specific sin. Listen, kneeling at my bed at night, and I've heard people say this, so kneeling at our bed at night or kneeling at her, Lord, if we've sinned anything against you, please forgive us. Can I suggest to you that's not biblical confession? Well, if I happen to do anything, do you ever hear anybody say this? Well, if I said anything to offend you, I'm sorry. You ever hear that? That's baloney. If I'm going to confess a sin to God or to somebody, I need to be specific. I need to say, all right, this is what it is. Listen, I hurt you. I said this, it was wrong. I sinned against you. Not if I've offended you. You're putting the responsibility back on the other person. Now, God, if I did anything against you, forgive me. No, no, no, that's not what it is at all. That's not what it is at all. That's not what it is at all. Not just a general statement. He's responding to a very specific sin that Nathan had addressed. So it's a direct confession in that it's being specific. But here's what I really see in this. It's a direct confession in that it's Confession, his sin was directly against the Lord. Did anybody catch that? Look there again. David said unto Nathan, I have sinned against the Lord. Now, he brings this out in Psalm 51 also. And my initial question is this, wait a minute, of course you sinned against the Lord. You sinned against the Hebo people, David. Name some of the people that David sinned against in this sorid event. Bathsheba, he sinned against her, and then Uriah, if you want to go chronologically through this, he sinned against Uriah. And lying to him and stealing his wife from him and then killing him. Anybody else he sinned against? Joab He embroiled Joab into the murder of an innocent man, whether Joab was You know, knew exactly what was happening or not, but uh if I was Joab, I would be highly offended by what David how David used me. Can you think of anybody else he sinned against The baby dies. Anybody else? His servants? Yeah, he had them, got them involved in this. Anybody else? Hmm? His wives, they hate to have to use a plural term there, but he sinned against them, his wife, S wives, who else? The soldiers. How about the ones that were killed along with the murder of Uriah? Those guys all lost their lives unnecessarily. Anybody else The whole nation of Israel. He abused his authority and his position as king of Israel and used it for personal advantage. Anybody else? What about Bathsheba's parents? You think they were heartbroken over what happened to their daughter? I would be. What about Uriah's parents? Their son was killed What about Uriah's family? What about the wives of the soldiers who were killed because he's trying to murder Uriah? What about the children of the soldiers who lost their daddy? What about Bathsheba's parents, as I said? You could go down the list here. What a David's family, David's children. David sinned against a lot of people. But when he confesses he sinned, he says, Against, I have sinned against who? The Lord. We look at Psalm 51, we'll bring it out. Next week again, he begins the chapter. Against thee and thee only have I sinned. And I struggle with that statement. I said, wait a minute. The sin was against a lot of people I think ultimately David did sin against all these folks. Absolutely. But ultimately, his sin was against the Lord. Now here's my statement, here's my argument. If David had not sinned against the Lord, he would have never sinned against all these other people. Let me ask you a question. When did David's, according to Jesus Christ on the Sermon on the Mount, when did David sin against the Lord? Was it when he brought Bathsheba into the bed with him? Or was it before that? It was a long time before that. Jesus said, if a man looks on a woman to lust after her, he's already committed what? Adultery in his heart. Whether he actually carries it out or not is not addressed by Jesus Christ. He said, just that lust, that sinful desire in the heart is a sin against God. If David had never sinned in that way against Lord, he would have never sinned against Bathsheba, he would have never sinned against Uriah, he would have never sinned against this whole list we just went over. David's sin was ultimately against the Lord. It is impossible to sin against someone else without first sinning against the Lord. That is the source of all of it. Had David not sinned against the Lord, he would never have sinned against all these others. It began in his heart. Would you take your Bible and turn with me to 1 John, if you would, way back towards the back of the New Testament, after Hebrews, James, 1, 2 Peter, 1 John. John addresses this very Principle. 1 John chapter 1, way back there in the back of your Bible, but I want you to see what he says here. 1 John 1. I'll give you a chance to find it there. Verse 5 he says this This then is the message which we have heard of him and declare unto you that God is light and in him is no darkness at all. Now look, he starts getting into the nitty-gritty verse six. If we say that we have fellowship with Him, with God, we say everything's good between God and I, nothing between my Lord and the Savior. I'm in fellowship, everything's good there. And walk in darkness, we lie. And do not the truth But look at this. But if we walk in the light as he is in the light, in other words, I stay right with God. I'm not sinning against God. I'm walking with the Lord. If we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship with what? One another. That sin against my brother and sister is not there. Why? Because I'm walking in fellowship with the Lord. I'm walking in the light of the Lord. And the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from all sins. Do you follow the principle there? If I keep my heart right with God, if I can keep my fellowship with God, if I can keep walking in the light, then I'm not going to have this issue of sinning against my brothers But if I walking in dark, if I'm not right with my brothers and sisters, and I'm sinning against them and adultery and murder and lying and manipulation and all that's taking place, I can't say I'm right with God The breakdown is when I start sinning against God in my heart. And all that is the rest of it. I said, I think I mentioned this before, but I said in Bible Institute the other week: sin is an outward manifestation of of an inward rebellion against God. David's rebellion began when he, maybe it may have even began before when he should have been all fighting the wars When the kings go forth the word he stayed back at Jerusalem, that could have been when his breakdown with God began That's why I want to say this. It is vitally important that you and I keep our hearts right with God. When my heart gets out of whack with God, when I start allowing bitterness in my heart or unforgiveness or hatred or lust or anger in my heart, Covetousness or uh any of that in my heart. When I allow that in my heart, brother, then I'm in danger. Of sinning against my brothers and sisters. But if I can keep my heart right with God, if I can stay close to the Lord, if I can walk in the light, it's He's in the light And that enables me to avoid sinning against my brother and sister. David was very direct, and he understood that. I am absolutely convinced David knew exactly where the root of his problem was So he says, I've sinned against the Lord. Doesn't say I sinned against Uriah. Doesn't say I sinned against Bathsheba. I've sinned against Israel. No, he doesn't say any of that. I've sinned against the Lord. I've sinned against the Lord. If we say we have fellowship with Him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not the truth. And the last observation I make, if you would This little statement, David's confession, I have sinned against the Lord. I put this down, it's a humble confession. It's a very humble confession. By that I mean this, it was sincere. It was sincere. True biblical confession begins with a hypocrite. Oh, with a hypocrite. With humility, I'm sorry. True biblical confession begins with humility. This is, I was getting ahead, I was reading my notes there. A hypocrite confesses his sin, but still loves it. That's hypocrisy. David sincerely hated what he did, sincerely condemned what he did. And a humble confession. I believe humility is the greatest need in the Christian life. Humility. It'll protect us, it'll restore us. If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray And seek my face and turn from their wicked ways. Then will I hear from heaven, will forgive their sin and will heal their land I made a statement, I came across it, I don't know where. Somewhere I came across a statement: confession is God's healing ointment on a sin-sick soul. And we live with sin in our heart, unconfessed, sin in our heart. We're trying to cover it. We're trying to ignore it, deny it, justify it, excuse it, blame everybody else for it. And as long as we do that, that old sin is going to be there. And it's going to eat away at our peace. And it's going to eat away at us. But we come and we humbly confess, agree with God, as David did. I've sinned against the Lord. That cleansing forgiveness, that ointment of heaven comes. It brings back peace, peace of mind, and a clean conscience again. What a tremendous thing it is to sincerely, humbly, voluntarily, simply Directly confess our sin. Let's pray. Father in heaven, pray you'd help us again to learn from David. Lord, this matter of confessing our sin, it's part of the Christian life. It's necessary. And I ask you'd help us not to uh follow the example of these others in the Bible that confess, just lipping it But Lord, follow David's example genuine, broken in concern and sincerity. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder There be some say, and I know this is between an individual believer and God, I know that. But maybe some would say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me guard my heart A little more diligently. Solomon said, keep your heart with all diligence. He's saying, don't let that thing get out of wet. Because then it opens the door. Is there anything like that? Preacher, pray with me. That God will help me guard my heart diligently. We can keep that in tune. Then we're in much better shape. Father, bless now. Help us in our devotions, daily time with you, our attitudes, our eyes, our thoughts. Help us keep them where it ought to be. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.