Well and verse number thirteen, it's been a little while since we've been at this, and all I want to read in verse thirteen is the first half. Just the first sentence of verse number 13, 2 Samuel chapter 12. Notice what the Bible says. And David said unto Nathan, I have sinned against the Lord. So I want to speak tonight on I have sinned. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to help us. Father in heaven, Lord, this study of David's life has been a challenge to me, an encouragement, a rebuke. We thank you for recording all that you have in your word for us. And Lord, tonight as we look again at David's experience here with Bathsheba and Nathan. Uriah and all that was involved in this very dark event, we pray that you would teach us, your Holy Spirit would take the lessons here and apply them to our hearts and lives, to our spiritual lives. that uh we can grow and that we can be the uh the believers you've saved us to be and Lord we can uh uh deal with the the issues of life in a biblical way. So I yield my will to you, Lord. I present my body anew and I pray and ask with all my heart that you fill me with your Holy Spirit and that you speak through me and your will be done in our lives And help us to make good decisions in response to what you teach us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I think we're all familiar with the situation here, the context of the statement where David says, I have sinned. Remember he had committed adultery with Bathsheba. He had her husband he tried to cover it up, and that didn't work. He had her husband killed, along with Uriah's death on the battlefield, that was set up was was set up for him to be killed. A number of other fellows died also. And so um David uh Goes about, and we're figuring this is probably a good year, year and a half, maybe up to two years later, that Nathan comes and he confronts David about his sin Back in verse number one of the chapter, it says, the Lord sent Nathan unto David. I think, as I mentioned before, and we touched on this Sunday morning's message a little bit. I think God was being very, very patient with David and giving him opportunity to come and make things right before God had to confront him. That's always the best way, amen. Don't wait until God has to start judging us or uh chastening us, disciplining us. The best thing He's just come to the Lord right away and take care of it. This is the way preachers put it sometimes. They put it this way. Keep short accounts with God. Anybody know what that means? If we mess up, all right, own it, fess it, come to the Lord right away. Don't don't horse around. David tried to cover it. I'm guessing he thought maybe he got away with it And God sends Nathan. Now what Nathan did, and we looked at this, and I find this fascinating, how Nathan confronted David The first thing I put down, just by way of review, real quickly, Nathan clearly explode exposed David's sin. I mean, it was very clear. There's no way in the world David could have said, I don't know what you're talking about here. David knew exactly what he was talking about. Nathan came in a very clear way. And when he says, Thou art the man There was no doubt in David's mind what he was talking about. David knew exactly. So he presented, he exposed David's sin very clearly. He cleverly exposed David's sin. Now the reason I say that is because of that parable he told. Remember the poor man had one little ew lamb, the rich man had a whole slew of them And a traveler shows up and he takes the little poor man's little ew lamb, kills that, and feeds the traveler, and he's got all of these. And that was a very clever way he was setting David up. How did David respond to that? I know we're in review here a little bit, but how did David respond to that? Man, he went in a rage. And you know, he just went over the top and said that guy needs to be killed. That's not what the law said. And he was very hypocritical about it. So Nathan very cleverly set David up with this parable and let David basically condemn himself in doing that. And then also he very courageously confronted David. I say that because this, David's the king. You know, the king could have said off with his head, and his head would have come off. I mean, there's no checks and balances here. There are no uh you know, there's no process to go through, there's no courts to go through. The king says it, boom, it happens. And not only was David King, I mean that's fine enough, David King, he's a man after God's own heart. He's not going to do anything. Remember, David is a backslidden king at this time. Which makes them even more vulnerable. Number one, he's got the authority. He can do whatever, and he's not right with God. And so I tell you, my hat's off to Nathan. What a man of God, what a man of faith To approach David as he did very clearly, very cleverly, sets David up. He condemns himself, and boom, with the courage of an Old Testament prophet, he says, Thou art the man. You're the one, David. And of course David breaks. David breaks. In verse 13, there he says, I have sinned against the Lord. I have sinned against the Lord. David confesses the fact that he sinned. Now I want to talk about confession tonight. And I want to get to Psalm 51. That is David, where he that's his prayer of confession. Now when he prayed that, I don't know. We'll look at it in a little more detail next week. We'll start if if we get through tonight. I don't know when David penned that prayer down. Obviously was at some point after 2 Samuel 12, verse 13, sometime after this, he wrote that down. He prayed that prayer to God. And we're going to look at that at another point, as I said. But I want to consider this matter of confession this evening. I got studying the word itself, confession, although it's not used here. This is what David did He confessed his sin. I got studying the word, and I found that in the Hebrew, this is interesting, and I don't normally uh you know bring this type of stuff out, but I found that in the Hebrew word, confess, and it's used 111 times. Throughout the Old Testament. It's translated various ways. But the word Hebrew means this: to throw. The word confession in Hebrew means to throw. The idea, as I understood it, as I studied it and how it's used, it has kind of has this idea. You have something and you have a crowd of people, a group of people, you take it and you just throw it out in the middle of everybody Maybe you got it in your hands, your pocket, and a sack, and you just throw it out there. Can you see where that would fall into the idea of confession? I'm just putting it out there, just throwing it out. I thought that was a uh an interesting word picture there. Um the other uh the other way the word uh confession in the Hebrew is defined is to place my hands out openly. That's the the the idea behind the word. In other words, I'm standing here and I'm going to confess I'm just putting my hands out. Alright, here it is. Nothing being hidden, nothing being covered up. I'm just putting it out there. So I thought that was an interesting definition of the word confession. Then I got looking in the New Testament. Of course, that would be Greek And I looked up the word there for um uh the Greek word for confession. Now I don't know I know a little Greek, and uh he had a deli up there in Philly, just down the road from us. So um uh anyway. That's old. But the Greek word itself means this. And this adds a little more depth to our understanding of the word confession. It means this: to agree with Huh. To confess in this word here has the idea, if I'm going to confess something, I am agreeing with somebody about it. To declare it openly. Now it can be used in a negative and positive way. Remember when Paul in Acts was before the court And they were making all these accusations. And he says, if you're accusing me of worshiping Jesus Christ according to this way, I confess. He says, yeah, I agree with you. I admit, I confess. I do worship Jesus Christ. I do believe he rose from the dead. So it's not always used in a negative connotation. Sometimes it's a positive connotation. We are to confess Christ before this world. Or to agree with God in the Bible, what it says about Jesus Christ, and put it out there. So it means to declare openly, to agree with, or this is one definition, to say the same thing as Confess. That's why I looked up the English word. We speak English. The Bible, the King James Bible, is in English. So I looked up what the English says says definition is, and it means this To own something as being true. Yes, that's true. To acknowledge something to be true or declare something to be true. So to confess, David says, I have sinned against the Lord. He's confessing. He's throwing it out there. He's been hiding it for upwards to two years maybe, and now he's just taking that sin, the reality of it, the uh and putting it out. For the whole world. And by the way, it's recorded in Scripture for all of eternity to be known. Think about that. And so he's throwing out, he's putting his hands out. I've sinned. Here it is. This is what it is He is, we're going to see this, he's agreeing with God about his sin That's significant. We'll see that in Psalm 51. He's owning it as true. You're right. Nathan said, thou art a man, David said You're right. You're true. I agree with that statement. I own that statement. I acknowledge it to be true, what you're saying. Confession. Confession Now, take all this and all the Bible teaching about confession, and what do we come up with? What is biblical confession of sin? What all does that involve? Biblically, to confess my sin. I put two ideas down here. I put this one down. Number one, it's to acknowledge my sin's presence, to acknowledge its reality. Say, yes, it's there. It's sin. I've sinned. It's present. It's real. That's true. Now, that aspect of confessing our sin is very superficial. That's the beginning of biblical confession, simply acknowledging that sin has taken place. I acknowledge that it took place. That's superficial. That's the beginning point, but it's not complete confession. Did you agree with me? Somebody could admit they're doing wrong and not really care that they're doing wrong. Sure. They could acknowledge something. Oh yeah. And they could we could acknowledge the presence or the reality of sin Without not really confessing it biblically. You follow what I'm saying? Just to acknowledge it's this error. Yeah, it's true Um I have over the years in witnessing to people and sharing the gospel with people on occasion somebody will have, they won't say it exactly this way, but this will be their attitude. Well do you want to, you know, I ask them, do you know for sure you're going to heaven Uh no, um well the Bible says we can know for sure. Can I show you? Sure. I'll get my Bible out and uh we'll go through and hit that first point for all sin to come short of the glory of God. And I'll ask something like this Now, do you agree with God? Do you acknowledge you've ever sinned? Oh yeah. You follow what I'm saying? They're confessing that they're a sinner, but that's not biblical confession. And that's not what's taken place here, and that's not what God's talking about. So, number one, to confess is to acknowledge. By the way, biblical confession can't take place until I acknowledge it. So that's necessary. I've got to acknowledge it, but if all I'm doing is acknowledging it, owning up to the reality of it, that's not confession. It must also include, number two, acknowledge its presence as reality, but number two, I must agree with God's assessment of it. Remember back in the Greek definition we looked at to say the same thing as or to agree with. Now we're getting to biblical confession. To view my sin the way God views my sin. To assess my sin the way God assesses my sin. Let me put it this way: to condemn my sin the way God condemns my sin. That's biblical confession. Acknowledge it, and then I say, God, you're right. I see this sin and I condemn it, my sin. I condemn it just the same way you do. I assess it the same way you do. I view it the same way you do. Let me ask you a question. How does God see sin? Talk to me now. We're just a small crowd tonight. How does God view sin? He hates it. Yeah, he says that. Is that what you said? Horrific. Um you wanna you want to see God's assessment of sin? Look at the cross. He puts he put all our sin was placed on Jesus Christ. Look what he did to Jesus Christ. Look what the price Jesus Christ paid for your sin and my sin. So when I'm going to confess sin. And we have a lot we have a very shallow confession of sin takes place, I'm afraid, in a lot of s in a lot of time, in a lot of circumstances When I'm confessing my sin, and we're going to see this from David, when we get to Psalm 51, this is exactly what David did. When I'm confessing my sin, I'm acknowledging it, I'm putting my hands out. There it is. I'm throwing it out. Yes, you're right. I did that. It's true, it's a fact, and it is condemned. And it is horrific. And it is awful. And I hate it. That is assessing it the way God assesses it. Confession of sin really is, in a lot of ways, self-condemnation. I am condemning what I've done. Before God, before God, I'm condemning this sin. And you're going to see David does this in Psalm 51. I'm condemning this sin before God. God, I condemn it. It's wrong, just as you do. But sometimes we need to condemn that sin before others also. Now there's a little rule of thumb, and I don't mean to get into this, we might talk about this a little later, but there's a little rule of thumb. Private sins should be confessed privately Public sins need to be confessed what? Publicly. If I've done it publicly, I've hurt the cause of Christ, I've hurt the name of everybody knows, then I need to deal with it. So everybody knows I'm dealing with it. You follow what I'm saying? If it's something between God and I, or just uh one person and I, uh then we keep it there. Rule of thumb is this, don't involve more people than you have to Is rule of thumb. His rule of thumb. What does Proverbs say? Love covers a multitude of sin. So if I love someone, I'm not going to broadcast their sin. We're not going to involve more people than we have to. But if it does involve others, then I need to condemn it before God and before those. David's sin was very public And so he needed to condemn it publicly. So confession of sin is very much a self-condemnation before God and or before man. Confession of sin is really the beginning of eternal life. Beginning of the Christian life. Take your Bible, if you would, and we're going to look, hopefully, if we have time, we're going to get to a bunch of verses tonight Come back to Romans chapter 10, if you would. Romans chapter 10. How many people here are familiar with the Romans Road plan of salvation? Anyone? Romans Road. This is part of the Romans Road. And sometimes we get to this one statement here, and we really don't give it much attention, but it's there. In fact, it's repeated twice. Romans chapter 10, if you would, look with me at verse number 9. Romans 10, verse 9. You ready? You got it there? It's in the New Testament. And it says this: that if thou shalt what? Ooh, there's that word. If thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and shalt believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be what? Saved. But he goes back again and he expands on that in verse 10. For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness, and with the mouth what? Confession is made unto salvation. Did you know that confession is a part of me being born again? Is a necessary ingredient. and me trusting Christ and being born again. Nobody ever gets saved from sin if they don't acknowledge the fact that they've sinned Right? Uh who was that singer, real famous back in the early 80s? She was a good missionary. Amy Amy Grant, I think it was her. I probably shouldn't say this because I'm not sure. I think it was her. But anyway, one of these famous uh these big preachers, they were they asked the question, anybody here want to go to heaven? Of course the whole place, yeah. All right, everybody say I do. No, everybody, I do, all right, everybody got saved. Tell you what, that is not biblical salvation That's not the plan of salvation. Now, confessing. Nobody ever gets saved from sin if they don't confess, acknowledge the fact of sin, and there needs to be a concern about it. I was talking about witnessing to people, and I've had uh I've had people you know say, Yeah, I'm a sinner, yeah. And you just their tone of voice, their demeanor, everything you're thinking, you know, they really don't take this very seriously And so sometimes I'll ask the question, does that concern you that you're a sinner Now, if a person sees their sin the way God sees their sin, do you think the fact that they're a sinner would concern them? Yes. If they got any sense at all. And so confession is acknowledging the fact that I'm a sinner and being concerned about that, but it also is the confession is I need to agree with God about who Jesus Christ is and what he's done for me on the cross, buried and rose again. I'm openly agreeing and confessing, yes, I believe he died for me, was buried and rose again. So confession of sorts is Part of the beginning of our Christian life. But not only that, confession, and this is where it maybe strikes home with you and I, it's a normal part of Christian life. It's a normal part of Christian life. It didn't take me long to find out though God had saved me from sin in hell and He had forgiven me and I was a child of God Didn't take me long to real realize there was still a sin nature very much living within my being. Anybody, can I get a witness? It's still there. And the very fact that you and I still possess a sinful nature, now the judgment of sin, the condemnation of sin Has been fully paid for by Jesus Christ. I'm no longer condemned. I'm no longer under the judgment and wrath of God for my sin. Jesus paid for all of that. However, I do have to deal with the effects of sin. It's still there. Its presence is still there. And so a normal part of Christian life, or any Christian, knowing that I have a sinful nature, and that sinful nature still affects my decisions and my behavior And I'd fight it and I'd walk with God. Nevertheless, it's still there. And the fact that the Holy Spirit of God dwells within my body And within that same body, there's a sinful nature. Guess what's going to happen? There's going to be some tension there. There's going to be conviction there. Remember, it's the Holy Spirit that lives within us. Right? The Holy Spirit lives within us. And we have a very unholy nature that's still a part of us. And so you know what happens? It's called conviction. I allow my sin nature. I respond to my flesh, my sinful nature, I do something that is sin, I sin. And the Holy Spirit is in the same body that just sinned. And that Holy Spirit doesn't take it lying down. And he brings conviction. He brings conviction. Anybody here know what I'm talking about? About conviction? We can preach a whole sermon on conviction. And so that conviction is there. The Holy Spirit And so guess what? You say, oh, I got saved, and man, I I I sin and I get convicted about it. Hey, welcome to the Christian life. That is a lifelong thing. You say, when does this uh sin and conviction, when does that ever stop? The day of redemption. When we get our new bodies, no sinful nature. I preached um Ken Kenner's funeral um on Monday. And um I don't know if I said it there. I often say it at a funeral, one of the things I look forward to the most about getting to heaven, of course seeing Jesus, but I tell you one of the things I look forward to the most is no longer having that old sinful nature Whoo, can you imagine? We get up to heaven, no more, no more dark side of our being, no more sin being enticed by sin. Every thought absolutely pure and holy, every desire absolutely in line perfectly with God's desires. Woo! You talk about peace. You talk about rest. Man, this sky's gonna be cloudy all day, but if I get rid of that sin nature, I'm with Jesus, I'm fine with that And so it's a normal part of the Christian life is dealing with sin and conviction and having to confess it and face it and own up to it and condemn it like God does, just over and over our whole Christian life. If somebody tells you that they've reached a point of sinless perfection, they no longer have to confess or deal with sin, ask their spouse what they think about that. Alright, so number one, I put, and this isn't even this is still introduction. Um the beginning of the Christian life begins with confession. The normal part, it's a normal part of the Christian life The presence of the Holy Spirit in my body produces conviction of my sin, which prompts me to confess it And own up to it and condemn it. Another thought along these lines: confession of sin is not only the beginning of my Christian life and normal part of my Christian life, it's a necessary part of my Christian life. If there's no confession of sin, there's no forgiveness of sin. Now I wanted to turn to all these, but we'll be here for a long time. First John 1 9, somebody help me. Who knows? Who who has 1 John 1 9 memories? If you don't, you need to. What is it? Let's say it together. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins, don't forget the next part, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. That verse begins with a very important word. What's the first word? If we confess our sins. Well I don't need it. God's forgiving me. I don't need to deal with that. It's just not wrong. Now he's not talking about forgiveness as far as from the judgment Condemnation of sin. He's talking about forgiveness as far as my fellowship with God is concerned. So the confession of sin is a necessary part of the Christian life. No confession, no forgiveness. And you know what that means? Continual chastisement. That means ongoing conviction. Because God will not let us go until we deal with it. A preacher years ago, I think it was a preacher down south, Bud Robinson, I think was his name, years ago. Uncle Bud Robinson had a had a stuttered. He had a a little speech impetum, but powerful preacher down south. And I think it was him had a sermon, The Hound Dogs of Heaven. And what he preached about is you're not going to confess your sin, you're not going to deal with it. God's Holy Spirit is going to hound you and hound you and hound you and hound you until you deal with it. So, no confession, no forgiveness. Ah, I put this down. No confession, no revival. No confession, no revival. Anybody want to take a guess what verse I go to with that? If my people are called by my name to humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from, confess their sin, turn from their wicked way, then will I hear from heaven How many people agree with me we need revival? Our church. How many people agree with me our country needs revived churches? I tell you, some some of y'all are barking up the wrong tree. You're trying to get Washington to get right with God. You know where it begins? Begins with you and me right here. And until I confess my sin, until I condemn my sin, until I deal with my sin, there's not going to revival come to my heart, my light, my home, my church, or my country. It ain't coming from nowhere 2 Chronicles 7. 14 begins with a very important word. What is it? If my people. Confess their sins. Alright, humble themselves. Confess their sins. Alright, no confession, no forgiveness. No confession, no revival. No confession, no answered prayer I just read this in my devotions last night before I went to bed. Come over to Psalms chapter 66 with me, if you would. Psalm 66. Everybody all right out there? All right, Psalm sixty-six This is a good verse for Christian to memorize. Psalm 66, verse 18. This would be a good verse to underscore in your Bible, maybe. Now remember, keep in mind, this is King David writing this chapter under the inspiration of God. He knows what he's talking about. Look what he says. If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me Now I got looking at that word regard, now a simplified definition is the exact opposite of confession. If I regard iniquity in my heart, remember we said confession is throwing it out there right in front of everybody. You know what? Regarding it in my heart is keeping it back here. Confession was opening the hands. Here and up, there it is. I'm not hiding it. I'm owning it. There it is. Regarding iniquity in my heart means keeping my hands behind my back. Guess which hand it's in. Ever do that? It's the exact opposite of confession. And he says, if I don't deal with it, if I don't come out with it, if I don't condemn it, if I don't acknowledge it, And God's not going to hear my prayers. God's not going to hear prayers. I'm afraid in some of our churches there's a lot of praying going on. There's a lot of talking to God going on, but there ain't much praying going on. So we don't confess our sin, we don't deal with it. We regard it in our heart. No confession, no forgiveness, no confession, no revival, no confession, no answered prayer, no confession, no spiritual prosperity. Come over to Proverbs chapter 28. Would you do come over there with me? Proverbs 28. And verse number 13, another verse that's good for us to be familiar with. Proverbs chapter 28 and verse 13. He that what covereth his sins shall not prosper. Now, when he uses that word prosper there, he's not taught using it the way the TV preachers use it You're not talking about having a million-dollar homes and dog houses with uh central air and um you know four million dollar learjets to fly around. When he's talking about prospering there, he's talking about prospering spiritually, being spiritually healthy, spiritually strong, victorious. And he says, He that covereth his sins. Again, that's the opposite of confession. He that covereth his sins shall not prosper, but whoso confesseth and forsaketh them shall have mercy. Shall have mercy. No confession, no spiritual prosperity, no forgiveness, no revival, no answered prayer Someone said this. I like this statement. Confession of sin is heaven's ointment for a sin sick soul. Confession of sin is heaven's ointment for a sin-sick soul. I was talking not too long ago to another pastor who was saying about how he had to deal with some folks that had got involved in sin. He sat down and talked to him and he said they came out. They came out with it. They opened the eye. And he says, you know the interesting thing is following that decision, where they would confess it, for uh admit it, dealt with it. He said they are so light and they're so happy and there's a whole new their countenance is alive and awaken up and he says it's like it was a physical revival to them That heaven's ointment, heaven's solve balm for a sin-sick soul, when I just come out and confess it to the Lord, acknowledge it to God. For almost two years David covered his sin. He regarded it in his heart. Come with me to Psalms and listen to how he described himself during that period of time That he refused to confess it. Come with me, if you would, to Psalms 30. Where are we at? Where are you at? In Proverbs? Come to Psalms 38. Psalms 38. This is how David describes himself while he was covering his sin, while he was regarding it in his heart, before he would confess it when he refused to. Look at verse number one. Psalm 38. A Psalm of David, this is him telling us this, Psalm 38, verse 1. O Lord, rebuke me not in thy wrath. Neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure. Now look at this. For thine arrows stick fast in me. And thine hand presseth me sore. Anybody here ever get stuck with an arrow? Get shot with an arrow? I never did. I've shot some things with arrows. How many people agree with me? That's not very comfortable You know, nobody would walk in the back door with an arrow stuck in and say, hey, how are you doing? Oh great. I'm doing fine. No. He says, man I didn't confess my sin, I'm covering my sin up. And he's talking about the period of time from when he committed the adultery of Bathsheba till Nathan confronted him. He says, Your arrows were stuck in me He says, thy hand presseth me sore. Anybody here have a French press for your coffee? And you squish, get that pressure down in there. That's the way he was living. There is no soundness in my flesh because of thine anger, neither is there any rest in my bones because of what? My sin. Mine iniquities are going over my head. I'm drowning. As a heavy burden, they're too heavy for me. My wounds stink. And are corrupt because of my foolishness. I'm troubled. I'm bowed down greatly. I go mourning all the day long. My loins are filled with a loath of disease. No soundness in my flesh. I'm feeble and sore, broken. I have roared by reason of the disquietness of my heart. Good night. This guy's miserable. And confession takes place. 2 Samuel 13, chapter 12, verse 13. I've sinned against the Lord. I've sinned against the Lord. And that balm of God's forgiveness and that solve and that ointment of God's restoration comes over. And you can almost sense David. This is better. This is better. Come over, if you would, to Psalms chapter uh 30, or 38. Come over to 32. Again. Now he starts off with what the forgiveness accomplished him. Of course, it's God's response to our forgiveness, but forgiveness is what prompts it. Psalm 32, look at verse 1. Blessed is he whose sins are forgiven, whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man unto whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity, and whose spirit there is no guile. Can you just picture in your mind, David? This is wonderful God's forgiven me. And my transgression is forgiven. My sin has been covered. God is not imputing this iniquity to me. Woohoo! But then he goes on and he says what it was like when I kept silence, when I didn't confess, I kept silence My bones waxed old through my roaring all the day long. For day and night thy hand was heavy upon me, my moisture is turned unto the drought of summer. Silah. That word sila means stop and think about that. I acknowledged my sin unto thee. He confessed. And my iniquity have I not hid. I said, I will confess my transgression unto the Lord. And thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin. Selah. Confession is sin's. Confession of sin is heaven's ointment for a sin-sick soul. We'll pick up the rest of this next week. We won't get to Psalm 51 for a while yet. But I want to say this. As soon as sin comes up in our lives, Whatever degree you and I may assign to it, well that's just that's just an itsy bitsy teeny weeny little one. Or maybe it's one that in our mind is horrific. Let me say this: all sin is equally condemned by God. Doesn't all have the same consequences, but it's all equally condemned by God. And if we want to prosper, if we want to grow, if we want revival, If we want spiritual power and victory in our lives, we must acknowledge whatever it may be. And if it's just between God and me, then it's just between God and me. But I acknowledge its reality, its presence, and then I agree with God, and I condemn it just as strongly as God does. And that is what bring restoration. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us, dear Lord to see our sin the way you see it. None of us is without it. None of us can get through without dealing with it. I pray your Holy Spirit would help us to be honest with ourselves, be honest with you, and then agree with you about Him. The heads bowed, eyes closed. I don't know how to give this invitation specifically, but I do know this: every one of us that knows Christ as Savior has to deal with this. It's a normal part of life It's an ongoing issue as we deal with sins they crop up. Maybe tonight you just want to come to an old altar. Maybe say, Lord, here it is. I kind of brushed this over. I didn't give it a lot of thought, but you brought it to my attention. Maybe God's been dealing with you about something, and finally tonight you say, you know, I need to deal with this. Or maybe come and say, Lord, help me to be on my guard. God help me to be on my guard. God will help us. Father in heaven, bless our imitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed. Eyes are closed.