Psalm chapter 40. I just want to look at verse number nine tonight. Psalms forty. We're working our way through this psalm. It's a great psalm. I am thoroughly enjoying studying it And uh we're up to verse 9. Notice it says, I have preached righteousness in the great congregation. Lo, I have not refrained my lips, O Lord. Thou knowest. And I'm entitled The Message, I Have Preached Righteousness. Let's pray, and we'll look at this verse here. Father in heaven, I thank you for our church, and God, how you've blessed us. Lord, bitter cold and snow and a lot of ice and stuff on the roads. And yep, yep, your people come out. And uh we love you, Lord, and we feel in our hearts, I believe it's your Holy Spirit puts on our hearts. a longing and a drive to assemble together in your name and to sing and fellowship and pray together. And Lord, now we look to your word together And Lord, you've given me the responsibility of teaching this book and preaching this book. Father, I don't take that lightly. And I ask that you would help me now to be true to your word, to this passage And uh I ask that you would please fill me with your Holy Spirit for the express purpose of communicating the truths of this passage. to every one of our hearts and lives so that we can be a stronger witness for you. Our faith uh would be stronger. We'd be more like Christ. So again, fill me is my prayer, Lord, as I present my body anew to you for this moment. I ask that you would guide my thinking and direct my words as I preach. In Jesus' name I pray Amen. I think we all understand that eternal life begins at the moment of salvation. Salvation is not a goal that I get and say, all right, now I'm saved, everything's set. Salvation is the beginning of a new life. It's the beginning of eternal life. And it's a whole change. I wonder how many folks here tonight, when you got saved, God changed your life outwardly, changed you, your lifestyle, all that. Anybody here like that? God changed your life Now I know sometimes people are raised in the church. There's not a big lifestyle change, but there is a change in the soul, heart and soul. It's a new life there that that wasn't there before And salvation is the beginning of a life of that begins a process where the Holy Spirit of God, who indwells us the moment we're saved, the moment I trust Christ, the Holy Spirit indwells my body. And the Holy Spirit begins this process of molding me and changing me and developing me into the image of the Lord Jesus Christ. Um that's what that's what Holy Ghost conviction is about. Again, how many people know what I talk about? Conviction. Anybody ever sent since you've been saved? Commence to uh experience the conviction of the Holy Spirit. Sure. If we're sensitive at all to the Lord. The Holy Spirit's in us and sometimes through preaching or maybe through um Our personal study and meditation on the Word of God, sometimes just out of the blue, or have something going on. The Holy Spirit will come into this. All of that All of that is part of the Lord molding me and developing. He's chipping away parts of my character, maybe habits I have. different um characteristics and he chips away at that and he molds and he makes and he adds to and he's trying to develop us into the image of Christ Keep your place here. I'd like for you to go to Romans chapter number eight with me just quickly to get us started here tonight Romans chapter 8, and so what I'm getting at is salvation is a beginning of this lifelong process. Of God changing me and molding me as I cooperate with Him, His leadership, His conviction, I cooperate with Him, I Submit to him, as we talked about a little bit this morning. He molds me. He changes me. He makes me. Look at Romans 8. And of course we're familiar with verse number 28. It says, and we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, who are called according to his purpose. How many folks have ever got encouragement from that passage? Sure. But it goes on. This verse is part of an overall truth that's being presented here. Verse 29. It says, it goes on. It says, for, or because that's true. That all things work together for good, and love God, called according to purpose. For whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son. That he might be the firstborn among many brethren. Lord Jesus is the firstborn. But what he's saying there is God allows these uh events in our lives, he allows us to go through trials, blessings. All things, we go through all those things, and they are working together for good. Now, the good in verse 28 he's talking about, we're told in verse 29, is being conformed to the image of Christ. That's a good thing. And that's what God is working at. And so He knew from eternity past who was going to trust Jesus Christ as Savior. And he predestined, he said, everybody that of their own free will puts their faith and trust in Jesus Christ, I am choosing those people to work in their life and develop them into the image of Christ. So you are you with me so far? So God knew that on May 7, 1979, Dennis Leatherman, of his own free will, is going to kneel by his bed, calling the Lord Jesus Christ to be his personal Savior. God come in, forgive all my sins, give me a new new life, eternal life, change my life, lead me and direct me. God knew that from eternal past. And he began at that moment, he began that process of molding me And changing me, convicting me, and bringing me in to the image of Christ. And what's true for me is true for everybody that's saved. God's working in your life Everything that God allows. Maybe, like the psalmist back in chapter number 40 of Psalms, maybe God allows us to go through to end up in horrible pits. Maybe he allows us to go through miry clay. He allows it. Not everything is necessarily his will or desire, but he allows it. And he can even take the foolish, even sinful things that we do, if we'll submit to them, if we'll love them and trust them, submit to them. He can take that, well, we messed up, he can turn that around, and I can come out a stronger Christian, more like Christ, even after failure. You follow what I'm saying? Not saying it's good, sin is good, it's not, it's terrible, but God allows us And if we'll respond properly to that sin, to that failure, and in for that particular instance we failed God can take that and turn it around. And true with positive things we do. God uses all of that. All things work together To develop us into the image of Christ. It's a process. It's a lifelong thing. Lifelong thing. So now we come back to Psalms chapter 40 And sometimes, at least I think I'm guilty of this sometimes, I get so I get so focused on dissecting a passage or a even a verse or a word. Sometimes we get so focused on dissecting a portion of Scripture we fail to see the overall picture. Uh what's what's the saying? You fail to see the trees uh tra fail to see the the forest for the trees. You get so focused on this one truth here, and you miss the overall picture. And I think there's an overall picture. I got this week looking at this, I got looking at it, so wait a minute, there's an overall process taking place here, I think. in this psalm. A progression in the life and the development of David as he's recording here under the inspiration of God. He's recording this experience, what he learned, what God's taught him, what God's done in his life. And I noticed, this is what stood out to me, is I backed up a little bit and just looked at it. I notice he starts off in a pit, and we talk quite a bit about that in detail. The pit, horrible pit. But then that pit experience leads to appraise. And verse 2 through 5, he brought me out of the horrible pit, out of the mirror clay, set my feet upon a rock, established my guns, put a new song in my heart, and da-da-da. And now he's praising. He's in a pit. It's horrible. It's horrible But then God brings him out and it progresses from the horribleness of the pit. It progresses to praise. And we see that in verses 2 through 5. Then, from that praise, in praising God for what he's done, his focus is upward to the Lord. Then it leads to, in verses 5 through 8 or 9 here, then it leads to the prophecy of the Lord Jesus Christ. And from that it goes to his preaching to the great congregation. Now, this is the way I see it. Maybe, you know, maybe I'm Uh wrong? I doubt it. Maybe I'm r maybe I'm rr um never mind. Um But this is the way I see it. He's in this pit, it's horrible. He cries out to God. God brings him out and he goes from the pit and now he's praising God and he's looking Up to the Lord. He said, Lord, you've been so good to me. God, you did this for me. You did this for me. You did this for me. And in praising God, it inevitably leads to the prophecy of the Lord Jesus Christ. And his eyes are going, and he never forgets what God brought him from, but his focus now is transported from the pit. In praise, and now a prophecy of the Lord Jesus Christ, and he sees Jesus. And that whole passage in Hebrews chapter 10. His point says that's Jesus Christ. He's going to come. God doesn't want sacrifices, these bulls and goats. That's not what God wants. He put it in place, but that's not what he's after. He's after a permanent sacrifice for sin. And he looks ahead and he sees there's Jesus Christ is that sacrifice, the sacrifice of God, the Lamb of God, that's going to put an end to all these sacrifices. And then that leads to he goes out and he preaches and tells them, proclaims what he's what God has shown him. Does everybody see that progression? You see it the way I see it? Anybody at all? And so just like in our life, we grow, we get saved, and God begins working on us, and we are so grateful, Lord, He saved us and changed my life. And then I start learning about the Lord Jesus Christ, and I see what he is, and then something in me compels me that I need to go and tell others. I need to proclaim that gospel. I need to preach the message of Christ, preach that to others. I tell you, I have a hard time with a church that doesn't give any effort to reach lost people with the gospel. I have a tough time with that. And I don't understand that. And David is now at the point where he says, I'm preaching to the great congregation. He goes from his inward focus, my own experience, to an upward focus on Christ, and then to an outward focus on others. Now let's look at that outward focus. Look at verse 9. I have preached righteousness. Now I got caught up in that word preached. That caught my attention. That's what I do. That's my calling in life. And so I thought, what is this word preach? Where does it come from? How's it used other places? And it's an interesting term. There's various words for preach used throughout the Bible. This one's a little unique. It means what you think to announce or proclaim information. But it has a there's a uh a um a tint to it It has the idea of to announce information that is positive It has that in its, the word it comes from, has mixed in the menu of the definition, it has that sense of positive One of the definitions I came across was to announce good news. Now, does that sound familiar to anybody? A New Testament term. Does that sound familiar? Gospel. Good news. The gospel of Jesus Christ. The good news of Jesus Christ. So the word preached here has this idea to proclaim, to communicate, to announce information. That is very good news. It has the idea to proclaim, to preach, pronounce, communicate information that is beneficial. That is going to help people, that is going to meet needs, and they're going to be better off. Once they have this information, my life is going to be better. My condition is going to be better. My situation is going to be better. The emphasis on the definition, as far as I could see, looking it up and studying it, is on the power, is on the positive character of the information that's being proclaimed. It's not just information. It's information that benefits, that has a positive impact on the lives of people to pronounce good news. And again, I got looking at this, and it's not, this term isn't used, the way it's used, it's not limited to standing behind a pulpit and preaching. It's not limited to, it would include that, but it's much more than just a formal lecture or a formal sermon or a formal speech. It's any form of proclaiming or announcing or communicating information that is very, very helpful. So everybody get the idea of the definition there? When he says preach, we think, oh yeah, preacher's up there behind the boat. But it's it's it's includes that, but it's much more than that It's not limited to formal lecture or sermon or even a lesson from a classroom. The idea is going out everywhere everywhere and giving information to people that is really good for them, that is really beneficial for them. He said, that's what I've done. I've preached. I've given out information that is really beneficial. Um I was, as you know, I was for four years, I was youth pastor in Indianapolis. I was right out of college, year out of college. And um we got there and we were right in the south side of the city there, just inside the beltway, and uh pretty good sized church. Uh ran about four hundred or so and we I I enjoyed my ministry there very much. We reached a lot of people and God blessed. I was out one night. We'd go out Thursday nights and we went we would go out make visits or knock on doors or different things. I was out with one of the deacons, Mr. Dan Hindsley was his name. Good guy. I mean he was just a hard worker, worked in an auto factory, just he shot straight. And uh we got along very well. We were out partners, we were out, I can still see the street we're on, we're going knocking on doors, and um This guy came out, we talked a little bit, introduced ourselves. I guess it was my turn to talk, and I was talking a little bit, and we just couldn't get anywhere. And so as we were leaving, I just reached in my pocket and I pulled out a gospel tract from the church there. I said, here Let me leave a gospel track with you. I said, um, I said, this will be a blessing to you. When we walk down the the the driveway down the sidewalk, Mr. Hindsley stopped and he looked at me. He says, that track will be a blessing to him? I said, yeah. I said uh he'll read it, and uh I said it can be, he'll read it, see he's a sinner Realize that Jesus loved him enough to die for his sins, be buried, rose again, and if he'll turn to the Lord and trust him as his personal Savior, God will forgive his sins and give him a whole new life, a home in heaven Mr. Heisley went, well sure enough, that would be a blessing. What were we doing? We were giving information to people that's good for them Right? We're giving information to people that can make their life better and benefit them. David says I was in a pit. I cried to the Lord. He heard me, brought me out of that. He did all these things for me. I praise him. And I realize it's through Jesus Christ, the coming Messiah, He's going to be the final sacrifice for all my sins in everybody. And I need to go out and I need to tell everybody about this. I need to get this information that I've gained and I've got to preach it, I've got to proclaim it, I've got to communicate it. to people. Isn't that something? I preached to the great congregation. Now let me give you three thoughts and we'll we'll quit and go home. Number one, I put this down. Notice the content of his preaching. Look at verse 9 there. The content. I have preached what? Righteousness in the great congregation. That was the information that he was given out. That was the information that was positive, that was beneficial. I have preached righteousness. Now, what does he mean by righteousness? Well the word righteousness has various shades of meaning. One is would be an action type thing, doing what is righteous. I preach righteousness, you all need to do right. Everybody needs to do. Do you agree with me? Everybody ought to do right. All God's children ought to do right. We ought to live right. We ought to talk right. We ought to listen to right stuff. We ought to do right. So one aspect of righteousness is is doing right, doing what is right And so is he saying, I've preached righteousness, I've preached it. Everybody ought to do right. Everybody ought to obey God. Everybody ought to do what God says. Now that's true, and everybody ought to, but is that what he's talking about? Another aspect of preaching of righteousness is being right with God Not just doing right. Would you agree with me? It's possible to do right outwardly yet not be right inwardly Did you ever tell your kids, um uh uh I I heard about a fellow one time told his son, he goes, son, you've been naughty. Go, you gotta sit on a stool in the corner for a half hour. Hmm. Boy guys over something. He says, I'm sitting here on the inside, but I'm playing outside on the in uh I'm sitting here on the outside, but I'm playing outside on the inside. That didn't make sense, did it? In other words, he was sitting there doing what he was supposed to do, but inwardly he was still out doing what he wanted to do. You follow what I'm saying? That was a terrible illustration. Disregard that But what I'm trying to say is this, being right, there's one part of aspect of righteousness is doing right, but there's another aspect to it where it's not just doing right, but it's actually being right in my attitude And my motives for doing right. And my attitude in doing right. But then there's a third aspect to that word, righteousness. And it is this. And this is the one I think David's talking about. Because we'll look at the context, and I think this is what he's talking about. There is the righteousness of Christ. That is available to be put to my account because of what Christ has done. Would you agree with me? Jesus Christ Is and was more righteous, more pure righteousness than I could ever possibly live up to. Right? And so, because of what Jesus Christ did in offering himself as that final sacrifice, that that no more animals and goats and stuff be shed, uh blood of all that shit, but once and for all, sin is dealt with. It's cleansed. It's eliminated. God has propitiated. He's satisfied with that payment. Sin is no longer an issue. Because of what Jesus Christ did for those of us that put our faith and trust Christ, as far as our standing before God. That righteousness that Christ provided for me When I trust him is put to my account. Now, this is an amazing thing. I think I already asked it, but let me ask again. How many folks here? Save and know it. Say amen. Now that being true, that means every single one of us, as far as God is concerned, from the girls, little girls here to the oldest of us here tonight. Every single one of us, if our faith is in Christ, we've been born again. We stand before God. Our standing before God is as if we are as righteous as Jesus Christ Himself. For God hath made him, Jesus Christ, that final sacrifice, if you heard the messages leading up to this, the previous verses That final second, he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him, in us. Isn't that something? God's righteous. I think that's what the righteousness David is preaching. Now we ought to preach that people ought to do right. Amen? But it preached that people ought to be right in their attitude, their motives, all that. But there is a righteousness that far surpasses Anything you and I could ever hope to do or be, and that is the righteousness in Christ because of what he did for us. By his sacrifice. And again, we preached on that verse 6, 7, and 8. Where Christ came, he settled once for all the sin question. Settled once for all, the payment for sin, done, paid for in full. Jesus paid it all. And that is the message of righteousness. You'll trust him, you turn to him, you can be righteous. So the content of his righteousness is not simply righteous behavior, but a righteous standing before God. Would you agree with me? That's pretty good news. I can I can I can be confident That before God, I am completely, purely, and perfectly righteous in my standing with God. Wow. We get a hold of that, it'll change your life Now my living righteously, doing right, doing right, is no longer an effort to be acceptable to God, to be, make myself somehow righteous enough for God to accept me That's not the motive anymore, because that'll fail every time. What does Isaiah say? Even our righteousness is as what? Filthy rags, when I bring it to God to present for my salvation, God's like, ooh, no, that ain't gonna work. But because of what Christ has done He presents his righteousness in my place, and God says, Oh, I accept him. I accept Dennis Letterman because of the righteousness that Christ put to his account. That's what he's preaching That's what he's preaching. And so the content is the righteousness of Christ put to our account. Number two, I notice the congregation that he's preaching to He said, I have preached righteousness, this message of righteousness, which is really the salvation is what he's talking about. The gospel is what he's talking about, Old Testament Form of the gospel. I preach righteousness in the great congregation So I thought, all right, who what's this great congregation he's talking about? Well, the term great congregation means what you might think it means. It means a large, organized assembly of people They organized, got a huge crowd of people come together, it's all organized, it's planned, it's deliberate at this large organized crowd of people, assembly of people. So when, where would he possibly Preach this righteousness to a large organized assembly of people. Well, you go back in the historical context, it would most likely be where? Somebody talk to me At the temple. It would be when they come together on the Sabbath. Or maybe special feast days. And they would have some special Sabbaths that weren't always on the seventh day. Sometimes there'd be other days of the week and they had different feast days and different ceremonial days. Sometimes they would call an assembly just for various reasons. And so most likely the immediate context of what he's talking about is when the people of Israel got together deliberately, he would get up and say, Hey Let me tell you about a coming Messiah. And he's going to pay for our sins once for all. And we're going to be able to stand before God perfectly righteous because of what this Messiah is going to do. Now that's the picture we get here of what David's saying he's doing. This this great message to these huge assemblies, these large great congregations, as the term is And so it's probably on you know special days like that, Sabbath days or whatever, there. But I don't think it's limited to that. The whole spirit, the whole spirit of this passage. Isn't limited some formal presentation of this righteousness. I think it would include any crowd of people. I think David, this is me, my thinking. I think he would find a great crowd of people. He'd get up and say, hey folks, let me tell you what God's done for me. Brought me out of a horrible pit. And I learned that God's not wanting just the sacrifice. He's going to provide. Himself do God's will. And he's going to pay for our sins once for all. Hey! We can be righteous with God. I think any where he saw a crowd, uh he'd go and tell them He testified what God did for them, and he proclaimed to them some good news. That's going to be a blessing to them. It's going to help them, good for them. This information about being righteous. I'm sure this great congregation would not exclude individuals If he's proclaiming it to great crowds, there's no doubt, my mind, he's telling individual people that he comes across Would you agree with me? It'd be a little hypocritical to give good news to a great crowd and not to an individual, right? Why would you do that? So I think the whole tenor, the whole spirit of this statement is he's telling everybody. Big crowds, little crowds, medium crowds, individuals. He's telling them about this righteousness. He's giving this information that has a positive impact on their life. That's good news. That's good news. Anyone and everyone, we can He wanted everyone to know what the coming Messiah was going to do. Give himself as a final offer for our sins. So say, well, preacher, that's wonderful. What does that have to do with me? I think you and I I think the Holy Spirit of God, to the Christian who is sensitive to it, the Holy Spirit of God puts in every believer A desire for other people to know about Jesus Christ what we know about Jesus Christ. Amen or not? I know when I first got saved, I didn't know how I couldn't tell you the books of the Bible. I thought Malachi was an Italian. I thought it was Malachi. Seriously, I didn't know. But something down inside my heart and soul, I wanted to tell other people what I had learned about Jesus Christ. But I knew what he did. It's there, I think every believer, it's down in there somewhere. Uh whether we respond to it, whether we're sensitive to the Holy Spirit or not. But we're not telling people the coming Messiah. We tell what we know about the Messiah that's already come. And we know his name. And we have some specifics now on how this all plays out in the New Testament. When I was um out on staff on neighborhood viral time in Boulder, um our training was in May, uh first couple three weeks of May And towards the end the guys are getting restless. I mean they're living in a confined uh it was a church building about like this. They live in there, we did all the training, did all the eating, everything. So these guys are getting cabin fever, they're going stir crazy So after about a week or so of intense training, we take them there in Boulder, downtown Boulder, there was what they called the Pearl Street Mall. It was just an open street where they had blocked off the roads. I think Cumberland has uh one down there. Um is it Queen Street or something down Cumberland, right? Baltimore Street. And so um well they had something like that and they would be they would be like these hippies, you know, they'd be playing, hey man you know, on the corners and there would be these little artesian things, uh art artists and do different things. So we take these we had like fifty Boy, a fellas about na uh about Ebon's age. We'd take them all down there and we'd say, Go get 'em, boys And I mean there's crowds of people, hundreds, thousands of people in this post. So they would set up on corners and they have their bullhorns. Jesus loves us and they'd start preaching on the street corner. Some of them would go another A couple blocks up, they would sing a little bit, then some guy would get up and tell them how to uh uh how to be saved and uh do street preaching. I think that's what David's talking about I'm going out there. I want everybody to know. I want everybody to have this information that I've gotten about this coming Messiah and what he's going to do for us. So the great congregation, everybody. So for us, it means I think We want to tell everybody we possibly can what we know about Jesus Christ. Right? In Oakland, and Bairn. Morgantown, we got track month coming up, we go everywhere. We want to get on board with men and and couples, young couples or old. And uh help them get to other countries around the world and tell great congregations what they know to be true about Jesus Christ. Right? That's what he's talking about. Now my last point, I'll end with this. Notice the courage of his preaching. So we have the contents, the righteousness that's available through Christ. The congregation is anybody and everybody. And then the courage. Look what he says at the last part of verse 9. Lo, I have not refrained my lips, O Lord, thou knowest. What's he say? Saying, I have not held back in proclaiming this information, this truth. This message. I am not the word restrain means to s restrict, to hold back. It has the idea of and I'm not much on horses. Some of y'all more than I am, my boys are very much into horses and stuff. Uh my son has I think twenty some of them. But uh what I want to understand a horse it'll have uh you'll have a little bit in the horse's mouth. Am I right so far? They put it in the mouth, right? Alright. And so then you have the reins come back from the bit, everybody, alright And the idea is to restrain the horse, you pull back on the reins. Right? And that horse and it stops it. David said, I did not do that to my lips. I did not hold back in declaring this message of righteousness. I didn't restrain it. I didn't hold it back. I didn't restrict it. I let it fly. I let it go. Now, there are a lot of areas. There's numerous areas in life we ought to restrain ourselves. Amen or not? Um I've been trying to do this for the last year. Restrain myself when it comes to eating Right? I didn't get many amens on that one. How many people could use a little more restraint in that department? Sure, we're Americans. We're probably all of us. And so I'm learning that. It's called discipline, it's called temperance. So there's various, there's numerous areas of life where we need to restrain ourselves. Would you agree with me? Just running our mouths about anything. Be good to restrain. Read Proverbs. It's put this way. He says, uh it's better that people think you're a fool than you open your mouth and prove it. Right. So I found it's pretty ha anybody here ever get in trouble because you didn't restrain your words? Yeah, good night. So there's very there's numerous areas in life where we need to practice restraint. We need to say, whoa But on this matter of giving out the information that we have about God's righteousness in the person of Christ, we do not restrain that. I had somebody criticize me some time ago. They said you you talk about the gospel too much Now I got looking in the Bible. The only person I find in the Bible saying they shouldn't talk about the gospel so much is the devil telling them not to preach in the name of Jesus. Now I understand we need to preach the whole council of God. Amen. Amen. We need to preach everything the Bible says, but Our message is Christ and Him crucified. Our message to the world, our message to Garrett County, Oakland, and the world Is the righteousness of Christ that is available to every old sinner who will put their faith in the perfect sacrifice of God. And find forgiveness and have that righteousness given. David said, I have preached righteousness in the great congregation, and I have not restrained my lips. And you know, Lord. That that's true. What a testimony. When I was in college there was um sh m my final years there There was two fellows showed up. They were freshmen. They were twins. I think they were, if I remember correctly, they were from Philadelphia. Just young guys, just the most pleasant guys you ever meet. And I mean Soul-winning fireballs. These guys were on fire telling people about Jesus Christ. We'd go downtown, Chattanooga, just everywhere. Every time we were off campus, anywhere. If there'd be some Uh, you know, we were right in the city, like I was saying this morning, this the campus was open in the city, it wasn't uh enclosed, so there's people from the city going by. Man, anybody going by zing! Zing zing. I mean these guys were something else. When I was studying this, I my mind went back to those two twins. I don't know whatever happened to them, but I'm telling you, they preached righteousness. Everywhere they went, and they did not hold back. And I thought, Lord, I'd like to have more of that in my life. I'd like for our church to be that way. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to help us to learn from David. He's preached righteousness in the great congregation. And I pray That we could do that same thing here in 2026 that we preach Christ And him crucified. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many of us tonight, I'm talking to myself as much as anybody, but I wonder how many of us tonight we could use a little bit more Of that boldness, that courage in giving out that message. Anybody here like that with me? Oh, I want to preach. Righteousness of Christ, the great congregation. I don't want to restrain my lips. I don't want to hold back. Let's ask the Lord to help us. That's what the Holy Spirit wants to do. See power after the Holy Ghost come upon you and be witnesses. And He'll help us. Father, please bless our witness for you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand again.