Please, the book of 2 Chronicles, the book of 2 Chronicles this morning. It's an honor to always preach with Dr. Smith and my friend Brother Fox. Uh thank you for those fifteen uh principles. Those are helpful, uh so practical, and I I I I'd like to know what would happen if every family and every church lived by those fifteen principles. It would be an amazing thing, would it not? You're in Second Chronicles chapter 34, and looking forward to Brother Smith, uh Dr. Smith preaching here in just a moment, so I'm going to preach and get out of the way. You're in 2 Chronicles 34. There is a king by the name of Manasseh. It's the nation of Judah at this point in time. Nation of Israel has already been taken into captivity. The nation of Judah has been ignoring God. They haven't been keeping the Sabbath. They still have high places all over the place. And Manasseh comes in, he humbles himself before the Lord And uh the the nation moves a tick to the right, and that's about all it was. He didn't tear down the high places, he didn't stop the idol worship, but he did in fact serve the Lord. His son Amon becomes his uh successor and he is just as wicked as he can possibly be. So wicked that his own servants assassinated him. And then the eight-year-old boy named Josiah Now, if you're thinking you already know about Josiah, you do. He was prophesied in 1 Kings chapter 13 by the no-name prophet that came From Judah up to Bethel to preach to Jeroboam. And he said that one day one of David's descendants, Josiah by name, is going to worship right here in Bethel. And we're going to find that uh tonight when we preach part two of this message. So if you're here this morning and you want to know more about Josiah and what happens at the end of this message, then you be here tonight. Don't miss the last service of our sword conference. But Josiah At the age of eight becomes the king of the nation of Israel. It's it's a uh, if you will, almost a trifecta of things that happen. Because when he was sixteen, he made a decision He decided to follow after the Lord, to walk in all the ways of his father David, to turn not to the left and turn not to the right, and so he surrendered his heart as a sixteen-year-old boy and served the Lord for the rest of his life. I get a little weary over the years I've preached over a hundred weeks of teen camps and so I get a little weary when you're in a church after a week of teen camps And the teenagers are standing up and they're giving all their testimonies or at the end of a youth conference uh w that you're gonna have at the end of this week, youth rally at the end of this week, teenagers will stand up and say, Well, I gave my heart to the Lord, or I gave up this kind of music, or I gave up the wrong kind of friends or I gave up the wrong kind of things on my phone. And you can literally watch the faces of church members, maybe a little bit older, and they are thinking this, well that's the same decision they made last year They almost have this attitude, almost yells from their countenance. I wonder how long it's going to last this time Let me tell you something. That not ought not to be the attitude. The attitude ought to be, I wonder how long I can help it last this time. I wonder how much of an encouragement I can be to this young person Because what we did, we took them away from all those other things and put them in a place, whether it's a camp or a youth rally or a youth conference, put them in this place where they're completely surrounded by preaching and the word of God. And as soon as they come home, mom says, Are you going to play your video game today? Listen, it's time for us to get our attention back to the Lord. Josiah becomes king at the age of eight at the age of sixteen. He surrenders his heart to the Lord in the eighth year of his reign. In the third year of his The thirteenth year of his reign, another monumental thing happens. In Jeremiah chapter 1, we see that it's in the thirteenth year, the thirteenth year of the reign of Josiah that the Lord calls Jeremiah to be the prophet unto the nation of Judah to root up, to pull down, to throw down, and to destroy. But then what I want to look at tonight is what happens in the eighteenth year of his reign. After five years of the preaching of Jeremiah, after five years of no one responding, after five years of Josiah serving the Lord, Josiah decides to turn his attention to the temple of the living God. He decides it's time to repair and amend the temple. It's time to get some of those vessels that have been put in there, and by the time Nebuchadnezzar takes over the city of Jerusalem and empties out the temple, there were vessels in there. Nebuchadnezzar took to the treasure house of his God vessels to the sun, to the moon, to the stars, to Baal, to Asheroth, all of those things are in the temple, but not during the reign of Josiah Josiah says we're getting it out of there. We're going to repair and amend the house of Almighty God. We're going to treat God's house the way it ought to be treated. And it's during this time that a startling discovery is made. A startling discovery of something that has been basically forgotten even in the nation of Judah. Something that is found that they shouldn't have had to look for. They should have known exactly where it was the whole time. Look, if you will, at 2 Chronicles chapter 34, we're going to begin reading in verse 8 Now in the eighteenth year of his reign, when he had purged the land, that means the high places are gone, and the house, he sent Shaphan the son of Azaliah, and Messiah the governor of the city, and Joah the son of Joaz. uh the recorder to repair the house of the Lord his God. When they came to Hilkiah, the high priest, they delivered the money that was brought into the house of God Which the Levites that kept the doors had gathered of the hand of Manasseh and Ephraim. Those are the two tribes that stayed on the other side of Jordan. And all and of all the remnant of Israel These are the ten tribes that have been taken captive by the Assyrians, but there's still a remnant, and so they have given to repair the house of the Lord his God. And Manasseh and Ephen all the remnant of Israel and all Judah and Benjamin, and they returned to Jerusalem. They put it in the hand of the workmen that had the oversight of the house of the Lord And they gave it to the workmen that wrought in the house of the Lord to repair and amend the house. Now skip down with me to verse fourteen. And when they brought out the money that was brought into the house of the Lord, Hilkiah the priest found a book of the law of the Lord given by Moses. Now, we'll take just a parenthetical for just a moment. Many Bible scholars believe that what they actually have found is the actual original handwritten by Moses Book of Deuteronomy. Whether it was in fact the original or whether it was a copy, it's still God's word. Understand if something is copied exactly like the original, it still is God's word. And we we look at that and say, well, it's impossible for a human to to copy something exactly the same. We're all going to make mistakes. Not if God's hand is involved in it, it's not. Notice what happens, please. Found the book of the law of the Lord given by Moses, and Elkiah answered and said to Shaphan the scribe, I have found the book of the law of the Lord. Uh, in the house of the Lord. And Hilkiah delivered the book to Shaphan. And Shaphan carried the book to the king, and brought the king word back again, saying, All that was committed to thy servants, they do it They have gathered together the money that was found in the house of the Lord and have delivered it into the hand of the overseers and the hand of the workmen. Then Shaph and the scribe told the king, saying, Hilkiah the priest hath found, hath given me a book and chapen, read it before the king, and it came to pass when the king had heard the words of the law. Then he ran his clothes. I want to preach your message straight from the lips of Hilkiah this morning. I have found the book I have found the book. I'm not looking for a book. I have found the book. I haven't found a book. I have found the book. It's just that simple this morning. And I want you to look at just three points. Brother Fox had fifteen points, and it took him about forty minutes. I have three points, it's going to take me forty-five. Okay? It's just that simple. But we're going to look at this passage of scripture. We're going to look As this priest by the name of Hilkiah, by the way, Hilkiah had a very famous grandson and a a very famous great grandson, and we'll get to them in just a moment. Let's have a word of prayer before we begin. The Lord Homely Father, we thank you for this morning. Lord, we thank you So much for what you've already done in our presence. Thank you for the Sunday morning service and what you did there, Lord, and thank you for the blessings of Sunday night. And thank you for the uh the time we spent around your word last night. listen to Dr. Smith preach about the interesting prodigal son and thought Father, we thank you for using the message on Samson last night. Father, help us to put those fifteen principles into practice in our lives, but now help us as we continue to just absorb the Word of God and the preaching and the worship of you Help us to take this passage of Scripture and apply it to our hearts. Father, have your will and your way in everything that's said and done in Jesus' name. Amen. Here's Hilkiah. And I often, I'm just going to tell you how I picture this. I picture Hilkiah working in the temple. I picture a skillsall sitting there and uh I picture a couple of Stanley Hammers and I picture some sheetrock dust. all over Hilkiah's high priestly garments. And there he is, and he knocks out a wall or moves a piece of furniture, and he sees something in there, and he picks it up and he begins to read it And he announces immediately that I have found the law. I found it. The Bible tells us the verse before that he found the book of the law of the Lord given by Moses. I want you to notice the first thing that he did was he recognized the book. He didn't say, well, this looks kind of strange. I wonder what this is. He didn't get some archaeologists to come and look at it. He didn't get some theological experts to come in and examine it. As soon as he picked it up, he recognized what it was He recognized the book first by realizing it had the right maker. He didn't say, Here's the law of Moses. No, he said, Here's the law of the Lord. This is God's word. I'm not preaching to you what John wrote, what James wrote, what Peter wrote. Understand, they were the human penmen. I have no problems with that. I believe that. Holy men of God said But what I have in front of me is God's word. It is not man's word. It is not something that has been cooked It's not an interesting set of stories. We don't need to replace it with dramas and plays and programs. We don't need to play replace it with strobe lights and fancy uh fancy screens behind us The fact is I have found the book of the law of the Lord. I know exactly what I have in front of me. They recognize it because they had the right maker. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine for a proof, for correction, for instruction and righteousness, that the man of God may be perfect, fully furnished into all good works. Second Timothy three sixteen and seventeen. We're commanded that man shall not live by bread alone But by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God, it is God's word. If I told you I'd found the letter but written by George Washington, everybody would be excited about it. But I've got a letter written by Almighty God and so many Christians, so many Christians act like it's just an unimportant part So many Christians act like and by the way I've seen it hundreds of times and every preacher in this auditorium has seen it. Someone comes to your church and you look down at them and they're doing this the whole time that you're preaching to them And when you confront them, they say, Well, my Bible's on my phone. I saw a preacher one time lift lift it up his phone. He said, Listen, this thing right here, I've got a Bible app on this thing. This thing contains the Word of God. But it's not the Word of God. He said this doesn't just contain the Word of God. It is. I love to hear the pages turn. You don't have any temptation to Read your Facebook post and how many likes you have because it's on the same phone that you've got your Bible at. Bring your Bible to church. It's got the right making God Almighty wrote this book. It ought to be the most important thing in our life. We ought to start our day with it. We ought to end our day with it. It's just that simple. It had the right maker, but secondly please, it had the right method. Don't you love that? He found the book of the law of the Lord given by Moses. God spake. He wrote it down. That's what the Bible tells us, isn't it? Second Peter chapter one and verse twenty twenty one. Holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. Just because human men were involved in it doesn't mean human sin went along with that. It is God's word. Superintended what they wrote. Now, I'm not here to argue about how it happened. You'll get men on good on both sides and they're Good men on both sides. I don't want to offend any one of them. Some will say that they were just sitting there and all of a sudden like a robot they started writing down. Others will say that God dictated it into their minds. Some would say that God planted it in their hearts and they wrote it under the inspiration of God. They all believe the same thing. God spoke, they wrote it down. They just want to know how Let me ask you something. What other miracle do we explain how? Please explain to me how Jesus walked on the water. How he fed five thousand. with five loaves and two fishes. I mean, did the disciples hold the basket as soon as he prayed? It was filled with food? Or do was there just a a piece of a loaf there and when they pulled it out, they looked back in and there was a piece of loaf there. How did Jesus do that? Can you please explain that? You can't explain it. If you can explain it, it's not a miracle. Inspiration and preservation, you can't explain it. It's a miracle. Here's what I do know. Here's what I would die to defend is when the apostle Paul finished the book of Galatians. It was exactly what God wanted to say to the Galatians. God spake, holy men wrote it down. It had the right maintenance. It had the right uh maker. It had the right method. And thirdly, though, it had the right maintenance. Now I want you to watch this, because we're going to get deep here for just a minute. It had the right maintenance. The nation of Judah, remember this. Only the nation of Israel had a Bible. There wasn't a printing press. There weren't scores of scribes writing down the words in Hebrew so they could pass it out to the Hittites and the Philistites. The Philistines and the Amorites and the Perizzites, the Word of God is only in the hands right now, according to in this passage of Scripture, it's only in the hands of the nation of Israel as a whole, and the northern kingdom is already in captivity. So the only people in the world that have the Word of God is the nation of Judah. And they've been ignoring it. They've been ignoring it so long that they had to remodel the temple to find it. They've not been believing it. They've not been living by it They've not been keeping it. They've not been quoting it. They've not been putting it on the tables of their heart. God's people that have been given God's word, I have ignored God's word. But listen now It's still the word of God. God's gonna take care of it. If tomorrow afternoon, let's let's make it Thursday afternoon because tomorrow is Wednesday night. After the Wednesday night service, Pastor Leatherman says, listen, calls in the men of his church and his deacons, and he sits down with them. He says, Fellows, listen. With thirty-two years. The Lord has certainly blessed. We've seen families strengthened. We've seen young people go off into the ministry. We've seen children raised in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. We've seen churches planted and missionaries supported. But he said this, I just think we've gone so far as far as we possibly can with this old book, with all of its these and all of its thou's and all of its prohibitions and all of its commandments. I just think we've gone too far I think if we're ever going to be a nationally known church, if people are watching on television and things like that, we've got to have those strobe lights and we've got to have those fog machines and instead of Preaching the the words of the Word of God. I'm just gonna stand up and tell stories and we're gonna sing songs and we're gonna have dramas and we're gonna have plays and we're gonna have programs and that's what we're going to do. And if all the men at this church said, you know, preacher, that sounds fine with us. We were just talking about that. We're with you a hundred percent. Then the whole church votes for that And then next Monday, Bob Pastor Leatherman calls me up and says, Brother Harper, listen, I know I've got you scheduled for a revival, I think, in twenty twenty-seven, and I know you're planning to be here, but I've got to tell you something He said we voted last week to get away from the King James Bible. We've got away from those these and the thou's and those archaic terms and all of that. And I've washed my hands of it and we just have dramas and programs and plays and you might not want to come to our church for revival. And I said, Oh preacher, I'm glad you called me. I was dreading having to call you and tell you this, but I've done the same thing I don't believe that book anymore. I've walked away from it. I don't preach it. I don't quote it. I don't live it. I just want to do plays and programs. And we come in and we do dramas at churches now when we come into your church. And so I then call up Brother Smith and say, Brother Smith Listen, I'm going to cancel my subscription to the sword of the Lord because I'm so tired of that old book with all those these and all those thou's and all those archaic Phrases in there and all those prohibitions and all those all those commandments and I just want someone to tickle my ears a little bit. And Dr. Smith said, Brother Harper, we just decided after 91 years that we're done with that book to. You don't have to worry about us. You don't have to cancel your subscription. We're not going to put anything in that paper anymore about the word of God. We're not going to stand for it anymore. We're not going to preach it anymore. And if every preacher in this auditorium said tomorrow, we're walking away from the Bible. We're not gonna preach it. We're not gonna live it. We're gonna let it not gonna let it affect our lives. Understand if I walk away from it and your pastor walks away from it and Dr. Smith walks away from it, and Brother Fox walks away from it, if every pastor in this church walks away from it. Follow me carefully. It's still the word of God. It is not the word of God because we believe it. We believe it because it's the word of God. Understand carefully. The people of Judah are not reading this book. They're not studying this book. They're not hiding in their heart. It's buried in the temple. Nobody is interested in it. But Almighty God has been taking care of it the entire time. It's not gone anywhere. Forever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven. Psalm one nineteen and verse eighty-nine. Proverbs Psalm chapter twelve Verses six and seven. The words of the Lord are pure words, as silver purified in the furnace of earth, purified seven times. Thou shalt keep them, O Lord Thou shalt preserve them from this generation forever. Matthew chapter five and verse eighteen. Verily, very I say to thee, till heaven and earth pass Not one jot or one kittle shall at no wise pass to the law till the all be fulfilled. Luke twenty one, thirty-three Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word shall not pass away. Isaiah chapter forty and verse eight The grass withereth and the flower fadeth. But the word of our God shall stand forever. Follow me carefully. This is God's word. It will always be God's word. No matter how many preachers walk away from it, no matter how many preachers Want to teach you a class on transitioning your translation, it's still the word of God. Notice carefully They found the they recognized the book. It had the right maker, it employed the right method, and it had the right maintenance. God still took care of it. Secondly, not only do they recognize the book, they did something outside of the box. They did something that so many of these Facebook warriors won't do You got all these guys on there that are telling you that you should use the old King James Bible. And then the more they talk, the more you realize they probably haven't read it in a while. The more they talk and try to sound spiritual, they just sound like someone who has been taught something when they were little and just lives by it, even though they haven't picked up their Bible in months and read it. Not only do they recognize the book, They read the book. Amen. They read it. Isn't that amazing? That's almost monumental in today. They read it. Doesn't the Bible tell us to do that? I mean, doesn't it tell us to meditate therein day and night that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein? For then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, then thou shalt have good success? Joshua chapter 1 and verse 8 Weren't we told in Psalm 1 to meditate therein day and night again? Weren't we told to study, to show thyself approved unto God, a work meaning not to be ashamed? Rightly dividing the word of truth. You can't rightly divide it without picking it up. We have too many preachers preaching what other preachers have preached. We have too many preachers preaching what commentaries have written. When Hilkiah got the book, how do you think he knew it was the book of the law of the Lord? You think he just said, well that's an old scroll. That might just no, that's not what happened. He said, I found the law. I found it. You don't know that until you start reading it. By the way, you have to know it a little bit to know that it's God's word. So you have to know uh to be able to recognize it, don't you? By the way, I mentioned this. It not only has the right maintenance well as far as God taking care of it, I didn't mention this. It also has the right maintenance for a family. Brother Fox talked about that briefly just a few minutes ago. Obviously everyone else has walked away from the Word of God in the nation of Judah, but not Hokkiah. He doesn't have to read the whole book to know what he's found. He starts reading it and knows, I found the book of the law of the Lord. Calls the scribe Shapan, I found the book of the law of the Lord. It had the right maintenance. So the rest of the nation of Judah walking away from God, it wasn't Hilkiah. Hilkiah's grandson, I believe it is. Uh it might uh it might have been his son, is a guy named Jeremiah His grandson is a guy named Ezra. Now you might not know who Hokiah is, but everybody knows who Jeremiah and Ezra are. How many other dads outside of the Zebedee's dad, how many other dads can say that their descendants wrote three books of the Word of God? Hokiah stayed with it. By the way, you stay in the Word of God, your family will stay solid too. You start wavering on which book is the right book. You start wavering about which one is the one that's going to do the work, you're going to find out your children waver. If the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do? Huh. I find that it's interesting also that when Hilkiah read it, he didn't say, hmm, I really am struggling understanding this because it's such old Hebrew Can't we get this translated into some modern day Hebrew so I'll be able to understand it? See how silly it is, Christian. And yet we have let those people act as if they're the intellectuals and we're the ignorant ones when their argument doesn't even make sense Notice carefully. They recognized the book, then they read the book. Isn't that what the Bible tells us to do? We're supposed to hide the Word of God in our heart. Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against thee. Try hiding it in your heart without reading it. Not just going to sit there by osmosis and absorb it when your pastor is preaching on it. To hide it in your heart, you're going to have to read it. And many people have to read it and read it and read it and read it and read it and read it and read it memorize it. Brother Fox was telling about his dad who can't re uh couldn't read very well and his mom would read it to him and and and he would sit there and memorize scripture. You have to have it around you. You have to have it in your ears for it to get into your heart. By the way, I will say this. A lot of there are a lot of preachers out there, and I can think of one in particular, I'm not going to mention him. Everyone is enamored by how many scriptures he could quote. Understand. Memorizing and quoting scripture, and I I I quote a lot of scripture, will make people impressed with your mind. Hiding it in your heart will make people impressed with your God. There's a difference between putting it here and putting it here. Notice the first thing they did was they recognized the book. It had the right maker, it had the right method, and it had the right maintenance. Number two, they read the book. But number three, and then we're done. I told you I'm not going to be that long. Number three, they rejoice in the book. Now I can see this setting. I really can. I close my eyes and I realize some of what I see when I close my eyes isn't exactly how it happened. But we want to go there in our Mine's eye. I am almost 62 years of age. I've been saved. Brother Fox and I were both saved in 1972. I've been saved for 53 years. And I've heard that phrase so many hundreds of times, and I have no idea what it means. Let's go back in your mind's eye. What is that? Are you so fancy you can't say imagination? I'm sorry. Let's go back in our imagination. We walk into the temple, all of us together, and there we see Hilkiah. Hilkiah's got a sledgehammer and he's knocking out a wall And over here is the the skill saw and the table saw and the hammers are all around, blueprints are laid out, signed by architects and everything like that. that and Hilkia doing the work here is all covered in sheet rot dust and all that kind of stuff. And he knocks out a wall and he looks in there and he says, huh He sees an old rolled-up piece of parchment or a piece of vellum. And he picks it up and he looks at it and he goes, heh, he, that might actually be the original Book of Deuteronomy written by Moses. I'm gonna set it down over here, close to the blueprint, so don't forget where it is. And the next time I have my quarterly meeting with Shay About the progress going on here at the temple. I'll see if I can remember to tell him about it. About three months later a Shaphan comes in and they start talking about all the good dees deals they got on sheetrock from Lowe's and that they're back ordered on the the brass fittings they need for the new plumbing and the the roofer has called in six for the last three weeks and they're so far behind on that. And they're talking about all the schedule that they've gotten and they sit there and they drink a couple of cup cups of coffee and they Talk about the progress at the temple. And Shapan says, Well, Hilkiah, I'll see you in another three months. We'll see if we can't get this thing back on track. And as he gets ready to walk out the door Hilkaiah says, Oh Shapin, wait a minute, and he starts moving things around the table, moving blueprints over and moving this over, and he says, I found this old rolled up piece of parchment, this piece of vellum right here, and I think actually This might be the original book of Deuteronomy written by Moses. And Chain says, Wow, that's pretty amazing. What a great artifact that is. I'm going to put it in my briefcase and when I have my quarterly meeting with the king and I give him the update on what's going on at the temple He said, I'll try to remember to tell him about this. Because see, I remember when he was only sixteen how he got right with the Lord. He might find it interesting to know that we found the book of the law of the Lord written by Moses Finally, Sheffin goes to the palace. They sit there. Now they don't have coffee in the palace. They have lattes in the palace. They're talking about all the things that are going on. Now their conversation is a little different than what he had with Hilkiah. They're talking about how uh that they've got problems with the the uh the the roofing union they got problems with permits and they got problems with other countries not shipping them imports and everything like that and they talk for about an hour And then the king says, Okay, Shafan, thanks for coming. I'll see you in a few more months. And Shapin gets to the door of the palace and he goes, Oh, Your Highness, I'm sorry, I almost forgot I found uh Hilkai the priest gave me something to give to you. He said you might find it interesting because of your religious background. And so I've got this old rolled-up piece of parchment, this rolled up piece of vellum that Hilkiah actually, you know, the old uh high priest over there, he actually thinks this might be the original book of the law of the Lord given by Moses. Josiah says, Oh, that's interesting Put that on my nightstand, and if I'm ever having trouble sleeping one night, I'll probably use it to fall asleep. See, I don't think that's how it happened at all Oh, I picture Hilkiah working in the temple. I picture this guilt saw and the hammers and the blueprints everywhere. And I picture Hilkiah in his high-priestly garment. covered up with sheetrock dust as he hammers away with the sledgehammer and he reaches down in there and he looks and notices something there and his hands start shaking and his voice gets weak and his heart starts jumping in his chest and he reaches down and picks it up. And he says, Oh Lord, could this actually be what I think this is? Lord, please, I'm thankful that you preserved this for so long. And he begins to read it, and tears short Flowing down his cheeks, dripping off of his beard, as he reads line upon line, and precept upon precept and line upon line, and he says, This is it. I am found the book of the law of the Lord. I've been preaching it. I've been living it. I've been teaching it to my kids. I've been teaching my grandkids and look what I found. And then all of a sudden he realizes I can't keep this to myself This isn't just for me. Shapan! Shaphan comes running in, wondering if there's an ocean violation or something. And he comes in and there's Hilkiah. He says, I found the book of the law of the Lord. And Shapan stands there beside Hilkiah. They have their arms around and their outside hands holding the scroll as they read it and weep together and hug each other together. And Sheikh says, Hokiah As much as I'd like to keep this to myself, as much as I'd like to just share with you, our king surrendered to the Lord at the age of 16. If there's ever been a king that would love to see this book It's King Josiah. And Jehovah says, Well, I hate to let it go, but you go ahead and take it to him. Shaphan goes running across the courtyard bursts into the palace and says, Your Highness, listen, everything's going fine in the temple. But Hilkiah the priest has given me a book. He says, here it is. It's the book of the law of the Lord given by Moses. Josiah says, Well son, don't just stand there. Read that thing to me. And then to an audience of one, Hilkiah reads me As Josiah's heart begins to melt within him, as he begins to get afraid of the judgments in the book, as he begins to get concerned about his distance away from the Lord, as tears flow down his cheeks. And when Shaph gets done, he'll call stands up and runs his clothes and said, This is it. Get everybody together. Get all the men, get all the women, get all the people of Jerusalem. You bring them to the temple. I'm gonna read it to every single one of them. They rejoiced at the book when they found it Wasn't a requirement to read it. They loved to read it. Wasn't a requirement to live it. They loved to live it. We've gotten to the place now what's almost as if God is an evil villain in heaven who forces us to waste all our time reading a book that is so old. It's not just an old book though. Now please don't think me a heretic when I say it. It's the old-fashioned newfangled book. All over this uh meeting of the last couple days I've seen a whole bunch of young little girls. I remember saying when my daughter was four, I say, my daughter is four years old, and in about thirty-five years she's gonna start dating She did it differently than that. She's already married and I already have an awesome grandson. But anyway, he's incredible. I to I think I told you about him Sunday. He's prettier than all your grandkids. But anyway. But now that she's married, now that all those years have passed, do you know how she knows how to be a good wife to her husband? Because God wrote it thousands of years ago. Do you know her husband knows how to be a loving h a loving husband and a a good father to his son? 'cause God wrote it down years ago. I'm here to tell you, a book written by the God who knows the end from the beginning is not just an old fashioned book. It's a new fangled book. See, if it's got the answers that you're gonna need tomorrow If it's got the answers for what your children are going to need when they grow up and leave home, if it's got the answers for every single problem in life Written down by the eternal God. It's not just old fashioned to be regarded as something like a horse and buggy and we don't need it anymore. No, it's new every morning. What I'm trying to tell you is this. He'll cay and shaven teach us some things about our Bible. Tells us that we can recognize it It has the right maker. It employed the right method. God spake. Holy men wrote it down. And it has the right maintenance because God preserved it. And even if we walk away from it, it's still God's word. We should read it. We should be in it every single day. We should hide it in our heart and meditate in it every single day. Keep it in our lives. Keep it in front of us. Never make a decision without it But thirdly, please, uh it has the right uh we should we should not rejoice in the book and recognize the we should not just read the book and recognize the book, we should rejoice in the book. We should love the fact that we have An actual love letter from Almighty God. You realize what this book really is, and we're done. It's the autobiography of God. Everything that you know about God is in this book right here. Not everything that you feel about God is in you Not everything that you think about God, but everything that you know for certain about Almighty God, it's all right here. And He wrote it down for us. He told us what He knows we can understand So we can live by it. Even though acknowledging in the same book we can't understand him. As the heavens are above the earth, so are my ways above your ways, and my thoughts above your thoughts. We can't understand him But we can understand what he wrote for us. It's time for this book to take its rightful place in every home and in every life in this auditorium. It's time for God's people to say I don't just like it. I don't just read it. I don't just memorize it. But I love it. Think about old Hokkaya. I love Hokiah and Shapin just standing there Looking at the book together. And I love Josiah's response when he hears it. He literally gathers the whole nation together. Where? to the temple. By the way, the church ought to be a place that's all about this book. We'll have a word of prayer. We thank you for this morning. Lord, we thank you for our time together. Lord, we pray that you'll bless the next message by Dr. Smith. Thank you for speaking to our hearts this morning. Thank you for your word. Thank you for the historical accounts that you've given us. Help us, Father, to love your word, that you have painstakingly inspired, protected, and preserved for us. Help us, Father, to give it its just due, to honor it, and to love the God of the Bible in Jesus' name. Amen.