40 verse 10. We're working our way through and just kind of dissecting this chapter. Of course it's penned by David and just a tremendous first several verses. In verse 10 he makes this statement. This is one I want to jump right into it. He says, I have not hid thy righteousness within my heart. I have declared thy faithfulness and thy salvation. I have not concealed thy loving kindness and thy truth from the great congregation. Up in verse 9 he says he preached righteousness to the great congregation. Now down here he says I've not concealed your loving kindness and your truth. And so I've entitled the message, I declare thy righteousness. Let's pray. Just give a few thoughts here, and uh, and then we'll move on. Father in heaven, I thank you for the word of God. And what encouragement and strength I find in my heart and soul from your word and what it's meant to me all these many years. And I know I speak on behalf of many folks here tonight that your word has had a profound impact on our lives. Now, as we look at this one short little passage here, this one verse. I ask that your Holy Spirit would glean out of this verse truths and principles that would help us in our faith. In our walk with you, and our witness. And so I yield myself to you, Lord. I present my body anew. I yield my heart and mind and pray that you would fill me and that, Lord, you would speak through me and help us and challenge us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I think most people will agree with me that some of our biggest regrets in life have to do with our tongue. Right or wrong? Biggest regrets in life. Keep your place here. I want to come back to this here in just a moment. But I'd like for us to go to the book of James, New Testament book of James, right after Hebrews. And James has a bit to say about the tongue and what the potential regret there is in that little muscle in our mouths, the tongue. Some of our biggest regrets in life have to do with our tongue. James chapter 3 is where we're at. Give you a moment to find it there. And I want to begin reading in verse 2. I'm going to read about eight or nine verses, but think about this matter of the tongue. Look at verse 2. He says, For in many things we offend all. It's easy for us to do something stupid to offend people, right or wrong. If any man offend not in word, the same as a perfect man, and able also to bridle the whole body. In other words, if I can control my tongue, the words I say, then I've probably got good control over every area of my life. Behold, we put bits in the horses' mouths that they may obey us, and we turn about their whole body Behold also the ships, which though they be so great, are driven and are driven by fierce winds, yet are they turned with a very small helm, whithersoever the governor listeth Even so the tongue is a little member, and boasteth great things. Behold, how great a matter a little fire kindleth And the tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity. So is the tongue among our members that it defileth the whole body, and setteth on fire the course of nature, and is set on fire of hell. For every kind of beast and of birds and of serpents and of things in the sea is tamed and hath been tamed of mankind, but the tongue can no man tame. It is an unruly evil full of deadly poison. Therewith bless we God, even the Father, and therewith curse we men, which are made after the similitude of God. Out of the same mouth proceedeth blessing and cursing. My brethren, these things ought not so to be. Some of our biggest regrets in life have to do with our tongue. And the lack of control of our tongue. I think too often we speak when we should keep silent. Can I get a witness? How many people ever s how many people ever thought this? And I just wish I'd have kept my mouth shut. It's usually best. Proverbs 21, verse 23 says, Whoso keepeth his mouth and his tongue keepeth his soul from troubles. The word troubles there has the idea of distress and adversity, affliction, anxiety. Whoso keepeth his mouth keepeth his uh who and his tongue keepeth his soul from troubles. Anybody remember uh brother Tom Kite? Remember here, Nancy, they sat down here. They've been with the Lord a number of years. She was real sick in the hospital in Cumberland. One time I was visiting, I'd spent a little time with them there in the hospital And sh Nancy always called Tom Kitey. Her last name was Kite. She called him Kighty. We got I don't know what we got talking about She was in her 90s at the time. She asked how old my dad was. At the time he was 79. She goes, oh, he's young. She was being serious. She said, old Kidi, he don't say much. He doesn't say much. He's just quiet. And he it's true, if you knew him, that's true And so he was standing beside me when she said that, and he leaned over into my ear and he said, It keeps me out of trouble. I looked at him and I said, There's a wise man right there. Sometimes we have regrets when we speak, when we really should keep quiet. Proverbs 10, verse 19 says, He that retaineth his lips is wise. Proverbs 13, 3 says, He that openeth wide his lips shall have destruction. So sometimes we have regrets when we speak, when we really should be quiet. However, there's another side to that. Sometimes regrets come when we're quiet and we should really speak up. And you ever in a situation after where you said, man, I should have said something there. Right? I don't know how you are. I'm I'm kind of slow on the draw sometimes. I asked the Lord to forgive me, but I'll find a circum situation or a circumstance where, man, I there was an opportunity to speak up for the Lord and I missed it Ah, what was I thinking? I should have said something. In Acts chapter 4, verse 20. Acts chapter 4 is a tremendous chapter. It's a fascinating chapter in the book of Acts, really in the whole New Testament Church is established, they're starting to grow, they're outwitnessing, they're seeing people saved, and persecution now is kicking in in Acts chapter 4. They take Peter and John and they detain them, they interrogate them, and then they threaten them, and they tell them: do not speak or preach in the name of Jesus. And listen to how Peter, his response back. He said, For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard. He said, we've got to speak out. We've seen some things that are incredible. We've heard truths that we cannot keep to ourselves We've seen God do things. We've seen Christ die on the cross for our sins. We've seen Him rise from the dead. We've seen the sick heal. We've seen souls saved and lives changed and drunkards sober and liars become honest. We've seen all these things we can't help but speak of it In Matthew, or Mark chapter 5 and verse 19, there's a what we refer to as the maniac of Gadera. I don't know how this guy ended up in this situation, but he's possessed of a legion of devils. To be possessed of one devil would be horrific. I can't imagine thousands of devils Possessing his body in his body. However that how in the world he finds himself in that situation, we're not told. But he's living in the cemetery. And the and apparently he was very violent, he was very dangerous, and they would try and chain him down. And he was so possessed of devil, he had such a supernatural demonic power, he could just break the chains asunder. Listen, I'm here to tell you, this isn't isn't my message, but I'm here to tell you the devil's real. It's powerful, it's for real. And he would tear his clothes off, and he would live in the cemetery screaming and hollering in just a nightmare, possessed of thousands of devils in one body. And Jesus shows up. He comes down. He worships Jesus. You know the story. And the Lord casts all those devils out of him. And where do they go? And the pigs. And they run off the cliff and drown in the sea. And this man is now clothed, and he's in his right mind. I'm telling you, Jesus Christ can change even the worst of lives. And the Lord's I'm embellishing here maybe a little bit, but the Lord's packing up and they're going to leave. They're going to go back to the other side of the sea. And he comes to the Lord and he says, and again, I'm putting my own words here, but he says something to the effect, I want to go with you. I want to follow you. I want to go where you're going. You've changed my life. Your power of your grace and your words have delivered me in such a profound way. My life will never be the change, never be the same. I want to follow you, Jesus. And for reasons of the Lord's knowing, the Lord doesn't let him follow him. And he makes a statement to them. He says, Go home to thy friends and tell them how great things the Lord hath done for thee, and have compassion on thee. Here's another situation where to be silent would be sinful. For God to do something To that degree in his life, and then never mention it. Never share that That truth and the and that power with anybody. And the Lord said, go home and tell people. Speak up. You've heard the saying, silence is golden, right? I want to suggest, and 99% of the time that is correct. But sometimes silence isn't golden, sometimes it's yellow. It's cowardice. It's fearful. There are times when we should speak up There are circumstances when we need to not be silent, but we need to open our mouth. Peter said, How can we but speak of the things we've seen and heard? Jesus said, Go home to your friends, tell them what God has done for you. Tell them. What you've experienced. That's what David is doing in Psalm chapter 40. I said all that to bring us back to Psalm 40. David is not being silent about what God has done for him. He is not, David is speaking up. He's testifying To what he knows to be true about his God and what he's experienced in his relationship with God. Now, I have three thoughts I want to give you real quick. Number one, I notice he testifies to God's character. Are you back in Psalms 40? Look there at verse 10, just the first statement. He says, I have not hid thy righteousness within my heart. When he uses that term righteousness, he's referring to the character of God. God is righteous. And he says, I didn't stay quiet about that. That phrase hid there, I have not hid thy righteousness. The word hid means to cover up or to keep to myself. He said I didn't do that. I shared it. I testified that God, his character, he is righteous. Psalm 66, 18, again, David, under the inspiration of God, says, If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear my prayers. He won't hear me. Saying, if I have sin in my life, if I have iniquity in my life, there's something in my life that displeases God, that is sin against God, and I hide it in my heart, God won't hear me. Again, in Proverbs 28:13, he that covereth his sins shall not prosper. Same word is the word hid here. I think there's a principle here I must confess. I cannot hide my sin in my heart. I cannot conceal it. I cannot hold it there. I need to take my sin and I need to bring it to God. I need to confess it to God. I need to open it up, not cover it, but open it up, confess it, and forsake it to God. And again, I emphasize this every time we talk about confession, confessing my sin to God is not giving God information. He already has that information. I'm not telling God something he doesn't know. God, I hate to say this, but I was bad. What? That's not what we're talking about. It's not what confession is. Confession is taking my sin and coming to God, being honest and open to God and saying, God, this was wrong. I judge it with the same judgment you judge. I view it the same way view it. I condemn my sin the same way you condemn it. That's what confession is. And so when we have sin in our heart and life, we bring it to God and we don't conceal it. We open it up. We don't hide it. We confess it to God. Now we need to be very, very careful. I'm not of the opinion Every sin needs to be made public to everybody, but it needs to be brought to God I don't think it's wise to get up in testimony time and tell everybody all your dirty laundry. That's between you and God. Amen or not. Now if you've sinned against somebody, then you need to go deal with them with that. So on the same hand, on the other hand, when I have iniquity in my heart, sin in my heart, I need to come to God and open it up. Don't cover it, don't hide it, confess it, or open up to God. On the other side of that, if God has been righteous to me, if God has been good to me, I don't hide that either. I take that out too. people and let them know God is righteous. I'm not going to hide the righteousness of God, his character. We open it up. The word righteous here means moral perfection. God is morally perfect. There is no sin in God Speaking of Jesus Christ, 2 Corinthians 5 says that he was made righteousness, he was made sin for us who knew no sin. He knows no sin. God is righteous. To be righteous means to do right. God always does right. So what he's saying here, he says, I've not hid thy righteousness within my heart. God, you've done right by me You've done right by me, and I'm not hiding that, I'm not keeping that a secret. I want everybody to know that God is righteous and He's done right by me. Often people will blame, and I've dealt with this, people will blame God for consequences of their own decisions. Somebody will do something stupid, or they'll sin against God, and there are consequences. Now God forgives us if we confess our sins. He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins, cleanse us from all righteousness. But that doesn't always remove the consequences. There's things we have to live with when we make stupid decisions. I say this often because I really like to. But that great theologian, John Wayne. You know where I'm going, right? Life is hard, and it's even harder if you're stupid. And my modification, you've heard me say it a hundred times, life is hard and it's even harder if you're sinful. God will forgive. Praise the Lord for that. But sometimes there's consequences. I can't come and say, God, you didn't do right for me because I have to live with all these consequences. No, no, no. That is a result of your own stupidity. Right? You with me? God does right. The reason God does right is because He is righteous. There's no sin in God. There's no moral imperfections at all. What God does is right I heard years ago someone said, I don't remember where I came across this, but they said, I just need to learn to forgive God. That's borderline blasphemy. We don't need to forgive God because He's righteous. God has done nothing that needs forgiving. God will do right because he is righteous. So David says, all right, I'm not hiding this. God has done right by me God has not sinned against me. God has not done anything that is morally or ethically wrong to me in any way, shape, or form. He is absolutely righteous. He is done right by me. And I'm not going to hide that. I'm going to testify to everybody. And I think it'd do our community a heap of good if God's people would just go out there and start testifying the fact that God is righteous. The devil gives God a bad rap. Right? That's what he did to Adam and Eve. What? You can't God won't, he knows. He ain't doing right by you. If you, man, if you eat of that tree, you'll see just like him, he's holding back on you, he ain't treating you right God did treat them right. In fact, the price of believing the devil's lie is horrendous and we still deal with it today. So David says, I want to testify to God's character. He is righteous. And he's done right by me. Wouldn't it be wonderful if you go up to Walmart? Everybody in Walmart know, uh, yeah, God's done good. God's done right by me. God's done right by me. Second thing I notice here is he declares God's conduct. Number one, he testifies to God's character. He's righteous. He is righteous. That's what he is. Then he declares God's conduct. Look at verse 10. Look at the second statement. I have declared thy faithfulness and thy salvation. Now, the word declare there, I got studying that word, I really enjoyed studying this word. It has the idea to talk about or to speak about with a hint of pride I've declared to talk about God's faithfulness, God's salvation with a hint of boasting. It means to speak unashamedly about God's faithfulness and God's salvation. It's almost like, as I got sending this, it's almost like David is saying I'm bragging on God's faithfulness to me. I'm boasting about God's salvation that He's given to me I got this is the picture I came to my mind as I was studying that out. It's like a little boy bragging about the greatness of his daddy. Right? Jerry we ever when you're a little oh yeah, my daddy can beat up your daddy. My daddy's better cooked than your daddy. And it's like us saying, oh yeah, my God's better than your devil. Huh? This whole world loves to praise the devil. I'm here to tell you, the devil don't hold a candle to the greatness of our God. This old world doesn't have. And so he says, I've declared this. It has a hint of Cry, God's faithfulness. My God has been faithful to me. He saved me. It's like bragging on him. Bragging on God. So he brags on God's faithfulness. What does it mean, God's faithfulness? Well, it means the word faithful means to be stable, to be firm, fidelity. No changing fluctuation there. God does not change. I can trust him. He's reliable. He's faithful. I can put my confidence in. He's stable. I can rest my trust in him. It's kind of like Uh when I go out knocking on doors, uh sometimes I'll come and maybe a little rickety house there a little bit and there'll be a a little s wooden steps. And maybe a little wooden uh like platform there uh going up to the house. And sometimes, man, those things just look uh and so I go up and I'll put a little weight on it You know? You know what I'm talking about? And then you put a little and you kinda jump up and down, then you get on top and then boom you fall through That's never happened. Or a ladder. You haven't been out on the tree stamp for a while and you got a wooden ladder there and it's been out in the weather and you get up there And you kind of check out the rungs on that ladder a little bit if it holds your weight. What David is saying is, God holds the weight of my faith. He's trustworthy. I can put my trust in him. He's faithful. And he wants people to know. He's declaring it. God is faithful. You can trust him. You can take what God instructs us to do and follow that instructions, and God will do what He promises to do. That's been a major message from this pulpit for 32 years. You can trust God with your life, with your needs, with your future, with your soul. David's declaring that God is faithful. And then he declares God's salvation. He's bragging on God, on all that he did for his salvation. How many folks here tonight you're saved? You know it. Say amen. Well, why don't we brag on that to people? Not our goodness. The only thing I contributed to my salvation was the sin that needed to be forgiven. I have nothing to brag on myself, on salvation. All I did was heard of Christ and trusted him, and God saved me and changed my life, gave me eternal life Gave me a home in heaven, gave me the Holy Spirit dwelling within me, gave me peace and contentment, and took away the guilty conscience And God did all that. God did that. And we want the whole world to know. We want all of Oakland to know. We want all Gary County to know that God is faithful and He will save David says, I'm testifying to that. He opened his mouth. He didn't stay quiet on this. And neither should we. And then my last observation here is verse number 10. Then last of all, he says, I have not concealed thy loving kindness and thy truth from the great congregation. Loving kindness and truth. That word loving kindness is found, I've looked this up, 176 times in the Bible, it refers to God's loving kindness. Now, what is loving kindness? What does he mean? God's loving kindness. What is that? It means not just being kind. But being kind in a compassionate way, compassionately kind I was listening to an old sermon, I think it was A. W. Tozer, recording, old, old recording. And he said there's a word in the English language that's hardly ever used anymore. He said, but it's a great word. And after he explained it, I never heard it before. And apparently it's a legitimate word. He says, but when he said that, I said, I like that word. He said, the word is this: to compassionate. It's an action to compassionate. See somebody in need, and I compassionate them I show kindness, loving kindness, compassionate kindness to them. I compassionate them. How do you feel agree for me? Isn't that a cool word? I study words. That's my life, words I think that's a cool word. Compassionate. And that's the idea. David says God compassionated me. He was kind to me, but not just kind in a cold, indifferent way. But he was kind to me because he loves me. He sincerely cares about me. He's kind to me. Loving kindness. It's kindness that is rooted in God's loving character. John tells us that God is love. He is love. That's part of his character. It's what he is. All love that's experienced, genuine biblical love, not lust of the world, but love comes of God. And that love and God's character, what he is, prompts him and compels him to be kind to us. In a compassionate way. You can be kind to somebody, a total stranger, and just hold the door or be kind to them and could care less about them. You're just being decent. That's David said, no, it's a whole nother level. God loves me so much that He does kindness to me, kindness to me. God's love for me as a person is greater than my actions as a sinner. Don't ever think Don't ever think that because we've sinned, that God no longer cares about us. Don't ever think that because you've sinned, God no longer loves you. Because that is not true. God will deal with the sin. If I harden my heart and I don't confess it, God will chasten me, but even that chastisement is because He loves me. When the Lord loveth, he chasteneth and correcteth, as a father is son. God's love for me as a person is greater than any sinful deed I may commit. Ask David about that. He said, I want to declare. He says, I am not concealed thy loving kindness, the kind, the love you've shown me, the kindness you've shown me. Romans 5. 8, but God commendeth his love toward us in that while we were what? That sinners, Christ died for us. His love for me as a person is greater. Then my sin. And if I come and confess it, he's faithful and just to forgive me my sin, cleanse me from all unrighteousness. If I don't confess it, I harden my heart Then in love he comes and chastens me and brings me to the point where I make it right. Loving kindness. David said, I want everyone to know, I want everyone to know that God is good. That God is righteous to me. He's been faithful to me. He loves me. He's been true to that loving kindness to me. I want everybody to know. Here's my challenge for us this week. Regardless of what our circumstances are, regardless of what we're facing, difficulties, afflictions, adversity, whatever we're facing, rather than focusing on the The dark side, how about we get our eyes on Jesus and focus on his righteousness and his goodness and his love and his truth, his faithfulness. And then let this old world know there are a few people in Garrett County that are not afraid to speak up for God's goodness and God's Faithfulness. Amen? Let's pray. Father, I ask you to take these thoughts tonight and help us learn from David's example. To not be afraid to speak up. We're so quick to complain weather and this, that, and the other, everything. We're not happy about this. We don't like that. Lord help us to follow David's example. And tell folks how good you really are, Lord. I pray your Holy Spirit would help us do that. With heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I really need to get my eyes on the Lord? His goodness. I get so I get so distracted by the trials of this life, I forget how good God is. Is there any like that by the up hand? I really need that. God bless you. My hand's raised. I get caught up in it. I want to be like David. I want to go to Walmart and Sheets and wherever and just talk about how good God is, how faithful He is. Father, bless now our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.