Find 1 Corinthians 13. Get a pen and a paper. Through those four things. First John chapter 4. 1 Corinthians 13. And a pen and paper. I'm just going to give you a little list here. This morning we preached on Jesus Loves Our Church. I don't know about you. I am glad Jesus loves Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Mercy. And uh and then in response to that, we love him because he first loved us. Uh not only does Jesus love Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, I'm gonna speak tonight just very quickly, just a few thoughts on um I Love Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. And I think I speak for many of us, maybe all of us, when I say I love this church. I love it. It is my joy in life. To be a part, a member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Look at 1 John. You got 1 John? How many people have 1 John? Raise your hand. How many people have Corinthians? Raise your hand. 13. How many people have a pen? Raise your other hand How many people have a piece of paper? Raise your other hand. All right, you guys. Great class here. Very good. Look at verse 7, 1 John chapter 4. Beloved, let us love one another. For love is of God. And everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. He that loveth not knoweth not God, for God is love And this was manifest the love of God toward us, because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world, that we might live through him. Hearin is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us, and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Now look at verse 11. Beloved, if God so loved us, We ought also to what? Love one another. If God loved us that much, if God, the perfectly holy God, can love us as sinners, Surely we as sinners can love one another as sinners. Amen? Let's pray. Father, please bless. I just want to give a couple thoughts tonight, Lord. So I pray you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit and speak to us, challenge us as we go into a new week. And Lord, I pray you'd help me never to take for granted the body of Christ, the local church. Help me, Lord, to love you and to love your people that make up this church. In Jesus' name, Amen. First Corinthians thirteen is known as the love chapter. I use that usually at a wedding, when I do a wedding I'll some point in the service, refer to First Corinthians thirteen. The church at Corinth was a paradox. Anybody know what a paradox is? What's a paradox? Somebody help me. I thought of it and I didn't know what it meant, so I thought I'd ask everybody. A paradox, it's two docks set beside each other out on the lake. A pair of docks A paradox is two things that are kind of opposite, but they're true of the same thing. For instance, a church at Corinth In chapter number one, Paul writing the inspiration of God, he wrote to the church and he said, You come behind in none of the gifts, and none of the spiritual gifts. In other words The church at Corinth, that local body of believers, just like our church, as far as what a church is, he wrote to them and said, you have all the spiritual gifts That the Holy Spirit has available to individuals that make up a church. You have all of them. You come behind in none of them. It's very possible there has never been a church as gifted Spiritually gifted as the church at Corinth. They had the gifts of the Spirit, but here's where the paradox comes in. They did not have the fruit of the Holy Spirit. And when you get to chapter 12 in Corinthians, he's addressing how God gives to every member of the body, every individual is part of the body, is a member of the body, makes up the body, and God gives each member specific gifts, abilities, skills, talents that they can use and are to use to build that body and advance the gospel. And he writes them in chapter 12. Then chapter 14, he picks up on these gifts again. He lists them and he narrows zeros in on the gift of tongues, which they had distorted. But right between those two chapters, he's talking about the gifts of the individuals that make up the body of Christ, and right in between there he has chapter 13. And chapter 13 is what we call the love chapter. He uses, actually uses the term charity And he says, though I speak with the tongues of men of angels and have not charity, I am become as a sounding brass tinkling cymbal. Though I have the gift of prophecy and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and though I have all faith, so that I can remove mountains and have not charity, I am what? Nothing. And though I bestow my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, he says it again, it profiteth me what? Nothing. He's saying, listen, you can be the most active church. You're Bible preaching. You're a Bible, you can have the you can teach and preach like an angel of heaven You can have the greatest charity, greatest giving ministries and helping the poor and feeding. You can do all of that. But if you don't have love for each other, If you don't have charity, it profits what? Nothing. I want to suggest to you that one of the most important ingredients In our congregation, in our ministries, is to have charity one for another To love each other. All this stuff we do, and we do a lot, and I tell you, this shutdown was a blow to me Man, we're going full steam ahead. We're a runaway train going on down a mountain on a in ministry-wise. We're just going, going, going, then all of a sudden But here's the thing, we can do all of that, but we've got to make sure we have charity one towards another. Now we don't have time. I wanted to, and I want to Shut this bound. But if you read down through the rest of that, those following verses, if you'll notice every one of those descriptions of charity is an action word. It's something doing, doing, doing. Um the word charity itself, some some some A lot of versions change that, and some preachers say, well, it's just love. No, it's not just love. That word charity is used for a reason. It has a very specific definition The word charity comes from the word agape that we referenced this morning in the message. But it is this, it's unconditional love, get this, it's unconditional love in action. It's how agape love, how unconditional love behaves, what it does. I'm going to challenge you this week to read down through that. What charity is, it's kind, goes down through that list. I love my church. And I want my life and my behavior and my actions and my words to manifest The love that I have in my heart for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. You follow what I'm saying? I want my love to be charity I want it to be an action displayed in my behavior, in my attitudes, and my words, my interaction with people. I put down, here's where I want you to write down this, and I'm going to give these to you, and then boom, we're done. I put down this. I want my love for my church to be seen in my faithful commitment. Number one, my faithful commitment to the church. I think you all know, I think we all understand this to be true. If we love someone, we want to be around them. Right? You love someone, you want to be with them, you want to do things together, you want to be there with them And I think one of the greatest ways to manifest, one of the greatest ways to manifest our love for our church is just a faithful commitment to the church. I've often said this over the years. One of the greatest things you can do for the success of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is just be faithful to its services. Let's come and be here. Just be a part of what's going on. Be involved. My faithful commitment to the services in one way or another, in any way I I can be. If you love someone, you want to be with them. There's a commitment. Serve them. You want to try and help them succeed. I love Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. And I want to have a faithful commitment to this church and do what I can To be together and help this church, every member and people to succeed. Can you imagine if every member of the church would approach with that attitude? We joke about it sometimes. Somebody walks in the back of the church and says, all right, bless me. You know, but charity Love for the church walks in and says, I want to be a blessing. I want to help this thing work. I want to help this thing succeed. I want to be encouragement. Number one, faithful commitment. Number two, I put this down. I want to love my church. I want to be seen in my fervent prayers. Faithful commitment, fervent prayers. Pray, pray, pray. Now we've been talking about that, and I'm not going to elaborate, but I tell you, I thank God for ladies came out yesterday and prayed. I thank God for folks come out Wednesday night and pray Thank God for the men, men's prayer breakfast, come out and pray. Men's prayer meeting on Sunday nights and pray. We're starting up Sunday school here on March 7th. We're going to start our teacher prayer meeting again Saturate this thing with prayer. I found this. People I love, I pray for. I pray for. I find myself all through the day praying for my family, my wife, and my boys I got thinking about this, it's been some time ago, and I wrote a note to the boys and told them, I don't think, now I might be exaggerating here a little bit, but I'm pretty close I don't think three hours go by in the day where I don't think about my boys and pray for them. Lord, help them, give them wisdom. You know why? I love them. And pray for our church. Pray for one another. My dad, somebody referenced, my dad James did. And He got he had the uh church directory and he would take that at home and he would pray through all the names and faces in that church directory And pray that God would bless him. He learned to love our church. So number one, faithful commitment. Number two, fervent in my prayers. Number three, I put this down, fruitful in my giving. God loveth a cheerful giver. Oh, I tell you, if you love someone, you gladly give to them Right? You just want to give 'em stuff. Give 'em stuff. Uh the teachers, you know, the little kids fall in love with the teacher and they're bringing in all kinds of trinkets and stuff. I tell you one of the great things about being a pastor is I'll come back there and there'll be a little candy bar on my desk. or uh Reese's pieces by the way. But uh little candy bar there. I came in, it's been back oh it's last spring maybe or whenever it was. I came in and uh uh Jennifer was working and she had uh Joslin with her. And I was out doing something. I come back in my office and on my desk were little stickers she had written out, I love you, Pastor, and she stuck them on my desk. They're still there. I can't peel them all. I wouldn't want to peel them all, but they're stuck on there. I love my pastor. I love you, Pastor, or something like that. And uh, you know, when you love someone, you want to express it, you want to show it, you want to give it. I love my church. And I want to give, not just financially, I want to give financially to tithe. I want to give the faith promise. I want that to succeed. But I want to give my time, my efforts, any abilities I might have. I want to give to that church because I love the church. Love the church. When you love someone, you are fruitful in your giving. Number last one, let me end with this. I want to be faithful in my witness. I want to be faithful in my witness. Our job as a church is to get the gospel to every person in the whole world, one way or another, primarily by preaching, but to get the gospel to every person. I want to be faithful in carrying out the mission of our church. I'm going to be faithful in my witness. Here's what I ended with, my thinking, when I was jotting these down. I don't want to say, now I hope you hear me this, and I I think I many of you no doubt share the same sentiment with me. I don't want to say or do anything that would bring shame. to this church. I don't want to say or do anything. Um I don't want I don't want to say or behave in any way that would hurt The body of Christ here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Amen. I don't want to hurt this body. You love someone. You don't want to hurt them. They don't want to bring shame to their name. I thought about Proverbs 20, Proverbs 12, verse 4 says, a virtuous woman is a crown to her husband. In other words, the way she behaves and conducts herself, it brings honor to her husband. She's a crown. I want to be a crown to my church. I want to conduct myself and behave myself in a way that people think, wow, that church is something else. That church is, that church has the presence of God. That church has the touch of God on it. I love my church. I want it to succeed. I want it to carry out its mission. Alexander the Great was inspected, was on some crusade somewhere And they had a policy, as I understand it, with their soldiers, that if they were on guard at night, they were stationed out in the perimeter and they would be on guard. If they fell asleep, that was really bad. In fact, one of the things, as I was reading this article about it, one of the things they would do is if a guard, if a soldier fell asleep while he was on guard, they would pour oil on him and light him on fire It was bad. You don't fall asleep. Alexander one evening couldn't sleep. They were out in a crusade and he began walking out around the perimeter and he found a guard and he walked up on them and the guard was asleep And he shouted, soldier, what's your name? Boy, the guy jumped up and realized what his situation was. He knew this was bad. His life was in danger. And he said, he said, sir, my name is Alexander. Alexander Great said to him again, even harsher, soldier, what is your name? He said, sir, my name is Alexander. A third time he screamed at, what is your name? Fellow said, sir, my name is Alexander. Alexander looked at him and he says, either you change your behavior or you change your name. Alexander. I thought, Lord, help me never say or do or conduct myself in a way that would hurt my church It's better to change my name than to bring shame to the church. You follow what I'm trying to say. Follow There's been a few occasions in 27 years now, there's been a few times where someone would somebody would mention someone's name and I would say, oh yeah, they're a member of our church And they would go like this, oh really? There's been a few times where it was like, listen, either change your behavior or don't tell people you're part of our church. I love my church. And I want to have charity. I want it to be seen in how I live my life. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for a good day. So grateful for this church and what you've done and the people that you've brought together to make this body. And I pray you'd help us to love you with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength. Help us, Lord, to love one another. Our heads bowed and eyes closed. I wonder how many tonight would say, Preacher, I want to commit myself as a member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. I want to commit myself. To be the best member of this church I can possibly be. To be what God wants me to be, and to love it I commit myself. Is there any like that by them? My hands raised. Goodness. Now maybe we finish up today, maybe just kneeling at an old altar. And saying, God, help me to be this coming week, to show my love for this church, to display it in my actions, my faithfulness, my commitment, every aspect Just pray for God's hand to be upon us and bless us. If you're not saved, most important thing in the world is get saved. Trust Christ as Savior. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed, as Jane plays the invitation.