Acts chapter number two, I would like to read verse number forty-seven. Acts chapter two, verse forty-seven, speaking of the church. This is uh when the church has been energized now with the Holy Spirit has come upon them. The power of God is on the church in a powerful, miraculous way. Verse 41, you noted when Pastor Matt read, 3,000 saved and baptized in one day, as the church explodes on the scene. And it says they were, verse 47, they were praising God. Having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to the church daily such as should be saved. There was something going on. There was something about that New Testament church that attracted people by the thousands, tens of thousands. And attracted not just to the church, but to the Lord Jesus Christ through the ministry of the church. And I just want to preach this morning. This is my title, is a statement. I love my church. Let's pray together. Father, we ask you to bless now as we look into your word. I pray you'd stir our hearts. And I ask, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. As I yield my will to you, I pray that my thoughts, my will, my understanding put aside, and it be the word of God and the truth of your word proclaimed now for the next few little bit. I ask, Lord, that you would take my body, I present it anew to you, and ask you to fill me and my heart and soul and body with your Holy Spirit And Lord, that you would speak through me and bless us, I pray. In Jesus' name, amen. And people have a lot of different ideas about what a church is what it should be. A lot of misunderstanding, I believe, in our world today of what the church is and why it exists. What its structure is. And I'm afraid, even on the part of many believers, we've forgotten what the church is all about. As given to us in the Bible. Now, maybe the reason some believers have forgotten or gotten a misunderstanding about what the church is, maybe it's a failure on the part of preachers to preach and teach on the church like we should. So there's a lot of ideas out there. There's a lot of misunderstandings. Some people, I was reading a preacher this week, and he observed that some people view the church like a gas station. And you pull in once a week and fill your spiritual tank up, maybe run in and get a few uh snacks, uh spiritual snacks, go home with a button. You know, in a balloon. And um and uh that's it. That's your spiritual input for the week. It's like stopping at a gas station. Uh going it's uh uh it's like a spiritual sheets You get a good deal on the gas and get a little made-to-go MTO and you're on your way and you're never there again until the next time you need gas. Some people view According to this fellow, and I agree with him, some people view the church kind of like a spiritual gas station. He said, however, there's other people that view the church kind of like a spiritual movie theater By that we mean that people see the church as some sort of spiritual entertainment. Uh get a little distraction from the issues and chaos of life, and I can just go to Go to church and and hear a good song, be entertained a little bit, preacher tells some really great jokes and um You know, and just a little bit of entertainment uh for a little while and uh not really interested in seeing any spiritual growth take place Not really interested in giving myself to serve the Lord in any capacity. I just want some entertainment. I just want to sit and forget the world. And hear a good song, good music, and uh and uh uh uh kind of like uh uh spiritual entertainment uh distraction for the week And uh I tell you some, and I uh you know, I I try not to be critical of other churches. I got as a pastor, I've got my hands full with Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church But I'll be honest with you, especially certain people really. But I tell you, when a church resembles a nightclub, something's wrong When it looks and sounds like a nightclub. And some people, that's that's their idea, church, just go and rock out a little bit and get a little entertainment, even in uh more traditional churches like ours, um biblical churches like ours If we're not careful, we can see the church as a place to go and kind of forget my problems for a little bit and be entertained. Now, having said that, I am not suggesting that church should be boring Um I think uh sometimes um you know if we're not careful we don't get the Spirit of God in there. We're just going through the motions, we're just uh lip service and all of that and there's real no life in it. I think you can have a good, traditional, conservative, biblical church and have the life of God in that thing I'd like to think we do here. So I'm not suggesting church should be boring, that you can't enjoy yourself and laugh, but it is not just entertainment. I think sometimes it's boring to people not because of the service, but because of lack of interest, maybe on the part of the person that's bored So some people view the church maybe like a spiritual gas station. Just stop in every now and then, fill up my spiritual tank, and good to go, and don't give it any more thought. Movie theater, spiritual movie theater entertainment He said some people may view the church kind of like a spiritual drug store. I kind of go in and get my spiritual prescription filled. Maybe I'm having a hard time there or a situation here and uh never really give church much thought, never never uh darken the doors too much, but when something goes wrong in my life, boy, the first place we go to is church. And let me say this when something goes wrong, church is a good place to go to It's a good place to go get some spiritual prescription, get some spiritual medication. But the church is much more than a spiritual drugstore. Simply go when I have a need or when something's wrong, get a spiritual pill for something that ails me, a place to go, and I need a cure for a problem. And uh again, please don't take this as as a complaint in any way, shape, or form, but sometimes as a pastor, people feel obligated to tell you everything they've done wrong and everything that's gone wrong and everything that's terrible in their life. You know, and um I'm at Walmart trying to get a j jug of milk and someone comes and says, Oh preacher, you know, this is terrible. And I'm glad, I'll pray with them, I'm glad to do it. I shouldn't have even brought that up. But um They view it as a spiritual drugstore, and the the pastor is the spiritual pharmacist. And he'll write a little verse out. Here, take this, read it three times, and call me next week. Some people view the church as a gas station, spiritual gas station. Go get it filled up spiritually, get a movie theater, a little entertainment. Drugstore, get that prescription. Some people view uh the church as a department store, a spiritual Walmart, if you will. Uh boy, they got some nice products out there at that church. You can go there. They got great song service. Man, they have tremendous children's programs. I can drop those kids off. And uh man, they'll do a great program for them, activities for the teens. And uh man, it's just uh uh they have uh go on trips and they take the camp And they have all this stuff and they uh banquets and fellowship and fried chicken and chili bowls and man there's just all kinds of things you can get there and just a w uh wonderful thing. And they view the church a as a department store, just something that I can get out of it, something it'll do for me. I can uh something uh uh some entertainment there or something. Some view, and now I added this one. That was his list. I added this one. Some view the church as a TV show You can just stay home, turn it on, flip that thing on when it's ready. In fact, now it's uh recorded. You can watch it, you can't sleep, one o'clock in the morning. Well, I'll go to church And flip that thing on and watch it. And um the nice thing about uh church as a TV show is uh when if the preacher starts stepping on your toes, you can just fast forward a little bit Or you can mute it. I don't like what he's saying. Mute Turn it back on. Oh no, he's still saying it. Mute it again And if it gets too bad, you can just what? Turn the stinking thing off. The church is not a spiritual gas station. It's not a spiritual entertainment center. It's not a spiritual drug store. I am not a spiritual pharmacist. It's not a department store, and it's not a TV show. Some people uh um you ever hear the phrase weekend warriors? Weekend warriors Isn't there uh sometimes they'll refer to what is it the National Guard get called out on weekends? They're weekend warriors they call them. I think we got a lot of weekend worshipers We think of God on Sunday. We'll go to church, get out, whatever we're looking for, and then we forget about the Lord, we forget about the Bible, we forget about serving Him, we forget about his songs, his promises all week long, and the weekend comes around and it turns into just a Sunday go to meeting event. Rather than what God intended for it to be. In a world that is confused about everything It's important that we understand exactly what a church is. What is Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church? What is a church? Well, we have to go to the Bible for that. I'm not going to, I don't, I don't care what Google says about the church or Wikipedia or any of these others. I want to know what does God say the church is And so when we come to the Bible, we find that the church is, and I'll summarize here, this is my definition, as I understand from scriptures, a church is a local visible assembly or congregation. Assembly is probably more accurate to scripture, a local visible assembly or congregation of baptized believers. Who have covenanted themselves together to practice and propagate the Word of God and the gospel of Jesus Christ. Now let me read that again. So I understand scripture. What a church is. It's not an entertainment center. It's not a social club. It's not the Elks Club. It is a local visible assembly, assembling together of baptized believers Who have made a covenant together that they will practice and propagate the Word of God and the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's what Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is. We are not merely a group of believers in Jesus Christ. I heard a preacher within the last year, listen to something, he made a statement Um I wasn't in a meeting, it was online, but he made this statement. He says, anytime two or three Christians get together, that's a church Now I'm glad when Christians, two or three Christians get together, praise the Lord for it, get together Friday night, and many of many of us get together for breakfast uh get have lunch together or get together, have fellowship, play dominoes till three o'clock in the morning. And some of our wild seniors get together. But I tell you, just a few people getting together does not constitute a church. A church is a body. It's a body of believers. It is an assembly of saved, baptized believers who have banded together. Through membership, saying, yes, I'll be a part of this. That uh to propagate the gospel, to live what this book says, and to propagate the gospel of Jesus Christ Simply a group of people getting together. It's much more than just a group of us getting together. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, according to the scripture, is the body of Christ. Very clearly taught in Scripture. We're not just a group. We're not just hanging out together for a little bit. The Bible says that Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, the church, is the bride of Christ. The bride of Christ. It's referred to several times in Scripture as the house of God. God's people, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, assembles together. This is where God inhabits. God dwells. His presence is here. I believe any Christian who is going to be serious about living for the Lord, a Christian who's serious about living for the Lord, The church is vitally important to that Christian. Christian life, the Christian growth, cannot be separated from the local church. The church is vital. For the growth and development, maturity, the faith of a believer, the service of the Lord. I think it's possible to love the church But not love the Lord. Possible. Boy, I love that church, but don't think much about God. I sure like his bride. Don't think much about Christ, but well, I sure love the body of Christ. I think it's possible to love the church, not love the Lord But it is not possible to love the Lord and not love the church. It's his body, it's his bride, it's vital. I love our church. I love Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church dearly. Let me give you three reasons why I love our church. Number one, I love our church because Jesus loves our church. Jesus loves the church. Jesus loves our church. He loves us. He loves this body of believers. And I'm not saying anything to exclude other churches, I'm talking about ours. I love my church. Because Jesus loves Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. I'm coming up here on 40 years in ministry. Next year, 2025, would be 40 years, I count, but when I've been in full-time Christian ministry. And all these years, I've heard some people say some awful things About my Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. I've heard people say blasphemous things about my Savior, about my God But I want to say nobody has done for me what Jesus Christ has done for me. And this old world can blaspheme my Savior. This old world can ridicule and find fault with my Savior. I stand today to say Nobody has ever done for me what Jesus Christ has done for me. He died and suffered hell for me. He saved my soul from sin and wretchedness. He gave me new life. He gave me a home in heaven. I love my Savior. I love the Lord Jesus Christ. Nobody has ever loved me like Jesus Christ has loved me. Jesus Christ has loved me, and I was at my absolute worst When I was as low as you could possibly go, I had a Savior in heaven that loved me. By the way, his love for me, he loves you also. We live in a world, we hear this most awful stuff, sports teams blaspheming their entertainment, our Savior. I'm here to tell you this world never did for you and me what Jesus Christ has done for us. I love my Savior. I love Jesus Christ. I love the Lord Jesus, and if the Lord Jesus loves the church, then I love the church. What he loves, I love. Are you with me this morning? I love the church because Jesus loves the church. You say, preacher, our church isn't perfect. No, I know it. But Jesus loves the church. I'll love it too. By the way, if you happen to leave and find a perfect church, don't join it. You'll ruin it. There ain't no perfect church out there. Jesus loves the church. I I notice if you would uh take your Bible well, tell you what, for sake of time, let me just quote it to you. Matthew chapter 16, verse 18, Jesus says this He says, I will build my church. Jesus loves the church. He builds his church. The church is not a man-made organization A church is not a man-made institution. Jesus Christ builds the church. He founded the church. He establishes the church. He builds the church. It's not you and I sometimes they'll have uh uh you'll hear a uh a church building seminar, how to build a church And they'll refer to a fellow, and I understand what they're mean, I'm not trying to be critical, but they'll refer to refer to somebody, man, that guy's a great church builder. And uh I'm here to tell you the church is not built by men, it's built by Jesus Christ He loves this church. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. We are what we are today because Jesus built us. Jesus did this. Helen's here. Several of the others were here back in 1993. I showed up. There wasn't much here. And there was a lot of hurt people and there was a lot of uh down in a pretty dark valley the church was and we showed up and uh one of the men uh we were taking our uh our you uh Not UV, uh U-Haul truck uh back to Cumberland. I just I've been here a day. We unloaded Thursday, Friday, we're taking it back to Cumberland Uh Sunday was my first Sunday as pastor and uh 1993. And so we loaded up and he says, we got to go uh down to Cumberland, take this truck back I said, down to Cumberland, I said, that's north of us. He goes, yeah, but it's down. I said, no, south is down, north is up. So I had it took a little while to catch on But we're driving there and he says he says uh Brother Leatherman we're so glad you're here and he says we're having a rough time he says we've and uh said I know he told me some stuff and uh he said He goes, but I know you got a plan to build this thing back up. And I said, Amen. I didn't have no plan. So all I was going to do is preach the word of God and win souls. You know what? I didn't build this thing. Jesus builds the church. Jesus builds the church. He gets all the glory. He gets all the credit. He gets all the praise. Jesus loves the church. He builds it. The church is not a man-made organization. It's a divinely built and designed organism. By Jesus Christ Himself. I love the church because Jesus loves the church. He built the church. He builds the church. I will build my church. I'm confident of that. Not only does he build the church, he bought the church with his own blood. If you would, you're in Acts here. Come back to Acts chapter 20. Let me show you a statement. Paul has gathered together the elders from Ephesus. It's a group of preachers. And in Acts chapter 20, he's giving to them his philosophy of ministry. That's the way I see it. He's going down a list of things about how to approach ministry and how he did and what God does. And you get down to verse 28. He makes an interesting statement. He's speaking to preachers, to pastors And he says to them in verse 28, Acts chapter 20, he says, Take heed therefore unto yourselves, as the pastors, the leaders, the overseers. Take heed, therefore, unto yourselves and to all the flock. That's the church it's referring to, the flock of believers, the church they were pastoring. Over which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseers to feed the Church of God Pastor's responsibility is to provide oversight, to oversee a thing. Make sure it's functioning the way God intends. God instructs. Make sure it's going the direction, doing what it's supposed to be doing, just overseeing that thing And then feed them the pastor's responsibility is to preach and teach the Word of God and make sure the Word of God is given out to God's people, the members that make up that body. And then he makes this statement Says, uh, feed the church of God, which he hath purchased with his own blood. Now question, who shed their blood? Who did that? Jesus Christ. Here he says God purchased with his own blood. I put in the margin of my Bible, deity of Jesus Christ. Jesus shedding his blood on that cross, that was God the Son, shedding his blood for your sins and my sins. Without the shedding of blood, there is no remission. The blood of Jesus cleanses us from all sins, not the baptistry water, not the church membership, not the good deeds. The price Jesus paid on that cross, he shed his blood, that's what makes it possible for you and I to be forgiven. And he gave his blood for the church. He bought it. With his church, with his blood. With his blood. I tell you, Jesus loves the church. Jesus shed his blood and laid down his life for the church. There is no greater love Then a man what? Lay down his life for his friends. I'm telling you, I love nobody loves our church like Jesus loves our church. He builds it, he bought it with his own shed blood. I put this down. Jesus blesses the church. He blesses the church. Come with me, if you would, a couple verses we want to jump around here. Come back to Ephesians. Work your way through Acts. First and set, you get to Romans, 1 2 Corinthians, Galatians, you run into Ephesians. Ephesians chapter 5. He's addressing the home, God's design and structure for the home. He talks about the wives there in verse 22, 23. Then in verse 24, he addresses the husbands. And he makes a statement about the church when he's addressing, he's instructing the husbands how to function as a husband. Look at verse 25. He says, Husbands, love your wives. But he doesn't stop the statement there. He gives a pattern, an example, a model for the husband to love his wife. Husbands, love your wives. Now look at this, even as, in the same way Following the same pattern, that same model. Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also, what's the next three words? Love the church. And gave himself for it. That word love, it's used twice. Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ loved the church. Comes from the exact same word. Anybody want to guess what that word that it comes from means? What type of love it is? Agape, unconditional love. Jesus Christ loves Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church unconditionally. Now we ought to be our best. Amen. That was a little weak. Let's try that again. We ought to be our best, right? Don't man, I haven't had to do this for a while. We ought to be our best. But it's assuring to know that even when we're at our worst, Jesus still loves us. Jesus. Parents don't ever say to your kids, you better be good or Jesus won't love you. That is a lie of the devil. His love is unconditional. Unconditional. By the way, let me just kind of take a backhand at this while we're going by. Husbands, that's your pattern, my pattern to love our wives. You say, well, if you knew how she was, you knew why I don't love her. Doesn't matter how she is, you're supposed to love her unconditionally. Amen or not. Yeah. I'm not going to answer to God for what kind of wife my wife was. I'm going to answer to God for what kind of husband I was. Regardless. So it's a it's a challenging standard that God sets for the husbands is we're to follow the love of Christ for the church. That's the standard For you and I as husbands, husbands, love your wives, even as according to that standard, that model, that pattern you've been given. So Jesus blesses the church with his unconditional love. In Matthew chapter 18 and verse 20, he says this, listen to this. For where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst of them. Two or three. Now a church is more than just a couple Christians getting together. But if Jesus is in the presence of where two or three get together to have a coffee of an evening Get together and fellowship together in the living room some uh evening, go on a little trip to two or three Christians get together and Jesus says, I'm right there with you if two or three gather together in my name, then surely We know he's in the presence of a body of believers that have gathered in his name. What he's telling us is this. Jesus Christ is here in our presence right now. He is the unseen overseer of this body of believers, of this service. He is present here now. I can't see him. I can't feel him. I can't hear them. Can't smell or touch. I tell you, he's just as real here as he was when he stood beside those disciples by the Sea of Galilee. He sees us right now. He's observant. He hears my voice. He sees what's taken place. He sees what you're looking at on your phone right now. Huh? He knows. He's here. He's the overseer. He's the great shepherd of the flog. And he blesses us with his presence. I don't know about you. But it is a blessing to be in the presence of Jesus Christ. What a joy to know he's with me. I have him here. Has anybody here ever been lonely? But you ever been lonely? Yeah. I tell you, I know Jesus Christ the Savior. I may be lonely, but I'm never alone. I have the presence of Jesus Christ with me. And the world can mock them, world can ridicule. I'll tell you, nobody's ever done for me. What Jesus Christ has done for me. I had I indulged in what the world had to offer for years. Nearly killed me. Destroyed me. Just by faith I called out on Jesus Christ being my Savior. I tell you, changed everything. Jesus loves the church, I love the church. I love the church, number one, because Jesus loves the church. And I jumped the church, number two, because of its influence on my life. Everything about the church, are you still in Ephesians? Everybody, are you still there? Come back over to chapter 4 Everything about the church is designed by God to facilitate the spiritual growth of a believer. Everything about the local church, that body of believers, that bride of Christ, that assembly. A baptized, saved, and baptized believers, covenant together. Everything about that is designed by God to facilitate the spiritual growth. Look at Ephesians chapter 4. Come with me to verse 11. He's speaking about the church. And he says to the church, he gave some apostles. Now the apostles were the uh founders uh of the church. They were initially designed by God to get the church established and up and running. Jesus is the cornerstone, he's the foundation, but these guys, the apostles, when they passed off the scene, their their that office was finished. But he gave the church apostles. And then he says, and some prophets And some evangelists, thank God for the evangelists we have come through here. They're a gift to the church. Some evangelists, look at this, and some pastors and teachers Now, some folks suggest that pastors and teachers are referring to one office, the office of pastor, he's to be a pastor, he's also able to teach. I agree with that, but I think it includes teachers in the church. And God gifts the church. God gives to the church people that have very specific spiritual abilities that are given by God. The ability to teach the Word of God and invest in others and help others grow. Understand the Word of God and the will of God. And the church is designed much like, I believe, much like a family. The design of that family is to raise up children. And teach them how to live. And teach them how to function and grow. And enable their growth and facilitate their growth and nurture that growth. And the church is designed by God for the believers to facilitate the spiritual growth of a believer and nurture that and uh uh uh assist in that growth. The church is vitally important for the believer to grow in the Lord and grow in their faith and grow in Christ. It's designed. The whole thing is designed for that. It was in the church that I was baptized. By the way, there's no other Organism to baptize other than the local church. I'm just, this is me, okay? So bear with me. Be a little patient. But I don't think any baptism outside the local church is a legitimate baptism. My concern. So if I see Scripture. I was in church, I was baptized. It was in the church I was taught the Word of God and disciplined, discipled, and trained how to live for God. I've learned more about the Bible and about the Christian life in the local church than I learned in six years in Bible college. I'm grateful for my Bible college education. I learned a lot, but I'll tell you, it's the local church I learned how to live for God. It's in the local church I learned that old book in a practical way. I'm not diminishing, I'm all for Bible college. I think young people ought to go to a good Bible college at least one year. I believe that with all my heart But the local church is designed by God for us to grow and learn and understand and develop our Christian life. I love the church because its influence on my life. It's where I was baptized. It was where I was taught the Word of God. It's where I was discipled and trained. to live for God in the local church. It's where I learned to serve God. I learned to win souls in a local church ministry. In a local church on August 25th, 1985, I knelt at an old altar down in Chattanooga, Tennessee, and I dedicated my life to Jesus Christ on a Sunday night. I said, Lord, I'm yours. I give it all to you. It was in a local church on October 5th. That same year, 1985, I knelt almost the exact same spot, and I said, God, I'm answering the call to preach. You call me to preach, I'm submitting to that. I'm saying, yes, I agree, I give myself Local church, the influence on my life. It's in the church I was called to preach. In the church, I learned to win souls. It was in the church ministry that I met my wife. In the Sunday School bus ministry, Highland Park Baptist Church, I met my wife. I looked across that bus meeting we were having. I said, Woo we That's it started it all, Brian, right from there. It's in the church I met my wife. By the way, church is a good place to meet your wife. Better in a bar. It's in the church I married my wife. I like church weddings. I like an inner church, a house of God, making vows to God. I'm not being critical. I'm just saying I like church weddings. In church we raised our boys. Indianapolis, Indiana, Thomason Roe Baptist Church. Our boys were born. We walked them down the altar. It's a little infant, just a few days old. We dedicated those boys to the Lord Jesus Christ. It's in a church. I love the church because of its influence in my life. The best friends I have in the world are in the church. In the church. I almost say the only friends almost in the world I have are in the church. I thank God for the church. Nearly every major decision I've made in my life, I made in a church or a church ministry. Life-changing decisions in the church. I believe strong, growing Christians are developed in strong, vibrant churches. As pastor of the church for over 30 years now, I look out I've had the joy, and some of you from your perspective, but we've had the joy of seeing what God can do in the life of a person. Come, trust Christ as Savior, and see the Holy Spirit of God change that person's life. And develop them and make something beautiful out of something the devil made a mess of. We've seen what God can do in the church, in the lives of people. I've seen lives change. I've seen people find the joy of the Lord, rejoicing in God, broken hearts. And disappointments and failures even. Yet they get together with God's people. And their hearts are stirred, and the joy of the Lord is there. And even with a broken heart, they can still sing praises to God. I've seen that in the church. In the church. Now I'm not saying the church does that. Christ does that. But he does it through the church. The church. The influence the church has had on my life. I love the church. I love Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. And last of all, I love our church because of the ultimate triumph of the church. Back in Matthew 16, 18, Jesus says, I will build my church, but he didn't stop there. He said, Upon this rock, I will build my church. By the way, it's the first time the church is mentioned in the New Testament, in the Bible. Upon this rock, I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Satan can say what he wants to say, Satan can throw what he wants to throw. This world can threaten, intimidate, persecute, and murder. But they cannot stop the church. The gates of hell shall not prevail against it. The church will win in the end We are in a spiritual warfare. There's no doubt about it. I see it weekly, sometimes daily basis It's heartbreaking to see people, God's people sometimes, young and old, fall in love with this world. Fall in love with the things of this world or become materialistic and everything is what this world has to offer and what the influences are influencers are telling me and oh this is the latest style and this is the fat and you gotta do this and this chat and they fall in love with the world and I'm telling you every single time the world fails them This world is doomed. But I'm here to tell you, the church comes out on victory. This world is, I put it this way. The world will ultimately fail and dissolve. People investing their time and effort and talents in this world temporal But it is the church that wins in the end. It is the church that endures. I believe the church is the hope of the world. Say America, we need this in America, we need that in America. I tell you what we need in America. We need a good old-fashioned church in love with Jesus, preaching that old King James Bible, winning souls, and on fire for God. That'll do more for America than anything else we can do. And any other country. Our missionary down in New Zealand, they're doing their their uh soul-winning revivals they do every year I've been following, I'm not down this year, obviously. How many people noticed I'm not down there this year? Yeah. Norris Brother Norris Belcher's down there preaching. I'm telling you, they are fired up. I tell you what Australia needs. Australia needs local churches that are on fire for God. And New Zealand. And Europe and Romania, you name it. Brazil, Argentina, you name it. Oakland, Maryland. Needs a church, a biblical church that's in love with Jesus Christ. Committed to that book and on fire for souls. I love the church. I love our church The church wins in the end. I believe the church is the hope of the world. I believe the church of Jesus Christ is the hope of our nation. I love our church. I'm glad we have a Sunday where you can just say, I love my church. I love my church I got saved, you know, you've got it memorized. May 7, 1979, 10:30 at night, Monday night. I hadn't been in a church service for years. Such a mess. My daddy was out on the road, he was a truck driver, he's gone all week. Faithful Christian, good witness, good testimony. That night I trusted Christ as Savior, and God changed me, and you know the story. But as the week progressed, Things had changed so dramatically. I was I was in a tizzy. It was just happening. My life was changed. I was excited reading that Bible Got about Friday, Saturday, that very first week of my salvation, very first week of having eternal life, very first week in the family of God, very first week. Out about Friday night, Saturday, and something inside me. Dad was gone. He wasn't hounding me. Nobody was twisting my arm. Nobody even said anything about it. Something inside of me said, I need to go to church Sunday. I need to go to church Sunday. Sunday morning I got up. I went just down the road. I don't know why. There was a little church down the road. I had my little Bible that I had read that I got saved. I got that. And I said, I'll go to church Nobody told me, nobody called me up, say you're going to be in church. None of that. It was just something in my heart and soul was drawing me. Turned out I got there, I was the only one in the whole church that had a Bible. It's the most liberal church I've ever been in since I was one week old and I thought, this ain't right. Found a good church started attending. But what I'm saying is this, something inside, my very soul, was drawing me to the church, drawing me to the church. I believe it was the Holy Spirit of God. He knew I needed a body of believers. He knew I needed that local assembly so that I could be taught and discipled and trained and grow. I still need that local church assembly to help me teach me and help me grow. We feed off each other. Do you know we're not to forsake the assembling of ourselves together so much? Some more as we see the day approaching, and we're to exhort one another, encourage, strengthen the faith of one another, lift up We need each other. Let's pray. Father, I thank you for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. What it's meant to me all these years, and God, how you've used us and other churches like ours. And I pray, God, you would put your hand upon our church and our ministries, protect us from that and those that would seek to harm us. I pray you'd stir our hearts to fall in love anew with the Lord Jesus Christ. Commit ourselves anew to serve you. Their heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, Preacher, I need a new stirring of the Holy Spirit in my life as a Christian? I need the Spirit of God to stir me anew. To live for God and love him and serve Him like I know He was calling me to. Is there any like that, Preacher? I need a moving of the Spirit of God in my heart and life. Maybe it's gotten a little cold. Maybe it's gotten a little dry Maybe some bitterness has crept in, some worldliness has crept in. You say, Preacher, I need to get my heart back right in tune with the Lord. Any others? A lot of hands raised. Any others, preacher, pray for me. I need that. I need that. God bless you. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I just need to be more faithful. Be involved and see and understand the importance and the role that the church plays in the life of the believers. Or anything like that, preacher. I just need to see that a little new, a little more. Understand that. God bless you, hands around. Maybe there's some this morning say you've never been saved. I've been talking about the church, but I'll tell you right up front, right now, there's not a church in the world that can save your soul Only Jesus can do that. And I wonder if there'd be some this morning who say, Preacher, I need to be saved. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know that Jesus has forgiven me and given me new life I have a home in heaven. Any like that, pray sir, pray for me. I need the Lord Jesus Christ to save my soul. Father, bless our invitation now. Pray you'd have our way. Jesus, have your way. In Jesus' name. Amen