Appreciate the fellas the special music. As I said, the song fits right in with our message this morning. I'm not uh a poet, but I do appreciate good poetry. And uh this is a a pretty fairly well-known poem. Uh Brother Klein Box used to quote this a lot. It goes like this, though the cover is worn and the pages are torn, and though places bear traces of tears. Yet more precious than gold is this book, worn and old, that can shatter and scatter my fears. When I prayerfully look at this precious old book, many pleasures and treasures I see Many tokens of love from the father above, who is nearest and dearest to me. This old book is my guide, 'tis a friend by my side. It will lighten and brighten my way. And each promise I find soothes and gladdens my mind as I read it and heed it each day. The Bible. Look what Psalms 119, what David says in Psalms 119 and verse number 97. He says, Oh how I love thy law. I'm entitled The Message, and I think I'm talking to a good number of folks today that feel the same way as I do, and I'm entitled The Message, I Love My Bible Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father, as we look into the Bible, I pray, as James did a few moments ago, that you would open our hearts and minds to the truths that are presented in this passage I ask, Holy Spirit, that you would fill me with uh fill me and speak through me. I yield myself to you. I present my body anew. And I ask that uh we would leave here today, myself included, with a greater love for the Bible, a greater appreciation For the Bible, a greater dependence upon the Bible as we live our lives. And please bless this hour, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. David, King David, of course, writing under the inspiration of God, Psalms 119, he tells us here that he loves God's word. He uses the term the law here, and uh of course the Bible that David had was not as large as the Bible that you and I hold in our hands this morning. That only uh uh up to that point had been revealed. And uh we had the wonderful privilege in our day and age, in our dispensation, to have a complete Bible There's no more added to it. I don't know why I think of this, but I I want to throw this in there. Joseph Smith has nothing to add to the Bible. And neither does anybody else. God's word is complete. But David said, Oh, how I love thy law. It is my meditation all the day. David loved the Bible. He loved God's word, he spent all day in it. I looked up that word love. And uh it's a generic term Sometimes you, as we mention often, there's various words used in the Bible for the term love that are translated into English the term love. Of course, this being the Old Testament, it is translated from what language? Hebrew. Of course, the New Testament's Greek, Old Testament's Hebrew, and it comes from the Hebrew word for love, but a very general word. It's a generic term for love. And it simply means this to have a strong affection for, to be strongly attracted to It would be uh uh much like uh a man or a woman, they love that other one. They love my wife. Um It's a strong affection. You'd say, I love my spouse, I love my children, I love my pet dog. It's kinda weird. A guy says, Man, I love my dog and he says I love my wife. Same level of weird. Is that kinda weird or what? I have a friend of mine, he's out in Illinois, he's actually been through here, Brother Randy Miller, good guy, uh pastors, good church out there growing. And uh This is the truth. This guy is you think you think Barrett County folks are rednecked. You ought to meet some of these Illinois guys, cornfield guys. He's dating this girl and they're fixing to get engaged. I mean he's pretty sure she's the one. You know, and to tell her how strongly his his affection is for her, you know what he says He goes, I like you as much as I like my dog. And he was as sincere as could be. It was a great compliment in his mind. Um she slapped him of course, but um But that's the term here. When David says, I love thy law, he's saying, I'm strongly attracted to the Word of God. I have this intense affection For God's word. Take your Bible if you would, and I want you to see this to Job. Just go back towards the beginning of the Bible, one book. Job, and about the middle of Job chapter 23 Come back here. And I want you to see this. Rather than just quoting it for you, I want you to come back and look at this verse. I would recommend this verse be highlighted in your Bible in one way or another. But Job makes a powerful statement here. And I think this statement that Job makes in chapter 23 gives us a little insight into why Job's character was as precious as it was, as strong as it was. You know, in chapter 1, God said of Job He's a perfect and just man, upright in all his ways. Wow, that's God saying about it. And I think Job 23, Job makes this statement, and it gives us a little window here into why God could make that statement of Job. Look at verse 12. Job 23, 12. Neither have I gone back from the commandment of his lips. Now look at this. Next phrase. I have esteemed the words of his mouth more than my necessary food. Now think about that statement. Sometimes we just read through the Bible and we don't think about what we're reading. We just see words. Think about what Job is saying there. That word esteem means to highly value To treasure something. I have esteemed the words of his mouth. Now, what would we say in our day and age, what would we say the words of God's mouth are? The Bible He's saying, I treasure, I value the Word of God, the Bible. More, now he doesn't say more than my food He puts a word in there that qualifies this and really makes it a significant statement. He said, more than my necessary food. In fact, that word necessary there, if you go back and do a little research on it, has the idea of the minimum amount required. In other words, Job is saying this. Now remember, this isn't the exaggerations of some backslidden Christian. This is a just man. Upright in all his ways. He's saying this. God's word is more important to me. is of higher priority, is of greater value to me than the most minimum amount of food is necessary to keep me alive. Isn't that an amazing thing? I think it's an understatement for me to say Job loved the Bible He loved the Bible. It was more important to him than his necessary experience. I was talking to my wife about this. I said, I said, I get the idea that if Job was going to be stranded on an island And he could take one thing with him, and he had the choice of just enough food to keep him alive or the word of God. Based on this verse, it sounds to me like Job would say, I'll take the Word of God. It sounds to me he's saying, I would rather die with my Bible than live without it. Job loved the Bible. David loved the Bible. We won't turn there. If you would, come back to Psalms 19, our text. I won't turn to Matthew chapter four verse four, but Jesus is being confronted by the devil, and he's going through his temptation uh series of temptations the devil threw out of him. And the Lord responds, the devil tempted the Lord to turn uh the uh stones into bread, and the Lord responded with this statement Now it's familiar. Most of us are familiar with this. He said, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. In other words, the Lord's saying, if all you've got, if all you have is food, then you don't have enough. If all you have are the necessary things to keep your body alive, and you don't have the Word of God, you don't have enough. That we need the Word of God. David says in our text, he loves the Bible. He loves the Word of God. Throughout the Bible, and we could take all morning, we could do a year-long series throughout the Bible of great men and women of God, people who were blessed of God in tremendous ways, and you know we'll find one common denominator for each of them Them. They loved the Word of God. We'll find people who were used of God in tremendous ways. And we find one common denominator, and that is this. They loved the Word of God. They loved the Word of God. Bible. I watched this morning deliberately. You know what I saw? I saw a lot of people coming into church and had Bibles in their hands. By the way, that's a sign of a healthy church. People coming in with Bibles in your hands. You know what I noticed? Some of those Bibles are pretty beat up. The covers worn. The corners of the covers frayed. I notice people open it, might not have to look far around you there, and I notice that a lot of the Bibles are opened up and they're marked up. The pages have underlined and notes in the margin and things like that. You know what that tells me? There's some folks that love the Bible. Love the Word of God. I just want to take a moment and give us a few reasons why we love the Bible. Why this book? There's millions, hundreds of millions of books written out there Why the Bible? What's so precious about this book? I put down, first of all, I love the Bible because the Bible gives me information. The Bible gives me information. Look at Psalms 119. Come down if you would to verse 98. We read 97. Look with me at verse 98. Thou, through thy commandments, hast made me wiser than mine enemies, for they are ever with me. Question, did David have enemies? Sure he did. In fact he says they're ever with me, they're all around. As king of Israel, they had to deal with it with enemies. Uh just not much different than Israel is today, surrounded by enemies. So David said they're always with me, but you know what he says? He says, I find information in this book on how to deal with my enemies. How I can have victory over them. If I didn't have this book, I'd surely be defeated. If I didn't have this book, my enemies would be wiser than me, and they'd conquer me, and I'd be destroyed But through this book, through God's word, you've made me wiser than my enemies. He says, I'm getting information that I wouldn't have if I didn't have the Bible. Read on. Look at verse number 99. I have boy the Kids in school would like this. I have more understanding than all my teachers. How about that? Now, kids don't go into school tomorrow. And say, oh yeah, I got a Bible, I'm smarter than you. That's not going to work, all right? Don't try that. But I will say this There's young people in this building right now under the sound of my voice that know and believe this Bible, that have more understanding about where man came from than some of the teachers in school. Young people and sit there and teach and uh teachers will teach evolution. We came from monkeys and and uh uh I must say greats, uh monkeys and And critters and all that in advance. And uh some young people sit there and they have their Bible and they say, Oh, I know where we came from. They have more understanding than their teachers They have more understanding of you. Uh some of our schools, and I I'm not saying it all this way, and thank God for Christian teachers that uh that y you understand what I'm saying. But uh some of the schools where they give out uh birth control devices and those types of things. I thank God we have some young people That believe the Bible and love the Bible and have more understanding, and they say, you know, the cure for all this problem is purity, abstinence, staying pure and holy and true for God. More understanding than their teachers. Why do we love the Bible? Because it gives us information. Information we need. Read on there. He says, I am more understanding than my teachings, for thy testimonies are my meditation. I understand more than the ancients because I keep thy precepts. Who are the ancients? It's old folks. They're getting older all the time. The older I get, the older ancients get. But uh, you know what he's saying He's saying, I get information from God's word that folks that have been around a long time can't give me. Now listen, I think we ought to respect our elders. Amen. I think we ought to listen. Somebody older than me has something to say, I ought to listen to it. I don't have to buy it. I don't have to follow advice, but I ought to listen. But you know what I'm finding? I get out in community and stuff. I'm finding some of our ancients have just as filthy mouths as the kids. Isn't that sad? Just as immature in some ways as up at Walmart. There's a lady there. I'm telling you, she's old enough to be my mother. Now that's no disrespect for my mother. But I'm saying she wasn't a spring chicken. And you could tell she had a brand new, just gotten tattoo down the side of her neck, down her neck. I thought, what in the world He says, I have more understanding than all my teachers. He says, I have understand more than my ancients. Listen. This Bible gives us information that folks that have been around for decades and decades can't give us You follow what I'm saying? We love the Bible. We love the Bible. It gives us information. The Bible gives me the information I need on how to succeed in life. How to succeed in life, how to deal with the issues of life, how to deal with how to solve problems in life. Now here's my thought. The Bible gives us information, the Bible informs us. First of all, it informs me on how to prepare to meet God. How to prepare to meet God. The worst thing in the world that can happen to a person. Do I have your attention? The worst thing in the world that can happen to a person is to face God unprepared. You can go into a final in school unprepared and get an F, maybe fail the test. Fail the test, fail the class. You can come back and redo that. You can pick it up again. But you face God unprepared. There's no second chance. The Bible says it is appointed unto men once to die, and after this the judgment. There's no second chance. The worst thing that can possibly happen is for a person to die and face God unprepared. The greatest priority in life, please hear me, the greatest priority in life is being prepared to meet God. Prepared to meet God. Say, what do you mean by that? By that I mean we know that our sins have been forgiven. That we are saved from the judgment of God. I go before God, I die and stand before God unprepared. I face the inevitable judgment of my sin. This Bible tells me, gives me the information I need on how I can be prepared to face God, on how I can know that my sins are forgiven How I can know that I will never be judged for my sins. This book right here tells me the most important thing in life, and that is how to be prepared to meet God. We love our Bible. We love our Bible because it gives us information. Without the Bible, man is only guessing. On how to prep how to prep be prepared to meet God. I get out knocking on doors, and many of you others do. James and others come out and we knock on doors. We want to share the gospel. with people. We want to share people with people from the Bible how they can be prepared to meet God. Just like somebody shared it with us one day. You know what we hear him say over and over and over? Well, I think, well, this is what I was always taught. Well, I just believe it's this way. Thinking, going by what we were taught, believing it's this way isn't going to cut it. We have got to know that we're prepared. There's only one source for information for that, that's the Word of God. It's the Bible. Man's theories, religious creeds, man's ideas are not going to help. I don't want to die facing God hoping I'm right. I've uh you you've many of you have heard this. I've had people tell me, Preacher, I think it's this way. Right away red flags go up in my mind. I think God's going to take all the good things I do, and He's going to take all the bad things I've done, and all the good things I've done. And when I stand before God, we're going to put them on a scale. And if my good deeds outweigh my bad deeds, then I'm going to make it to heaven. Now that might sound pretty good, but that is not what the Bible teaches. And the second problem I have with that is how how un how what an unjust God that wouldn't tell you whether you're prepared or not until after it's too late to do anything about it. What kind of God would do that? God, what do I have to do to get to heaven? Well, do the best you can and then we'll find out That's not what kind what kind of God is that? My Bible tells me that I can know that my sins are forgiven. I can know that when I die I'm prepared and I go into heaven. I don't have to hope so, I don't have to think so, I don't have to wonder so, I can know so These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that you have eternal life. Information We love the Bible because it gives us the information we need to be prepared to meet God. I think a great illustration, and I referenced this in a message a couple weeks ago, but when Adam and Eve disobeyed God. Adam and Eve began relying, Adam particularly, began relying on his own understanding. And he began to realize, he realized that he had sinned against God And now his mind was corrupted, and now the fact that he was unclothed, he was naked, became an issue. He had a sinful mind now. And he realized he had to do something. And so he reasoned in his head. I mean, this is all implied in Scripture. He reasoned in his head. That I can take some fig leaves and sew them together, and I'll come up with an apron, and that will cover my nakedness now that I'm sinful and I can and I'll be prepared to meet God Funny thing is, even doing that, he wasn't real certain, even with his his fig leaf apron, he still hid from God. So he had no certainty that what he was doing had actually prepared him. God comes along and God speaks to Adam. He gives him information. And Adam finds out that his apron, his fig leaf aprons isn't going to cut it. He needs coats of skin. God's word gave him the information he needed to be prepared to meet God. For years, I never gave any thought. To God, heaven or hell, sin didn't enter my mind. I was love and life. I just wanted to live my life I just want to have a good time. The most important thing in my life was that I was enjoying myself at this moment in time That didn't last too, that didn't work out too well. Things began falling apart. I saw my life go in a direction I did not want to go I began reading my Bible. You know what I found in my Bible? I found information. I found information that God loved me. And he could take away the sins that were destroying my life. He could give me a new life, make me a new creature. If I would but trust Jesus Christ as Savior. I tell you what, I love this old book. This Bible told me what I need to do, how I can be prepared to meet God. I have a new life. I'm a new person because of the information in the li This book. I love the old Bible. We love the Bible because it informs us. It informs us on how to be prepared to meet God. It also informs us on how to please God. Once I'm saved, once I trust Christ, once my sins are forgiven, and I have a home in heaven settled, now I have the responsibility of living the Christian life for the glory of God. How do I do that? I have people say to me all the time, even within the church sometimes they'll say, Well, I think a good Christian does this. Well, I don't think a good Christian would ever do that Listen, it doesn't matter what you and I think a good Christian should or should not do. It's what does God say a good Christian should or should not do? Somebody says, Oh, I think I think Brother Leatherman would love liver and onions. Ask Brother Leatherman about that. Brother Leatherman don't love liver and onions. I don't love liver and nothing. Well I think God I think God would like I think this would please God. I don't think that would please God. It's not what we think, it's what God says You know what I can do? I can come to this book, I can study and read this Bible, and I find out what pleases God. Well I didn't know that. God likes it when I tell others about Jesus. Well, I can do that. Thanks. God doesn't like it when I lie. All right, I'll quit doing that. This whole book tells me how what I need to do and not do to please the one that saved me from sin in hell. Please the one that I love. This Bible tells me how to please God. I don't have to guess about what pleases God. Uh you fellas that are married when you first met your wife, you want to find out what she liked. You want to find out what kind of cologne she wears. You thought she would really like old spice. You found out she's allergic to old spice. Throws up every time she smells it Well, I think God would like this. I think God would like it if I'm lukewarm. Revelation 3 tells me God says, I'll spew you out. I can't stand you when you're lukewarm. I wish you were hot or cold. Can't stand lukewarm. The Bible gives me that information. The Bible tells me that it pleases God when I have faith in God. Hebrews chapter 11. God is pleased when I trust him. God is pleased when I lay aside my own understanding and don't lean on my own understanding, and I trust him with all my heart. That pleases God. I had a situational personal thing this week and I kind of had it figured out what I was going to do and uh actually this morning in my devotions was a factor in what God was leading. And I was beginning to realize that my thinking, that's not what the Lord would be pleased with. God wants me to trust him. God wants me to have faith in him. It comes from From the Bible. God says, He says, You know what would please me? Don't do the things the way you think they should. Come and see how I want to do it. Trust me. On this matter. That pleases me. I find that out in the Bible. I found out that dying to self pleases God. He said, if any man would come after me, let him die to self. Take up his cross daily and follow me. Oh, God wants me to not live for myself. He wants me to follow Him and live for Him. That would please God. Okay. I didn't know that apart from the Word of God. I come to the Bible and I find out it pleases God that I keep myself pure. It's not God's will. The Bible says uh in the in Thessalonians that we it's the will of God that we abstain from fornication. God is pleased when we keep our hearts, our minds pure. The things we look at, how we how we uh uh what we do with our bodies. The things we look at, the thoughts we entertain in our mind, all these things are part of God's concern. And the Bible tells me that God is pleased when I'm pure Pure. The Bible tells me that God is pleased when I obey Him. John chapter 14 says repeatedly, He that loves me keeps my commandments. He that loves me keeps my commandments. He that loves me keeps my commandments. I had a lady in church. Actually we were standing right down here. It's been many years ago. Shortly after we came, I think She stood down here and I preached a message on something living for the Lord. I don't remember what the message was, but she made this statement to me. Stand right down here after the service. She came down and she goes, Pastor Lesman, I think as long as you love God, it doesn't matter what you do. I said the exact opposite is true. Because I love God, what I do becomes immensely important Important. Imagine if if I would say, you know, as long as I love my wife, it doesn't matter what I do. That won't fly. I mean things will fly, but that won't Why do we love the Bible? It's from this Bible. I learned how to prepare to meet God. If it wasn't for this book, I'd have died and faced God unprepared. If it wasn't for this book, I'd die and spend eternity in hell, lake of fire. And I'm grateful for this book. It tells me how to meet how to be prepared to meet God. Not only that, once I am prepared, once my sins are forgiven, I'm saved, a new creature, I'm in Christ. Then it tells me how I can please God with my life. How I can live my life in such a way that it makes God happy. Third thing the Bible informs us, how to prepare to meet God, how to please God. I put this down. It tells me how to prepare how to prevail in life. Prevail in life. You're not staying very long before you realize something is true about life, and that is we face temptation. Anybody can I get a witness? We face temptations. Corinthians says, there is no temptation taken you but such as is what? Common to man. I had a person tell me years ago, they said, you know, they've been saved for many years. They say, you know, I'm never tempted. I said, well then you're not human. It's common to man. Every single person faces temptation. Here's the disturbing thing about temptation. I am being drawn in when I'm tempted, I am being drawn to do something that I know is wrong. In many cases, I'm being drawn to do something that in my spirit I do not want to do. That's the spiritual warfare of the Christian life. Galatians puts it this way. The spirit lusteth against the flesh. And the flesh lusteth against the Spirit. In other words, when I trust Christ as Savior, the Spirit of God gives me a new nature. The Holy Spirit dwells within me. The Holy Spirit wants me to live in such a way that God is pleased, that God is glorified. That the gospel is enhanced by how I live my life. My flesh, on the other hand, lusteth against that spirit. The flesh wants to please itself. The flesh wants to gratify itself. The flesh wants the glory itself. And so I have this tension. This battle between the two natures, I come to my Bible And I learn, I get information on how I can overcome that temptation. Are you there at Psalms 119? Come back to the beginning of that chapter. It's a lengthy chapter. And look at verse 11. Psalm 119, verse 11. Oh, preacher, I have this temptation, I face temptation, temptation. Welcome to the human race. Welcome to the world of reality. Well, how do I deal with it? How do I prevail? How do I have victory over temptation? Look at verse 11, Psalms 119. Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not what? Sin against thee, that I might not give in to that temptation. You know what the Word of God tells me? That if I'll get in this book and get this book in me, I'll have the information I need how to get overcome temptation Well you get back in Timothy, you know what we found out? The primary, let me just give this to you. This isn't the message, but I'll just throw it in and I won't charge extra for it. I'll just throw this in Christmas special. I forget what I was talking about. Timothy, this isn't the message, but Timothy tells us the primary way to overcome temptation. The primary secret on how to overcome temptation tells us very clearly, very simply. How many people want to know what it is? Five people, good This is it. This is profound. Run away. The Bible says flee Temptation. Just get away from it. It's not there's nothing complicated about having written. My Bible gives me the world says, well, you do Hail Mary's and you do this and you do that and jungle upside down five times and do all these different things And then you'll be able to have victory over temptation. Now it's not that way at all. The Bible gives me information. Lord, how do I have victory I'm tempted to do all these things? How do I have victory? Look here, it's in the book. Flee temptation. Get away from it. Put distance between you and whatever it is you're being tempted. Listen, I trust this isn't the case for anyone here, but if If liquor would be a source of temptation for you, then don't go to the bar. By the way, if liquor is not a temptation for you, don't go to the bar. The Bible says abstain from all appearance of evil. Um, if uh uh just any number of things. If it's a source of temptation, then stay away from it. How many people recognize the name C. I. Schofield? Not Brian or Sandy Schofield, C. I. Schofield. Some of you hold in your laps right now his study Bible. The Schofield Study Bowl. He was a lawyer out of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. I went to the school he founded for one year. He wasn't alive then, of course. worse, but uh it was years later. And um uh C. I. Schofield, as I understand the story, was uh uh was a uh a drunkard before he got saved And uh as I understand the story, one time he was going down the streets of Philly, he was going from his home to his office, I guess where the school was or whatever, and um uh there was some bars there And they noted that C. I. Scofield, whenever he got to the block where the bars were, he would go a block over, then walk down that block, then come back. He'd go a block out of his way to avoid those bars. And somebody says, why are you walking that way? That's not the shortest way. He goes, I do not want to give temptation even the slightest advantage. Stay away. You know where he got that information from? Bible. Bible. The Bible gives me the information I need to prevail over temptation. To prevail over failure. I'm not going to ask you to raise your hand, but I know what the answer would be if we were honest. Wonder how many of us, the only answer, don't raise your hand, how many of us have ever failed God How many of us have ever said or did something and we look back and say, what an idiot. What's wrong with me? You know what? The Bible tells me how to handle that. The Bible tells me, it gives me the information I need to deal with sin. When I sin and disobey God, I gave in to the temptation. I didn't Follow the Bible's uh information. I didn't do what the Bible said, and I gave into the sin, and now here I am. I failed, I sinned I'm done. I think there's nothing I can do for God. It's over. I failed completely. I might as well just hang it up. You didn't get that information from the Bible The Bible tells me? The Bible tells me there's three steps in dealing with failure. Number one, confess it. Agree with God about that sin. You watch something you shouldn't watch. You said something you shouldn't have said. You went somewhere you shouldn't have gone. You say, God, you're right. That was wrong. That is no problem. I agree with you, God. I condemn that with you. That is wrong. I judge that the way you judge it, God. That sin in my life. confessing it is. Then Proverbs tells me I need to forsake it. Whoso confesseth and forsaketh his sins shall find mercy. That means I put it out of my life. You don't just keep doing it and then confessing it, boy Lord, I know this is wrong, and just keep doing it, I know it's wrong, I know it's wrong, oh God, I agree with you, this is sin, I confess it If I'm going to get over it, I've got to forsake it. Put it out of my life. Turn it off. Throw it away. Move. If I have to. And then there's one last thing. I forget it. Just get up and go on. Confess it. Get it out of your life. Then get up and go on. Don't sit around pouting over past failures. Come on, talk to me. Fact of the matter is, if failure disqualified us, none of us would be qualified. You gotta confess it, judge it as God does, get it out of your life, and then go up and go on. And in some sense, and you can't always do this 100%, but in some sense you've got to act like it never happened. Just put it out. Isn't that what God does? The Bible says God puts our sins behind his back The old song, uh, and I I don't I don't know it well enough to sing it. I can't sing well enough to sing it But it says, uh what's a the phrase that's coming to my mind, some of you know it better than I do. Uh what sins are you talking about? Anyone Anybody have any idea what I'm talking about? Uh there's a song, and the guy says, What sins are you talking about? It's God talking. Anybody here? Don't y'all look at me like I'm nuts. Somebody help me Okay, thanks. Put them in the C or the tip points. Put 'em in the C Sea of forgetfulness, yes. We ought to have Billy sing that. Maybe not. No. But you follow what I'm saying? God forgets it. God puts it behind us. You know what? I come to my Bible and I get all this information How to deal with that? Wow. David sinned terribly. You know what? He was able to get up and go on. Psalm 51. He confessed it. He forsook it, put it behind him, and he still did great things for God. Huh. I love our Bible. I love my Bible because of the information it gives me about temptation. Try to prevail in life over temptation, over failure, over trials. We all go through trials. Let me real quickly come to verse 92 of Psalm 119 What a great chapter Psalm 119 is. Look at verse 92. Just a few verses before our text. Psalm 119, verse 92. Look what he says here. He says, unless thy law, the Word of God, the Bible, unless thy law had been my delights, I should then have perished in my affliction. You know what he's saying? David's saying that the afflictions of life, the trials of life, the storms of life, if I didn't have the Bible, I'd have been destroyed. If I didn't have the Word of God, my life would have been ruined by this financial setback. My life would have been ruined by this physical malady. My wife, my life would have been ruined by the economy collapsing. But I had God's word, and He gave me the information I needed to be able to deal with these trials and difficulties I love the Bible. You know why? Because it helps me when I have to go through the deep valleys of life. It gives me the information I need when I have to deal with the disappointments and the heartaches of life. But hadn't been for the Bible, I would have perished in my afflictions We love the Bible because the information it gives us. By the way, every person that has had any significant and positive influence for the cause of Christ has gone through deep valleys. Has gone through some dark storms. Listen, do not think that the storm that you are going through now is going to last forever. Someday, and maybe not far off, that storm will subside. And you will come out of the other end, and if you respond to biblical fashion, you will come out a better person because of it. The Bible helps me, gives me the information I need on knowing how to act and knowing how to respond and knowing how to function during the deep dark valleys of life that we all face. And they do not have to destroy us. The financial setback does not have to destroy me personally. A spouse leaving me for another person may break my heart, but it does not have to destroy me as a person. Somebody lying about me and doing something to hurt me deeply. Yes, it hurts, but it does not have to destroy me. I have the Word of God. And the Word of God gives me the information I need so that I don't have to perish in my affliction. Tell you what, we love the Bible. This thing, this book right here, gave me the information I needed to know how my sins can be forgiven, I can be prepared. To face God. This book right here gives me the information I need to know how to live my life in a way so that my Creator is pleased with me. Gives me the information I need, know how to deal with the trials in life and the sorrows and heartaches and how to respond in such a way that I'm not destroyed. I put this down, it gives me the information I need in the particulars of life. And by that I mean just all the aspects of life to deal with. You know what I found out reading and studying my Bible over the years? You know what I learned? I learned that God is concerned about every detail of my life. Every detail you can think of in life is dealt with in this book. This Bible, God's word tells me the kind of friends I should have Does. Do you know that? How many people knew that? Tells me what kind of friends I should have. This Bible the Bible, God tells me in His Word, gives me information I need on how to handle my finances. Did you know that? Very specific, very detailed, very thorough instructions on handling our finances, handling debt. Buying property. All that's dealt with in here. Do you know that? God's concerned about every detail in my life. Um this goes over like a lead balloon usually, but the fact of the matter is This book tells me how I'm supposed to dress. Don't hear much about that, but it's there. I read my Bible. Look, it's right there. God's concerned about every detail This book tells me how I'm supposed to function as a husband. Brother, you go to the world, fellas, you go to the world for advice on how to be a good husband. You're going to blow it. Notice most of these guys on T uh most of these advice people on TV, Okra and um All those people. If you'll do a little background into their lives Didn't work out so hot for them. My wondering is who are they to tell us? They blew it. I saw Jane Fonda being interviewed and had across the band. Jane Fonda's been married uh five times the married and divorced five times something like that. I thought why in the world should I listen to what she has to say? You know what? But I come to God's word and I find the flawless perfect information on how to be a kind of husband. God wants me to be. I'll just throw this out, fellas. We're supposed to love our wives the way Christ loved the church. That's a boy, that'll fill your that that'll give you keep you busy for a while Wives, children. Hey kids, you don't have to wonder how you're supposed to respond in home, be at home. It's simple. The Bible tells us. You know what the Bible says? Children obey your parents. It's as easy as that. You guys got the easy part. Just obey your parents. The world says, yeah, but what a God says, eh. This book gives me the information on how to deal with all the different particulars of life. I love the Bible. I love the Bible because it gives me information. Let me just throw the last two out to you. I love the Bible because it inspires me Inspires me. Come here to Psalms 119. Look with me at verse 50. Psalm 119, 50. This is my comfort in my affliction. Look at this last phrase. For thy word, that's the Bible, hath what? Quicken me. That word quicken is a Bible term that means this, to make alive, give life to. You know what he's saying? He's saying this book gives me life. This book inspires me. It gets me up when I don't want to get up. It gives me strength when I have no strength. It inspires me. It gives life to me. I think he's saying here in other places, the Bible is what makes me tick It gives me hope for the future. It gives me a reason to be alive. I love this book. This book is my life. It quickens me. It gives me the help and hope I need to go on. Again, I don't have time to develop this, but the Bible inspires us by giving us assurance that God will never leave us nor forsake us. I just give you the references. Hebrews 13:5, John 10, 28. Never, never, never leave thee. I'll never forsake thee. You'll never perish. That word never is a wonderful word in these texts. God is not going to get. Hey, you're at the end of your rope, you say, I don't know, I can't go another day, I can't go another week, I'm at the end. I'm here to tell you this book tells me God God will never forsake you. God will never leave you. Everyone else can leave you, but God never will. Teach the kids from Hebrews thirteen, five. Says, I will never leave thee. We have the little kids get saved. We have them put their hands, say, I that would say this. Jesus said, I will never leave Dennis We have them say their name and poke themselves in the chest. I will never leave Dennis. Then we have them say it, I will never leave Sammy. Sam, I'm sorry. That's all good. Put your hand up there, I guess, would you? Some of y'all need to wake up here. Well I guess Jesus said do it with me. Don't say my name, say your name at the end. Ready? Do it with me. Jesus said, I will never leave them. Isn't that good? That one little childish thing may turn your day around sometime. Everything going wrong, you say, wait a minute, I still got the Lord. You know what that is? That's being inspired. That's God giving me life again. Giving me purpose. It inspires me. It assures me that God is still in control. Say what? That's good to know. Good grief. Is it just me or does it look like this world is spinning out of control? Is it just me or does it look like American society is on a train wreck course? I look in this book, I open up and I say, wait a minute. God is still in control. The devil may be having a heyday, but God has the last say. I'd encourage you. Still in control. It informs me, it inspires me, and I put this down, it empowers me, it gives me strength for life. It's through this book that I found out when I was in Bible college. I knew it before, but when I was reading and studying this book, it dawned on me, God Almighty. in the person of the Holy Spirit lives inside this body. That'll stir you up. God. How many folks here you're saved and you know it? Say amen. This you know what this book says? The Bible says? God Almighty, the person and Holy Spirit, lives inside Your chest right now. For real. Literally. God and the Holy Spirit is indwelling you. You have a divine resident in your body. The Holy Spirit of God. That'll empower you. The Bible tells me that God will answer my prayers. If I meet the qualifications, God will answer my prayers. prayers. This Bible tells me, gives me promises of a bright future. Bible helps me keep my focus on Christ, helps me keep my focus on eternity. If all we see is the here and now, we're of all men most miserable. This book opens the curtain of eternity, and I see there's a wonderful future in heaven with the Lord. Lord. If anybody in this old world has a right to be optimistic, it's the child of God. Because of the truth in this book. I love the old book. I love the Bible. My heart was stirred as I stood back there and walked around and saw people coming in with their Bibles. I paid special attention today. So a lot of them are pretty worn out. You know the old saying, a worn-out Bible is a sure indicator that a life is not worn out. How many people recognize the name George Mueller? Great man of God, man of prayer, years going by. Listen to what George Mueller said, and he's been on my mind the last several months. But look listen to what George Mueller Mu Mueller said. He said, the first three years after my conversion, I neglected the Word of God. George Mueller, three years he didn't read his Bible. Says, since I began to search him diligently, the blessing has been wonderful. Listen to this. I have read the Bible through 100 times. With increasing, always with increasing delight. God used them in great ways to trust God How many people recognize uh how many people are familiar with the book Pilgrim's Progress? Beside the Bible, it's the best-selling book in the history of the world. John Bunyan wrote Pilgrim's Progress when he was in prison for preaching the gospel in England. They put him in prison for preaching the gospel. His daughter was blind. His daughter would come by outside the prison cell, and of course they were just miserable then And she would say, Daddy, please, just do what the government tells you to do and they'll let you out. You know what they wanted to do to let them go? They said, You promise never to preach the gospel again, we'll let you out. His little Brian daughter would say, Daddy, please do what they say. Please do what they say so you can come home. He wouldn't do it. He wouldn't do it. God's called me to preach. In prison he wrote on they had different type of set of them, but milk bottle caps basically is a milk closest thing we have. He wrote Pilgrim's Progress. Greatest human right human book ever written, I think. You know what he said said about the Bible? He said, read the Bible and read it again. And do not despair of help to understand something of the will and mind of God. He kind of elaborates here, but he says basically, he says, don't trouble yourself so much with commentaries and expositions. And obviously he wasn't against them because he wrote them, but he said this: pray and read and read and pray and pray and read. Speaking of the Bible. He said this, for a little bit from God is better than a great deal from man. Boy, isn't that the truth We love the Bible. It's our authority. It gives us information. About here and hereafter. Tells me how to be prepared to live for God. Tells me how to live my life in a way that God is pleased. It helps me deal with heartaches and trials and difficulties. It inspires my heart. Gives me reason to go on. Gives me a purpose in my life. Do you love the Bible? Let's read it. And read it. And read it. And read it. Let's obey it. We read something, the Bible says that this is what we should do, let's just do it. Okay? If we read in the Bible something we shouldn't do, then let's not do that. Let's love this book. Father, bless us, I pray. Thank you for giving us the Bible. I pray, Lord, that A love in our hearts would be developed for the Word of God. I pray that our lives would be governed by the truths and principles in this book Help us, Lord, here as we wind down 2011, just to commit ourselves to read that book and pray. And pray and read and read and pray and pray and read. And live by this thing. Help us as husbands and fathers to read the Bible in our homes and present the scriptures to our family and children. To live it. Help us as various family members to live by the instructions given us here. And then we can know your blessings. We can know your fulfillment in life And know that you're pleased. Our heads are bowed and eyes are closed. How many say, preacher, I'm recommitting myself anew to reading the Bible and seeking to the best of my abilities with God's help to live by itself. teachings and obey its commands. How many would testify that this morning? Preacher, I want to recommit myself to read the Bible, to live by its teachings and its commands. How many but God bless you, hands all around. Let's make that a real commitment in our lives. A real priority. The Word of God will have a central place in our life. As Job said, more than my necessary food. Now maybe the Spirit of God is dealing with some folks. I can't help but think that this is the case. Spirit of God is dealing with some folks already about some areas in their life That are not in line with the Word of God. Some things the Bible says you know it says you should be doing and you're not. Some things you know the Bible says you should not be doing and you are. And you say, preacher, I want my life to be in line with the Word of God. I want God to be pleased with my behavior, my actions, my lifestyle. And you'd say, preach or pray with me. There's some very specific, clear areas that the Bible addresses that need correction in my life. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me Pray with me. God bless you. Hands all around, both sides, front and back. How about it? Any others, preacher? There are some areas that God's dealing with my heart. God bless you. Now maybe there's someone here this morning who said, Preacher, to be honest with you, I'm not prepared to meet God. I would not want to die in the spiritual condition I'm in right now. I need to know that my sins are forgiven. I need to know that God would accept me when I stand before Him. I need to know that when I die, I'm going to heaven, not to hell. The Bible tells us we can know that. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me Pray for me. I need this settled in my heart that my sins are forgiven, and when I die I go to heaven and not to hell. And you'd like for me to pray for you also as we pray for these others. Would you just slip your hand up? How about it? Any at all? Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure. But God has forgiven and cleansed my sin that when I die, I'm going to heaven. And you'd like God To help you settle that in your heart and life. Any like that at all? Uplifted hand. Father in heaven, you know our hearts, you know where we're at. You know the struggles we face. You know the temptations. Lord, you know the trials I pray that you would use your word in our lives to give us victory, to give us strength, to give us the joy of the Lord as we live for you in accordance with the word of God. Many hands raised, a lot of needs. We're looking to you, Father, to help us in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. And God spoke to your heart this morning. Why don't you slip on out? Jennifer's playing the piano, time of invitation. Maybe you just need to come to an altar and say, God, help this to be reality in my life, this matter of the Bible being a central part. Of my life living by the Word of God, living by the principles of Scripture. How about it? It's between you and the Lord. All this is between God and us. We're grateful for Christians and teachers and whatnot that can help us, but the Word of God is the final line, bottom line.