Chapter seven if you would turn there. I always think my favorite singers are Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church is whoever sang that time. I think oh that's great. Great. But Brian and Sandy are a blessing. Matthew chapter seven, while you're finding your place there, I finally got the uh updated and correct Report on our website. I tried this a couple weeks ago. I'm gonna turn this on Dave, so I don't want to blow everybody's out ears out. Um tried a couple weeks ago and it had June's report, but when I printed it out it was May's and they finally got it updated correctly And in the month of June, off our website, there was 1,432 sermons downloaded. That's almost double that some previous months. I don't know the reason. Uh 400 uh were onto cell phones. The number one sermon, I thought this was interesting, the number one sermon downloaded was from a Wednesday night earlier early in the month um on the Romans Road in Assurance, one of our personal soul winning tips. And apparently that struck a chord and there was some interest there. People downloaded 90 of them. uh 90 different times and then uh goes down the list various ones. Anyone want to guess the number one state? West Virginia. 258 sermons downloaded into West Virginia Boy, they need it. And um Delaware, Delaware, 222 in Delaware. Um Connecticut over almost 200. New Jersey over 100. Something up in the northeast there was going on. I don't know. Sh uh in Illinois, two. It doesn't have the city, just the state. So there was two in Illinois, so Number one state or uh country? Germany. How about that, James? Germany. Uh twenty-eight, New Zealand, twenty-eight, Australia. There was thirty-eight states and sixteen countries. So what amazing thing. I just every time I get that I get excited about it. Matthew seven, uh verse twenty-one through twenty-three. We've been looking at this uh for quite some time now. And uh but I want to finish up this section. It's towards the end of the Sermon on the Mount, as we pointed out numerous times. The Lord is kind of bringing things together in his message. uh to disciples, and he makes this statement, verse 21 Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven Many will say to me in that day, notice he says, many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? And in thy name cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works. Let me ask you this real quick. If they're doing this in Jesus' name, many people are doing this in Jesus' name What part what what part of the world's population would fall into this category, would be doing this Yeah, it would be people who are aware of Jesus Christ, who claim to be followers of Jesus Christ. These aren't pagans out there and heathen never heard of them. This is within what we could say within Christendom. to some extent. That's interesting. He says, many within Christendom that operate in his name, quote unquote, And then verse 23, then will I profess unto them, look at this statement, I never knew you. And he doesn't stop there, he says, depart from me. And he doesn't stop there and he says, ye that work what? Iniquity. What are they doing that the Lord is calling iniquity? They're saying, Lord, Lord. They're prophesying in his name. They're casting out devils in his name. They're doing many wonderful works. And the Lord says they're working what? Iniquity. How can that be So let's look at this. Let's look at this and see if we can answer some of these questions. Father, we ask now you'd bless our study of this passage. And Lord, this is disturbing. uh to think uh that what the Lord says here, the reality of what he's saying and what that means. So I pray you challenge us as a church. our own spiritual standing, our own spiritual well-being, but also our concern for others within the religious community that uh you would help us and help us maybe to help others To see this. And so please bless now. Lord, I need the filling of your Holy Spirit. I present my body to you. I yield my will. I pray with all my heart that you would speak through me. and uh use me to help us tonight. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. He's addressing this here. Let me uh get here. He says, I never knew you. And this is one of those disturbing passages of Scripture, as we pointed out. And what the Lord is saying here, if I understand this correctly, it is very possible for a person to be very religious. and yet be lost as the most heathen person in the world. In fact, as I pointed out, he r he references them as people who work iniquity. And we noted in previous message on this their words to Christ. They said, Lord, Lord. They had the terms right, they had the right expressions, they could say the right things. Uh my implication here by repeating it, Lord, Lord, means they were very zealous about it. So they had the right terminology, they had the right facts, they had zeal behind it, they were emotional about it. And then their works that they presented to Christ, they had many wonderful works. We pointed out that they preached the Word of God, prophesied in His name, and so they're declaring God's word. Uh they are prevailing over devils, they're casting out devils in his name, and they displayed the power of God. They have many wonderful works, and we pointed out that we can Go to portions of Scripture where people, unsaved people, people who are clearly unsaved, not operating under the truth of God's word, that were able to replicate These deeds, cast out devils, proclaim the word of God, and do many wonderful works. So the Lord is addressing all of this, and now we come to verse 23. And this is the one, this is the statement that is most troubling. He says, depart from me. I will profess unto them, I never knew you. Depart from me. Now nobody in their right mind would ever want to hear God say that to them Am I right or wrong? I can't think of anything worse than my God and my Savior saying to me, Depart from me. I never knew you. What a terrible, terrible words to have said by God. I want to get right into my outline of this verse. I put down here, first of all, and some of this I'm getting by implication. But I first thing I put down was this. There's a surprise at the Lord's statement. There's a surprise here. Look what he says. He says, then Why profess unto them. I looked up that word den and how it's used various places, and I found this out. The word den there has this idea, a very specific point in time So there is a certain time, a very specific, appointed time, where Jesus Christ is going to say this To these people who said to him, Lord, Lord, thy name we have prophesied, we've cast out devils, we've done many wonderful works. Then, at this certain point, at this point of time, I am going to make this statement to them. Anybody here want to take a guess? When is that appointed time? When is that time when the Lord will make this statement to them? Anybody want to guess? At the great white throne judgment. If you would take your Bibles. Now we looked at this a couple weeks ago, but I want to come back to it. Revelation chapter number 20, last book of the Bible. And chapter number 20 of Revelation, this is a passage that really, and we don't want to be morbid, we want to be overly uh dark in our theology and our thinking about life and our thinking about eternity, but this is a reality. And it is something I believe that you and I as Christians, particularly if we desire to be any kind of witness and soul winner at all, we ought to be very familiar with this, and this ought to be in the back of our minds on a continual basis. Look at verse 11 of Revelation chapter 20. I underscored this whole passage in red. It says this, and I saw a great white throne And him that sat up on it, whose face the earth and the heaven fled away, and there was found no place for them Now, this is at the end of the millennial. This is God judging the unsaved. Look what happens. I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God. And the books were opened, and another book was opened, which is the book of life, and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books according to their works. What did they say they did? Many wonderful works. So this is what the Lord's looking at. And the sea gave up the dead which were in it. Death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them. And they were judged, every man, according to their works. Death and hell were cast in the lake of fire. This is the second death. Now look at this And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. They were departed from God. For all eternity. So when the Lord says, then will I say unto them, he's talking about a very specific time, a very specific event, and there's no doubt it is the great white throne judgment when the unsaved dead are judged. Then come back, if you would, to Matthew chapter 7. He says, then uh will I profess unto them. Now keep this Image in mind, this great white throne. The dead are brought up out of hell, death and hell are brought up, and the dead, small and great, are standing before this great white throne. God is judging on an individual basis At that point, then, he says, I will profess unto them. It's interesting that he uses that word profess. It means an open and public declaration. Now that fits in the great white throne. In my imagination, in my mind, I see this huge throne, multitudes of of innumerable multitudes of unsaved, and God is declaring the sentence. The books, their names are not in the book of life, and God declares the sentence. To openly and publicly declare judgment has the idea of a public statement of authority to profess. It is a very solemn statement. Then will I profess. It's an interesting word he uses. If you're in Matthew, come over to chapter number 10. And verse number thirty-two, we have this word uh used in a different form. Matthew chapter ten and verse thirty-two. He says, Whosoever therefore shall what? Confess me before men. There it is. Will I confess also before my Father, which is in heaven? Whosoever shall deny me before men, him will I also deny before my Father, which is in heaven. Same concept here Whosoever will publicly, openly declare me, they're unashamed of Christ. That's why I believe, that's one of the reasons I believe when a person gets saved, they ought to get baptized as soon as possible after that salvation. It is an open public profession of the fact that I have trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. I'm crucified with him. I've been buried. I've risen again to live for Christ. And so to openly confess him. I believe that you and I, and uh, you know, I wish I could say I've never failed in this area, but I believe you and I ought to everywhere and all the time be able and willing to openly confess Christ. To not be ashamed of the Lord Jesus Christ on the job, in the marketplace, anywhere. Yes, Jesus Christ is uh the Son of God and he is my Savior. And so the Lord uses this term, I will profess unto them publicly, openly, a statement of authority. Depart from me. I never knew you. Now, just a little aside, as I was looking here in Matthew 7 again, and I thought about the Lord Jesus Christ saying this. I thought, Jesus is claiming some pretty powerful authority here. Who in existence would have the authority To declare somebody judged for all eternity and cast in a lake of fire. Only God has that authority, right or wrong. Only God could make this statement. And anytime a man would presume to take upon himself, a mere mortal, presumed to take upon himself the authority To bring judgment on somebody that depart from me, I never knew you, you're working iniquity and cast them into hell, uh, that would be blasphemous. But we know that Jesus Christ is claiming authority that he legitimately has as the Son of God, as God in the flesh. And so I just noted that as a studying this. I thought, wow, this is tremendous authority. That ex Jesus Christ is exercising here and it's authority that is legitimately his as the Son of God. So my point I'm trying to get to is this. I would imagine these folks that are saying, Lord, Lord. In thy name have we prophesied. In thy name we have cast out many devils, and we've done many wonderful works, Lord. Would you agree with me? That sounds to me like they fully anticipated the Lord saying, that's wonderful. Come on in. Would you agree with me? That sounds to me, these people fully expected the Lord to say something perhaps like this. Well done. Well, I'm proud of you. Come on up into heaven, inherit the kingdom. You've earned it. And I believe that is the mentality that the Lord is addressing here. We have earned eternal life. We have said the right things, we have done the right things, we have been very zealous for it. Lord, we deserve to go to heaven. We deserve to inherit the kingdom. We have earned this with our zeal and with our knowledge and with our lifestyle. Now we know nobody earns heaven, do they? When somebody says at a funeral he went home to his reward, that is not true when we're talking about salvation. Salvation is not a reward for good works. Salvation is not a reward for good behavior. If the dog sits and fetches, we give him a treat. He's earned it. But nobody goes to heaven as a reward. Nobody inherits the kingdom of God because of how good we are, or how much we know, or the right words we've said And these people are standing before God, and my impression is they fully anticipated the Lord just praising them and gushing all over them and telling them how wonderful they are. You imagine. Put yourself in their shoes. You imagine then the Lord to their shock says, Depart from me. I never knew you. Work iniquity. Um I see a surprise here, a shocking, startling surprise in this statement. Then the second thing I notice in verse number 23 is the settled nature of their status. Now I'm trying to be alliterate here to help us. Uh if you want to jot these down. Number one was there's a surprise at the Lord's statement. What? You never knew us depart. Hey, look how good we've been. Look at these works we've done. And then the settled nature of their status. And what I mean by that, look what he says. Them who I profess unto them, I, what's that next word? Never, I circled that in my Bible. That's an important word. I never knew thee. I got looking that up and how it's used in the various definitions in the English and in the Greek. And I can't I found out this. I come to this definition. The word never means, listen carefully. He says, I never knew thee. I never uh I never knew you. We're never has this idea at no point in time ever at all in any way It is the strongest negative statement that can be made in that concept. Never I never knew you. And then the word new, I never knew you, has the idea of being or having a relationship with Now we know that the Lord knew them, right? Jesus is omniscient. He knew their names. He knew everything about them. He knew where they were from. He knew their motives. He knew their thoughts He knew their goals. He knew everything, every detail. He knew the, he he knew, uh, he knew the uh hairs on their head So when he says I never knew, he means uh uh I don't know who you are, I don't know what what are you talking about. And that's not what he's saying. He's saying I never had any relationship with you. You did all these things, you made all these statements, you had all these facts in your head, but we never had a relationship. You were never part of the family of God. You were never born into the family of God. You have no spiritual life. There was no relationship there. Obviously, he was aware of who they were and the facts about them. He's omniscient But the point is this, at no point in time, now that's important, at no point in time did these people have any kind of personal relationship with him. Now, if he uses the word never, what does that tell us about them and their salvation? They never had salvation. The point here is this. And a lot of people will go to this to tell us that we can lose our salvation. Don't say here's these people did all this stuff and they lost their salvation somehow. No, if they never how can you lose something you never had? I could say, well, I lost my motorcycle. I don't know where I put it. And they say, Preacher, I didn't know you had a motorcycle. Well, I never did have one. Well, how can you lose it? You can't lose something you never had. And the point is this, and it's very clear throughout Scripture, every single person that dies and ends up in eternity in hell is somebody who never was saved. There are no people who are saved and lose their salvation. If a person is lost, they never were saved. And by the way, if you would be saved for a while and then lose it, you never were saved past tense. Right? And so these are people who did not lose their salvation, however well they talked, however Uh well however uh intelligent they were, whatever right answers they could give, and the right words they can sing and uh say and the songs they could sing with all their hearts and just belt it out And uh however they appeared, however righteous and how Christian they appeared, and how hard they worked They never were saved. Never were saved. I never knew you. And so I would imagine there's tremendous surprise. I see here a tremendous surprise. When they hear the Lord say, depart from me, I never I never knew you, depart from me that work iniquity. I'm just shocked. I just can't. I tried, as I was preparing this, I tried imagining myself in their shoes when they hear this statement and how what the thoughts that would go through their mind and the emotions they would feel. It's it's staggering. And then the fact is they never were saved. This was a settled status in there. It's not something that's changed. This is the way it always was. They never did get saved. And then the third thing I notice is the separation that is sentenced. All right, the surprise at the Lord's statement. The settled nature of their status, and three, the separation that is sentence. Look what he says. Then will I profess unto them, I never knew you And the next statement's tragic. Depart from me. Depart from me. I don't know about you. But when I'm with somebody and maybe I think highly of them or uh you know I uh uh have feelings for them or whatever, and they say something like this, go away. How many people that hurts a little bit? Anyone know I'm talking about? Somebody says, go away. Man, that hurts. Now here are people. The Lord says, so to speak, go away. And your creator, your savior says, go away, depart from me. And that's exactly what that phrase means. Go away. Put distance between us. Separate. Be separate from me. That's really what hell is. That's really what hell is. Separation from God. You know, the Bible gives us little windows into hell. Luke sixteen is, you know, I always pictured the rich man in hell. It's like God opens up this little spiritual window, information window, and we look down in and we see just a glimpse through cloudy glass, a little glimpse of what it's like in hell We see the fire and we the torments he talks about and the thirst and all that we study and understand about hell. But the this is this is uh a A horrible aspect of hell where God says, You're separated from me. You're separated from me. And everything that my presence brings, you no longer experience. Would you agree with me? The unsaved here on earth, while they're alive, and they still have opportunities saved, would you agree with me? They are experiencing to some extent the blessings of God's presence. Right? The goodness of God is shed upon all the earth. All the earth experiences the good of the goodness of God. God sends rain on the just and the unjust. So they are experiencing to some extent God's mercy. They are experiencing to some extent God's grace. They are experiencing to some extent the blessings of God's presence. But then the Lord says, depart from me. And the blessings and the mercy and the grace of the presence of God is now no longer Part of their experience. If you would turn over to Matthew chapter number 25. And um he uses this same expression. He's speaking here about the nations, the judgments of the nations, and to be very honest with you, I don't fully grasp how that all works out, God judging the nations, but I know the Bible teaches it. Verse 32 of Matthew 25, he says, before him shall be gathered all the nations. And he shall separate them one from the other as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats. Then he goes on down there, and the criteria for his judgment basically is the nation's treatment of Israel. Let me just throw this out. America ought to be friends with Israel. We want God's blessings. Doesn't mean we necessarily approve everything they do. We ought to be on Israel's side. And that's what he's talking about here, this whole passage. This is about nations and their treatment of Israel. Then verse 41, he says this. Listen to the terminology Then shall he say also unto them on the left hand, look at this, depart from me. Same statement. Go away. Separate, be separate from me. And look what this entails. So this gives us a little insight into what he's talking about back in verse Matthew chapter 7. Depart from me, ye cursed, into what? Everlasting fire. What is that? That's hell. It's a lake of fire. And who's it prepared for? The devil and his angels. Listen, don't let anybody ever argue with you about God sending people to hell. God did not create hell for mankind. God created earth for mankind. He created mankind to live and live forever. He did not create man to die. He did not create hell for man. He created man to live. Sin entered the world, which brought death. And he created hell for the devil and his angels. And when man rejects God, rejects the Savior, They ally themselves with the devil and they experience uh the devil's end in the lake of fire. And so when the Lord is saying back here in Matthew chapter 7 to these folks who are saying the right words, they're doing all the right deeds They got the right facade, but they're not saved. And he says, Depart from me, he's really sentencing them to hell. To help. I want to suggest to you that that phrase right there, those seven words, depart from me. I never knew you. Or I got it backwards. I never knew you. Depart from me. I want to suggest to you those are the most terrible statements made in all of history. And they come from the lips of the Lord Jesus Christ. I cannot imagine anything worse than hearing Jesus Christ make that statement. Depart from me. I never knew you. Depart from me. What a horrific thing. I'm telling you, I guess what I want to say here is this. We should never ever play games with our salvation. And I say this so often. I would never want to put doubts in a genuinely saved person's mind. I would never want to do that. But if there are doubts there, it needs to be settled. It is too risky. You say, but I'm a good person. I did this and I did that. That's exactly what these people were saying And so the separation that is sentenced. I got uh one more thought here from this passage, and this is gets a little tricky. I put this down, the seriousness of their sin. One, the surprise at the Lord's statement. They didn't expect this. The settled nature of their status, they never were saved. It's not something they lost and they ended up this way. The separation, that sentence, it's eternity separated from God and hell, ultimately the lake of fire And now the seriousness of their sins. And this is the statement that doesn't seem to fit in my mind. Then why I said Then why I profess unto them, I never knew you, depart from me But he taxed this statement on at the end, ye that work iniquity. And this is what I was saying earlier on as I started the message. Wait a minute. They're saying Lord, Lord. And we pointed out earlier, saying Lord, Lord is the correct thing, right? We are to refer to Jesus Christ as Lord. Prophesying in his name, that's a good thing. How would that be iniquity? How would that be sin? How would be casting out devil's sin? How would doing wonderful works? How could that be sin? How can that be iniquity? Let me ask you a question. Would bringing a sacrifice to God be a good thing? Brian and I were talking about this a little bit. If I'm going to bring a sacrifice to God, how many people would say, yeah, that's a good thing? God would be pleased with that. How many people agree with that statement? Ever read about Cain and Abel? Cain brought a sacrifice to God, and God refused it. And God said in so many words, depart from me. Depart from me. You say, why wouldn't God want that sacrifice? The reason being is Cain was bringing, number one, the wrong. He was disobeying the instructions of God concerning the sacrifice. And I want to suggest to you that it's pretty clearly implied in Scripture, Cain was bringing them with the wrong motive. So he had the wrong method and he had the wrong motive. And God rejected it. How many people would agree with me? That keeping the Ark of the Covenant from falling on the ground and shattering would be a good thing. I mean, anybody ever read about Uzzah? And the oxen shook the ark, and that's a good thing. He's going to stop the ark from falling. And he grabs it. What happened to him? Boom. Guys on the spot. See, we ha we can serve God and we should serve God, but we've got to do it God's way. And this whole mentality in modern Christianity, I know I'm on a little rabbit trail here with this But this whole mentality in Christianity that, well, we can serve God, we can do it any way we want. And love God in your own way. Serve God in your own way. Now, to some extent, we're individuals with individual personalities, and we're not robots, and we're not clones, and So we do, in a sense, serve God in our way. But we are to serve God His way. And we're to bring the sacrifices his way. And we're to be saved His way. And when I presume to know better than God and decide for myself what is acceptable for my salvation, and what is adequate to earn my way to heaven or open the doors of heaven to me. And I presume to take that dis that authority upon myself and decide, well, saying Lord, Lord, and performing good works and casting out devils and prophesying in his name, that is what will get me to heaven. I'm taking that authority upon myself, and God says I reject that. You do not have the authority to decide what, out, and way, uh how you're safe. I make that decision. Does that make sense? And so they're presenting to God these works. I put it this way: anything I offer to God to merit my salvation, no matter how good it is in and of itself. Is rejected by God. Am I making sense? You follow what I'm trying to say? I got thinking about Isaiah 64, 6. Um help me out. Uh righteousness or is filthy rights? How does it start? Somebody help me Alright, our righteousness is filthy rights. Let's look it up. Yeah, that's Jeremiah seventy nine. Well. As an unclean thing. Thank you, Jimmy. We're all as an unclean thing, and our righteousness is as what? Filty rags. I wish you'd be able to do it. I think a lot of us are aware of this, that filthy rags isn't just something you wipe the recall if you take the oil, you can switch that That would be a silly ride. But what he's talking about here is a specific kind of rag. He's referencing the scraps and uh what do you call old pieces of garment? Um um rags and uh stuff that the um that the uh uh uh leopers themselves as their as their body decayed on the bone, as the flesh decayed on the bone, and the s and the fluids that would seep out and the detection and the cost and and all this and they would wipe it. just be a mess and you would wipe it and uh these rags can you imagine how putrid it was and it would smell like uh flesh And the Lord says, your good words, anything you bring to me to presume that this is making me good enough for heaven, the Lord says, that's what I mean, check that. Get it away from me. Heaven is so precious and we are so simple. And God is so simple. So holy for us to presume that we can somehow simply say the right words or somehow just do these deeds. And that will make up for all my sin, and that will pay for all my sin and appease the holiness of God. And God says, Depart from me. That's a Iniquity that to even think that way is iniquity. It's sinful. Is there a place for good works in the Christian life? Absolutely. Absolutely. As a favor to money, and their relationship, then good works are done out of gratitude to the Lord, out of love, as a reasonable service from the mercy service. But when I take those good words and I presented to him to somehow earn heaven, then it becomes odious to God. Then it becomes Iniquitous. Sinful to think that way. Um listen, these preachers that stand behind pulpits and preach works of salvation Are sinning against a holy God. And God condemns them strongly So I thought, man, a lie. Iniquity, ye that worked iniquity. I heard anybody recognize the name Warren Weirsby. complicated dollar eight years to print that many times we try to copy that activity so that we have to upgrade away. He was just in Cumberland recently. He made this statement. Turn while I'm doing this, if you would, turn to Hebrews chapter 9. I'm going to show you a passage here that I think applies. Hebrews chapter nine. And uh years ago, Warren Wearsby was preaching on this down at Highland Park. And he made this statement. Let me read the verse and then I'll give you his statement. Hebrews 9. 14 How much more shall the blood of Jesus Christ, who through the eternal spirit offered himself without spot to God? Purge your conscience from what? Dead works to serve the living God. Now, what do we know that the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from? The blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all Sin. First John tells us that. The blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanseth us from all sin. Now notice what he says here. The blood Christ, who offered himself the eternal spirit without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God. Now, this is what Warren Wearsby said, and it stuck in my mind all these years. He said this: any good work Now think you've got to follow the reasoning here. Any good work done to make up for a bad work is a dead work. Follow what he's saying? Alright, here I am. I've done bad works. I've disobeyed God. I've taken his name in vain. I've lied. I've done all these terrible things. I've broken his law. I am a sinner. There is nothing righteous in me. There's nothing There's nothing good in me, that is my flesh. There's none righteous. I'm not righteous. I have sinned and I have come short of the glory of God. I've got dead works. So I decide. Alright, I've got all these dead works, all this sin I'm going to do a bunch of good works to make up for the dead works. So I'm going to get baptized, I'm going to go to church, I'm going to keep Sunday school. I'm going to say I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna do that, I'm gonna give money to the poor, I'll put a lot of money in the offering, I'll uh I'll pay for a good fellowship. I'm gonna do all these great wonderful works. They're good, they're wonderful in and of themselves But if I'm doing that to make up for the bad works, the Lord says they are what? value. They don't produce light. They don't produce eternal light. There's nothing good in it. It's unacceptable. It does me no good. Again, Isaiah says it's like filthy rags. It's filthy rags. So when the Lord says to these people who fully expect him to be so proud of them, fully expect Expect him to say, Oh, you've earned this, come on in. I've got the biggest mansions for all the hard work he's done and the wonderful things he's said. And he says, The reason it was iniquitous, sinful, was because They were counting on it and make them acceptable to God. The Bible says, Jesus said, many people are going to have that mindset. And that's a tragedy. I come across this, I modified a little bit for tonight, but it is not the testimony of our lips. That saves us from sin and hell. It is not the toil of our labors that saves us from sin and hell, but it is our trust in the Lord. That saves us from sin in hell. For by grace are you saved through faith. That not of yourselves, it's the gift of God, not of works. Lest any man should boast, lest any man get self-pride. Isn't that the sin of the devil? Pride? Self-boasting? And he says, that's not the way of salvation. That is iniquitous, that is sinful, that is rejected. I come to God through the grace of God, through the Lord Jesus Christ. John 3. 7, my dad had for years on his front door, he had this little business card. Come up the old-fashioned doorbell. He didn't push it. A little car right on the window, right above it. In the wall. He must be born again. John three seven. The second time? Or it says this is one of the version. What are you crazy about? Or it says have a form of questions about The world. So we should make sure that we left that feel. Um Turn one more passage and I'll quit. John chapter 6 and verse 29. Now if you go back up to verse 21 in Matthew 7, he says, But he that doeth the will of my Father And we touched on this way back when we started this passage. Well, isn't the will of the Father to refer to Jesus as Lord? Yes, but not to be saved. Isn't it the will of the Father that we prophesy in this thing? We declare the Word of God, yes, but not in order to be saved. Doesn't the devil wanna doesn't the Lord God's will we defeat the devil? Yes, but not in order to be saved. Wonderful works, yes, but not in order to be saved. So what is the will of God? John chapter 6, verse 29, he makes it very, very clear. He says Verse thirty-nine and this is the Father's will which has sent me. Alright, what is the Father's will? And the whole context here is eternal life. That of all which he hath given me I should lose nothing, but should raise it up at the last day. And this is the will of him that sent me. Look at this. That everyone which seeth the Son and believeth on him may have everlasting life. And I will raise him up at the last day So the will of God in the matter of salvation isn't that we say, Lord, Lord, and do wonderful works, proclaim his word, and uh uh whoop the devil The will of God concerning salvation is that we put our total faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Rely exclusively and totally on Jesus Christ to forgive me and save me and give me eternal life. That's the will of the Father. Now this I try I'm confident this isn't new to any of us. But when the Lord says that many in Christendom are counting on their works and the things they say to save them, that's disturbing. Right? And so we as a church ought to be very, very careful. We understand we're not saved by our deeds, our works, or even our words. But we're saved by putting our faith in Christ. Years ago, I had a family member And I was concerned about their salvation. I was talking to them a little. They had professed faith. And they made a statement that really bothered me. Now I think they've got it straightened out. as a as a family member, but I think they got it straightened out. But they said this. I asked them about their salvation. Are they sure? Do they know Christ saved them? And they kept making this statement. But I said a prayer But I said a prayer. But I said that prayer. Well, how do you know you I said a prayer. I said a prayer. I said a prayer. They must have repeated that 10, 15 times. Now, I don't know if you're thinking like I was thinking, but that to me sounds like they're trusting in what? A prayer they said. They said. It wasn't a word about Christ. Wasn't a word about trusting Jesus and Jesus saving me and Jesus giving me new life. It was all, I said this, I said, Lord, Lord, right? Now I'm not opposed to having kids say a prayer. I I think there's a place for that and I do it. I think it's helpful. But I think we need to be very, very careful we don't let people think that simply saying these words is what saves us. With a heart man believeth unto righteousness. So I've kind of beat this to death, but the Lord makes these strong statements. And it's very, very important for us to understand that. So I hope this was helpful. Father, I pray that you would help us have a good grasp of this. And what this means to have eternal life and how it's gained by grace through faith. And then I pray you'd help us as a church that we go out into our community and we Visit with people in their homes and in the workplace and at the stores. We share gospel tracts and try and be a witness to the grace of the gospel. That you would help us to be very, very clear. No doubt there's many people in our community that have the idea that they are earning heaven, and I pray you'd help us to compassionately and very clearly help them to understand that With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, I'd really like for, I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. By grace, God saved me. That's settled. But I really, I really would like to see that word many applied to less people in my realm of influence. And I'd be able to influence people to see the grace of God. And salvation by grace. Is there anybody like that? You know what I mean? Anybody know what I mean? And I think we need the Lord to help us. We can't do this in our own power. We need the power of God. We need the hand of the Lord upon us. And so let's pray and ask the Lord to do that. How many folks know somebody that you strongly suspect they're trusting in their works for their salvation? Anyone here like that? You know somebody I strongly suspect they're trusting in our works. Maybe we can pray specifically for them that they would not stand before the Lord and hear this statement. Father, bless our invitation now. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Catherine's just going to play a few verse of invitation, and maybe there'd be someone tonight who just kind of Maybe kneel at an altar and say, Lord, help me in my witness to be clear and strong and sharing the grace of the gospel with other people. They see that it's only through the Lord Jesus Christ. And God will help us. If we determine to do it his way, he'll help us. Maybe you want to pray for someone you know that's unsaved, that they see this and understand. Father in heaven, bless us now. Help us, we pray in Jesus' name, Amen.