Now I thought that was funnier than all you all responded to it. I cracked me up. Alright, Matthew chapter seven. Let's get down to business here. Verse number twenty-two I think I got my mic on, Brother Dave. I think we're Yep, we're good. Verse 21. Sermon on the Mound, the Lord makes this statement as he's closing out the sermon. He's he's touching on these Issues here at the end of his sermon. He says, Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name, and in thy name have cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works. And then will I profess unto them, I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. Entitled the message, and it's kind of an ongoing message, but um, I've entitled it, I never knew you. And I think the point the Lord is making here, one of the points the Lord is making here is this: not everybody's going to heaven. And not everybody that talks about God and about Jesus is going to heaven. The gate to heaven is very narrow, is very straight, and the way is very narrow. And the Lord is elaborating on that statement he made earlier. So let's pray. We'll briefly review what we touched on last week, and I want to give Father, I ask you to bless now as we look at this very, very sober passage. And I ask that you would speak to our hearts and challenge us. Lord, obviously concerning our own salvation, that that is in place and that is settled and it's scriptural, but I pray you'd give us a real burden for others. Lord, as I prepared this, I thought of how many people in our own community are so very religious, and they know about the Lord and they know facts, they know Bible verses. The Lord are very concerned that they don't necessarily know that their sins are forgiven. They know Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. So I pray you'd use these truths, the statement you gave so many years ago To challenge us, stir us, burden us to have this thing right and to be able to share it with others. So please fill me with your Spirit. I pray that you would speak through me tonight. In Jesus' name, amen. We pointed out that this is a very sober passage of Scripture. There's a number of places throughout Scripture that give just really The truth that is presented is a tragic truth. Nevertheless, it is the truth. It's the word of God. I noted here in this statement the Lord's giving, this passage we just read. The first thing I noticed and we worked on last week was the words that these folks presented to the Lord Jesus Christ. They say it. They're saying these things to the Lord. And we noted that their expression that was correct. What they were saying was correct. Lord, Lord. And we ask this question, is it God's will that we refer to Jesus Christ as Lord? Yes or no? Sure, absolutely He is Lord. And by expressing Lord, Lord, they were, we assume and we take it to mean that they were acknowledging Jesus Christ. Not just the title, but they were acknowledging that he is who he claims to be, that he is Lord, he is creator, he is God, and all that that encompasses. So they expressed that. They said, Lord. So they had their words were right. Their expression was right. What they were saying about Jesus Christ was right. What they understood about Jesus Christ was correct. However, he says, I never knew you. And so the words they gave to Lord Jesus Christ, they were correct. Their expression was correct. And then I kind of, and I may be stretching this a little bit, but I got looking at the fact that they said it twice. Lord, Lord. And I suggest to you that not only was their expression correct, but their emotions were strong. They felt strongly about this. They were very sincere in their presentation of Jesus Christ. This is at the judgment. We'll notice that. These people are at the judgment. They're presenting their case to be saved, and they're expressing the right things, Lord, Lord, and they're very passionate about it. Lord, Lord. They're very sincere. They're very earnest. They're very zealous. And as we all know, and we've said this many times over the years, you can be sincere, but you can be sincerely what? Wrong. A person can be very zealous. But have that zeal misplaced, have a wrong premise for the zeal. And so the first thing we noticed here was their words. Not everyone that saith unto them Now we know it's God's will for us to recognize Christ as Lord. I believe it's God's will for us to be zealous and earnest and Sincere and emotional about it. It's all in the will of God. When it comes to the matter of salvation, entering the kingdom of God, being a part of the family of God Simply saying the right words and being emotional about them does not save our soul. And so they're presenting these words to the Lord. And then I noticed in verse 22, not only the words they presented that they uh said to the Lord, but the works that they did for Christ. The words they said to him, now the works that they did for him. Now verse 22 he says, many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord. So what's he doing? He's expanding on the statement he made in verse number 21. Verse 21, not everybody says to me, Lord, Lord's going to end the kingdom of heaven. Verse 22, it's like he's saying this. Let me explain what I mean. Let me expound on that. Let me tell you what that involves And he says, many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, now look at this, have we not prophesied in thy name? And in thy name have cast out devils. And in thy name done many wonderful works. There are three Categories, you might say, that they are presenting to Jesus Christ at the judgment. We did this, we did this, and we did this. And so they're presenting their works to the Lord. Notice it's what they are saying They're saying we did these things. And I got looking at that and I was trying to find, is that significant that they're saying to the Lord, Lord, I did all this I found that not everything that people say they did necessarily was done. Right People say things. I had a person, this was years ago, and uh they were out of church so much and just barely, in fact that they don't go at all. It's been years But they're going, I said something, I just said something about, they said, oh, uh yeah, I go soul winning every day, six hours every day. I go out in my neighborhood and knock on doors every day. I said, that's incredible And uh I got talking a little bit, and obviously what they said they were doing and what they were doing were two different things. They weren't actually doing that. And so I got wondering, are these people just saying this to the Lord? Are they just lipping these things and presenting this? I don't think that's necessarily the case. One, the Lord could burn right through that like that. We can say whatever we want to the Lord. He knows what the truth is. One thing that's very important for us to understand: we cannot lie to God. We cannot lie, you can try it, but it ain't gonna fly one bit. And so they're saying this, and I think they're They actually did these things that they are saying, and they're presenting these works to the Lord. And it's interesting, three times he uses the phrase, in thy name. In thy name. In thy name. Now, before we look at these works that they presented, I want to make two observations. First of all, the emphasis was on what they did. Nothing is said about what the Lord is doing on their lives. We did this. We did this. We did this. So the emphasis is saying, Lord, look at all this stuff that I did. Let me ask you a question. Does works have any part at all in salvation in any way, shape, or form through our works. Ah, I take issue with that. Now before you throw a hymn book at me Hear me out. We are not saved in any way, shape, or form at all. We are not saved by works Our works do not save us. I cannot work enough. I cannot be good enough. I cannot give enough. I cannot buy heaven. I cannot earn heaven. I cannot pur To seven I cannot do that. We're not saved by works, but Ephesians chapter 2, verse 10 says we are saved unto good works. And so doing these things was a good thing. The emphasis is on what they were doing to be saved. Lord, we did this and we did this and we did this. Therefore, we should be able to enter the kingdom of heaven. The problem they had here was, I believe, is they had, the old saying, they had the cart before the what? Horse. Good works do not earn me salvation. Good works are the result of salvation. are what God saves us unto. And so they're not so the emphasis here is what I'm doing for God, what I'm doing for God, what I'm doing for God. When in reality, it is God that produces good works in us, acceptable good works. Take your Bible if you would. Now we're going to look around here, and I'm going to try and get as far into this as I can, but we're not going to go long. Turn with me, if you would, to Philippians chapter 2 and verse number 13. Back to Philippians chapter 2 and verse number 13. Now I mentioned Ephesians 2. 10. We are his workmanship created unto good works. He saves us. Not by our works, but he saves us so that we serve him, so that we live for him, so that we work for him. The purpose, the result, the product of salvation is good works. Now What is the source of those works? So, well, that's what I do. I got saved, now I'm doing this, and I'm doing this, and I'm doing this. That is not exactly correct. Look at Philippians chapter 1 and verse number 2, chapter 2, I'm sorry, and verse number 13. For it is who? God which worketh in you, both to will and to do of his good pleasure. Now he's talking to saved people and he's saying, listen, The works that are produced as a result of your salvation. You trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. You're a new creature. Now there's something in your heart and life that wants to serve God. There's something in your heart and life that wants to do right, that wants to talk right and And be pure and be honest and have integrity. And he's saying it is God that does that in you. It is God that produces that in you. Am I making sense? Are you with me? How many folks here, when you got saved, you talked differently after you got saved than you did before you got saved? Anybody here? Use different words What's the song we sing with the kids? Oh, the things I used to say, I don't say them anymore. The guys we'd sing with the guys, oh, the girls I used to date, I don't date them anymore. There's been a great change. And that is what God does in our life. That is what God changes us. The things they're presenting, in and of themselves, are good works. These are good things to do. These are things that ought to be done, perhaps. But not so that I can enter into the kingdom of heaven. These things are done because God has saved me, so that I will do these things for him. You follow? And so their premise is wrong. And the emphasis on what I am doing, what I am doing, what I am doing, I like to point out, and I did just recently, so we won't take time now But I always like to point out when Moses had his father-in-law, uh Jethro, uh I think, when his father-in-law came to visit him, Moses didn't say, look at all these amazing things that I did as leader of of Israel The Bible says he said to him, Look what God has done. Paul, when he reports back to the church at uh Antioch after his missionary journeys, Journeys. It says he re relayed to them, he told them all the things that God had done. And any change, any good work that comes out of my life, anything I do that is acceptable to God, it is because God purposed in me to will and to do of his good pleasure. God did all of that in me. And so none of us can stand at the judgment seat of Christ and say, here I did enough good stuff, you have to accept me. That's not going to fly. And by the way, we stand at the judgment seat of Christ as believers. We're not going to say, Lord, look how well I live for you. Look at all the good things I did for you since I've been saved. It's not it at all. The Bible says we're going to fall down and cast our crowns at him and say, Lord, you did it all. You did it all And so the emphasis on what they were doing, not on what God did in their lives. And the implication is I think they were very proud of their works. Look at it again. Now keep that in mind. Keep that statement in mind. Come back here to Matthew. I'm going to read that statement again and keep that in mind. Listen for pride. Listen for self as they make these statements. Verse 22. Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have not we prophesied in thy name? And in thy name have cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works. I don't know. Maybe I'm reading into this too much, but I get the impression they got this idea. Look how great I am. Look how amazing I am. Man, I did this and I did this and I did this. Lord, you have to be impressed. It reminded me of another fella in the book of Luke, if you would turn there, chapter 18. And I believe he's describing this exact attitude. Luke chapter 18, and I go to this passage often when I'm preaching on this subject because it's such a distinct illustration. of pride, of exalting self within the in the religious mentality. Luke chapter 18 And there are two clearly contrasting attitudes when it comes to being accepted by God. Verse number nine. Jesus here speaking, he spake this parable unto them, which trusted in themselves that they were righteous. Does that sound like verse 22? Lord, we've done all this and we did this and we did this And despised others. Two men went up, verse 10, into the temple to pray. The one a Pharisee, the other a publican. What do we know about publicans? Good or bad? Terrible! These guys are corrupt. These are the bottom of the barrel. These are the worst of society. One's a Pharisee, one's a publican. Verse 11, the Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself. God You don't say, Lord, Lord, God, I thank thee that I'm not as other men are. Extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this public end. Now look at this. I fast twice in the week. I give tithes of all that I possess. Pretty impressive, huh? That to me sounds like verse 22, the people he's describing. Lord, Lord, we've done this and we've done this and we've done this And the publican, verse 13, standing afar off, would not so much lift his eyes to heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. Who did God accept? The publican. Look at verse 14. I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other. Look at this. For everyone that exalteth himself shall be abased. And he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. So what are these guys doing here? They're proud. They're exalting themselves. Look how great I am. Look how good I am. Look at all this amazing stuff. We did these wonderful works. When we prophesy, nay, nay, we cast out devils. Now this, I'm going to save this for next week. But here's some questions. Can an unsaved person, can an unsaved person prophesy in the name of the Lord? Can an unsaved person cast out devils? Can an unsaved person do many wonderful works? Can an unsaved person display the power of God in their life? Come back next week and I'll tell you. Here's the point I want to end with tonight. For a Christian, works do play a role. Not in saving us. We're by grace are received through faith. We are not justified by the law. We went at great lengths recently and we do this all the time. We are not saved. We have nothing in ourselves to present God to make We are accepted in Christ by God. When I accept Jesus Christ my Savior, He forgives my sin, He cleans me, I say, Lord, I can't even lift my eyes, be merciful to me, a sinner, I have nothing to offer you. God freely and fully forgives me. He gives me new life. He makes me a new creature unto good works. And so the things I do for God and the works I do for God and going out signing up boys and girls and prophesying, teaching the Bible to little uh children and to teenagers and and uh winning souls and serving God in the nursery and the choir and running buses and working on buses and putting scriptures together and all these works and promoting a radio station and going on mission trips and giving the faith promise. All these works do not make us acceptable to God. All these works are a result that God has accepted us in Christ when we realize we have nothing to offer Him. And then because of that, Lord, I want to live for you. I want to serve you. I want to work for you. Works are a gift of gratitude. Get this. This is important. My works, my Christian service is a gift of gratitude to God. For what he did in saving my soul. You know what I've found? I found that folks that understand that and are working and living and serving for God because they are grateful for what God has done. are much more consistent, much more fervent than those that are trying to do it to be accepted by God. As contrary as that sounds, That's true. I've said this before, and I mean this somewhat facetiously, somewhat, but I have more respect for a Jehovah's Witness that works their tail off to be saved. that I have for a Baptist who won't work at all because they're saved. You follow what I'm saying? And the Christian that won't serve God, the person that claims to be saved and will not serve God and will not give their life to live for God. To me, that is the most selfish frame of mind a person can possibly have. Jesus Christ, you can die and suffer hell for me. You can take all my shame and all my judgment, eternal hell from me. And freely offer that to me by grace through faith. And then to say, I'm not going to live for you. I'm going to do my thing. I'm going to live my life. I'm going to go my way. That to me is incomprehensible. The selfishness of that. What did Paul say in Romans? I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercy of God, by the mercies of God That you present yourselves, a living sacrifice, wholly acceptable unto God. And so I'm not trying to twist arms, I'm not trying to do that. I'm just saying good works are the natural result of a grateful heart. A grateful heart. So he says, I never knew you. You prophesied in my name, you cast out devils, you did many wonderful works. This is incredible. He says, I never knew you. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd stir us and help us to really see the role that these works play in our lives, not to save us, but As a result, we love you and we want to serve you and we want to give ourselves to you. So I pray you'd stir us and help us. And Lord, we live in a world full of religious people that do not know Christ And they've got the right words and they've got the verses memorized and they got all the right facts, but they don't know you as Savior. And I pray that maybe this coming week in Bible time would have a profound impact on those people. And we see many come and genuinely trust Christ as their Savior. And Lord, help us just to love you and give ourselves to you. Stir us to have that first love, that fervent love. That pushes us to live for Christ. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, as a Christian, I really want to serve God? I really want to. I don't want to be selfish. I don't want to be negligent. I want it to be genuine, real love for the Lord that motivates me to live and serve God, to witness. and to uh be involved in working for him. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray with me. I want it to be genuine. I want it to be real. God bless you. Now maybe we're going to pray here, give an invitation. Maybe folks would want to come and pray for our Bible time, pray that God will stir and do a great work, and many would come to Christ and then Christ would say, I do know you because you've trusted my Son as Savior. Father, bless our invitation. Now I ask in Jesus' name.