We kind of settle down here on this one statement the Lord's making in verse number 21, 22, and 23, and we're dissecting this. And I want to uh look look at the second statement really the Lord is making here. It's uh one of those tragic, sad statements. In Scripture. There's a number of them, and we when we first started this passage here, we looked at a number of statements throughout Scripture that are very sad, very uh sad statements. And this is one of them. He says, verse 21, the Lord is finishing up the Sermon on the Mount to his disciples. And he says, Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. That's say it there, right? Not everyone that says, Lord, Lord, shall enter the kingdom of heaven. But he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. Many will say to me in that day, many are going to say this. Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? And in thy name have cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works. And then, verse 23, then will I profess unto them, I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. Now think about, and we'll look at that last statement. I want to make that a separate study. But just think about that. One, he never knew them. It's not that he knew them and then didn't know them. They never were part of the pa pa uh family of God. They never were part of the kingdom. He never knew them And then he says, depart from me ye that work in iniquity. Now notice he doesn't mention drunkenness, he doesn't mention robbery, he doesn't mention embezzlement, he doesn't mention any of the sins that we would think of great iniquity They're doing good things. They're prophesying. They're casting out devils. They're doing many wonderful works. But the Lord says, ye that work iniquity. So that's uh something that we need to give consideration to. But um I want to look at the second stage. Let's have a word of prayer. I'll briefly review what we did said already and then pick up where we left all. Father Bless now or look at this passage. And Lord, every time I study this, it just uh bothers me. It's uh it's a uh hard saying here, and it's uh it's a tragic truth. And so I pray you'd help this to grip our hearts, and maybe you would stir us, stir me, and stir us to uh be a little more earnest in our soul winning, very clear in our witness So that folks know exactly the way of salvation. So fill me with your spirit. It's been my prayer this afternoon. And now, Lord, I ask that you would speak through me and help us to understand what you're saying here. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. All right, the Lord is making this statement here, and if you remember we Noted verse number 21 that uh well let me back up. These folks are coming to the Lord and they're presenting to him their works, their words and different things to be accepted in the kingdom of heaven. And of course the Lord, as we just said, he points out that he never knew them. The thing we noted first of all in verse number 21, their words to Christ. They said, Lord, Lord. And that tells us a couple things about these people. When they're calling Jesus Lord, they're saying the right thing. Those are correct, that's the correct expression to refer to Jesus Christ as Lord. He is Lord And so what they were saying was correct, and by implication, what they knew about Jesus and what they believed about Jesus was correct. Now I'm using that word belief in the sense of just a mental knowledge. They weren't trusting him as their savior. They weren't casting their hope, their confidence, their trust in him as their savior They were simply expressing to him true statements about him and thinking that because I am making these statements, true statements about Christ, therefore I'm accepted into the kingdom of heaven. And the emphasis was upon what they were doing, what I know to be true. And so their expression was correct. And I may be reading too much into this, I said this before, but when he says Lord, Lord. They're not just saying, Lord, they're repeating it. And that implies to me they're very emotional about this. They're very zealous about this. They're very fired up. And we pointed out, if you'll remember, it is possible to be very zealous in a wrong way and be sincere, yet be sincerely wrong. There are people who in false cults who don't even have correct doctrine about Christ, but are very, very zealous about that. I think probably all of us have had folks come by our door, knocking on the door with false doctrine And they're very confident and they're very zealous and they're very uh uh sincere in what they believe, but they were wrong And isn't that a tragic thing for someone to say the right things, be very, very zealous about it, and yet come to find out, here I was lost? Here the Lord say, I never knew you, never knew you. And that's why it's so important that our faith in Christ is not just a mental knowledge, as that's the starting point. We have to have the facts, but it's beyond that where it's a trust, it's a faith And that's through the gospel of John. Jesus kept saying, You've got to believe this, not just mentally acknowledge it, but put your faith in it. So their words to Christ were good words, they were the right words, they were true. but they were not from uh they were not from their heart and they were not um uh that not uh uh uh of faith uh faith in Christ. So then number twenty two we noted verse number twenty two Here we have their works for Christ, their words to Christ, and their works for Christ. Just a reminder, that church is not on fire. That firetruck is for the games back there. I hope the church is not on fire. We have faith that the church is not on fire. But notice their works for Christ. And I started on this last week, and to be honest with you, the last uh three days uh have been a little uh uh little chaotic and my hair's been messed up for the last three days And so I was trying to r go back and look and say, all right, when where did I end on this? Because I got the whole thing. So I'm trying to I I don't think I'm re preaching what I did last week But uh their works to Christ, they're saying again to Christ, look, many, many, many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? In thy name have cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works. So they're doing it in the name of Christ. Again, that's a good thing. Everything we do ought to be done in the name of Christ. Everything we do ought to be done for the glory of God. Everything we do here in Bible times. And I hope you don't misunderstand when I give these numbers and stuff We're not glorying in the numbers. We're glorying in that God has used us to reach people like this. And so they're correct in doing these things in the name of Christ, but here's where they're wrong They are presenting these works to God to make them acceptable to God. Here, I've done this, I've done this, I've done this. Here, Lord, now I deserve to go to heaven. In a sense, they're saying, I have earned heaven by prophesying in your name and your name casting out devils and in your name doing many wonderful works. I deserve to go to heaven. I've earned it. And the fact of the matter is, nobody deserves to go to heaven. I cannot earn heaven. Heaven is not a paycheck. Heaven is not even a reward. Heaven is a gift. Eternal life is a gift. And we pointed out last week, we pointed out, and this is so important to understand in the Christian life. Is that all our works, all the works I do as a believer are because Christ has saved me are because what God has done for me, and I am doing it in gratitude to Him, in giving it out of debt. What did Paul say? I am a debtor And so you and I, God by grace has saved us from sin in hell. We are in phenomenal debt to the Lord that we can never pay back his grace he's shown us, the mercy he's shown us. And so we serve them out of love. And we want to do this. Lord, we love you. You've done this for me. We want others to experience this. So they got the cart to hold for the horse. And they're presenting these works as merit Now let's look at these things he lists here. And this really got interesting in my study, and I don't think we got to this last week, but Three areas here. One he says, many we m many will say to me that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? So that's my first work they're presenting, I see here. And I put it this way. They are preaching the Word of God. They're preaching the Word of God. The word prophesy simply means when we think of prophecy, what do we think of? I mean, just off the top of your head, somebody said something about prophecy, we think of what? Future, foretelling the future. Right? Did I talk about this last week? I don't think we got to this. It's foretelling the future. To prophesy. In the Old Testament, the prophets many times would foretell the future. But it that it's not limited to that. Prophesying in its most basic definition is simply this: to deliver God's message. A prophet was somebody who received a message from God, sometimes dealing with the future. Sometimes it was immediate issues. But they would receive this message from the Lord through a vision or God speaking or however they got it. They'd receive this message from the Lord and they would deliver it Whatever it consisted of, but that's what the prophets' role was. They were prophesying. Before the Bible was completed, they got the message directly from God. You think of Elijah, you think of uh Elisha, Jeremiah, Ezekiel. Of course, Ezekiel is very prophetic future But they would get the message from God and they would deliver the message. The New Testament on a few occasions references prophets. Prophets Once the Bible is complete, in its literal sense, to prophesy is simply to get the message from God's Word now and deliver the message. Now we don't generally refer to that being prophesying or being a prophet, but these people, let's get back to their subject here, these people are taking God's word And they're declaring it. They're delivering it. Now here's the here's the here's the rub. These are unsaved people. They've got the mindset, if I declare the word of God, if I declare the word of God and I do that faithfully and I do that earnestly, then I'll be good enough to go to heaven. God will accept me to heaven. And the Lord says, no, that's not how it works. I never knew you. If you're depending on you giving out the word of God, declare the word of God, hey, we give out tracts by the tens of thousands here out here. But we must never think that because I'm giving tracts to people, that's making me good enough for heaven. That somehow, well, I'm doing this for God, now God will accept me to heaven. And that was the mentality here. According to this passage, it's possible for a person to stand behind a pulpit, preach the word of God, and be lost as can be. As lost as a drunkard. When I was in Indianapolis, this was before my time, but there was a preacher that was in the city there, had a church in the other s part of the city than where we were at. And um He had preached for years. And I want to say he was in his late 40s, maybe early 50s, and the guy got saved. The preacher. And he wrote a little booklet up uh about it. In fact, the sword had it. We had it back in the track rack for years. I don't think we do now, haven't for a while, but uh he got saved And he made the statement in this testimony that he wrote out, he said that he knew the whole time he wasn't saved. But he was ashamed to deal with it, he was afraid to deal with it because the position was in And he just kept preaching and preaching and preaching. People got saved under his ministry. People grew in the Lord under his ministry. And he was lost as could be. It's possible for a person to stand behind a pulpit and preach the word of God and yet be outside the family of God. Um, I know I'm thinking right now of a preacher that this was previous generations, his wife was pianist, large church, his wife was the pianist. One day he preached a gospel message, just a simple, straight gospel message, and his wife came from the piano uh uh during the offertory, came off the piano, came down the altar, and trusted Christ and got saved, been in the ministry for years It's possible to be in the ministry to proclaim the Word of God and yet still be lost. The Sunday school teacher It's possible to stand in a Sunday school class and teach children or adults or whoever the Word of God and yet be outside the family of God. Isn't that something? I had years ago, a number of years ago, one extremely long ago Um, in fact, I don't even remember how long ago. It might have been very long ago. But uh a fellow started coming to church here, he was an older man. And he lived out of the town here. He lived outside the he was out of the city and lived in the suburbs. And um he started coming to church. And so we talked to him a little bit, older guy. And I I said, Well what brings you to Mountain Lake And he says, I was going to this other church, and uh I think it was a Methodist church, and he said, they got a woman preacher. And he said, that ain't right. And I said, well, it's kinda hard to be the husband of one wife and be a woman preacher, although nowadays, who knows. But um But he was upset about that and he wasn't going to go back to that church, and rightly so in my book. So anyway, I went out to visit him one time. He had a big farm. And uh we're talking a little bit, and I said, Well, let me ask you a question. I said, Do you know for sure that when you die your sins are forgiven, you're going to heaven? He goes, Oh, absolutely. I know I'm going to heaven. I said, well that's great. You don't hear people say that too much. Let me ask you this. What are you depending on? What makes you so sure that your sins are beginning? You're going to go to heaven, not to hell. What gives you that confidence? He said, Reverend Lotherman, I've been a Sunday school superintendent for 40 years. And I know I'm going to heaven. This guy's in his 80s. I said, you know, let me show you what the Bible says. And I showed him Ephesians 2, 8, and 9, for by grace are you saved through faith, not of ourselves, it's a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. And you know, that man would never let go of the works that he was presenting to God. as a savior. And he died a number of years later. And I was never able to make win that man to trust Christ and Christ alone for his salvation. I never knew you. I never knew you. I was studying school superintendent for 40 years. I never knew you. I never knew you. It's possible to teach Sunday school. It's possible to stand behind a pulpit. It's possible to be a personal witness. And so the Lord says, they say to me, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? We preached the word of God. We declared the word of God. He says, I never knew you. Giving out the Word of God, handling the Word of God is not what's going to save my soul It's by trusting Jesus Christ in Jesus alone that saves my soul. If you would, I want to show you now, these aren't all necessarily unsaved. Here in this passage is an unsaved people prophesying. But come with me over to 1 Corinthians chapter 13. Now I'm just going to kind of expand on this while we're talking about it. I want to address a couple issues It's possible for an unsaved person to prophesy or declare the Word of God. But I notice in 1 Corinthians 13. When I say 1 Corinthians 13, what do you think of? The love chapter, the greatest passage in all of literature on what love is. Somebody asks you, say, define to me love, go to 1 Corinthians 13. Notice verse number 1, 2, and 3 of 1 Corinthians 13. Though I speak with the tongues of men and angels, and have not what? Charity. That is love in action. That is love behaving. Though I have not charity, I am become as a sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal And though I have the gift of prophecy and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and you could say, though I'm able to declare the Word of God, I understand what the Bible teaches, I understand and I know the Word of God. And though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains and have not charity, I am what? Nothing Although I bestow my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing. Now, Matthew chapter 7, verse 22 tells us that it's possible to prophesy or declare the Word of God, give out the Word of God, and be unsaved. But let me just take a little rabbit trail here. I want to suggest to you: it is possible to give out the word of God, declare the word of God, share the word of God, and be unloving. Be unloving. And I want to suggest to you, we ought, as we give out the Word of God, we need to give it out in charity, in love, not in hardness, not in coldness. I've heard preachers, older preachers, years when I back when I was in training, they would say, you know, about it's hard to preach on hell. And you know, some young buck and up there, and I'm going to be a hard preacher, I'm going to be a fundamentalist. I preach on hell and just let them have it. The older I get, the more it tears my heart to preach on hell. That becomes more and more difficult the older I get. And I would like to thank, and I hope and pray, that it's God giving me the love of God being shed abroad in my heart, and Christ giving me a little more compassion For the fact that there is a place called hell, and the Bible is very, very clear how real that is. Um I've used this illustration a number of times. over the years and uh it touches my heart where the church was looking for a pastor, wind preacher came in and preached on hell hot and hard and heavy. The next week another preacher came in. He preached on hell just as hot and just as hard, just as heavy, but the second preacher preached with tears in his eyes Or the broken heart, and they hired, they called the second preacher to come in, and they said, He has the heart of Christ So it's possible to give out the Word of God, it's possible to teach the Word of God and have a thorough understanding of the doctrines of Scripture and the dispensations, all the theological mysteries. I can grasp all that But if I don't have love for God and love for people in my heart, my Bible says it profits me nothing. It profits me nothing. Now I'm not suggesting it they're unsaved in this case, but I am suggesting this: it's unloving. And God says that's not going to do you a bit of good. And then I have another one. If you would, come over to Philippians chapter 1. I find this one interesting Another way it's possible to give out the Word of God, yet in an inappropriate way or a wrong motive. Philippians chapter 1. Of course, Philippians is written to the church at Philippi from Paul under the inspiration of God. And he's, where is Paul at when he's writing the book of Philippians? He's in prison. Why is he in prison? Did he rob a 7-Eleven? No, he is preaching the Word of God. He's doing right. And they throw him in prison for that. Look what he says in verse number 15. He says, some indeed preach Christ, even of what? Envy and strife, and some of goodwill. Some people they're preaching Christ, but man, their motive is envy. Their motive is strife. Other people are doing it out of goodwill Look what he says there in the next verse. The one preached Christ of contention, not sincerely, supposing to add affliction to my bonds. Now I don't know exactly the the the specifics of what he's referring to here, but it's implying that there were some people that were out there telling people about Christ and preaching Christ Perhaps they were mocking Paul and hoping that in doing so it would make things worse for him But they're preaching Christ, and what they were saying was true, and what they were saying was accurate. But their motive was completely wrong. Now read down here Notice what he says, but verse 17, but other of love, knowing that I am set for the defense of the gospel, look what Paul says. What then, notwithstanding every way, whether in pretense, some are preaching it in pretense They're just putting on a show making trying to make Paul look bad or whatever. Or in truth, Christ is preached, and I therein do rejoice, and yea will rejoice. I look at that. I think, what an attitude of Paul. There are some people are telling others about Christ, but they're doing it in a way they want to make Paul look bad. They want to make him suffer more But Paul says, you know what? They're still telling people about Christ. I'm glad for that. And there are some churches around. I totally disagree with some of their policies and how their procedure, maybe their music, their Their standards, I totally disagree with them. In fact, I wouldn't even be able to cooperate with it. But if they're telling people how to get saved, I'm glad for that. Follow what I'm saying? I'm glad for that. And so I think that was Paul's attitude. So my what I'm trying to say here is this. It's possible to declare the Word of God and be outside the family of God, be lost as a drunkard or any other character uh of sin that you want to give. It's possible to give out the word of God and be very unloving. And do it in a cold, hard, hateful way. And there's preachers like that out there. And uh it's possible to do it in an underhanded way is what I see here. They're trying to add affliction to Paul and they're doing it in wrong motives. But the point is, in every one of these cases, the message was right, but the motive was wrong. So why do we give out tracts? Why do we preach the old King James Bible here? Why do our Sunday school teachers try to be very, very careful and give the Word of God to the children? Why do we do Bible time and And do it. It's not to be saved, it's not to earn a name, it's not to uh uh any other uh thing that has to do with else, it's for the glory of God and the salvation of the lost. That must be our motive. And out of appreciation for what the Lord has done. So he references this one group of people and they say, Lord, we've declared your name. And he says, I never knew you. You were doing it to make yourself good enough for heaven. Your motive was wrong. And then number two, he gives another one, and this one's uh uh kind of strange They said, uh let me get back here. They said, Lord, Lord, many will say to me that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? Then he gives another list, and in thy name have cast out devils Now I'm not real big on casting out devils. You know, some people are, you know, they see a devil behind every bush. I know there's a real devil. I know he's very active, and I know he fights me, he fights our church, he fights God's people. But here's a group of people that are casting out devils, and they're unsaved. Now here's my question. Is it possible for an unsaved person, a child of the devil? To cast out the devil. Is that even possible? I know Brian's thinking Probably a bunch of others. Let me throw some thoughts out to you. What about Judas? Was Judas a saved man? No. Jesus said in his prairies, in John, he says, he is a son of perdition. He never knew me. But yet Jesus sent Judas out with the other disciples, and they did many wonderful works, and they cast out devils. And they came back to Jesus Christ rejoicing that even the devils are subject to us. Judas is in that crowd. There's nothing to imply Judas wasn't casting out devils just like all the other 11 disciples were. So here you have an instance of an unsaved person casting out devils. What about the Pharisees? Are you there in Matthew? Look at Matthew chapter 12. And I never I didn't catch this before I started studying this. And I caught this here, Matthew chapter 12. Look at verse 27. They're criticizing Jesus. And um, well, let's come back up here. Verse 22, there was brought to him one possessed with the devil, blind and dumb, and he healed him, insomuch that the blind and dumb both saw spake and saw And all the people were amazed. Is not this the son of David? But the Pharisees heard it. They said, This fellow doth not cast out devils but by Beelzebub, Prince of the Devil. That's Satan himself, the king of the devils, the prince of the devils. So there's what are they accusing Jesus of? They're accused Jesus of casting out devils by the power of Satan. Right? Now look what Jesus says. Jesus knew their thoughts and said of them, Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation. Every city or house divided against itself cannot stand. And if Satan cast out Satan, he is divided against himself. How then shall his kingdom stand? And if I by be else of let me back before I read this, let me ask you this. Are the Pharisees saved or lost? Lost Now look what he says. If I by Beelzebub cast out devils, by whom do your children cast them out? So apparently the Pharisees and their crowd, they were casting out devils. And he's turning it right around. Wait a minute, you're casting out devils. How are you guys doing it? So the implication here is these unsaved Pharisees, they're casting out devils. We won't turn there, but in Acts chapter 19, verse 13, you have these vagabond Jews. Are running around and they're casting out devils. And they try something nifty. They see Paul, the power of God on Paul, so they decide they're going to cast out devils in the name of Paul. Well, that didn't work Devils turned around and came on them and and uh beat them up, so to speak. But it says they were casting out devils. So I don't understand it all. I can't give a definitive answer, at least not in my limited understanding, but as I read the Bible, I see very clearly An unsaved person, it's possible for an unsaved person to cast out devils. Now we can think, how would that work out? Why would the devil let an unsaved person cast out devils? Well, my first thought is he is a liar and he's deceitful. And if he can put on a show of the power of God, sure, cast out his own guys, sure, whatever, make them think it's of God And so I can see how that would play out very easily. So one, they're proclaiming the Word of God and they're and they're unsaved. They're prevailing over devils is my second thought. Let me give you the third one here real quickly, back in in chapter seven. He says, then he says, he says, um, Lord, Lord, uh in thy name, uh not prophesied thy name, in thy name cast out devils, and he makes this next thing in thy name done many wonderful works I put it this way, they displayed the power of God. I mean these guys look legit. It would be like they do something and people would say, who how in the world could anybody do this but by God? This has to be of God Sometimes it's referred to as signs and wonders. Anybody recognize that? That's big in certain elements of Christendom. Signs and wonders. Signs and wonders. I want to give us a very earnest, earnest caution about getting caught up in signs and wonders. This phrase, many wonderful works, has this idea, amazingly powerful works. Works that appear only to be something God can do. Many wonderful words. You say, is it possible for an unsaved person to do something so amazing that it looks like it's from God? Remember when Moses approached Pharaoh? And God said, I'm going to have you do these things, and there's a series of things, and I wanted to go to them, but uh we won't take time. But in Exodus chapter 7, verse 11, verse 22, and chapter 8, verse 7 You have these magicians are mimicking the very same thing Moses is doing. And if I remember correctly, Moses turned the water to blood. They did the same thing And uh I think Moses um uh the snake, he cast his rod down, turned to a snake, they did the same thing, mimiced, mimicked it. But his snake ate theirs. And then there was one where they was at the fleas, and they turned the dust to flee through it, but they could not undo it. So they were able to do many wonderful works, but they were limited in what they can do. And then finally the miracles Moses was doing were so far beyond anything they could do. But the point is this: they were able to do some amazing things. They were able to show some pretty miraculous signs. But yet they were lost as could be. The end time prophets here in Matthew, come over real quick if you would, and I got I want to quit. Matthew chapter 24. Jesus is referring to future events and False prophets that are going to rise up in the last days. And in Matthew chapter 24 and verse number 24, he makes this statement For there shall arise false Christs and false prophets. Question: Is a false Christ and a false prophet, are they saved? No. These are lost people. And shall show great signs and wonders, insomuch that if it were possible, they shall deceive the very elect. That shade people might fall for it. And here are guys that are getting up and and declaring to do this in the name of God, in the name of Christ. and do some amazing, wonderful works, signs and wonders. But they're false prophets, they're false Christs. They're not doing in the power of God. But they're doing it in the name of God, but it's not of God. Does that sound like anything that goes on in certain circles of Christianity today? Turn on your TV. Go to chapter channel nine, I think it's still, I don't know if it's still there. It used to be channel nine. And they'll have guys up there and they'll be doing the most ridiculous stuff. I saw one guy, it's been a while ago But he'd be up there preaching and he'd just go like this, and the whole crowd by the thousands would just fall over unconscious. And you look at that and you say, Wow, that has to be of God. I want to suggest to you that sounds more of Satan than God to me. And they should do these great signs and these great wonders. And Jesus is saying, there's people going to come and say, Lord, look at all this amazing stuff we did. Surely we're good enough to get to heaven. Surely I've deserved heaven. Lord said, I never knew you. False prophets do that. Magicians in Egypt do that. In 2 Thessalonians 2, verse 8 and 9, again, we don't have time to turn there. But here you have the Antichrist. Doing amazing things. He's raising the dead. Yet he's lost this could be. It's the Antichrist. In Revelation chapter 13, verse 11 through 15, you have this beast. And he uses the term doing signs and wonders. And he's a beast out of hell. And yet he's doing amazing things. So my point is this. An unsaved person, is possible for an unsaved person to do things that look and appear to be totally of God And yet they're lost as could be, they're lost as can be. There's only one way to inherit the kingdom of God There's only one way to be saved. There is only one way to receive eternal life. It is to humble myself as an as a wretched sinner deserving under the judgment of God, deserving to go to hell, having nothing in of myself that is of any good. And casting myself completely on Jesus Christ as my only hope, my only Savior, and trusting Him fully, 100% To save me and do for me what I cannot do for myself. Forgive me and give me eternal life. And then as a result of that I declare his word. As a result of that, I serve him and live for him and try and live a victorious Christian life. I don't do these things to earn heaven. I cannot earn heaven. I'm too wretched, I'm too much of a sinner to be able to earn heaven. In me, that is myself, there dwelleth no good thing. It's Christ and all of Christ. By the way, I didn't get to this, but 2 Corinthians 11, verse 14 and 15 says that Satan himself Presents himself as a minister of light, can look awfully good. And he says, don't, and I'm putting this in my own words, he says, don't be surprised that his ministers Appear as ministers of light. And I believe that's what the Lord is addressing. And so, and I think we understand that surely You know, as a Baptist church, a Bible-believing church, the preaching that we teaching that we try to incorporate into this, we understand that we cannot save ourselves. It is not our good works that save us. It is Christ and Christ alone. And the good works we perform are performed out of gratitude to God's grace and mercy He's shown me. Out of a debt of love I have to the Lord that I can never repay, but I give my life to do that. Amen? Does that make sense? There's a poem, and I wish I looked it up. I just thought of it. But it it's a song, and uh it goes, um, I could not uh or earn my way to heaven, but I would work I would give my life to work like any fool because of what he's done for me. I slaughtered that song, but trust me, it's a good one. But you follow what I'm trying to say? We can't earn it, but boy, we we'll give ourselves uh and uh die in the service of Christ because of what he's done for us. I think I made that clear. Let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord is the passage here, and then Lord will look and see your woe that you give them, and how how tragic that is And so help us take these things to heart, I pray. And I pray that everything we've done would be done in the name of Christ for his glory out of gratitude. For your mercy and grace to us. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How we would say, preacher, you know, I just want my life to count for Christ. Not to be saved, but because of what he's done for me. I just want my life. Maybe you feel like I do. I just want to burn out for Christ. I want to get to the end of my life and be tired. I just want to give everything. He's done so much for me. Where would I be without Christ? I'd be in hell now. I know that. I owe everything to him. And I just want to live for him. Is there anybody else that feels that way? Anybody else know what I'm talking about? Let's let the Lord have us. Let's ask God to push out anything of self pride and it's just love and gratitude for the Lord. Father, you know our hearts and how we fail to live up to this so often But Lord, we love you and we owe you everything we are and have and ever hope to be. And we want to serve you, Lord, faithfully and diligently and help us do that. So Father, you saw our hands. Blessed, Lord. I don't know how to give an invitation here like this. May we just, Lord, just make up pew an altar and say, Lord, I put myself back on there again. And I just want to redo renew my dedication to you and let you have all of my heart, all my life, everything. So hear us, Lord, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. And Jennifer's at the piano. She's going to play a little bit.