Bibles once again and turn back to John chapter number nine. And I would like for us To read together in unison verse number 25. We read the first seven verses in our scripture reading, and for the message, I'd like for us to notice verse number 25. And as we often do, I'd like for us to read together in unison this one verse. Give everybody opportunity to find it there. And once you have it, we'll read Together. Alright, looks like we got about everybody. Verse 25, John chapter 9, altogether. Here we go. He answered and said, Whether he be a sinner or no, I know not One thing I know that whereas I was blind, now I see. I once was blind, but now I see. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for the Word of God. And thank you for the music and the patriotic flair this morning. But now as we look into your word, I ask that you would speak to us as individuals I pray that we would be as concerned about our own spiritual condition as we are about our nation's condition. And Lord, we need revival in our own hearts and in our homes. And I pray that you would maybe begin with me and send revival to my heart and maybe to our church. And to many, many others around the land. Speak our hearts. Lord, I present my body anew to you. I yield my will as best I know how. And I plead with you once again this hour that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. And I pray in the next few moments it would be you speaking through me to each of our hearts and lives. Help us to make wise decisions in response to the truth presented. I pray that our lives would be changed and that we would have a testimony in this old world that you save old sinners, you change lives And you make that which is sinful and corrupt. You make it good and holy and pure. And that's our desire, Lord. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. You can't hardly read verse 25, whereas I was blind, and now I see, without thinking about a song written by John Newton. Amazing grace. Now if you'll forgive me, I want to read uh extended portion, an extended passage I guess, about the life of John Newton. I believe his testimony captures What is being presented here in this passage of Scripture, we're all familiar with the song Amazing Grace. We know that very, very well. We often refer to it, I have often referred to it as the Baptist anthem. Amazing grace, how sweet the sound. But we don't always know a whole lot about John Newton. So I want to share a little bit with you. He was born in London. He was the only child of a very respectable sea captain father, and his mother was a dedicated Christian. He was raised up, um uh he was at his birth, he was dedicated to the Christian ministry by his mother. He received intense religious training almost as soon as he could uh talk. By the time he was four, he could recite extended passages from the Westminster Catechism. That was kind of like the doctrinal statement of the church of that day. He could quote children's hymns by Isaac Watts. His mother died when he was only seven years old, which drastically changed the course of his life. He spent several unhappy years at a boarding school. Before he left to join his father's shipping business at the age of 11, became a sailor at the age of 11. His early years were one continuous round of rebellion and debauchery. He bounced from ship to ship, living a life that even sailors said was out of control. When things seemed like they could not get much worse for John Newton, they did. At the age of seventeen, he deserted his father's ship, and in a very short time he was caught and brought back like a common felon. So severe was his punishment that he plotted his own suicide. After his imprisonment, he embarked on a career of such wickedness that his friends worried about his own sanity. Living for a time among cruel slave traders of Sierra Leone, his heart was so hardened because of the mistreatment of his master's wife. Escape finally came for Newton in the form of a ship that took him away from Sierra Leone, and his opportunity opened up a yet another dark chapter in his life. After serving on several ships, he eventually became the captain of his own slave ship. He would buy and sell slaves. Needless to say, the buying and selling and transporting of black slaves was a cruel and vicious way of life. Just an aside, they don't have this in here, but there was one event in John Newton's life where they were in a terrible storm. He was knocked overboard of the ship. uh that he captained and um his own men hated him so badly that rather than throwing a life preserver out to him to rescue him, they threw a harpoon at him Hit him in the thigh, and they drug him back to the ship with this harpoon piercing his thigh. That's the lifestyle. that this man was living. In 1748, while Newton was returning to England from Africa during a particularly stormy voyage that lasted nearly a month, it often appeared that all would be lost Newton began reading a Christian book that was on the ship, and he began reading the scriptures. And the Holy Spirit of God used this book and the scriptures to sow the seeds of John's conversion during this horrendous storm. That was the life-changing moment for Newton. The fear that crippled him that voyage, coupled with now the assurance that and grace that came upon his conversion, paved the way for him for writing, twas grace that taught my heart to fear. And grace, my fears relieved. How precious did that grace appear the hour I first believed? What he was saying was this: it was God's grace. That sent that storm that brought him to the point that he would accept Jesus Christ as personal Savior. I've seen that same grace many times in the lives of people, even here in the church, where somebody is, by God's grace, diagnosed with cancer And because of that diagnosis, they seek the Lord and they find salvation. Twas grace that taught my heart to fear. It was God's grace that sent that storm. It was God's grace that turned my world upside down. It was God's grace that shattered my heart and prompted me to seek the Lord. The moment was the one that would make him abandon his life as a slave trader and take up the calling his mother once had for him, the calling of the pastorate. At the age of 39, John Newton was ordained into the church and began his first pastorate in a parish church in a town called Omi, a small community of farmers and workers. He had a unique ministry during this time, at least unique during this period of time, in that he would often go out into uh villages and into open-air meetings And he would preach sometimes to large crowds of unconverted workers that would not come to the church, but he would go out to where they were, much like George Whitfield did. Now on that day, that was unheard of. You preached in the church. But John Newton was so burdened for the lost that he would go out to where they were, just as the Bible instructs us to. One of the key parts, the most effective parts of his ministry was him sharing his testimony of how wicked he was and what God had done and transformed his life. Another of Newton's unusual practices was the singing of hymns that expressed a simple, heartfelt truth that tied into his preaching. He wasn't real big on big anthems and fancy songs and all that. He wanted to sing just simple songs that conveyed the truth of God's word, and he would tie that into whatever message he was preaching on then. When he could not find enough appropriate hymns for his purpose, he began to write his own. Amazing Grace was one of nearly 300 hymns written by John Newton. During the remainder of the 19th century, there was scarcely a hymn book published throughout the country that did not include Amazing Grace. Until the time of his death at the age of 82. Now listen to this. John Newton never ceased to marvel at the grace of God that had so dramatically transformed his sinful life. This was always the dominant theme of his preaching and writing. Shortly before his death in 1807, a spokesman for the church suggested that the old preacher consider retirement because of his failing health, his failing eyesight, and his failing memory. Newton responded, What? Shall the old African blasphemer stop while he can still speak? On another occasion, just before his death, he's quoted as proclaiming from the pulpit in a loud voice, My memory may be failing, but I will always remember two things. That I am a great sinner and that Christ is a great Savior. During these latter years, it was necessary for an assistant to stand in the pulpit with Newton to help him deliver his sermons. One Sunday he had repeated the words, Jesus Christ is precious. A moment or two later, he repeated it again. Jesus Christ is precious. The assistant in the pulpit with him whispered into his ear, said, you have already said that twice, sir. Go on. Newton responded, I said that twice, and I'm going to say it again. And then with the rafters, shaking the rafters, he shouted anew, Jesus Christ is precious. What a testimony. He labored faithfully in the church until his death, December 21st, 1807, at the age of 82. His epitaph on his tomb, which he wrote himself, says this. John Newton, Clerk. Once an infidel and libertine, a servant of slavers in Africa, was by the rich mercy of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ preserved, restored, pardoned, and appointed to preach the faith that he had long labored to destroy. What a testimony! Of God's grace to take the most wicked life you can imagine and instantaneously Change that life into something good and useful for the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. John Newton understood What this blind man was saying in John chapter 9 and verse 25, when he says, Whereas I was blind, but now I see. He knew exactly what he meant by that. Millions around the world were once blind spiritually, but now they see I've had the privilege and the church has made it possible for me over the years to travel to various different countries around the world from New Zealand to Mongolia, Kazakhstan, down in the Caribbean, Canada, different places, Europe And everywhere I've been, I've had the tremendous privilege to be in churches, some large, some small, where folks could testify and say, I once was blind. But now I see. They testify to the grace of God that God can take a sinful heart and by his his grace and by the shed blood of the Lord Jesus Christ transform that heart into something good and pure and right and holy. I have three thoughts to my message this morning. I'm gonna try and be to the point. They're the uh on the surface they don't perhaps look connected, but I think as we work our way through, I think you'll see that they there is a connection between them. I want us to, first of all, we're going to consider the peace of our Lord Jesus Christ And then by, hopefully the Lord will help me, we'll have the, we'll notice the perplexity of his disciples, then the power of transformation. Look with me if we would at chapter 8. And I want to read verse number 59. We're considering the peace of our Lord Jesus Christ. Chapter 8, John chapter 8, and verse number 59. It says, Then took they up stones to cast at him, at Jesus. But Jesus hid himself and went out of the temple, going through the midst of them. Now notice with me, chapter 9 and verse 13. They brought to the Pharisees him that was aforetime was blind. This is the fellow that we read about in our scripture reading And it was on the Sabbath day when Jesus made the clay and opened his eyes. Then again the Pharisees also asked him how he had received his sight. He said unto them, He put clay upon my eyes, and I washed, and do see. Therefore said some of the Pharisees, This man is not of God, because he keepeth not the Sabbath day. Others said, How can a man that is a sinner do such miracles? And there was division among them. They say unto the blind man again, What sayest thou of him that he hath opened thine eyes? He, the blind man, said, He is a prophet. But the Jews did not believe concerning him that he had been blind and received his sight, until they called his parents of him that had received his sight, and they asked them, saying, Is this your son? Who ye say was born blind, how then doth he now see? I think it's interesting how his parents respond. His parents answered them and said, We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind. But by what means he now seeth, we know not. For who hath opened his eye or who hath opened his eyes, we know not. He is of age, ask him. He shall speak for himself. That's very courageous parents there. Why would they do that? Look at verse 22. These words spake his parents because they what? Feared the Jews. For the Jews had agreed already that if any man did confess that he was Christ, he should be put out of the synagogues. Therefore his parents said, Therefore said his parents, he is of age, ask him. At no time, as we read through the Gospels, at no time do we ever find the Lord Jesus Christ displaying any sort of fear of man. Have you noticed that? Regardless of how great the animosity was towards him, no matter how violent the threats that were made towards the Lord Jesus Christ. Not one time do we find Jesus cowering in fear. We do not find Jesus fearful of circumstances. Even on a ship in the midst of a horrendous storm that have seasoned sailors and fishermen trembling with fear, Jesus Christ is completely at peace. In fact, to the point he's sound asleep in the midst of the storm. We never find Jesus fretting over the actions of others, all upset and wringing his hands. That's baby for Amen. Your teaching are good, Stormy. Say amen, right there. That was good. But uh uh you never find Jesus Christ wringing his hands and all worried and fretful because people are talking bad about him And people aren't following him and aren't doing what he would like for them to do. In fact, only rarely do you find the Lord Jesus Christ expressing any sort of anger. One time he was very angry at his disciples, the Bible says, because of their lack of faith. They should have known they could trust him. They should have known. That uh he was uh uh faithful and and uh they had nothing to fear. And the Bible says he was angry with his disciples because of their lack of faith Again, he was, it's recorded on rare occasions where he got angry at the Pharisees because of the hardness of their heart and their unconcern about the salvation of a sinner. If you look through this portion of scripture right here, you find in chapter 6, Jesus is abandoned by all but his most loyal disciples. In chapter 8, we read here the last verse of chapter 8, and Jesus had previously to verse 59, he had made some very strong statements. Concerning the spiritual condition of the Pharisees. Look with me if you would at verse number 44. Now he's talking to the Pharisees, the religious leaders, those who everyone believed were the most people most right with God. In John chapter 8, verse 44, speaking to Pharisees, he says this, ye are of your father the devil. And the lust of your father ye will do. How many people agree with me? That's a pretty strong statement there. I don't know. You come to church, you're all excited, come to church, happy, the preacher gets up and says, all y'all are of the devil. And you do exactly what the devil wants you to do. That'd be a little unsettling. Well, the Pharisees didn't take this so well. And uh He makes this statement and look down verse forty five. He says, uh well verse forty four, ye are the father of the devil, and the lust of your father you will do He was a murderer from the beginning and abode not in the truth because there's no truth in him. When he speaketh a lie Uh when he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own, for he is a liar and the father of it. And because I tell you the truth, you believe me not? Which of you convinceth me of sin? And if I say the truth, why do you not believe me? And so he takes it to him here. And uh rather than receiving the word of God and saying, you know, this is Jesus Christ, the Son of God, what he's saying to me is the Word of God. Rather than receiving the Word of God And humbling themselves and making things right with God, they stiffen their necks and they harden their hearts. And they do what mankind has done all through history is they turn on the messenger because they did not like the message. They turned with violence on the messenger. And at the end of the chapter, we find they're taking up stones. They're ready to kill Jesus Christ. Not because he's done anything wrong, but because he's told them the truth. Because he's told them the truth. Chapter 9, Jesus heals this blind man on the Sabbath. We just read this passage. First of all, the Pharisees don't believe the blind man. We don't think you were really blind. You just quit saying that. Make him look good. So they bring his parents and they say, well, yeah, he's blind. That's our kid. He's blind. They threaten his followers. They said, if anybody believes what Jesus is saying, we're kicking you out of the church. We're kicking you out of the synagogue. Then, verse 34 of chapter 9, they kick, they reject the blind man. Look at verse 34. They answered and said unto him, The blind man, thou wast altogether born in sins. And dost thou teach us? And they what? Cast him out. This guy's rejected for no other reason than being grateful that Jesus had healed him and made him sick. Now, I pointed all that out. The context of how what Jesus is operating here. They're wanting to kill him. They're rejecting his followers. They're threatening him. And as I look at this, you know what I notice? I notice through all that, Jesus Christ kept his composure. Not one time does he respond back in kind. They're angry at him, they're threatening him. You know what you and I, probably most of us would do? We respond the same way. Oh yeah, you're gonna try and stone me? Well I'll stone you first. Uh you're gonna kick out that, well, I'll kick you out. And for the average American Christian, we would be worked up, we would be angry, we would be calling lawyers, we would be getting as many people on our side as we can, and I mean we would go to it with this. But not Jesus Christ. He maintains his composure through all of this. In fact, not only does he fret and get all worked up and get all excited, he's not afraid. What Jesus Christ does, he stays focused on his mission. Look at verse 1 again. And now verse 59 of chapter 8, they're trying to stone him. And he just walks right through. Just walks away from it. And verse 1 of chapter 9, as Jesus passed by, he saw a man which was blind from his birth. I don't know about you, but if I'm leaving a life-threatening circumstance, I don't know that I'd be paying a whole lot of attention to people around me. I'd be wanting to get out of there But Jesus maintains his composure and he stays focused on his mission. And even in the midst of all this turmoil going on around Jesus Christ, he still cares. About the needs of others. He stayed focused on his mission. My point is this. I noticed as I was studying this, I was looking at this, I noticed. There was tremendous peace about the Lord Jesus Christ. He didn't get rattled. He didn't get worked up He didn't fret and wring his hands and worry. Oh, I'm losing followers. Oh, the world's hating me. Oh, my people that do follow me are being threatened. Didn't phase them at all. Didn't phase them all perfect peace and the heart of our Lord. That tells me a couple things That tells me that the size of the crowd is not necessarily an indicator of our success in our ministry I think we ought to reach as many people as we possibly can. But more important than having great crowds and great budgets, more important than that is staying focused on what God has called us to do. And whether the crowds are big or whether the crowds are small, and whether America is Christian friendly or if they're anti-Christian. We as believers need to follow the example of our Lord Jesus Christ, not get all worked up, not get all angry, but stay focused on getting the gospel of Jesus Christ to every single person we possibly can. The peace of our Lord Jesus Christ. With that in mind, I think of John chapter 14, verse 27, where Jesus said this to his disciples: My peace I give unto you. And just like the Lord Jesus Christ did not get rattled, just as the Lord Jesus Christ would maintain his composure and stay focused on his mission, you and I can do the same thing as believers in Jesus Christ. A disciple of Jesus Christ, as we spoke about in Sunday school this morning, is a person who is indwelt by the Holy Spirit of God. The Bible says we have the Spirit of Christ. And whatever is going on around us and however things are coming down in our country. Whatever's happening, we don't need to pray. We don't need to worry. We don't need to get angry. The Christ that is in us as believers is in complete control. And we can rest in him, and we can rejoice in him, and we can press forward in the ministry God has called us to do in getting the gospel out. So I notice here the peace of the Lord Jesus Christ. I want to suggest to you. I may be talking to someone this morning. You may have family members that are antagonistic against your faith in Christ. You may have coworkers that despise the God that you love and despise the faith that you're trying to live out. I'm telling you that just as I put it this way, no one can harm us Outside of the will of God anymore that they could harm the Lord Jesus Christ outside of the will of God. Because we're in dwelt with Christ. I um When I first got saved, God had transformed my life just overnight in amazing ways. I've told it many times. I worked in a meatpacking plant. I think it's kind of interesting. My job when I first got saved was a meatpack implant. I ended up working in the ho uh when I was in Bible college in the surgery department of a hospital So I went from a meat pack implant to surgery. Maybe the one was preparing me for the other, I'm not sure. But uh I'll tell you that's another story Well when I got the meat tank plant shortly after I got saved, uh it was obvious to everyone around that something had changed about Leatherman. And uh one of the fellows uh came up to me, he says, uh the day after, on Tuesday after I got saved on Monday, a guy came up to me and said, Leatherman, what's got into you? Something's different And I said, Well, I accepted Jesus Christ, my personal Savior last night. And he's like, oh, whoa, Lutherman's got religion. Oh, he's they they were teasing me I was going to shave my head and uh be Hare Krishna and so now I shave my head but I'm not Hare Krishna. And one of the guys, his name was Bob. It's about a couple two, three years older than me at the time. I was 19. He was probably 22, 23 around there. Bob absolutely hated The idea that Leatherman got saved. That absolutely ate at him. He could not say a kind word to me, for we were friends before that. He could not say a kind word to it. He was a hard drinker, heavy in drugs, fornication and sin. He hated the fact that Leatherman got saved. And I tried to, you know, I was a new Christian. I was just excited trying to live for God. I'm learning and you know I'm telling these guys stuff, and I'm not trying to goat anybody. I'm not trying to pick any fights. I'm just excited what the Lord's doing for me. One day old Bob and Yon came up to me and he said, Leatherman, after work today, you are dead I said alright, what'd I do? He says you're an idiot. Something along. I don't think that was the exact word he used. But something along those lines. I mean the whole day. It's it after the service. I said, I don't even do anything, man. And all the other guys, oh Bob man, he's got a knife, he's gonna stab you, you know, you're this is serious, man. You need me to call the cops. And I Was I scared? You bet. But you know, God gave a peace. I was scared to death, but God gave a peace. And it was wintertime, so when we went in the meat house it was dark and when we came out it was dark. So I come walking out in the parking lot and there he's standing. I think here it is And I went up and he's there, he's cussing me out and stuff. And I said, Bob, what'd I do? He says, You hear this and you're that. I said, Bob, listen, I'm not going to fight you. You can do what you want to me. But I'm not going to fight you. And he cussed me up one side and down the other, and finally turned around, hopped in his car, and drove off I said that to say this. We don't have to be afraid of what this old world will do to us. With Christ in us, he can give us a peace that passes understanding. And I'm just so impressed with the Lord Jesus Christ here. He is precious, as John Newton said. None of this rattled him. He stayed focused on what he had come to earth to do. He did not wring his hands. He did not get angry. He did not worry. He simply went about his father's business And I want to challenge you and I. I really believe we're living in days where the animosity to our faith is going to intensify I really believe that the opposition to our ministries and our evangelism is going to intensify. And I'm suggesting you and I, let's just have, let's let the peace of God rule in our hearts. And let's just stay focused on trying to reach as many people as we possibly can with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ and not let things rattle us. So the first thing I noticed in Studying this passage was the peace of our Lord Jesus Christ. Then I notice very quickly in verse number two of chapter nine is the perplexity of the disciples. Look what it says Of course, Jesus sees this blind man, was blind from his birth. Verse 2, his disciples ask him, saying, Master, who did sin? This man or his parents, that he was born blind? In spite of the fact that this whole world's turning against the Lord Jesus Christ, he notices this poor man born blind. He's concerned for a man that has needs. And his disciples make an assumption that is very common, particularly in that day and age, and no doubt still is today, was this. Someone had to have sinned for this man to have been born blind. Basically, they're assuming this. There's only one reason a person has an infirmity. There's only one reason a person would have a terrible setback. There's only one reason a person would have some sort of issue like this: somebody is not right with God. I've heard that since I've been in the ministry. I've heard that expressed. I'm thinking of one situation in particular where somebody was admitted to the hospital and uh it was brought up and I had a church member after the service come to me and says I know why they're in the hospital. They're living in sin. I said, You don't know that. And I don't know that. Now, are some infirmities the results of our own actions? Sure they are. We can bring terrible things upon us. We can consequences of our decisions sometimes bring infirmities, sometimes bring sickness, but not all the time. I can't go out of here and say because someone had a car wreck, therefore they're not right with God. I can't go out of here and say because somebody has a uh uh uh deformity of a leg or body part that therefore they're not right with God or their parents did something horrendous. We don't know that. God knows that. And I'm suggesting to you that many times God allows trials in our lives, not because of sin. But because he wants to show himself strong on our behalf. Look at the Lord's response there in verse number 3. Jesus answered, Neither hath this man sinned, nor his parents. But that the works of God should be made manifest in him. He's saying this. Listen, you're missing the point. This man isn't blind because of anyone's sin. God allowed him to be blind so that God's power could be displayed in this man's life. How many people recognize the name Fanny Crosby? Anybody recognize the name Fanny Crosby? Fanny Crosby wrote many of the most precious hymns in our hymn book. She wrote thousands of them Fanny Crosby as a small child with something wrong with her eye and they took her to the doctor, and the doctor either through neglect or ignorance Put the wrong ointment onto her eyes, permanently blinding her for the rest of her life. People questioned her as she grew, people questioned her uh whether she was bitter about that or uh all these different things. She made amazing statements. Listen to this. At the age of eight years old, eight years old, Danny Cosby wrote this little poem Oh, what a happy child I am, although I cannot see. I am resolved that in this world contented I will be How many blisten to this. How many blessings I enjoy that others don't. So weep or sigh, because I'm blind, I cannot, and I won't. Later on, she wrote this. It seemed intended by the blessed providence of God that I should be blind all of my life. Listen to this I thanked him for that dispensation. If perfect earthly sight were offered to me tomorrow, I would not accept it. I might not have sung hymns to the praise of God if I had been distracted by the beautiful and interesting things around me. Did you catch that? She says, God gave me the privilege of being a blind woman my entire life And because of that infirmity, God has given me the privilege of writing hymns that I had not written had I been able to see. And for a hundred years now, plus, Christians all around the world have been blessed and rejoicing in what blind Fanny Crosby, what God did through her, the Christian church. A year ago, this past May, we had a couple with us. They have two small children. They're going to the nation of Nepal. Brother Akeem Davkota was born in the Paul. He was born deaf. Completely deaf. Now in that society, that was evidence of a God, not God, but a God's displeasure. And their society and their understanding this was some sort of horrible thing that uh some terrible gods had done to him, obviously he's an evil child, obviously there's something wrong. Many times they would put him to death His parents were very concerned, and through a process, and I'll try and abbreviate the story, but through a series of events, he ended up in the city where he could take classes in a deaf school They got beyond the cultural stigma of being deaf, and they tried to educate their son. Through that, his father began searching for deaf schools in America. Through a series of events, a team DevCoda ended up in Georgia in a deaf school that is run by Dr. Pat Creed's son-in-law. He enrolled, they accepted him, and through the study and learning, study of scriptures, Achim came to trust Jesus Christ as his Savior. He began to grow as a Christian, began witnessing with the sign language and different things, began serving the Lord he best he could, and God called him to go back to Nepal. Brother Akeem was here last year. Many of you remember him. He stood right behind this pulpit. His wife interpreted for him, and he would sign and she'd tell us what he was saying. And he made a statement I don't think I'll ever forget He said, I thank God that I was born deaf. I thought, who in the world would thank God for being born deaf. And he made this statement. He says, if God did not allow me to be deaf, my parents would have never taken me to the city. We'd never would have never pursued education in the United States. I would have never heard of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I would have died, I would die and end up in hell. I thank God He allowed me to be deaf. What an attitude. What an approach. And now he says, I want to go back. I want to reach the deaf of Nepal and point in to the Savior that gone through my deafness so graciously. Has allowed me to come to know. The disciples are confused. This guy's blind. Obviously, somebody said, oh no, no, God's got a plan. God's got a purpose. God wants to show himself strong on the behalf of this man born blind. Listen, I don't know what you're dealing with. I don't know what your maybe issue you're facing, that's a difficulty, and maybe infirmity, maybe some sort of setback, and maybe some sort of trial and struggle. Listen, if it's because of sin and disobedience to God, my advice is get right with God. But if you're right with the Lord and you're trusting God and that God has allowed this, you need to understand. We all need to understand that God allows these things many times. So that he can show himself strong if we will just trust him and follow his instructions, and God can use us Even in our infirmities. So we have the peace of our Lord Jesus Christ. We have the perplexity of the disciples. And then last of all, and this is what I really wanted to get to, was the power of transformation. Look with me again at verse number 25. These Pharisees did not believe that Jesus Christ was the Son of God. They were convinced he was a fraud, he was a hoax, he was a threat to their authority and their organized religion. But there was one thing that happened that they could not argue with. There was one thing that took place they could not dispute, and that was this: a blind man could now see. Verse 25, whether he be a sinner or no, I know not. But one thing I know Whereas I was blind, now I see. I'm suggesting you that one of the most powerful arguments for the truth of the gospel is a transformed life One thing this world can dispute whether the Bible is God's word or not. This world can reject our message. This world can reject our doctrine. This world can refuse our Bible, but one thing they cannot deny is the gospel of Jesus Christ changes lives. People who are strunkards come to Christ and they become sober. And this world has no explanation for that. There's no argument against A harlot becoming pure, a blasphemer becoming holy, a drunkard becoming sober. A transformed life is the most powerful argument to the truth of the gospel. People love to debate. How many people find that out? How many people here ever brought up the subject of Christianity or church or God at church at work and become a huge debate? And can I get a witness? Anybody here know what I'm talking about? Three people. Praise the Lord. Now you know it's true. People love to argue, we go out and knock on doors. Every week of the year we go out and knock on doors. And uh folks will say, Well, what about Cain? Where'd Cain get his wife? They want to argue and debate about this, that, and the other. The answer to that is he got her from his her his mother-in-law. Where else would you get a wife from? Um well what about this? No, man wrote the body. And they want to argue and debate And let them debate on. And by the way, I'm not real upset that this world questions everything. There are some teachings that ought to be questioned. Amen? Some of these religions out there ought to be questioned very hard. So the Bible's not threatened by man's questions The Bible's not threatened by man's theories of evolution. I always say this, and every year goes by I'm more convinced of it If some so-called scientific theory or whatever they suggest disproves the Bible, just give it a little bit of time, and eventually the Bible will come out on top every single time. We're not afraid of science. We're not afraid of archaeology. Let them dig in the earth and find that artifacts without steal. It supports the Word of God every single time. This world likes to argue. They want to debate this and question that. We live in an age where anything and everything is questioned and challenged. Even the things that most common sense tells you are right and wrong, even things that are so obvious, yet the world will question it, yet the world will challenge it. From the most powerful people in our nation down to the common man on the street. They're questioning our faith. They're challenging our doctrine. They're rejecting the most obvious truths. However, we have no reason to fear. Let them question. Let them challenge. Let them throw their theories. The gospel has been and remains true and will stand the most intense challenge. What I'm trying to say is this. Regardless of what they say, regardless of what they challenge, regardless of questions they ask, the gospel of Jesus Christ is still the power of God unto salvation. You say, Well, people what if people don't believe the gospel? Give it to them anyway. I said this many times before. Suppose I go down here to sheets. Now I assure you I will not do this. But so let's suppose let's pick some w let's pick somewhere other than sheets. I kinda like sheets. Uh let's let's say down here the liquor store down the road here. Let's say I walk in there tonight uh or tomorrow night About eleven thirty at night, I walk in there, I pull out a big old gun, I put it ahead, say, give me all your money or I'll blow your head off. What if they say, well, I don't believe that's a gun? Doesn't matter whether you believe it or not. If I pull the trigger, you'll find out it's a real gun, right? Now I assure you, and all the liberals listening on the internet, I'm not going to do that. I'm not advising that. The fact that they believe it or don't believe it doesn't change the reality of that weapon, right or wrong. The gospel's the same way. So I don't believe the gospel. Oh, yeah? Well, the Bible says that we're all sinners. Because of our sin, we deserve to die and go to hell. But Jesus Christ died and suffered hell for us, was buried, and rose again. And if you'll turn to him, trusting him to forgive you and cleanse you of all your sin, give you a new light, and call on him, Jesus Christ will forgive you and save you. It's still true. It's just as powerful, whether they believe it or not. It's the word of God. The gospel of Jesus Christ is the power of God unto salvation. If they'll accept that, D. L. Moody told the story, a fellow came in and was questioning this and challenging that. Finally Moody said, listen, sit down. What you need is to be He said, I don't believe any of that. Moody said he gave him the gospel. By the time they were done, the guy was weeping, sobbing, trusted Christ as Savior. He said, Now, what about those questions he had? He said, Don't worry, they don't matter anymore. I've got it settled Now I'm saying to you, regardless of how much this world challenges and questions us, the gospel is still the power of God unto salvation. But The point here is this: a transformed life is very, very powerful. The fact that my life was changed, I don't know if my father remembers this or not, but uh I was saved in May. That next fall we used to go up to um central Pennsylvania, we'd go deer hunting with the Killers family. They had a deer camp there. And the years leading up to this, I was a mess, just a punk. We went up there this year, and God had saved me, had transformed my life. And there was a lady there, the wife of one of the men that ran the camp, she would do the cooking for us. And about halfway through, and I think they said this to my dad, I don't know if he remembers it or not, but She had come to my dad and she says, I have a question, Clive. Says, what in the world happened to Denny? That's me, they call me Denny. Um don't you call me Denny? I'm Dr. Denny. But anyway What in the world happened to Denny? What what's got something's different? And that as they explained to her that Denny accepted Jesus Christ as Savior and his life Was changed. And I'm saying to you, a changed life is a powerful, powerful testimony to the veracity of the Word of God. The truth of the Word of God. You let God change you You accept Jesus Christ as Savior, and if you be in Christ, you will become a new creature. Old things will pass away, old things will become new. And I'm telling you, this world cannot argue about a blind man that can now see. A sinner that is now pure. A blasphemer that now speaks highly of his God and honors his God. There's no argument against that. They said a notable miracle has been done. That cannot be denied. I tell you, when God saves a soul and changes that life, it is a powerful, powerful testimony to the gospel of Jesus Christ. I once was blind, but now I see. I wish I had more time to look at what his testimony consists of. He said, I once was blind. You know what he was doing? That's the way I was before I met Christ. When we share our testimony with people, we ought to share with them what our life was like before we met Christ. Now you might not have been drugs and drunkenness and all that, fornication, that might not have been characteristic of your life, and praise God for that. But I do know this, every life without Jesus Christ, that heart is empty. I know that life has no purpose I know that fear of death and eternity often grips the heart and life of an unsaved believer. And so whether I was in debauchery or not, or maybe I was a decent person before I got saved, I can always share the fact That my life was empty, my heart was empty, that I had no purpose in life. I had did I have assurance I was going to heaven. And every single person alive can relate to that condition. And then he says, I once was mine, but now I see. He says, Alright, this is what's happened to me since I've trusted Christ, since I met Christ. And well you and I can share that testimony if we know Jesus Christ the Savior. You know God changed my life. He put purpose in my heart. I now am not alone anymore. I have a Savior with me that will never leave me nor forsake me. I have a peace in my heart I never had. I have fulfillment. I have confidence now that I never had before. And I have assurance that when I die, I'm going to heaven, not to hell. What I was before I met Christ, I was blind. What I am since I met Christ, I can see And then he goes on and explains how he met Christ. He said he came to me and did this and spat on the ground and sent me off. And you and I need to share with others how we came to know Christ. I was in some church service, and that preacher was preaching. He told us how to be saved. And I responded and I accepted Jesus Christ as Savior and He changed my life Oh, somebody came by my door and knocked on the door and they had a Bible from the Baptist Church and they opened that Bible up and showed me how to be saved. And in my kitchen at the table, I accept Jesus as my Savior. I was at a kit, I was at a revival, or whatever. But we ought to share with others what our life was like before we got saved. We ought to share with others what our life is like once Christ saved us, how it's been changed, and we ought to share with others how we came to know Christ is saved. And that's a powerful, powerful argument. You don't have to have a Bible college education to be able to share your testimony. You don't have to be some highly gifted person and tremendous personality. All we have to do is a person saved by grace, who once was blind. Now we see. Remember the woman at the well? She had no education. She had no religious training. She is just saved out of a life of fornication and adultery. Blanton. And Christ saved her. And she went into the town and started telling everyone in that town, come out here and meet this man, knows everything about me. You wouldn't believe what he's done for me. Come out here and meet this guy. She once was blind. Now she sees. You know what happened? About that whole town got saved. The power of a changed life. Here's my question. Do you know for sure that Jesus Christ is your personal Savior? If you know for sure that your sins are forgiven, when you die, you go to heaven, not to hell. If not, you need to settle that today. That is the most important thing in life. Do not risk it. If a person dies in their sins, they end up separated from God for all eternity in hell. Don't risk that. If you do know Jesus Christ as Savior, let me ask you this: are you letting them change your life Do you have any kind of testimony at all with your family, neighbors, this old sinful world? Or are we just like this world is? Act, think, values, priorities, same as the world. The world says, I don't see anything unique in you, I don't see anything distinctively God or Christ-like about you. You're no different than we are. What a pitiful What if that blind man, I once was blind, but I still can't see? I say, well what do we need Christ for? What'd he do for you? So I once was blind, but now I see. Once my life was eat up with sin, God's forgiven me, He's changed me, and Christ is being developed in my life. What a powerful thing. Is that true for you? This old-fashioned order is a good place to come and say, Lord, I want you to have me. I want to be a testimony of your grace and your power. Take me, Lord, and do what you need to do in my life Father in heaven, I pray that you would take these words I've stumbled over this morning. And maybe you'd challenge some of us. Maybe you could touch a heart. Maybe someone that's not saved. This morning they come and trust you and be saved. Or maybe there's some that have been saved, but really not taken seriously. It's a matter of living for you, allowing you to change us and mold us. I pray that this morning will be a morning of surrender and yieldedness. Father, bless our invitation. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. I wonder how many this morning would say, Preacher, pray for me. I know I'm saved, there's no doubt about it, but I need to grow as a Christian. I need there's areas of my life that need to be changed to be more distinctively Christian. And you'd say, Preacher, pray for me that God will help me be transformed in the image of Christ. How many like that by the uplifted handy for you would say, Preacher, that's true. There's areas in my life. God bless you, my hands raised. It's a lifelong thing I wonder if there's someone here this morning say, Preacher, I'm not sure that when I die I'm going to heaven. Not sure my sins are forgiven and I need to settle that. I'm concerned about it. You'd say, pray for me, that God would help me settle that in my heart. That I know my sins are forgiven. Of are given that God has saved me and give me new life. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? How about it? Any at all? All around. Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure about that. God bless you How about it? Any others? Preacher, pray for me. Pray for me. Father in heaven, you know our hearts, you know where we're at. Please help us to grow. Help us to make great decisions, to trust you and allow you to make us into the people you intend for us to be. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Kathy's playing a few verses of invitation. Maybe this morning God spoke to your heart.