Psalm sixty two is a is a passage that I think, and I tell you, I think A lot of the if you read commentaries, most of them would say uh that what I'm about to tell you is correct. And I think I think there's some indirect evidence for what I'm about to tell you It appears that this psalm came out of the time and the circumstance in the life of King David. When his son Absalom had betrayed him. David was king. Absalom was a rebellious son who turned on his father, betrayed him Tried to tried to destroy him, tried to take over the kingdom, all of that. And it it appears that the psalm, this psalm came out of that circumstance. And here's what it says, top of the chapter, Psalm 62. Truly my soul waiteth upon God, from him cometh my salvation. He only is my rock and my salvation. He is my defense. I shall not be greatly moved. How long will you imagine mischief against a man? You shall be slain, all of you, as a bowing wall shall you be, and as a tottering fence. They only consult to cast him down from his excellency. They delight in lies. They bless with their mouth, but they curse inwardly, Selah. And the Selah word, I think, means Well, think of that. I'm comfortable with that definition of Salem. Think of that. Verse 5: My soul wait thou only upon God, for my expectation is from Him. He only is my rock and my salvation. He is my defense. I shall not be moved. And God is my salvation and my glory. The rock of my strength and my refuge is in God. Trust in him at all times, ye people. Pour out your heart before him. God is a refuge for us. Saila. Surely men of low degree are vanity and men of high degree are lying. To be laid in the balance, they are altogether lighter than vanity. Truly, I'm sorry, trust not in oppression. And become not vain in robbery. If riches increase, set not your heart upon them. God hath spoken once, twice have I heard this, that power belongeth unto God. Also unto thee, O Lord belongeth mercy, for thou renderest to every man according to his work. Now if we are correct, and I and I believe we are, that this psalm was written at a time of crisis. uh to have a son like Absalom revolt against him. It would be difficult for us to just sit down in committee and and concentrate on this situation and come out with an analysis that would be anywhere near the the level of heartache that that brings, uh, to imagine the pressure that it brought. Here's a man who's the leader of the nation and somebody in his own family. has turned on him and uh is uh is trying to uh usurp the throne and uh the the pressure that that brings because Some people are saying, well, uh is King David supposed to be king, or or would it be good if we had Absalom to be the king? Uh well we're gonna follow we're gonna follow Absalom. We don't like something David did. And and so you've got all of this this turbulence going on not only inside the the the the throne uh uh uh you know inside the the palace but you you've got all this turbulence going on in the streets and out in the marketplace. And and and I mean it is a turbulent turbulent time Now, anytime that you've got something of that magnitude going on, I mean some crisis in your family, some crisis at your work, your business has difficulty, anytime that you have a crisis like that you can get some of the sorriest advice on the planet. I'm talking about if you as a Christian You've been walking with God. You've been serving God. You're in church. I mean, you're out soul-winning. You're doing the things you believe God would have you to do. You're tithing. All that, and everybody knows that, but then you have a crisis, and you know what happens? Oh, all at once, a lot of people who are unprincipled, they're out walking in the world And they look at you as a person of principle and they say, oh man, if you just didn't tithe, if you just didn't do all this Christian stuff, and I'm telling you, they'll try to break you down You say, why is that? Because people who do not have convictions are always trying to get people who have convictions to lower their convictions. And so if some pressure point comes, they'll try to talk you out of your standards, talk you out of your church attendance, your church involvement and so forth. And uh it's just the way that it happens. But in the midst of all of this, in verse 2, King David says, I shall not be greatly moved. Now it seems to me at that point, uh it seems to me at that point that he may have he may have his uh arms folded and he may be He may be uh listening a little bit and he's saying now, okay, tell tell me what the deal is here. And all right, all right, what what what are you saying? Tell tell me what's going on here. It's it's like he's listening just a little bit and uh trying to figure out if there's some way to resolve this, is there some way that diplomacy will bring this back together? And and in the process he says, now understand I'm listening, but I'm not going to be moved greatly. I'm not going forward here. You're not going to move me greatly off of where I am. But by the time we get to verse 6, there's a word that drops out of that statement. Where in verse 2 he said, I shall not be greatly moved. We get to verse 6, and he said, I shall not be moved Now in uh in terms that some of us would understand, um uh you've been giving West Virginia a lot of a lot of pressure here. I grew up down in West Kentucky and And uh, you know, I I understand the lingo and I think what he's saying here, hey, I ain't going nowhere. I shall not be greatly moved. Now, immediately I think somebody's going to ask, well, with all the pressure How can he say things like that? With all of the heartache, how can he be so firm? With that kind of turbulence, how can he just hang tough with his convictions Well, I'm glad you asked the question because the answer, I mean, we already read it in the text. Here's what he tells us Four times in this chapter he says, four times, he says, God is my salvation. Four times. Now, maybe in this case he's talking about his physical salvation, but you and I know, we understand that word salvation in the Bible has far more implication than that. And very honestly, everything that is good starts with salvation. Everything that is right starts with salvation. Everything that is anything that we ought to be engaged in, I mean, we've got to back up to the point of our salvation. You can't be a good church member if you're not saved. You can't be a good Christian if you're not saved. A lot of people are identifying themselves as Christians, and they're not any more Christian than a man in the moon. Everything has to start with that time when we hear the gospel of the death and the burial and the resurrection of Christ, and we know that we're sinners, and we understand that Jesus paid it all for us. And we by faith surrender ourselves and trust him and yield and trust to him. And when we do that, he forgives our sin. He admits us to the family of God and reserves a place for us in heaven. Now, everything starts with salvation. Nothing is going to go like it ought to go without that. And David says, God is my salvation, therefore I shall not be moved. But that's not all he says. Four times he says my salvation. Three times in the passage he says God is my rock. Now I don't know what all he has in mind from that, but that term also is used a good bit in the Bible. Jesus gave a parable about something like that in the Sermon on the Mount when he said Man built his house on the rock, the storms came, the winds blew, the rains, the floods, all of that, but his house stood because it was founded on a rock You and I need to get ourselves so principled that whenever the pressures come, the heartaches come, all of that That our feet are solidly plated on that which will sustain us, and no wind, no fierce wind, will blow us off of it. A lot of times Christians, even sincere Christians, they don't have their feet as solidly set as they ought to be set, and the least little pressure uh causes them to quit church. The least little thing causes them to set things aside. And said sad are the stories indeed whenever a Christian gets pushed to one side because they simply do not have themselves solidly set on a rock foundation. One of the things that we do, we have to do. We have to teach the doctrines of the faith. We have to continue to learn all of the great truths of the Bible. Amen. One of my favorite quotes from Lester Roloff, he said, He said, No, uh, they'll never make an atheist out of me as long as God's growing watermelons in West Texas. You say, what does that have to do with him not being an atheist? Well, unless they went on to say a watermelon is 97% water, and down there in that sandy, arid soil In West Texas, you put a watermelon seed in and they grow great big old watermelons. How does it do that? And he's just saying that's just one of God's blessed miracles. Take one of the little seed, and it just keeps drawing and drawing and drawing, even that dry, sandy, arid West Texas soil. Now, the fact is, you and I need ourselves so solidly set that no evolutionist would ever talk us in. To believe in some hellish theory like that. So he said, I shall not be moved. Why? God is my salvation. God is my rock. But I know that twice in the passage he says, God is my defense. Well, here he is under accusation. I mean, Absalom and all of his crowd, they are lamb-basting King David, and he is in a position of having to face the accusers, and he says, God is my defense. Now, you know, every time somebody does ugly to you, every time somebody's unkind, you you don't have to react to that. You don't have to, why am I read that straight now? No, no, no, no. And the fact that somebody else is ugly doesn't mean you and I have the privilege to ugly up things. Right. Again, growing up down in western Kentucky, you know you grew up in Kentucky, you play basketball. You probably heard that. Well we do, all of us. I mean we I never was very good at it, but I played it a lot. Still do a little bit. Play horse in the driveway. Whether you can call that basketball or not. But I played a lot of basketball. I learned something playing basketball. You're you're you're you're playing and some some backslidden rascal on the other team runs over you and fouls you and the referee doesn't see it. You get back up on your feet and if you say, I'll show that dude, you go down to the other end of the court and run him over. I'm guaranteeing you all three referees will see it, they'll all blow their whistles at the same time The guy who strikes the second blow is the guy that's going to get the foul called on him every time. You say, well, what am I supposed to do? Well, one thing wouldn't hurt you just learn to take some stuff. But the other thing and the principle here is, you know, you can let God defend you. You you you The way I put it sometimes is, uh you got something going on and somebody's mistreating you, tell God about it. Tell God on them. I mean I've I've looked up to heaven a bunch of times and I've said, Dear Lord, I know you're seeing that. Would you please help me out there? And then just try to go on about my business. In fact, it's interesting. He he knows how to help defend us. And it's for that reason over the years, my goodness, I'm I'm my mind's starting to think, but I've there there've been a good bunch of people over the years who've come and said, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I was wrong. And they were But God helped me out with that. So David said, I shall not be moved. Why? God is my salvation. God is my rock. God is my defense. One time in the chapter, he says, God is my expectation. Because I'm a Christian, there are some things that I can just expect because God is who He is. I expect him to keep his promises. Yes. And he does. I expect him to utilize his power, and he does. I expect him to give his provisions that he's promised, and he does So there's certain things we can expect. God is my expectation. One time in the chapter he says, God is my glory. God is my glory. You say, oh, wait, wait, all the glory belongs to God. We all understand that But if you hang around where the Shekinah glory of God is in evidence and where we are waving the flag for God, the chances are good that s I mean you you may you may get a few little good things happening to you too. And you may have reason to stand up and salute because you'll say, man, just hanging around where God drops the blessings, I've gotten some pretty special things happening with me. So God is my salvation, He's my rock, He's my defense, He's my expectation, He's my glory. And twice in the chapter he says, God is my strength. Here he is the king. I mean he's got the power in his hands. But he says, God is my strength. You know, uh, we guys sometimes we like to strut our brawn a little bit. And uh this kind of a man thing. We do it like this. You have to put up with us a little bit on that. But the truth of the matter is, there's there's nobody there's nobody among us. That uh I mean that the the muscle's not where our strength is. The Bible says the joy of the Lord is our strength. And that's where it is. When you and I get stirred up, we get excited about the things of God. Well, I mean we we get the joy of God flowing in us. Like it ought to flow. We'll have the strength to go out and knock doors. We'll have the strength to give our testimony. We'll have the strength to get up and do the bidding of God in our life. It'll just come. And then twice in the chapter, this great advocate saying, I shall not be moved. Twice in the chapter he says, God is my refuge. You know, a refuge is a place sometimes of retreat, or maybe a place of hiding But it's a place where you can go and be secure and be safe and perhaps get refreshed. And he says, God is my refuge. You know what one of the things we hope in a meeting like this, we we we hope we hope by putting your feet under the conference table, and I'm not talking about what's going on out here in the fellowship, I'm talking about what goes on in here. I hope by putting your feet under the conference table that uh that that you I mean I mean during the announcements, during the songs, during the special music, I mean during the offering, during the preaching, we hope you'll just say, I'm gonna eat, I'm gonna eat, I'm gonna feed myself. I mean, doing all this handshake in time. Feed on the fellowship. All of that, all of that will do you good. And so David said, I shall not be moved. I mean, he's got people listening. He's got people watching him, watching every move he makes. And they're trying to figure out what he's going to do in the midst of all of this turbulence and crisis. And by the way, first time something goes crazy in your life, I guarantee you there are people in your neighborhood who are watching every move you make. You walk down town, just walk down the street. There'll be people see you. You don't even see them. You don't know that they're there. I on the way over here yesterday, driving from Baltimore, I stopped at a McDonald's, went in for a minute, got some Diet Coke. Young man working in there, he had a worker supervising him, so I think he might have been person special a little bit. And uh The the they the the as they were going out as I was going out the older gentleman spoke to me and as I got to my car here they were right at my door and he said, excuse me, I don't mean to bother you, but he's turned to a younger guy and he said he he says he knows you. You're a pastor, right? And I said, well, yes. I said, uh did you do you go to the open door? He said, no, no, no, Frederick Baptist, Frederick Baptist. And I hadn't been there in a year and a half. And here I here I am just pulling off the threeway at a McDonald's and and somebody somebody watching my back You know? You say, well what what's the deal on that? Hey you you you and I just need to be aware when when crazy starts going on in our life, I mean I mean normal stuff going on But when crazy starts going on in your life, I guarantee you people all over the place are watching. Do you still get up and come to church? Do you still follow the Lord? Are you still going soul-winning? Are you still rejoicing in the Lord? Are you still bowing your head to pray when you get to Wendy's to get your lunch? And right in the middle of this, King David turns to his people. Verse 8, he says, you people. And here's what he tells them. Number one, he said, trust God at all times. I say, how how can you do that? When God's your salvation, he's your rock, he's your expectation, he's your defense, he's your glory, he's your strength and your refuge. You can trust him. Monday, Wednesday, Friday, Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday, and Sunday You can trust him. Trust him at all times. Second thing he says in that eighth verse is, you can tell God your troubles. Verse 8, he says, Pour out your heart before Him. Pretty amazing to me that the God who spoke worlds into existence will listen to a little short two before guy from the river bottoms of western Kentucky. Or that he'll listen to people from the mountains of Western Maryland. Pretty amazing to me, but he does. And if I'm talking to him and you're talking to him, and a bunch of others are talking to him, we never overload his circuits. He can handle all of us all at the same time. You know, I I get sometimes Ben and I'll be driving somewhere and I'll say uh I'll say, Siri, um Give me directions to Little Rock, Arkansas. And immediately, not five minutes later, but immediately I get those directions. Now, when I stop and think about, I mean just here in America And maybe maybe there's several hundred thousand people doing the same thing at the same time, they all get immediate response. And I'm saying to myself, what in the world am I carrying in my pocket? It's amazing. The God of creation is far greater than Siri. For greater. And we can tell God our troubles. Whether they be big troubles or little troubles, we can tell 'em to God. And get an answer when we pray. So he said to them, Trust God at all times, tell God your troubles. And verse 9 he says, and don't hang your hopes on men. Now, it's alright to have teachers. It's alright to have mentors. If they're following the Lord, it's alright to have mentors. They're following the Lord. It's alright to listen to them when they teach. But he says, remember, men are just men, whether they be verse 9, men of low degree, men of high degree. He said, you lay them out in the balance, and they're all a bunch of lightweights. So where'd you get that? They says they're altogether lighter than vanity. And by the way, I'm a lightweight, you're a lightweight, all of us together are a bunch of lightweights in comparison to the big heavyweight. And don't you ever forget, whatever's going on in your life, God is the heavyweight in the in the equation. So he says, don't hang your hopes on men. Verse number 10, he says, and don't let your situation, whatever it is, don't let your situation make you a crook. Trust not in oppression, and become not vain in robbery. You know, sometimes folks have trouble in what they do. They go out and do something stupid. Go out and stick up a 7-Eleven or whatever. Well, he said, hey, don't let your situation, no matter how bad it is, no matter what the trouble is, don't let it make you a crook. And the other part of that is, in that same verse, he says, don't be fooled by prosperity. If riches increase, don't set your heart on them. You know, I've I've known some people who had money on Monday, and by Tuesday they didn't have any. I've known people who had millions in the stock market and it went choo and they lost it. I've known people who had properties. And they lost them. People had beautiful homes and they lost them. People had just lots of things, things, things. The Bible says here If you're prosperous, don't be fooled with that. Don't put your affection on the things. I think it was Emerson, Emerson, uh the poet who said, things are in the saddle and ride mankind. And a lot of that's going on in America And I, you and I need to be reminded, listen, Betty and I live in a nice four-bedroom house, and I'm glad we do. I enjoy it. I thank God for it, but my life is not wrapped up in that house. Betty's got a car, and I've got a car, and I personally much prefer to have wheels and to walk everywhere. I enjoy having a vehicle. In fact, I don't want to walk from here to Murfreesboro tomorrow. I think it's probably starting to take me longer than that. I'm glad I can roll back over to Baltimore, get on a flight tomorrow about noon, and fly hour and ten minutes and drop into Nashville. I I'm glad for all of that. But my but my hopes are not in that. My life is not wrapped up in that. That's not where it is. And he's simply saying to us, don't be fooled by prosperity. Don't don't and by the way. I'm not so sure, but what does not a lot more people go down the tube in their prosperity than do in their poverty. A lot of folks cannot handle. They get a little money and it ruins them. Just runs them. So he says, don't be fooled with that. In those last two verses, he basically says, look, God can handle things. And he knows how to deal with men. You get somebody you get somebody bedeviling you, let God help you handle it. God knows how to handle things. He knows how to deal with people We we we we don't we don't have to we don't have to be going after folks and trying to destroy people. That's that's that's not the Christian way David said in the midst of all of his crisis. Initially he said, maybe we can talk about this. But I'm not going to be greatly moved. They had to talk. And he said, I shall not be moved. Now, folks, I've had people trying to get me away from my Bible. They print new ones and they leave stuff out and add stuff to it and they say, oh, take this. I'm telling you If I come back here another 25 years, I promise you in the year 2044 or whatever that'll be, I'm going to be using the same Bible I've got in front of me tonight. From my Bible, I shall not be moved. From my Savior, I shall not be moved. From my church, I shall not be moved. From going after souls, I shall not be moved. I can't tell you how excited I became when I found out that a little guy like me with my little chubby paws that I could take a gospel track or a New Testament and lead somebody else out of darkness into light, take them away from hell and get them headed to heaven. And having had the privilege to do that over and over and over again through the years I I'm not going to be moved off of that. I I want to win people to Christ and keep going after people. I I mean running bus routes and running vans and all those things that we do, we're not going to be moved off of that. Doing right, I shall not be moved, paying the price I shall not be moved. Preaching the word, praying big prayers. Godly lifestyle. I shall not be moved. Given all this contemporary garbage of fit, I shall not be moved. I mean, opposing the drift and the shift of our times and all this neo-nonsense that's invading so many of our churches, I shall not be moved. They can steal away our friends. I shall not be moved. People can lie and cheat on us, but I'll not be moved. I mean, this ought to be my testimony, it ought to be our testimony. They may take away your support, say ugly things about you. But you and I ought not to lose heart. A lot of folks say, Well I shall not be moved, and then they get as bitter as they can be. No, you just move when you did that. No, keep your heart, keep your spirit, keep serving, keep working. Don't let anybody drive you off down in a ditch somewhere. Just determine by God's grace that you're going to keep your eyes on Him and not let anybody steer you otherwise. When I read this in my Bible, and I see King David saying, I shall not be moved, I think it's in the Bible to tell me that that ought to be my testimony too. And I love that little piece. I shall not be, I shall not be moved, just like a tree that's planted by the waters. You know it. Listen. That ought to be our song. It ought to be our heart throb. It ought to be the pulsating sense of our whole being. Just to say, all the way from creation to the last amen in the apocalypse. We're going to just simply say, not moving off of any of it. We're sticking to it. A big contemporary guy in Atlanta can make national news as he did a month ago and say, oh no, no parts of the Old Testament for modern-day Christians. He's a false prophet. False prophet. He can holler that all he wants to, but I shall not be moved. Preaching out of the Old Testament tonight, I like preaching out of it. God help us. God help us. Get on track, stay on track, and not be moved from it. Amen? Thank you, thank you. Let's stand up, please. We'll pray together. God's spoken to your heart tonight. Pastor made the challenge to us a little while ago. Let's see if we can win somebody to Christ before Sunday. Uh brother Cooper uh laid out the case very strongly for us, and these altars are placed, listen. Sweet, sweet commitments made in these altars will stand us in good stead in the midst of whatever things come our way. Somebody ugly that says something ugly to you, you can handle it because you've surrendered yourself to the Lord. Dear Lord, help us tonight. Help us. And may the Spirit of God so move in this place that we'll be we'll be glad that we came. May the sweet Spirit of God have his way in us right now. In Jesus' name. Amen. The music begins, the altars are open, you do the Lord's