Yeah. When uh when I came up for uh for those uh three or four months uh to enter and pastor and get try to get uh you know a pastor h in here when the church was going through that that dark time uh in its history. And uh there was just uh maybe a a dozen of us, I suppose, something like that. And uh of course uh Trying to find preachers. You can you can just anybody will claim they're preachers, you know, and they'll come and preach and that that but but I was here for to try to find preachers that that knew what they was doing and that believed the right things and so I could sort of screen 'em out before they were put before the church. And uh I remember The uh remember one particular preacher that came and uh he got up behind he seemed like a nice fellow and so forth. And uh He got up to preach, and uh there was a sign on the door out here, and it said, uh, we believe the King James Bible is the Word of God. And uh he got up behind the pulpit that night and uh he said the first thing I would do, I would take that sign off that door out there. That was like anathema to this group, this small group, and it didn't take much to you know move on to another one. And uh the one thing that has been consistent in this uh in this church, uh and in many things, but But one thing that I think stands out is the fact they didn't change uh with every new version that came out, they didn't change to that version, but they stuck with this old King James Bible. And it's uh uh That's how I feel. This the King James Bible is the Word of God. It is the Word of God. It's not just not just uh uh uh one translation's better than another. That's not it. The KJV is the Word of God. And uh so that's what we preach. That's what we pre uh uh when uh Brother Leatherman uh sent in his uh uh twenty-one page salute to What he believed. That's that's what happened. You know that when I it didn't really get to finish all the story on that, but but uh Uh his resume was like like twenty-one pages of what I believe and uh he expected me to read all that. And I I skimmed through it enough to know that what he what he believed. But that was the first thing that I checked. And uh so anyway, uh I just uh wanted to mention that particular thing. Uh If uh if your foundation how many times have I heard that today? So um We want to make sure that that we stick with with this book. Because this book uh has the words of life in it. And it's so important. Well, uh I've been uh Uh I guess ever since I knew I was gonna be speaking tonight, uh I've been trying to figure out what I was gonna preach. And I sat down there a few minutes ago and I said, Lord, you know, I I've got two messages here already, and uh I just don't know for sure which one I'm going to preach. I may preach both of them. No, I won't. I don't think I'd last that long. Uh but I I I was sitting there and and uh I I c all once uh oh once uh The uh I believe it was uh the missus that was playing the piano. She started playing uh uh a song And uh it was uh give me that mountain, give me that mountain. And it just so happens that was one of the messages I was gonna talk about tonight. And so uh I just said uh thank you Lord You know, I believe that God's a real God. And I believe he's a personal God. I believe he's one that uh he he likes to communicate with his people. Yeah. And uh sometimes we miss those those little communiques that uh he throws out. But I'm glad I was had my ear on uh and listened for that particular song because uh the message of of uh Give me that mountain is i is is phenomenal as far as uh the challenge uh to go beyond yourself and just trust God. Yes. Because that's what that's what it's all about. Living by faith Uh you see is a miracle thing. Yeah. You see it? And and if you're not experiencing miracles every day of your life uh some miracle or other. Uh I don't care whether it's uh uh you're in driving in Walmart and there's no parking place at all one one opens up right in front of you and you just pull right into it. Uh if you're not experiencing those little things and and keeping your eye open for those little things. I had a uh book that my granddad uh was also a preacher by the way. He uh he had this little book and it was called uh Seeing God and the Little Things. And uh Uh I read that thing through and all of th these lotta little things that uh that we can be uh experiencing in our life and realizing that this is God speaking to us Because he does. He speaks to us on a regular, daily, uh moment by moment va basis. And we need to keep our our ears tuned for it. But uh that's another story, another message, so we'll we'll go over to the one that uh we believe that the Lord uh wants us to to uh spend some time on tonight. And it's found over in uh the book of uh Numbers. Uh I don't know, there's you know dozens of messages on this particular uh uh passage of scripture that uh the this is the one you'll get from me. I'm looking in the Numbers chapter fourteen. And uh let's see. I'm changing up here just a little bit. I'm going to start in verse 33 in chapter 13, alright? And we'll jump over to 14. Here's what the story is. The nation of Israel had been in captivity or had been slaves, I guess we could put it, in in Egypt for something like 400 years. And uh F finally the people got tired of that uh of being slaves and so they've been to call begin to call upon God. Send somebody to deliver 'em. They need the a deliverer And so uh uh uh God uh was preparing a man uh uh from his youth to be able to speak to Pharaoh and speak in terms that Pharaoh would understand and so forth. And and so uh uh Man named Moses came along and and was doing and was called to that particular job. And so Moses uh we know the story and and how You know, you know, uh Charlton Heston stood up there and said, you know, and all that. We know all that, how he did all that. Well Moses did it, but he did it better. Okay. He did the real thing. And so uh Uh as a uh uh to kind of move along in the story, we know that the the uh the death of the firstborn And the shedding of blood that was made and put on the doorpost and on the lintel of the of each of the uh ha houses of the nation of Israel. Uh brought salvation to them or the the firstborn. And the firstborn of all the Egyptian uh people, they died And so that brought forth a deliverance because the he the Pharaoh uh told him to get out. He didn't want any more anything to do with them And so uh Moses gets all the people and of course they were they were ready. They were told to to eat the Passover lamb, you know, with with uh all uh dressed and uh with a walking stick and the whole thing and so they were ready to go whenever Moses said go and the the Pharaoh said go. And uh while the the weeping and wailing and the dying was happening over in in Egypt, the people of Israel were moving out. As they moved out, uh, of course we know the story. They uh uh uh they had uh Um they got to the the Red Sea and of course uh the Red Sea was in front of 'em and uh by that time why uh Pharaoh uh woke up and was mad and so he uh he decides he's gonna take after him and and bring them back or or kill them. And as the sh chariots of Pharaoh uh are approaching why uh God uh once again, uh uh hand uh uh his his own hand uh protected him with a cloud of fire and so forth and and as a result why they they escaped uh extermination there. And uh as the nation of Israel was uh uh uh st Standing there for s uh Moses, you know, he raised the the stick and he spoke the waters separated and they went across on dry ground. When the Pharaoh uh uh tried to follow. We know what happened. He he drowned and uh all the soldiers with him. They tried to say that that wasn't a a true story, but uh I understand whether it's true or not. I understand that they uh found uh remnants of the chariots uh in the Red Sea and that uh that proves it. I like what they're finding in in the to to kind of deviate from the story here in just a moment. I like what they're finding with the Weber telescope. That new telescope they put out in space. Uh you remember what I'm talking about? The things like, you know, I don't know how many feet uh wide and and uh anyway it's so big that they're able to see what they say is is millions of years into the past And uh when they looked at of course the Big Bang theory of creation is is the you know, the big s big story. And that all these scientists said that's the way it happened, you know, that something started from nothing and I don't know, all all that silliness. Uh but now they're finding that uh since this Weber telescope has come out and they is able to look way down into the past, why uh They found out the Big Bang couldn't have happened because there's too many I'm not even going to get into it, but they just now all these scientists are having to tr try to figure out some way to get something from nothing And so forth. Because the Big Bang doesn't work anymore in all their their uh uh smart stuff. So uh I I like those kind of things. I like what the pastor of uh uh Brother Fox was bringing out today that uh but anyway, as we're uh so need to find a I better not drink that. I think that's a hand wash there. Oh, okay. Yeah, that won't be Whenever your lips start sticking together, that's bad news. You don't mind it, but I do. So So Moses comes, they they they cross the sea, and Moses uh they're supposed to go into the promised land, and God has promised them this this area And so Moses, he uh uh he decides that uh you know he'll he'll just uh check the thing out before they go into it, you know. Um That is a slight uh error because he should have just trusted God and went in and took the land, but he didn't do that. He got uh twelve uh uh men from the the different tribes And off they go to spy out the land to see what the what the problems are with it that that they would have if they moved into it. And when they uh uh when they came back, they're carrying a uh a great big uh hunk of grapes that they're carrying between two men. Right and they're finding all this this good stuff over there And you'd think, well, that's exactly what God said was over there, so we ought to be able to go over there and just get it then. And uh, but that wasn't what happened. What happened was I'm looking at verse 26 of chapter 13. I decided to move on back there. And they went and they came to Moses and Aaron and all the congregations of the children of Israel into the wilderness of Peran. and uh Kadesh. And he brought back word unto them and to all the congregation and showed them that the fruit the fruit of the land And they told him and said, We came into the land where thou sendest us, and surely it flowed with milk and honey, and uh this is the fruit of it. Nevertheless, well I hate that word, don't you? Nevertheless, the people are strong, and they dwell in the land, and the cities are walled and very great, and moreover, we saw the children of Anak there And those are giants. And uh the Amalekites dwelt in the land of the of the south and the the Hittites, the Jezbessites and the Amorites dwelt in the mountains, and the Canaanites dwelt by the sea and by the coast of of Jordan. And Caleb's still the people. This is the first time we we hear of Caleb, and he's uh he's still the people. He's a uh uh uh a person of strength, I guess you could say, strong personality. He still the people before Moses and he said, let us go up at once and possess it For we are well able to overcome it. Here's a man of faith. He believed believed God's word, and he's willing to take a chance and just uh go into the land and and uh fight the battles But the men that went up with him said, we be not able to go up against the people, for they are stronger than we. And they brought up an evil report of the land where they uh which they had searched into the children of Israel, saying the land through which we have gone i to search it is a land that eateth up the inhabitants. I like the way people are always uh exaggerating things whenever they don't want to do them. And uh therefore, and all the people that we saw in it were men of great stature Well, you know, that's uh I would say that's even questionable. And there we saw the the giants, the son of Anak. which come of the giants and they were in their own sight and we were i I'm sorry. We were in our own sight as grasshoppers and so we were in their sight. And all the congregation lifted up their voices and cried, and the people wept that night. Heavenly Father, as we uh embark upon this uh particular message. I I pray that you'd uh help uh me uh keep my thoughts straight Praise you'd help us as we uh try to learn and uh some of the things that would help us today to live for you And I ask you, Lord, to especially speak to that heart that may be here that is uh needing uh your special touch. Perhaps they have never been born uh into the Spirit of God by the Spirit of God, and I pray that that tonight they might see their lost condition and trust you We pray that you would help us during this uh this next hour, and we'll give you praise for it in Christ's name. Amen. Amen. As we uh continue here in in verse in verse twenty-four, it says my uh I'm looking in chapter fourteen It says, But my servant Caleb, because he hath another spirit with him, and hath followed me uh fully, him will I bring into the land wherein he went, and his seed shall possess it The things that that uh stick out to my mind about this whole thing Uh Cable and Joshua the two people that was able to are going to be able to go into the promised land because they wholly followed the Lord. And in in uh uh The amazing thing about it to me is the fact that here was two men who uh uh who had the this the faith, I guess, to do what God says. And uh They saw the same things that these the people who were crying out and saying, No, we can't go into this promised land because the the people are too big and there's walled cities and so forth. And since Uh they saw the same things, you'd think they'd have the same ideas. But there's a difference between uh having uh a the the eyes of faith and and the eyes of unbelief And so uh Caleb was a was a person who had the uh had the the the eyes of of faith to be able to see what God had for them. They saw the same things as the others But uh they didn't have the same opinions. They saw the the new land, even with its problems, uh with the eyes of faith You know, I uh I couldn't help but think of uh Brother Wilt when he came came here. And uh I I thought about how there's kind of a uh the way that uh brother Wilt uh stood up against the opposition it was uh here at this particular time, uh when the two men that came uh that had invited him to come and and start a new new work here. uh how that uh they came two months after he got here and and uh um invited him to to leave. So that he'd they'd help him pack if he'd leave. But he wouldn't go And that's because he had a vision that they didn't have. They saw a man, I guess it didn't preach the way they had They liked it. I don't know whether it was the way he preached or whether it was what he preached. I suspect it was more of what he preached than it was the way he preached. But the the thing that uh that that sticks out in my mind was here somebody that that did not allow uh The I mean I'm sure when when Brother Wilt looked uh around the town here uh in Oakland when he when he first came, uh he pr probably saw the walled cities I think there's probably a lot of walled churches around that uh did not want him to to uh start a Baptist church here in this area. I know that uh uh he was uh uh somebody was always concerned uh uh about uh about the loss. But uh these uh but Caleb uh uh did not allow the uh uh uh The sights he saw did not did not uh scare him. He saw the new land, even with its problems, the eye of faith, and faith is God's promises I think of uh Nehemiah and Zerubul and and uh uh and Ezra when they came back from uh people that were uh that had taken their nation into captivity And they were allowed to come back and rebuild the temple walls. And the Bible says that when when Nehemiah got there and to see where the temple was to be built, that the there was just uh nothing but rubble And the people wept because of of uh what they uh what they were missing, since the temple was walls were tore down and and the walls of the city were tore down. But Nehemiah didn't see that. Nehemiah uh looked at the sea and instead he he saw walls again He saw a city that was rebuilt, another a city that was honoring God and and the walls uh to protect the people. Uh our attitude about about uh various things uh are so important. And uh we're all we're we're gonna have opposition no matter what. All of us are going to have some opposition to the things that uh things of God So whenever we we have a uh whenever we have an opportunity to serve God, we need to learn to believe God and to step out by faith. Uh you'll notice the the sinning saints didn't uh discourage him. You remember uh we we're reading in f in chapter uh fourteen there, in uh chapter two it says, And all the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron. And the whole congregation said unto him, Would to God that we had died in the land of Egypt, or or would God we had uh died in in the wilderness And wherefore hath the Lord brought us in this land and to fall by the sword and that our wives and our children should be a prey? Uh were it not better for us to return to Egypt? Sinning saints did not discourage him. You know, uh I remember when I was first saved We uh uh won't get into that part of it. Uh we were when we were first saved, uh we had uh There was a one preacher that was such a a blessing to us. We went to every revival he held the in the whole area and and we just uh Enjoyed hearing the preaching and he was a good singer. Uh like Brother Fox there. He had uh had a good voice Everything I wish I could I I don't necessarily wish I could sing like him, although I do, but uh I wish I had that voice. I like that voice. He could you know get out there with it. But these people uh uh when they uh when they saw the people it discouraged them. It just it made him fall by the wayside. I remember uh this preacher I was told telling you about uh got into problems, problems with a woman. And as a result, uh divorce came in that family and and uh things went from bad to worse. And I remember uh preacher at that time that I was uh we was going to church uh got me aside one day and I'd just been saved a short time. And I guess he probably thought that uh we probably uh we might you know if we'd be so affected by that uh that loss that uh we'd probably quit serving God. And uh we talked about it But uh I just simply told him that uh uh my faith was in Christ, not in a man. And and the s the s it was a sad sad situation and it's the same situation here. These these people They could have gone in and and claimed the the promised land, but instead uh they let the uh let the what they had seen with their eyes and instead of no w w known with what was in their heart. So beware the day that we live by the compliments and praise and fear the day that we die by criticism There's uh uh so many people are are I mean you're gonna anything that you try to do for God is going to be met with with opposition The devil will see to that. The demons will see to that. It's just a uh going uh uh going a f uh fact. And then um Not only that, but the suffering didn't sour him. You've got to remember that Caleb had to go uh in this into the wilderness with the with the people They made the choice and and as a result they they had to go to the uh and wander around the wilderness for forty years. Well, I mean after all this uh uh So this so uh Caleb uh Caleb had the had to go into the wilderness like everybody else. He had to suffer the disadvantages and uh uh the the food situation. He had to suffer just like everybody else did. But it didn't sour him. There was something about uh his faith in God that didn't allow him to get to get the disappointed or discouraged or s or soured on the whole situation You don't hear him complaining or griping or or moaning about uh having to go on the trip. He just goes ahead and and uh fulfills his forty years in the thing. The uh You and I could learn a lesson from from that very thing. Yeah. Life isn't fair. Have you noticed that? Life isn't fair. And uh There's some of you that are going to get rich and some are going to get poor. Some are going to have uh broken legs and and uh have problems physically And some are not. And uh you can't look at those that are getting along just fine or having a good time and then looking at yourself and saying, well Uh you have to go to the the bathroom when you have to go to the bathroom. It's one of those things you just i it's something that when you get my age, it's something that has to happen You you just have to go through it. Far as that's at least unless you've got a secret that I don't know about. But the important thing is that is that that we we learn that that in every situation, every circumstance, that God has a reason And God has a has a purpose for that particular circumstance you find yourself in. So uh don't let don't let the suffering or your uh the the thing that is uh Bug and you don't let that sour you on serving God. We need to need to start thinking about uh the mountains that uh he getting ready to climb Because Caleb's the one, he says, you give me that mountain. And uh that just shows the the the optimistic the attitude of a person who has a desire to serve God Amen. Strain and and troubles uh didn't scare him either. The wilderness was a testing time for God's provision The quail and the the the manna and all that stuff. Uh none of those miracles would have taken place had it had they not gone into the the wilderness time. Success dissatisfied him. We look back over in the book of Joshua where uh where he comes uh to uh Joshua and and he says uh hey you know Moses promised me that mountain up there And he's uh he's eighty-five years old. Uh I mean I can identify with that with that age. I can identify with, you know Getting older, I know what it's like. And I can't imagine somebody eighty-five, there's only one answer to this This is another miracle that God performed in his life simply because he was faithful. He was wholly trusting in God. Nevertheless, my brethren that went up with me, I'm reading in verse 8 and chapter 14 of Joshua. Nevertheless, my brethren that went up with me, it made the heart of the people melt. Well I hope I I hope I never never do that as to the people. I hope I don't discourage people in their walk with God But he says, I wholly followed the Lord my God. And Moses swear on that day, saying, Surely the land whereon thy feet have trodden shall be thine inheritance and thy children's forever, because thou hast wholly followed the Lord my God. And now behold the Lord hath uh kept me alive. As he said, these forty and five years, even since the Lord spake this word unto Moses while the children of Israel wandered in the wilderness. And now, lo, I am this day fourscore and five years old. And yet I'm just as strong as I was That's amazing. And yet I'm as strong this day as I was in the day that Moses sent me. As my s you know, I don't think he was exaggerating that You might say, well, he was you know he he was just talking off the top. No, I believe he was just like he was he he went up and and kicked out three giants on the mountain there So it must have had something, you know, he must have been in good shape physically. And you can't you can't give uh only God the credit for that. He's the only one that uh to do those kind of miracles So he says, I am yet I am as strong this day as I was in the day that Moses sent me, as my strength was then, even so my strength now. uh for war, both to go out and to come in. I've often thought about about the cable well What would the what was it that made him the way he was? Why did he he he take life as it came and just live for the moment and say, I'm going to serve God for this moment You know, you're you and I are no different. You and I make a decision just like he had to make there. And it's it's what the decision we make is is uh uh whether we're going to serve God or not Um I I thought of three things that uh uh could answer the question, why was Caleb like he was? One is that he was encouraged by the Word of God. You see, uh he he believed what Moses said. He believed that that uh uh think he wouldn't even take that land. So he was energized by the by this book If I may. And uh the second thing is he was energized by the Spirit of God. Yes. He had a different spirit in him. That's right. A different spirit You know, it's it's uh it's sad, but but uh uh a lot of people they take God for granted. And they don't think that the that God is really able to do anything in their life, and so they they don't look for the working of the Holy Spirit in their life. So as a result, they they go through life, you know, uh uh without without that blessing of uh of knowing So he was encouraged by the Word of God, he was energized by the Spirit of God, but he was also enabled by the grace of God. The grace of God. What can I say? The grace of God is the one thing that that all of us uh we need to be so thankful for. It's His grace. We're saved by His grace through faith that not of yourselves the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. The grace of God. What a wonderful thing that that it is In Judges chapter uh in Judges chapter one, in verse twenty, it says this. And they gave Hebron to Caleb, as Moses said, and he expelled thence the three sons of Enach You know I want that mountain too. I want to be able to to at at eighty eighty five And I'm eighty-nine, but I I uh I I would like to be able to slay three three giants, kick 'em out of the mountain. I'd like to be able to climb those hills and and clean the mountain top for God I'm I'm praying that the the Lord would would open my my mind up better so I wouldn't ha wouldn't have these where I've kind of fogging out Uh so I could preach uh more. And uh we'd just kind of waiting to see how things go with with these meetings that we have this this month. Uh as uh whether or not I'll be able to continue on. But I w I w I just simply uh I want you to understand God, Caleb, the the thing about Caleb was that he wholly, he fully, the Bible said he fully, he wholly trusted God. We need to do that We need to be encouraged by the Word, energized by the Spirit of God, and enabled by the grace of God. Heavenly Father, I pray that you would take these feeble words. And Lord, I I I understand I understand, Lord, I uh can't quite articulate like I'd like to. But I know that you can take these few words and these thoughts. Perhaps they can And that one who needs to hear the message will will grasp hold of the truth and let it get into their heart and make a decision based upon what the Spirit of God would have them to be and do. So I pray that you take these next few moments and draw to that individual. Draw that one to yourself. That needs to be saved. Draw that one to yourself that needs to turn over their life. The key to every door. We give you the praise in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Pastor