Fourteen, Joshua chapter fourteen, we're talking about songs that gear toward the challenge that God has for us tonight. Probably wondering where in the world we're going with this, but uh something along the lines of being a soldier. We are going to read about a real life soldier. This book is not just full of histori um funny stories or uh o old remove stories or strange stories or mirror uh the uh things that happened way in the past But these are real life people, real life accounts. Sometimes I've got to remind myself of that just because of how miraculous of a book we hold. But these are real life stories. And the account we're going to read tonight from Joshua 14 is no different, dealing with much of what he prayed their onward Christian soldier. And that's that's kind of the along the lines of the challenge tonight Joshua chapter 14, as we step into the 14th chapter of Joshua, we step into a very interesting time in Israel's history. A very, if I could say it this way, a very exciting time. Can everybody hear me over Okay, make sure we get this going. Are we doing okay with it? Um okay um that Joshua chapter fourteen is a very interesting time of Israel's history. Might help if I turned it on. How are we doing now? Okay. Giving Brother Dave a heart attack back there. I appreciate Brother Dave back there working and everybody Like someone had mentioned, all the behind the scenes sort of things, that is a big blessing to us so that we can focus on the work of the ministry. I appreciate your brother Dave back there. Joshua chapter 14, though we step into, I would say is a very exciting time. Do we have any veterans here tonight? Okay, so we have several veterans. My dad was a uh veteran, served in the United States Air Force. Okay? So you understand a little bit of um uh the a little bit of kind of that military theme that we have going on here, talking about being strong and onward Christian soldier, and uh talking about victories that Israel experienced. And man, they experienced victory after victory, succinct victory after victory. It was like they were on a roll when they crossed the Jordan River. They wiped out just about all of their enemies in the land save one. And the in my estimation the hero, I believe he's a hero that we're going to read about tonight, is uh planning to take on that very enemy. Maybe you know where I'm going. Maybe you're thinking that, oh it must uh must be talking about some hero is Moses. Moses seems like he's the hero of the entire Old Testament. He gives them instruction. Here they're following out the battle plan Moses gave them They're following out the instructions, they're following in the footsteps that Moses had laid out for them. Surely we're talking about the hero Moses. You know, Moses had to hide his face and uh Probably um because he he glowed so much and people had at one point the Bible calls him the man Moses, I believe, just to sort of bring Moses down to our level, so to speak. They had to qualify that he was the man, not not some angel. He was the man, Moses. But tonight we're not talking about Moses. Oh, this is an easy one. We're in the book of Joshua, we're talking about Joshua. What a battle hero Joshua is one of my favorite characters and hardly anything's uh bad said really about Joshua. He was a wonderful commander. He took up the mantle that Moses left. And led the ch children of Israel. He uh concluded at the end of his life, as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. But the hero we're talking about is not the man Joshua. Look here in Joshua chapter 14. Look at verse number 6. We're going to find our hero. Then the children of Judah came up unto Joshua and Gilgal, and here he is, Caleb The son of Jephuna, the Kennesite, said unto them, Thou knowest the thing that the Lord said unto Moses, the man of God, concerning me after thee. Kadesh Barnea. Forty years old was I when I w when Moses, the servant of the Lord, sent me into Kadesh Barnea to espy out the land. And I brought him word again as it was in mine heart. You remember the two spies that had spied out the land. This guy was a uh was a very talented soldier, that is Caleb was. He was hand selected to spy out the land. And uh um twelve of them, I believe it was, that spied out the land. He says, Nevertheless, in verse eight, my brethren that went up with me made the heart of the people melt. But I, let's read this phrase together, wholly followed the Lord my God. Verse number nine. And Moses swear on that day, saying, Surely the land whereon thy feet hat thy feet hath trodden shall be thine inheritance and thy children's forever. Because, let's read this part together. Thou hast wholly followed the Lord my God. And now, behold, the Lord hath kept me alive as he said, these forty and five years, even since the Lord spake. Spake this word unto Moses while the children of Israel wandered in the wilderness, and now lo I am this day, get this, fourscore and five Years old. That's eighty-five years old. Can I just ask by showhand, do we have anybody here that's eighty-five years old? Okay Okay, so we do have one, and no it's not exactly polite, but I'm gonna do it anyway, okay? Um there. Okay, so we could you imagine going into battle at eighty-five years old. That's what Caleb did. As yet I am s as strong this day as I was in the day that Moses sent me. Amazing. As my strength was then, even so is my strength now for war, both to go out and to come in. Now therefore give me this mountain Whereof the Lord spake in that day, for thou heardest in the day how the Anakims were there, and that the cities were great and fenced, if so be, the Lord will be with me Then I shall be able to drive them out, as the Lord said. And Joshua blessed him and gave unto Caleb the son of Jephuna, Hebron, for an inheritance. Hebron therefore became the inheritance of Caleb, the son of Japun and the Kennesite unto this day, because that he let's read this next part together. Holy followed the Lord God of Israel. And the name of Hebron before was Kerjaf Arba, which Arbah was a great man among the Anakims, and the land had rest. from war. Here's a real-life Old Testament hero. By the way, I believe that he appears in the Hebrews Hall of Faith. Grab uh hold your spot here and turn over to Hebrews chapter 11 very quickly. I've got to just make this point by way of introduction. Hebrews chapter 11. Look at verse number 32. Hebrews chapter 11 is dubbed the Hebrews Hall of Faith. Many Old Testament accounts. But you say, I don't ever remember reading Caleb the son of Jephuna in in Hebrews chapter 11. Well let me point out a brief description of someone that he may fit the bill here. Look at verse number 32. Hebrews eleven, thirty-two. And what shall I say? For the time would fail me to tell of Gideon and of Barak, and of Samson, and of Jeff, of David also, and of Samuel and other prophets, who through to who through faith, verse 33, subdued kingdoms. Does that sound familiar? Wrought righteousness In the land of promise. He obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions, he quenched the violence of fire, he escaped the edge of the sword out of weakness, were made strong, or in his old age, if you could say it that way, in his uh upwards of years, he was made strong, waxed valiant in fight against all odds. He turned to flight the armies of the aliens that did not belong in the land. I don't know about you, but that sounds almost like every one of those brief descriptions. described Caleb to Caleb. I believe Caleb was a hero of the faith, someone that God has given us for us to learn. Uh now Moses is great, Joshua is great, but here is a hero, a sort of uh sort of a side in the entire historical book of Joshua that describes a man, Caleb, that hopefully will be a blessing and a challenge to our lives as Christians today. Father in heaven, we thank you for Not just calling us to a life of perseverance, not just calling us to be soldiers, but also exemplifying it. through a military gentleman like Caleb, way back in the Old Testament. I pray that you help us to learn from his example and be changed because of his example, we ask in Christ's name. Amen. I brought with me tonight a little book that actually doesn't, well it doesn't belong to me. It belonged evidently to Pastor Grant. It was in his office there. But you can't read it there, maybe the front cover, but on the side there it says Medal of Honor. And I was perusing through this psalm and reading and I uh a lot of names stick out and so forth. Perhaps you know of a special account of a Medal of Honor. But a Medal of Honor is one of the highest awards that anybody in the United States military can obtain. Sometimes it's not even obtained until after they've made the greatest sacrifice. sacrifice that is the sacrifice of their life. But this this book is replete with heroes and and we all understand heroes we're uh uh today we have this barrage of movies and films coming out with superheroes and things that young people we just try to emulate maybe it is somebody in this book here in military. My dad was military. I love military. I respect those that serve very, very highly, and uh I consider some of those folks hero, some Medal of Honor recipients, but here we have a man in the Old Testament, Caleb. I believe that if we could sort of put him here in the context of the United States of America, he would be a sort of medal of honor recipient. This guy is praiseworthy and he does it all for the Lord. You know, I I'll just mention some things by way of introduction about Caleb. Do you know Caleb had no negative thing said of him in the Word of God? I don't find anything. Eighty-five years old upon his last military conquest, as we had mentioned before Caleb's conquest. Number three, ushered in the rest of the children are re uh ushered in peace for the rest of the children. You remember we read that the land had rest. Number four, his t his name means forcible and he lived up to it. Number five, I just thought that his title, Caleb the Kennazite, many believe was uh a name given to him for some notable victory that he obtained over an enemy, a fierce enemy, just as Roman generals would get named something like Africanus. Germanicus and others. This guy was a serious, I can put it this way, legit dude. This guy was someone that you could look up to and say Boy, I sort of want to be like him. Well, what did Ha Caleb have that was so special? Why did God sort of set the rest of the book of Joshua aside and give us this man Caleb to learn from? Well, I think number one that you picked up and we all read together and I made a point of of bringing it out in the text is Caleb followed God. Caleb Followed God. That was just his testimony. Let me ask you a question. Young people that are here, d are you known in your school amongst your classmates? I don't care if you're in first grade, second grade, third grade, or you're all the way up in high school, you're about ready to graduate? Are you known as somebody who holy follows the Lord. Is that your testimony? How about somebody who's been going to church a lot and yeah amongst your uh people you work with and bump shoulders with and so forth Um it are what's your sort of testimony? How do people view you when your name comes up in conversation? What are sort of the things that people think? about you. Would they have the same mind frame that they did of Caleb that he wholly followed the Lord God? That was just his testimony. Look at verse 8 again. He it says he wholly followed the Lord my God. He took possession of God. Verse 9. Moses echoed, because thou hast wholly followed the Lord my God. Verse 14, it's evident to everybody around him in the scriptures The third time Caleb wholly followed the God of Israel. I think the greatest commentary is Numbers 1424. You don't have to turn now, I'll just quote it. That when God declares in opposition to the ten unbelieving spies, he says But my servant Caleb, because he had another spirit within him, because he hath wholly followed God He has wholly followed me. Would God look down on your life and say, yeah, my test uh his testimony, her testimony is that he or she Holy followed the Lord God. This guy Caleb was, where did he come from? This guy's amazing. You go into the New Testament and Jesus says this. Matthew 22, 37, Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart. All thy soul, all thy mind. Mark 12, 30 repeats this instruction. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, with all thy strength. This is the first commandment, Luke 10, 27. And he answered and said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy mind, and thy neighbor as thyself. Caleb was the perfect, oh if I could say in a human form, was the perfect fulfillment of this guy. Here's a real-life example that we have to learn from. Even at 85 years old I want to just publicly say this, that I am so thankful that we have folks that have kept the faith. I I'll just say this, that I'm thankful for my grandma, a spiritual juggernaut in my life. She is the one at six years old that made an effort to bring my brothers and I out to hear the gospel when we didn't grow up in church. And she faithfully did what she could to interject. God into our lives. And it was further gently led me at six years old. I still remember the place. I still remember the Bible she gave me. I still have that inscription. It's in my office at my house My grandma, this uh great elder of the faith, if you will, she she kept it I'm just so thankful for that generation for folks in here that I'm just now beginning to get to know and realizing the depth that you have. That just blesses me. Caleb was that kind of guy that just wholly followed the Lord. Well uh when we talk about wholly follow the Lord, how did he do that? That that sounds fluffy, that sounds general, that sounds interesting, but well he wholly followed with his mind. And I'm gonna point out some specific things. I believe Caleb had a mind after God. Now I'm talking about specifically this organ up here. His mind was focused on God. I call it determination. He made up his mind. Have you made up yours I beseech young people once again because you're making many important decisions and you are just paving the way for habits you're going to build the rest of your life. But have you made up your mind that you'll serve God? It doesn't matter what your parents say or don't say. It doesn't matter what your friends do or don't do. It's just a determination. You have made up your mind, like Caleb did, all throughout his life, evidently. He made up his mind. You know, having been married now going on almost three years, marriage has taught I love marriage illustrations. Marriage has taught me a few things, and one thing in particular is how difficult it is to dissuade someone when he or can I definitely say she has made up her mind. You know what I'm saying, guys? You know what I'm talking about? Okay. So yeah, we got an em in there in the form of a rumble. All right. So yeah, the it is very difficult to dissuade somebody when they've made up their mind And by the way, she's always right. So I'm just gonna s admit that right off the bat and start off on a good look. But but that it when someone has made up their mind, now that can be for a good thing That can be for a not so good thing. But have you made up your mind, or we're talking about making up your mind with great determination to serve the Lord. That's what Caleb did. How how do I know that? Because he says, if I can find it here, that he says that um uh verse number six he says in the middle of the verse, thou knowest The things that the Lord God said unto the man, Moses, the man of God. Here's what he's saying, folks, just kind of putting a little spiel on it. He says, Joshua. I know you're the leader and I know you've got a lot of responsibility a lot on your shoulders, but you know, you remember what Moses said You you remember it, tell me you remember that. You know that I I've been thinking about this promise, and I can't get it out of my mind. I'm bound and determined, I'm gonna hold on to this promise. You know what Moses said, man. That's kind of what he did And that's sort of what we need from folks in this room tonight. Just a plain old determination. You've made up your mind. I'm going to serve God. Things get a little rough, tough then, trials come, hey, I get it. Have you determined? Have you made up your mind? Mose or uh uh Caleb rather um also made up his heart. He he had uh he followed God with his whole heart. I say um with a mind it's devotion or uh with a mind it's determination. When it comes to the heart, it's his devotion Caleb had a heart that wholly followed God. God may be the only one who knows your heart, but it's usually not hard to see. I had jotted that down. Sometimes we think that we can uh fool other people around us and and they don't really know what's going on inside of you and I'll just sort of put this thing on. Caleb was not like that. His heart just bubbled over. You can see everything over. He had devotion Let me just ask you a question. Are you slightly divided in your heart tonight? Is your heart sort of given to godly things, but in the back of your mind there's something that's just holding you back and has been for years? That could be a sin. It could be the sin of unbelief. It could be the uh just doubting God. I I have no idea what it may be. Caleb had perfect opportunity to not follow God with his heart and and just be divided and say there's no way in the world I'm gonna take on those giants. Are you kidding me? They're fortified. They've been there for years for a reason. Hello, I'm not stupid. I'm 85 years old. I've learned some things No, he didn't say any of that. With his heart, he was devoted to his God. Caleb believed God can do it. Do you? I I like to relate these things again. This passage here is written clearly for us to learn from. I I truly believe that. Hopefully you see that. But I sort of think of strongholds. in the land. Here they were supposed to be given complete victory over their enemies, and they weren't supposed to be a thorn in the sigh. They were supposed to utterly wipe them out and dispel them and get rid of them. And God promised this is what was going to happen if you step It's your land. That's just the way it is. Bada boom, bada bang. And Caleb could have doubted God, um, but instead he believed that God can do it. And it's sort of like strongholds that we build up in our life. that we think there's no way in the world I can get rid of this sin because it's been almost synonymous with my Christian walk, if I've been honest. Oh, I've had some seasons of victory, but this thing's like a walled city, Pastor Bryant. I don't I don't know what to do. I mean I can't uh repel up it. I can't I mean you just don't understand. This has been troubling me for a long time. Maybe it's something that's happened in the past. Uh just kind of really gotten you down, someone's wronged you. I I have no idea what is going on in your life, but you say to get over this thing, this stronghold that has really gripped my life. And stop me from living for God the way I know I could, wholly following the Lord like Caleb did. I would love that, but you don't understand this is going on in my life, and I just can't see around it. I can't get over this. Caleb did not allow that to stop him. He was he had that devotion, that commitment of his heart. Also his body. He was committed with his body. Remember he said here in the passage, he said, I'm strong as as in the day that Moses was running the show. I'm I'm just as strong now as I was then. That's amazing. You know, he wasn't boasting. He was just giving all credit to God because in verse twelve he says, If God be with me, not if my muscles be with me or if my great ability or my uh whatever, my charm. Caleb wasn't into that. He said, You know, I I'm giving all glory to God. I'm depending on I'm thinking on the promises of God. But here's my body, what I've got left Here it is. Joshua, have it. You know, this was partially for him, but it was partially for his brethren too. The other This is partially for the glory of God. God, I want you to have listen folks, I I desire to encourage that um older generation, if I could say it that way, because I am desperately thankful for you. In fact, God's design for the New Testament churches that you folks ought to be teaching us, and I love to sit down and just pick uh brain so to speak it that it's just tremendous the wisdom that pours off of you folks but you may have kind of got caught up in the rigors of battle and the the wounds and the pains that go along with it, physical or spiritual, whatever it may be, but you've kind of gotten down just a little bit. Caleb had that opportunity, but he said, God, here is my body. Boom. You can have it. Use me any way that you see fit. Here are these the last stronghold in the land, but I don't care. I want you to use this 85-year-old rickety body to do what you can with it and it doesn't matter the age, God does desire to use this. I don't have to make that up. It's not fluffy. It's not feel good. It's Christians, God has a plan for you. God has saved you for a reason. He's ordained you unto good works. And that's something we ought to just be living out and be willing. Holy following the Lord God. That's Caleb. To the T, if I could say it that way, that Cael wholly followed God with his mind, with his heart, and even with his body Well and that means he didn't get caught up in sinful things. When they were having their first spiritual rock concert, remember when Moses was up in the mountain and Joshua was waiting there for him to come down and they were uh partying and getting all this sort of stuff and won't mention some of the debauchery that they had going on there, but I call it the first Christian rock concert because it was nothing Christ like at all. Uh sort of reminds me of today's rock and roll concert. But here they were getting all in an obsessed pool of sin. And I just imagine this like huge, nasty, filthy, sinful party going on. Caleb. didn't get caught up in all that. He he said, you know what, I'm wholly following the Lord God with this body. This vessel is gonna be fit and meet for my master's use. He said, I'm going to take the land, I'm going to do it. This may be an 85-year-old body, but it's a clean and sanctified and set apart for God to use. That's just what I'm going to do. Caleb wholly followed God. Caleb had faith in God. If you desire to be a conquered Caleb, we must not only follow as Caleb did, but we must have the faith as Caleb did. I referenced a little bit earlier in the challenge tonight that um sometimes you see young people mimicking superheroes. Okay, you know, Superman, they try to jump off the the roof, you know, you're like, oh no, you know, that sort of thing. Kids do all sorts of crazy stuff, imitating some of their favorite superheroes. Every superhero has some sort of superpower, right? You got super speed, super uh strength, super eye vision, you can read people's minds like ladies do. You can uh I mean you name it. Every superhero has superpower. I believe Caleb's superpower was faith. This guy's faith was dynamite. Just out of this world. It challenges me to no end. I mean I've I've never been in a skirmish. I've never been in battle. I've never served in Afghanistan. I've never done any of those things This guy, as as up in age as he was, still trusted God. Faith is a force to be Reckoned with. Ask the British who were defeated by a group of radtag colonists who believed in this thought their personal freedom. Ask American troops as they deal with Islamic extremists even today who use their bodies as bombs because these individuals believe in their cause. Ask Nero, the Emperor of Rome, whose persecution of Christians did not squelch their faith, but spread it because they believed in the cause of Christ. Listen, faith is an extremely, extremely powerful force. What did Caleb have faith in? How did he become so Dynamite and used by God. Well he had faith in the promises of God. Look at verse 9 again. We read this earlier, but Moses swear on that day He swore, saying, Surely the land whereupon thy feet hath trodden shall be thine inheritance and thy children's forever, because thou hast. wholly followed the Lord my God. He was just banking on the promises of God. There are promises for you and I to bank as well. You know the illustration of taking that check. You can take any check that God has issued and he will make good on that check. Very simple thing to understand. So when God says that there hath no temptation taken you but such as is common to man, but he is faithful and will make a way for you to escape that ye may be able to bear it, that's exactly what he means. When he says We can cast down imaginations, every high thing, pulling down strongholds, bringing everything to the obedience of Christ. It doesn't matter what you've been dealing with for how many years. It it makes no difference. God means what he says. Caleb had faith. His superpower is faith. In the promises of God, in the power of God, right? Notice in verse 12, I pointed this out earlier, uh several lines down, he says, if so be that the Lord be with me. He was, he, he didn't just sort of put that in to be spiritual. He meant it. That he had faith, not just in the promises of God, but in the very power of God. Listen, if God is in it, your life will be blessed. If God's not in it, it's not going to be blessed. Plain and simple. You got to get God in on these things. You've got to have the power of God. Caleb realized something. I've got to do less try, try, try, and more. Trust, trust, trust. How about you? Have you been trying, struggling, maybe flopping on your face a lot with the same thing you've been struggling with? I'm not getting down on you at all, folks. Listen, we all deal. with sin. Likely I'm talking everybody around here, not that you'd like to name it out loud. You've got a stronghold. When I said stronghold, boom, something came up in your mind right away. Caleb is a gentleman of the faith, a hero of the faith we can learn from. He had faith and that faith in the promises of God, in the power of God. Anybody who knows me knows that I'm not a big techie kind of person, okay? I do what I can, do uh basically enough to sort of get away with. So sorry I you have not gotten a uh techy kind of guy. Okay. I do try and I'll I'm a attempting to but I'll never forget in Bible college, very poor Bible college student keep in mind. I was running my laptop on its very last leg And trying to finish uh papers frantically last minute, saying until like three o'clock in the morning, that sort of thing. But so I was uh desperate to get this done when all of a sudden my uh laptop completely went out And uh this just came when several other people down the hall had said that there are viruses going through the entire campus. I thought, great. I I don't have a clue how to get rid of this thing. So I decided to call up my buddy. He came in the room. He said, listen, I'll take a look at it. I know the laptops are expensive to replace. He took uh got it to boot up a little bit and then it went right back down. He tried to boot it up long enough to maybe adjust some settings but it was no good. He uh took the uh the laptop apart to check maybe if it was a little bit of a hardware issue He found absolutely nothing. He got the whole thing pieced together just as my roommate was coming in. He said, Hey guys, what's going on? And I told him what was going on and said, Listen man, we've really got to pray because I need a laptop. And he said, Well, i is it plugged in? I traced that cord from the laptop, and there was the cord lying on the floor, not plugged in. We plugged it in, sure enough the laptop booted up. You know, I learned something that day. Two things. One elect uh electronics worked better with electricity. Two is that it makes a big difference when you're plugged into the power source. You know where I'm going with this, that God is the power source for us as believers. He's the energizer. You go into the New Testament, the Spirit of God gives you grace. That's energy and energetto. That's the enabling, empowering grace. It's God which work is in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. Stop, try, try, try, and try, trust, trust, trust, like Caleb did, plugging into the power of God. Caleb, I found that he not only followed God. He not only had faith in God, but I believe he had fervency for God. Can't you pick up from this testimony here that he was a fervent guy. Nothing was kind of like halfway like, mah, you know, whatever he did, he did that. You know, okay? So he just was a real gung-ho kind of guy. And uh I really admire a guy like this. Even in his eighty-fives, man, he's had some up and up. And he was fruven. He just had it going on. And Caleb is a brilliant guy to learn from. He had fervency for God. Fervency for God about what? Against his opposition. First of all, we didn't really mention, touch on who exactly are these enemies that are in the land of of uh of Israel right now. But these were the Anakims. You notice that in verse number 12. He says, and how that the Anakims were there, and that the cities were great in fence. The idea of fenced is a fortified wall, strategic fortress, a stronghold. And that's where we get that idea from. That it w this was a stronghold in the land. Um it sort of reminds me, I don't know how many of you ever watch boxing. I thought I heard someone say that they kind of like boxing, okay. But you know I don't watch a lot of boxing things the last match was like Lennox Lewis versus uh Mike Tyson or something like this. That was way years ago, okay. So way, way back. But uh I still get the idea y and you'll get the idea that they always start off the boxing match pumping up each of the contestants. And they usually include the boxers' age and their height and and their winning records and notable victories and you know they're kinda getting pumped up and doing their thing and looking ridiculous and uh dominating characteristics about it. So in one corner You have the Anakin's and these young giants averaging in a uh meek nine foot six, weighing uh oh you know, five hundred and fifty pounds. And they remain undefeated unto this day, wiping out any who oppose them in gruesome fashion, and are known for their cruel and brutish tactics, utilizing all the while their strategic location nestled up into an impenetrable fortress in the mountains. Meanwhile, in the other corner we have Caleb. Caleb, he he's actually 85 years old, and at one point he was 5'7, but now he's shrunk down to 5. 5. and weighs approximately a third of his opponent. But surprisingly, this little plebiscite lightweight champ remains undefeated as well with only one explanation. God. That's an absolute ridiculous, unfair match, if you ask me. And the picture of it is just comical But he did it. More importantly, or bigger than that, God did it. He was fervent against his opposition. You and I, we need to be fervent. against our opposition. A culture that is constantly calling sin a form of disease, making excuse for people that's the way that they were born. That's the the the um the sort of environment that they grew up in and that sort of thing and I'm not being harsh because I've got news for you. It's a lot of uh the older generation that has instilled that in the younger generation, but we've got this generation nonetheless that's coming up this way. But you know, uh we need to be fervent against sin, calling in exactly what it is. Caleb was fervent against his opposition. If you translate that for Christians, some strongholds that exist in your life that are keeping you from complete victory in your life, so to speak. I thought of Ephesians 4. 31 it says, concerning things that had taken stronghold in some of the believers, Paul says that um to the church at Ephesus, he says, you are to put away with all malice. That word is the intent to kill. That's fervently putting to death. Romans 8. 13, Paul says to mortify the deeds of your body. Colossians 3. 5, Paul instructs us to mortify your members which are upon the earth. He then goes on to list a series of strongholds. that had formed in the life of believers, maybe some that would match up with your life that you're dealing with. Hebrews 12. 1 told us that we're to lay aside the weight and the sin which doth so easily beset us. You see, Caleb knew that these Anakims were hanging out in in in their stronghold and that they would only work to trip up the people of God. And uh like had happened with so many other enemies that we read about, if you're familiar with with um the Jewish history, but he fervently wanted those strongholds gone. Do you? Do you show that malice towards sin in your life? Or do you rather make excuses for it? Caleb was absolutely fervent against his opposition and fervent in his obedience Through his obedience, God's design for his people then, back here in this text, was to drive out all the wickedness from the land. And God's design for his people today is the exact same thing, to drive out wickedness in our lives. Just as crossing the Jordan sort of symbolized a victory, uh sort of symbolized victorious living for the people of God, so being crucified, having our body mortified, with Christ is a symbol, New Testament symbol of the victory that we have in Christ. And it ought to be more than just a symbol, it ought to be a reality. Caleb was fervent against his opposition, and he was fervent through his obedience. Romans 1. 5 says, by whom Jesus Christ we have received grace and apostleship. Why? For the obedience to the faith among all nations. Romans 6. 16, know ye not that to whom ye yield your servants, yourselves servants to obey? His servants ye are to whom ye obey, whether of sin unto death or of obedience unto righteousness. Romans 16, 19 says, for your obedience is come abroad. Is that the same for uh uh mountain lake here, their testimony here, 2 Corinthians 10, 5. I mentioned this, casting down imaginations, every high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God. and bringing every thought, here it is, to the obedience of Christ. Here is a man in a physical way who is fervent in his obedience to what God has said. Are you do you have that same sort of fervent obedience in in listening to what God has. I would say this, he was also fervent in his outlook. Just a Um Caleb was that kind of guy that didn't allow the negativity of others to get him down. Isn't that exciting to be around people like that? Folks that have been doing it for so long. Man, sometimes I get the impression there's nothing that would get them down. That's exciting. That's what God wants for mountain lake. That's what God wants for you. God wants you to be like Caleb, to be fervent in your outlook. I remember through Bible college. My wife and I actually got to know each other well working the same job. She was my boss. Sort of still is. Anyway, um That uh we we both eventually became managers at a Taco Bell. But one of the things that we learned going through food safety training and so forth so forth was that you need to Sometimes your thermometer, your instrument to measure the safe temperature for food, had to be recalibrated. So we would go through this procedure of sticking water and ice together and get it as cold as we can. And it should calibrate to thirty-two degrees, of course, freezing point, that sort of thing. So you understand about calibrating our thermometer so that it's reading right. Well sometimes I feel like we need recalibration in our outlook in our life, seeing things from God's perspective. And if you're honest, maybe that's you that you have not been fervent against this opposition and living for God and your outlook's kind of drooped a little bit and you kinda gotten down on things. That happens to all of us. That's why this is written here for your encouragement to boost you up. Just recalibrate. Say, God, help me to be fixed. Oh, fixed back on you. Boy, I really Need this. Whoa, that was weird. What happened there? I really got off track there. And I'd love to get back on. You know, God loves when his people do that. Caleb What an amazing guy. If you and I follow God holy, we have faith like Caleb did. We have fervency like we did. One last thing just in real short. that Caleb also had going for him. He had a future. And yes, it starts with an F, but I see that some tremendous promises here in this text that say the same thing. He had a future. And a future for his children. Parents in here, myself included, and I know Ashra's young, but never give up on that next generation. Maybe you have some that are taking a wrong turn, maybe some that are out of the house now and just are not making godly decisions, God-pleasing decisions. Don't give up on that because Caleb, uh Caleb, he just didn't give up. He wanted to exemplify to his children. Here was a man that the tribe of Judah was chosen, uh came and approached Moses or uh Joshua, the leader of Israel. And you know who was the spokesman out of all of them? You know who stood up and made a stand? You know who said to the rest of his family and to his kin that were behind him, his grandchildren that were watching him and keeping a close eye on him and loving grand grandpa and spending time with him, watching everything he does. That was Caleb. Caleb got up there and said, Joshua, I I want to be used by God to take this stronghold. I want to secure something for my kiddos. That's what God wants. That's what God desires. Caleb, wow. He, you know, Paul says it this way, I've finished my course. I've kept the faith. This is the same promise Caleb had. Henceforth there's laid up for him a crown of righteousness. And for you folks today, that if you just keep that faith, keep our And young guys too, listen, I'm not leaving you out of this because Caleb started at your age making decisions that got him to where he was at at the end of his life. So faithful to the tea. It's just amazing and absolutely blows my mind that this guy that uh Caleb but um interesting enough Immediately Paul, in referring to when he says I've kept the faith, he contrasts his testimony with the testimony of Demas. The sad commentary on his life, you know, is that it's it matches up with a lot of Christians and a lot of people my generation. I've told Jen, we've talked about this a lot, even amidst fellow college graduates, we feel like an anomaly. Like not that we're anything special, but where is everybody? Where'd they all go? Oh no. Just one by one, forsaking me having loved the world or fill in the blank, you name it. Caleb was not like that. And I hope that's your desire to not be like that, to finish the race. I'll close with this. It was the Summer Olympic Games, Mexico, 1968. The marathon as uh as tradition, the the final event of the program, and the stadium was absolutely packed out and there was excitement as the First athlete and Ethiopian runner enters the stadium. The crowd immediately erupts as he crosses the finish line. Way back in the field, though, is another runner. His name was John Stefan Aquahari of Tanzania. Because of all the excitement that had taken place of runners completing the race, he was overshadowed. After 18. 6 miles into the marathon, his head began throbbing His vision began to blurt, his feet stammering, his muscles aching with such intensity that he literally collapsed to the ground He had a serious leg injury that was threatening other portions of his body. Officials pleaded with him to retire, get out of the race, get medical help. Right away, he refused. With his leg bandaged, Aquahari wiped tears from his face and picked himself up. hobbled the astounding seven point five miles remaining to the finish line. For some of us that'd be more than we can run in our entirety More than an hour after the last runner had crossed the finish line, Aquahari entered that stadium. The stands were empty. The crowds had gone home by now. This Tanzanian man. uh m uh uh moved around the track at a painstakingly slow pace until finally he collapsed over the finish line It was one of the most heroic efforts of Olympic history from what I've read. But afterward, asked by a reporter why he had not dropped out, John Stefan Aquahari said My country did not send me to start the race. My country sent me to finish the race. Caleb didn't just start right. He finished right for an example for you and for me. Heavenly Father, thank you once again for this man. What an astounding testimony for us to glean. I pray that whatever fashion you've spoken to are I have no idea needs that are represented here tonight. It could be strongholds that we've been dealing with. I pray we would just give up get over our pride and be willing to confess these things to you. get them right and once again mount up on wings as eagles, learn from Caleb's example and have experience victory. Maybe it's somebody I'm here tonight that has had been just going through a difficult time. I pray, no matter what it is, Holy Spirit, I'm so thankful for your ministry that you choose to speak to our hearts and help us to be obedient to that and just listen. We ask in Christ's precious name. As Mr.