First Kings chapter number nineteen, we're going to read verse number eight down to verse number eighteen. Now we know for context Elijah is discouraged and he crawls up underneath a juniper tree. Now, let me say that the juniper tree gets its bad connotation because of Elijah's disposition under it. It's alright to get discouraged. It's just not alright to stay there. Everybody from time to time might get that way, but don't live there. And I'm glad he doesn't stay underneath that juniper tree, but God calls him out, and in verse number 8, the Bible says, and he arose and did eat and drink and went in the strength of that meat forty days and forty nights. And he came thither unto a cave and lodged there, and behold the word of the Lord came to him, and he said unto him, What doest thou here, Elijah? And he said, I have been very jealous for the Lord God of hosts, for the children of Israel have forsaken thy covenant, thrown down thine altars, slain thy prophets with the sword, and I even I only am left, and they seek my life to take it away And he said, Go forth and stand upon the mount before the Lord. And behold the Lord passed by, and a great and strong wind rent the mountains and break in pieces the rock before the Lord But the Lord was not in the wind, but after the wind an earthquake, but the Lord was not in the earthquake, and after the earthquake a fire, but the Lord was not in the fire, And after the fire, a still small voice Now let me stop and say this. I like the great and strong wind. Don't you? I like it like that. I enjoy the earthquake. I really like the fire. But I need to grow spiritually where I can survive on just the still small voice It's not always earthquake. It's not always strong wind. It's not always fire. But thank God we can always rely on that still small voice The Bible said in verse thirteen, and it was so when Elijah heard it that he wrapped his face in his mantle and went out and stood in the entering inn of the cave. And behold there came a voice unto him and said, What doest thou hear Elijah? Again, Elijah goes through his spiel about how he's the only one left standing and how wicked and how apathetic in the apostasy of his day he goes ahead and he gives that spiel again to God. We jump down to verse number 18, and this will be The verse that we'll focus on later into the message, God encourages Elijah by reminding him of a truth. He says, Elijah, he said, yet I've left me 7,000 in Israel All the knees which have not bowed unto Baal, and every mouth which hath not kissed him. Now this morning what I want to do is more than I don't have a good sermon outline or anything like that, but I want to share with you a few statements that I wrote down in my Bible. The first statement I wrote down in my Bible, I'll use for the title of the message, and I wrote that statement down shortly after being saved and surrendering to preach. The second statement I wrote down in a preacher's fellowship in June, probably I think it was 2018. The third statement I wrote down just a few days after the second statement. And God used that to help me in a great way. The first statement, and what we'll use just for the title of the thought this morning, is this. I wrote down in my Bible so many years ago, I want to be Elijah. I want to be Elijah. I want you to think on that with me. Let's pray, Lord. I pray that you'd speak to our hearts, please, this morning. I pray for your power to preach. I pray that you be glorified and honored through the meeting with Dr. Smith as he comes to preach in just a moment. Speak to the hearts of our folks gathered here today. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. With all my strength and with all my mind, with all of my time, I want to glorify God. By the way, that's why you're here today. You're here to glorify God with your life. The reason you've been created and given life is not to live for yourself, but we've been given life to live, to glorify and honor God. And can I say that God is worthy of that? God merits that. God deserves that. We don't need our name in lights, but His name deserves to be in lights The Bible tells us that we ought to rejoice in the Lord. And there's a lot of reasons why we can rejoice in the Lord. He's been good to us. And I, with all of my life, and all of my strength and all of my mind in our I want to bring glory to God with my life. Now when I was first saved and began to study my Bible, I was drawn to people in the Bible that did larger than life things for God, great things for God. I don't know about you, but I didn't set out in my spiritual life just to be average or mediocre or run-of-the-mill. I wanted, if God would allow me to, to do great things For the glory of God with my life. Not for me, but so I could point to him and say, hey, look at him. He's worthy of it. And as I would read my Bible, I was drawn to people in the scripture that did great things for God. I'd read my Bible and I'd come to an individual and I'd think, man, if only I could be whoever it was, I could glorify God with my life. I want to be Whoever that was. And I'd read in the Bible and I'd see that individual think, Man, if only God would enable me to be like that person, then I could please God with my life. By the way, that's why you're here That's why I'm here to please and glorify God with our life. For example, as a young Christian, I was reading in my Bible and I'd get into the book of Genesis and I'd read about Noah. And I'd read about Noah's faith in God. Noah lived right in a day when everybody else was living wrong. He walked with God and followed God, and God used Noah to build an ark that saved him and his family from the judgment of God I read that and thought, man, I want to be Noah. I'd like to have faith in God like that. Man, I'd like to have enough of faith in God to trust God for big things, to do something that would impact my family and generations to come. If only God would let me be a Noah, then I could please God with my life and glorify God. By the way, that's why I'm here. And that's why you're here to glorify God with our life. I read on further and I came to Abraham and read about how Abraham stepped out by faith and followed God and God used Abraham to be the father of a great nation. I read that, man, if only I could be an Abraham I'd like to have faith in God like Abraham. I want to do something like Abraham. I mean have that kind of walk of a walk with God like Abraham. Then I could please God. I want to be an Abraham if only God would let me be Abraham, then I could please God with my life. I read on further and I came to David and I thought, boy, I want to be David. You ever heard of David? Bible scholars, you've heard of David this morning, good David, I got to David and I got to the Valley of Elon, and that's a good story. And I read that story and I saw it in my mind. I visualized it as the army of Israel stood there in on the battlefield. They were scared to death They were shaking in their sandals. There was a man on the other side of that battlefield named Goliath, a giant of a man. I mean maybe some nine feet tall, biceps like barrels, pectoral muscles like Buicks. I'd say he looked a lot like um like I do, and there he was. Now I'll tell you when I'm telling that joke. But anyway, I was standing on the battlefield. I mean it's a big daunting kind of a man. Those soldiers are scared to death And I read David, he was tending the sheep, and he went to see the battle, and as he approached he carried his lunch box with cheese and crackers in it, had a dentist the menus slingshot in his back pocket, you know. He walked up to the battlefield and said, Fellas, what's the trouble? They point him there and said, That's the trouble. And David said, Mayor, that guy's big and they said, That's right, he's too big to kill. David said, Nah, he's too big to miss That's the biggest bulls I have ever seen. And David had enough faith in God to reach down and pick up a stone, and he sent that stone into the forehead of the giant, killed Goliath, and I read that and thought, whoo! I want to be David. If only I could be a David, I want to see the giant. fall in my generation. If I can be a David, then I can glorify God with my life. I read on and I got to Joshua Then I thought, boy, now I want to meet Joshua. I read about how God used Joshua to conquer the land. They went to the uh the city of Jericho, the wall impenetrable surrounding the big city And God tells Joshua to take the army of Ishmael, to march around that city six times, uh once a day for six days, and never say a word. No amens, no glory to God's, no hallelujahs They'd have made good church members. And for six days they silently marched. On the seventh day they did it seven times, and on the seventh trip around they shouted with a great shout and the walls came down and I read that and thought, Man, I want to be a Joshua. I want to see the walls fall in my day. I want to see God do what man cannot do. If only I could be Joshua Then I could glorify God with my life. By the way, that's why you're here. That's why I am here to glorify God with our lives. And then I kept reading and I read about others in the Bible, like Peter and Paul, and I thought if only I could be whoever it is, then I can please God with my life. I didn't get in this thing to be mediocre. I don't want to be like the dead pastor across town. I want God to use my life to do something, not Not for me, not to gain a following, but I want my generation to see that our God is God and He's worthy, He's good, and He's on the throne. And then I came to Elijah. I began to read and I discovered this man and I thought, I want to be like him Now Elijah is a peculiar individual. He's not a peacetime prophet. He's more like a wartime general. The Bible calls him Elijah the Tishbite. He had a leather and double-breasted suit that he'd wear. Amen. But anyway, a hairy fellow, a strange individual. I read about Elijah. I came to 1 Kings chapter 17 Now Elijah is going to be serving in a very sinful day. There's a wicked man by the name of Ahab who sits on the throne in Israel. The Bible says that Ahab sinned as though it were a light thing. That means that it got easy for him to commit iniquity. Can I say it's a dangerous day when you send away your own conviction of sinning? Now Ahab is married to a wicked woman named Hilar Jezebel. And they're legislating abominations in the land, wicked beyond belief. This is the day that Elijah will serve him. I came to 1 Kings chapter 17. And like a lipstick of dynamite, Elijah explodes on the pages of of the scripture. He does not sachet on the pages of the Bible with a finger wetted to the wind of popular trend, checking the mainstream media to see what his message ought to be But he steps into the throne room, Ahab and Jezebel sitting there, sticks his finger on their snout and says, Hey, I've been business with God and I've got a word from the Lord. Because of your sin, it's not gonna rain. I read down and thought, Man, I want to be Elijah. I want to have that kind of conviction, that kind of a backbone, that kind of a stand I'd like to be that kind of a man that can stand against corruption in high places and say here's what God has to say about the matter. And as a young Christian and a young preacher I thought I'm gonna have to be Elijah. If only I can be Elijah. I want to be Elijah so I can go. Glorify God with my life. Elijah said it, and it came to pass. Then I kept reading, and God took Elijah and put him in witness protection There's going to be no rain, famine in the land, and God takes Elijah and he sets him by a brook called Sherith. And God provides for his preacher physically and supernaturally. He provides for him physically from the stream and the water within it, but the best part is he delivers his meals on wheels or on wings, I guess And he has the ravens come by. The birds bring Elijah breakfast every morning and supper every night. Every morning. These birds come and they drop biscuits and gravy Tudor's biscuits if you're from West Virginia. Say amen right there. From heaven. In the evening they come back by and they drop Big Macs and Bacon Aders and T-bone steaks from heaven. And Elijah's eating good and drinking good in that time of famine. I thought, man, I want to be Elijah. I want to live by faith and watch God put food on my table. Let God put the shoes on my feet. Let God make the ends meet. If only I could be an Elijah, then I can please God with my life. By the way, that's why you're here. And that's why I am here, to please God with our lives. Then I kept reading, the brook ran dry, and the ravens quit delivering. You know why? Chapter 17 is a big reminder that we're not supposed to depend upon the blessing. We ought to rely on the blesser. God takes Elijah and moves him from the brook Cherith and takes him to a town called Zarephath. There is a widowed woman there. All she has is a handful of meal in a barrel and a little oil in a cruise She's going to go make a couple of cakes for her son and herself, eat those, and then die. Elijah comes to town, and Elijah, being the preacher that he was, the first thing he asks of this woman is to make him something to eat You've noticed that about this meeting the preachers mentioned it. We eat breakfast, we eat lunch, we'll have an afternoon snack, then we're going to eat after the service, so we eat. But anyway, he said, I want you to make me something to eat Now this widowed woman, being the mother and the woman that she was, no doubt looked at Elijah and said, Well, Elijah, I'd like to make you something to eat, but somebody prayed that there wouldn't be rain And because of that, we don't have anything but this. And we're going to eat that and die. And Elijah said, No, you just trust me. God's got this. You make me a cake first and watch God meet the needs. You know when you scrape the bottom of your barrel, that's like calling God direct. And God met the need, and that woman had more than enough. In fact, I bet she probably gained a couple pounds during the famine. I read that and thought, man, I'd like to be Elijah I'd like to see God come through like that. Wouldn't you like to see that? I mean able to tell people you can trust God, have faith in God, rely on God. God can make the ends meet. And I thought if only I could be an Elijah, then I could please God with my life Then I kept reading and I saw this widow's son died. I mean he's dead. He is dead. He is Tuesday morning preachers fellowship dead. Elijah takes this son and takes him up into his throom and he lays him there. And the Bible tells us that Elijah stretches himself upon that boy and he prays to God and breathes upon him, and all of a sudden that dead boy came to life. And I read down and thought, oh man, I tell you I want to be Elijah. I'd like to see dead things live again, wouldn't you? I thought, man, if God could do that, then maybe God could do that today. I tell you, I'd like to be Elijah. I'd like to see dead churches live again. I'd like to see dead marriages live again. I'd like to see those dead in sin be alive in Christ. I'd like to see our country resurrected. I'd like to see dead things live again. And if only I could be used of God like Elijah, then I could please God with my life. Oh I won't And I wrote that down in my Bible however long ago it was when I first got in the ministry and first I was saved and surrendered to preach. I want to be Elijah. Then I kept reading Elijah is out in the wilderness now. In the meantime, there's a preacher of the name of Obadiah who's working for Ahab. Now the Bible says that Obadiah feared the Lord exceedingly or greatly I guess the problem was Obadiah must have feared Jezebel just a little bit more. He's in cahoots with them. He's out with Ahab looking for grass to feed their flocks And as Obadiah is out there looking for grass, all of a sudden he sees a silhouette break the horizon. Now you've got to pray for me. I'm probably more carnal than you are, but I just envision it like one of those old westerns And I can see as that silhouette breaks the horizon, and you can just hear that music start to play. Hey, I'm preaching. But anyway And a stray tumbleweed hurriedly stands across the road, you know, just goes across the road. And Elijah steps on the scene and opened eye looks up and go, Oh no, it can't be him. Oh no, tell me it's not That looks like him. Oh, it's Elijah. And Elijah steps on the seat and says, Obadiah, I got a word for you. I want to talk to Ahab. And Obadiah gets nervous. He said, I know what's going to happen. I'm going to run to Ahab, and when I do, the Spirit of the Lord will lift you and take you off somewhere else, and he'll cut my head off. And the Lord said, No, trust me, I want to talk To Ahab. I can see as Obadiah goes there to Ahab, and he says, Ahab, I don't want to tell you this. In fact, I hate to tell you this. I wish somebody else would tell you this, but I gotta tell you this. Ahab, Elijah's back. About that time, Ahab melts His backbone is like a sp spaghetti noodle. He slithers into old Hiller or Jezebel. And he says, Jez, I don't want to tell you this. I hate to tell you this Elijah's back. And Jezebel lengthens that leash and gives him his man card for a day and says, Well, go talk to him. Some of you fellas said preach, but anyway. Ahab approaches Elijah and says, I want to tell you something, Elijah. You're you're the man who troubles Israel. And Elijah said, No, you're the one who's causing this trouble in Israel. It's about time we settled the matter. And I read that and thought, I'd like to be Elijah. Wouldn't you like to be like that? I mean, have that kind of strength and that kind of strength. That kind of courage in God just to take a stand. And we got the chapter 18, and I think chapter 18 might just be my life's verse. Just the chapter. And he said, it's time to have a contest. Here's what we're going to do. We're going to settle this matter and find out whose God is God and who's a liar. He said, I want you to get those eight hundred and fifty false prophets that are working for you. I want you to get everybody who's on TBN. Everybody okay? And have them come. And we're gonna build two altars. You erect an altar to your false God, and I'm gonna erect an altar to the God of heaven. We're gonna have a contest. Whoever is God answers from heaven with fire, let him be God, and the other is an imposter. And let me say this contest is not to prove to the false prophets that God is God. This per contest was to remind Israel that their God is God. I can see it as those false prophets begin to build their altar. I mean they go ahead and resurrect this thing. They uh they they build their building there, they paint the walls black. Hello. They don't put any ceiling tiles in so you can see the pipes running and the air conducts going everywhere. They get their purple colored lights going on the platform. I'm not against you using lights, but man, why don't you just choose your own? Don't let your wife pick 'em out. Why are they always purple? That's just feminine. I don't understand the purple They put their sacrifice on there and they start their surface. All of a sudden they dim the lights down real dark. Is everybody doing okay? The fog machines start to roll. And they start their worship music. They get their frontline singers out there. They begin to sway with the music and carry on and fire doesn't fall. All of a sudden they get their keynote speaker to come out and share He walks out and his pants so tight they squeak. Looks like he got dressed in the fifth grade grill section of Target or Baby Gap. You know he walks out. He's got his hair. We always say cut with like cut with a weed eater He gets up there, he's got a bedazzled t-shirt on. I mean he he doesn't know how to change oil, skin, a squirrel, load a shotgun, or anything like that. He goes to the salon, not the barber shop. And he walks up there and sits down on a little bar stool. He doesn't have any scripture because they don't believe in that, but he has a journal that he's been writing in lately, and he begins to share. And fire doesn't fall, and they can't believe it. And Elijah begins to pick on them. And you better pray for Elijah, he had a bad spirit. And you might want to pray for me. I think I inherited it. And he began to pick on them a little bit and said, maybe your God is on vacation. Maybe he's got earwax build up. Do they make God-sized q-tips? Maybe he's asleep. Maybe the bass player missed that run on that note he hit there a minute ago. I don't know. Maybe we need a new drummer For the worship set, I'm not sure what's going on, and it drives them nuts. And they begin to cut themselves and bleed out on the altar, and nothing happens. Can I tell you something? Nothing ever has, and nothing ever will happen in that kind of a mess Elijah takes twelve stones, one stone for each tribe of Israel, builds his own altar, takes a bullock and puts it there, sacrifices it on the altar, and then he does something that does not make good country boy common sense He tells them to get some water. And they run and get four barrels of water and they douse that altar with four barrels of water. Now I might not be the smartest one here, but I look Uh looking around I'm probably in in good running, but I don't know. I I mean I'm not the smartest one here. But wood and water, that's not real conducive to fire, right? Wet wood, a lot of smoke, not much fire He said, that's not good enough. Go get me four more. How many barrels are we up to now, class? Very good. Eight barrels. They doused it with eight barrels. Then he said, Go get four more. Now we're up to how many? Homeschool at work, brother. Homeschool! And twelve barrels of water! Now that altar is saturated with twelve Barrels of water. Elijah doesn't hoop and holler. He doesn't scream and stomp around. All he does is humbly pray to God. And in that humble prayer of that pa that prophet, that preacher fire. God answers. God sends fire from heaven and consumes that sacrifice. And I read that, but man, I'd like to be Elijah. I'd like to be that kind of a preacher. I'd like to be that kind of a man that'll stand against compromise and foolishness in my generation and have enough of a relationship with God that we can get in the prayer closet and pray and God will answer and we'll get a hold of God in prayer. And I thought if only I could be Elijah, then I could please God with my life. I kept on reading and saw where Elijah called Elisha into the ministry. I thought, boy, I wish God used me like that. To influence a younger generation to follow God and walk with God and stay true to God and serve God. I read in chapter number of four when God took Elijah to heaven in that flaming chariot, and I thought, boy, I'd like to be like that. I read where Elijah was sitting on a hill one day and three different groups of fifty soldiers came to take him. The first group got frictic, the second group got grilled, and the third group got sensed and left him alone. And I thought, man, I'd like to be Elijah. And I thought that, and what I'm preaching is this, I would read and I would think, man, I I'll tell you what I want, and I'm not preaching pro-mediocrity. You'll hear me in a minute. I said, I want to be, I want to be Billy Sunday. If only I could be a Billy Sunday, then I can please God with my life I want to be a Shelton Smith. Then I can please God. I gotta be Shelton Smith. I wanna be Tom Malone or Jack Kyles or Oliver B. Green, all those men that are my heroes. I have to be I want to please God with my life. And here we are, fifteen years later. And I gotta be honest with you, the next statement I wrote down was this. I want to be Elijah, but then I wrote this down, I can't be Elijah It's depressing. I've never once prayed in fire fell. Surely by now I thought we had seen nationwide revival. I mean I've been preaching for all these years now, you know I don't know. I've never once got to stand before a king and tell him what I thought and what God said. Never happened. I've never pastored a church of 30,000 people. I've got a little radio broadcast, but it's nothing like the gospel hour. I've not had to stand against the state of Texas, against accreditation and things, and go to prison for my faith like Lester Roloff. I haven't got to start a church in a little bar and see it grow to 6,000 at a prayer meeting like Tom Malone did in Pontiac, Michigan. I haven't done that before. And can I tell you sometimes I think you and I kind of get discouraged because we think I have to be if I'm going to glorify God with Can I say all of us have the same ability, the same capacity, the same propensity to glorify God as everybody else So let me give you the third statement. I got to 1 Kings chapter number 19, and I got down to that last verse we read, and I see where God encourages his prophet. By telling him Elijah, you're not the only one. I've got seven thousand other fellas. You don't know their name, and you might not know where they're serving, you might not know what they're up to, but I know their name And I know what they're surveying, and I know what they're up to, and I'm just as pleased with them as I am with you. And here's what I wrote down. Statement number one, I want to be Elijah I discovered, you know what, I can't be Elijah. But then number three I wrote this down. I can be me, and I can do the will of God for my life, and by doing that I can please God as much as Elijah did. Now that might not encourage you, but that sure did help me. I might not ever be so and so. I might not ever be that preacher or that preacher or this one or that one. But I can be Justin Cooper. And can I say God wanted a me for this time and God wanted a you for this time and you can be you to the glory of God. There's things you can do I can't, things I might do that you can't, but all this can do something for God and what we can do for God, we had to do it with all of our heart and all of our strength and all of our mind. God needs somebody on that hill where you pastor. God needs somebody in that town where you serve. God needs somebody to vacuum the floors and clean the restroom. and give the tithe and send and support missions. Hey, you can't do what I do, I don't do what you do, but all of us can do something and please God with our lives. Oh, I think sometimes because of the social media age we compare ourselves amongst ourselves, and that's not wise. By the way, let me go ahead and just bust off our bubble. It ain't real either. We don't put the bad days on social media. And we also don't even put some of the truth of the good days on social media Hello. And we'll sit there and we'll compare and say, well, if only I could be that man, or if I could be that lady, be like, then I could really please God. Can I say success is not money Success is not fame, success is not popularity, success is finding the will of God, fulfilling the will of God, and finishing the will of God for your life. So here's what I've resolved to do. I might not be so-and-so, but I'm gonna try to be me in the will of God. And here's what I can do. I cannot quit. I cannot compromise. Hello? I don't have to turn back. I can finish my course with joy with the help of God. I can make a difference where God has put me to serve in this time period that God has put me in to serve. And I don't know who's here this morning, but I thought it might just encourage you to know you're never going to be Elijah. But thank God you can be you. And if you'll just be you with the touch of God, fill with the Spirit of God, do what you can do for God, can I tell you you can please God as much as I do, brother. You can please God as much as I do. You can please God ladies as much as a preacher who travels the country, whatever. You just do what you can do for God. I thought about this. Jesus had so many different disciples, all different. Some were boisterous, impestuous, loud, some were very bashful, some were men that were really sweet and tender, some very bold and brash. I play golf sometimes. Mark Twain said golf is a good walk spoiled. I like to say it like this, golf's a testimony test for him. But anyway, there's a lot of different clubs in that bag, but each is made for a particular shot type of shot Hello. Somebody has to leave the singing. Somebody needs to play that piano. Somebody has to pass the offering plate. Somebody has to take up the offering. We're not all gonna be just like and thank God we're not all just like each other. Could you imagine a church full of people just like you? Talk about church split But we can be us and be part of that crowd that just won't bow the knee to Baal. And I want to encourage you, hey, just be you in the will of God and you can please God. Amen. Preacher.