There's about two years later, an event that took place, and I'm going to read verse 1 from Matthew chapter 2. I'm going to read down through verse 11. The Bible says this. Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea, in the days of Herod the king, behold there came wise men from the east to Jerusalem. Saying, Where is he that is born king of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east and are come to worship him When Herod the king had heard these things, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. By the way, let me just say this. The whole city was stirred up about these wise men. I don't think it was just three fellows on camels showed up. This was a huge entourage that stirred up the whole city was bothered by this. They didn't know if they were being invaded or what was going on. So This was a big, big event that took place. Now look, now let's read on. Verse 4. And when he had gathered all the chief priests, and scribes of the people together, he demanded of them where Christ should be born. Now who did he ask where Christ should be born? No, who did Herod ask? They came and the wise men came and asked Herod, where's the king of Israel? And he then Herod asked some guys, where's this king going to be born? Yeah, the chief priests and the scribes. Where are they going to go to to find the information where the king's going to be born They're going to go to the scriptures. Look at the next verse. And they said unto him, In Bethlehem of Judea. How do you guys know that? For thus it is written by the prophet. They went to the Bible. And they found out where the Messiah was to be born. And then they quoted the scripture and it said, And thou, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, art not thou least? Art not the least among the princes of Judah? For out of these shall come a governor that shall rule my people Israel. So they went to the Bible. They found out where Jesus was. Then Herod, when he had privily called the wise men, inquired of them diligently what time the star appeared. And he sent them to Bethlehem and said, Go, search diligently for the young child, and when you have found him, bring me word again that I may come and worship him also. Question, was he sincere in that No, what was his intention? Kill the baby. Kill the Lord Jesus. It was a threat to him in his mind And when they had heard the king, they departed, and lo the star which they saw in the east went before them till it came and stood over where the young child was And when they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceeding great joy. And when they were coming to the house, they saw the young child with Mary, his mother. And fell down and worshiped him. And when they had opened their treasures, they presented unto him gifts, gold and frankincense, and myrrh I want to speak to you tonight on, this is what I've entitled, just my thoughts, just a few quick things I want to observe from this, but this is what I'm calling my thought. I want to be a star. I want to be a star Let's pray. Father, I pray you'd speak to our hearts tonight about this this passage here and and fill me with your spirit. I pray you'd use my thoughts to uh maybe um uh focus our hearts and minds and give us some direction. Jesus' name I pray. Amen. It's a lot of people involved in the Christmas story. We read here of the wise men coming. We heard of we read of Herod. Who else, who were some individuals involved in the Christmas story? Just talk to me. Shepherds. We always think of the shepherds. Who else? Joseph, Mary, of course, any others? The innkeepers, factors involved in all of this. Any others? What about the angels? Announcing his birth. I was thinking, of all these different folks, all these different people involved, uh you could desire to be any one of them. Wouldn't it be something to be on the side of that mountain and those little shepherds and those angels appear? Went middle of the night, all of a sudden, boom. I don't know about you. I'd probably pass out, you know, scare me to death. But uh to see that and experience that and then come down And uh any one of these people, but I was thinking about this tonight, and um I think of all these tonight for some reason, for whatever reason, the last few days, I've been thinking, I'd like to be that star I want to give you a few reasons about that star that stirs my heart and uh kind of caught my attention. First of all, the star, uh by the way, let me say this. This is my concluding statement, I'm gonna say it now. Without that star and without the scriptures, these fellows would have never found Jesus And they never found them. It was the star that directed them. It was the star that drew and led them to the Lord Jesus Christ. Do you ever hear someone say this? Oh, is able to lead someone to Christ? You ever hear that statement? That's exactly what this star is doing. It's leading these fellows to Christ. This star is kind of like a missionary. Some people from afar, conveying information to them, bringing them to Christ, and uh believing on the Lord Jesus. So what is it about this star? Uh uh my statement was this. Without this star, they'd have never found Christ. And without the scriptures, they'd have never found Christ if the Bible hadn't revealed where he was. A couple things about this star real quick. I put this down. Number one, this star was unusual. It was unusual. One like all the other stars There's tens of billions of stars in that sky. But the wise men noticed this one. There was something about this star That caught their interest. There was something about this star that stood out different than all the other stars. Now remember, back then they didn't have any street lights There was no television glow in the in the coming out of the windows of houses. In fact, there was no electricity at all. Anybody out here ever bat been out in a totally pitch dark area and look up at the night sky and see those stars? We lived in Colorado. We go up in the Rocky Mountains there. We go up on top sometimes at night And I'm telling you, it is just awe-inspiring. And they look up there and they see these billions and billions of stars, some brighter than others. But there was something different about this one. It wasn't like all the other stars there was something unique about this thing. People have tried to, scholars have tried to explain this star Some have suggested, well, it was a meteorite going through the sky that night. It won no meteorite. Others suggested it was one of the comets, Halley's Comet or something passing through and and God used that to uh direct them over that no it wasn't Haley's comment this was an unusual a very unusual story it was unique There was no human explanation for it. In fact, you say, well, how do you know it wasn't a meteor? I've seen a bunch of meteors. I never one time saw one stop at a place and just stay there Look look at verse 10 there, I think it is. Uh and when they had heard the king, they departed. Lo, the star which they saw in the east. went before them. It's tacking right ahead of them. And uh went before them till it came and it stood over where the young child was This star was able to bring these men to the Lord Jesus Christ because the star was unique. It was different than all others. You know what? God will use a Christian that is unique. In fact, let me put it this way, Christians, we as Christians are to be unique. We're not of the world. We're not like the world Jesus Christ, when he saves us, he fundamentally changes what we are. And you read in the book of Acts, and the Christians stood out from the rest of the world. They were unique, they were unusual. I made this statement often, the more we become like the world, the less we will influence the world. If that star would have just blended in with all the others, if that star would have been no different than all the other stars it would have had little or no influence, they would have never noticed it, never followed it. But it's unique and it's different. And by the way, for you and I, when we get when we get to get serious about living for the Lord and we commit ourselves to the Lord and God begins to change us and there becomes a difference between us and the world. Our values aren't their values. Our priorities isn't the world's priorities. And then God begins to use us I put down number one, this star was unusual, one like all the other stars. And Christians are unusual. The Bible says we're peculiar, not like all the rest of the world We don't share their values, their morals. We don't share their principles and their priorities. We're just a little bit different. Just a little bit different bit different. The second thing I put down is this. This star uh created an interest. There was something about that star. They said we want to find out more about this. We want to find out what this is all about. Who is this star? This star has a message. There's something here. And it provoked an interest in them. I wonder how many of us our Christian life is such that it stirs an interest in other people around us to know the Lord. I thought about Ruth and Naomi. She says, Ruth said to Naomi, Thy God shall be my God. She's there's something about Naomi. There's something about her God and what her God does in her life. I'd like to, I want that to be my God also You know, if we live for the Lord, I believe God wants to use us. And sometimes just walking with God, just being what God wants us to be, and being that witness, it'll stir an interest in other people. When I uh when I went off to Bible college, I worked at a meat packing plant for four years, and about a year before I got saved, uh about a year after I got saved, I worked there and I I resigned, I quit the job, and I was going off to Bible college And those guys gave me fits when I got saved. I mean, they made fun of me and threatened me. It was it uh they just gave me a rough time. But when I left, they finally my last day there was a Friday. We were saying our goodbyes I'll bet you I had five or six out of the forty that worked there. Five or six came up to me, and one fellow in particular, I remember him saying this to me, he took my hand, he took my hand and pulled me up to him and he said, Leatherman, I wish I had what you got. I wish I had. I said, you can have it. It's just trust it's Christ. And uh, you know what? And I'm not this this is the Lord did all this. I'm just saying this. They saw what God had done in my life. And it stirred an interest in their heart. And these sep these uh these uh wise men saw that star and it was different than all the other stars. Something different about that. I wonder what this is about. And it's moving. Ah Man, uh-oh. And they wanted to pursue it. And we need to live for God. We need to walk with God. And God, I believe, will use this and have an influence and maybe stir an interest in others. I thought about Paul and Silas in the prison. And singing praises to God and praying. And the Bible says the prisoners heard that. And the jailer ended up getting saved. I thought about the blind man. When Jesus uh healed the blind man and uh they began to say, Here you weren't really blind, and he says, All I know is uh I was once blind, but now I see. And boy, it caused the strength Stir and people wanted to know, and they asked him, who did this? How did this happen? How what happened to you? He says, This man named Jesus stirred an interest. They saw the change in his life. I thought about the maniac of Gadera. And he got saved and his life was instantly transformed. And it says the people in the town wondered at what happened. It's causing, it's stirring things up, causing interest. And I believe we ought to live for God in such a way people notice. And they'll see Christ in us and maybe they'll say, you know, I don't know what they got, but I sure like to have that. This star, number one, it was unusual. Number two, it It created an interest in those that saw it. I put this one down real quick. It had a spir a specific audience That star was there for a very specific group of people. And this is my application. I believe God puts you and I where we are to be a witness to the people where we're at. I can't be a witness in some city in Argentina. And we pray for Brother Grinstead and we send support, but I can't, but I can be a witness here. I can let my light shine where I am. A lot of times we're so worried about, oh, I can't do this, I can't do that. Well, let's do what we can do. And that's what that started. It had a very specific area. God has people that he wants to use you to have an influence on. Your world, your realm. And be a witness there. I put this one down. The star led them to the scriptures. That star led them to Jerusalem. Herod, they said, where's the king? Herod said, I don't know. Scribes, where's the king? Well, let's look in the Bible and find out. Nobody ever comes to the Savior apart from the scriptures Nobody ever gets saved without the Bible. So in my witness and my testimony, I've got to at some point bring people to the scriptures and let them see from scriptures who Christ is and how to come to him. And then last of all, I put this one down. They brought the uh the star brought the men to the Savior. They brought the men to the Didn't just take them to the uh Bethlehem, didn't just show them the scripture verses, didn't just take them to Bethlehem, but it that star introduced them to Jesus Christ. Listen, it's not enough to know where Jesus was born. It's not enough to know how he was born. It's not even enough to know the Bible verses about his birth. We must know Jesus personally. And that whole star, the whole influence of that star from beginning to end, was fulfilled when those wise men knelt down at the feet of Jesus in the presence of Jesus, and it says they worshiped him. And they presented the gifts. I believe those old guys got saved. Saw the Savior, believed it, worshipped him, and gave their gifts I want to be a star. I want people to see Christ in my life. I want people to be stirred up to want to know my Savior. I want people to search the scriptures, have an influence that they're drawn to the scriptures, and I'm asking God to use me to see people come and get saved. and worship in the presence of Jesus. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we pray this Christmas season. That we could be like this star and have an influence and have a part in this old sinful world. In that dark sky, a bright light shone. And I pray in this old dark world. That you would uh that you would use us to point people to Christ. Wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed. What if there's some say, Pastor, in the next few days I'm gonna be with some family? I'm going to be around some f friends, maybe neighbors or whatever. And some of them aren't sane. And you'd say, I'd like to be like that old star And just be a witness, be a testimony, and and uh influence them to know Christ. Anybody like that? Richard, I'd sure like God to use. me to be that be like that star. God bless you. Father in heaven bless now. And uh Lord, before we go to the take part of the Lord's table, I pray you'd help us just to humble ourselves before you and worship you as those wise men. And just uh allow you to fill us and use us in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's