Well, good afternoon, everybody. Thanks for coming. I feel like I'm the third string, which is quite alright. You know, and if I break up here, you'll know why? Because I'm the third string. So um I'm not wearing my brace, so if you heal me hear me hollering, I'm not in the spirit, I'm just hurting. So, you know, a couple weeks ago I thought of this message, Angels Among Us. I was thinking of that. And then I come into the the the hall over there and I saw Vicky had head Andy in a headlock. And I thought, well, there goes that. I'll go back to teaching unruly women. So I'm torn. You know, and Vicky, I love Vicki to death. But Vicki is kind of my doctor, because her and I are about the sweetest people in church because we have diabetes. And she has these remedies You know, she drinks uh the oli or the um vinegar of the morning. So I got me some yesterday. Well I'm gonna try that. Vicky's trying it, it's probably helping her, it's gonna help me We immediately I immediately did not seem sweet any longer after I took a swig of that. So I'm two days in a row with that, so I'm gonna start sprouting some vegetables or something, I'm sure. So Keep me in your prayers with that. If you will turn to your Bibles, Mark chapter five. I'll try not to go too quick. But I will get us out of here in time to get home to see the Super Bowl. So keep that in mind. That'll have an effect later on. You'll you'll realize that You know, I do want to keep Pastor, I'm sure he's had a great know he's had a great time. I feel for him though, because you know Pastor doesn't take a vacation very often at all You know, his weekends and stuff we have off, but pastors, even on his days off, he's somewhere helping somebody. So I know this week with Kathy and stuff that's probably went quite quickly So really just keep him in your prayers. Uh he will be back here with us Tuesday, I believe. So uh he was preaching this morning. Um and I know he's had a great time from the pictures he's put on uh Facebook, I did ask for his address to send him Sisnow the other day and he remarked back that he wasn't telling me his address. So Alright, we're going to start in Mark chapter 5. And they came over into the other side of the sea, into the country of the Gardenias. And when he was come out of the ship, immediately there met him out of the tombs a man with an unclean spirit. who had his dwelling among the tombs, and no man could bind him, no, not with any t with chains, because that he had been often bound with fetters and chains, and the chains had been plucked asunder by him, and the feathers broken in pieces, neither could any man tame him. And always, night and day, he was in the mountains and in the tombs, crying and cutting himself with stones But when he saw Jesus afar off, he ran and worshipped him, and cried with a loud voice, and said, What have I to do with thee, Jesus, thou son of the most high God? I jure you, I jure thee by God, that thou for torment me not. For he said unto him, Come out of thy man, thou unclean spirit And he asked him, What is thy name? And he answered, saying, My name is Legion, for we are many. And he besought him much that he would not send them away out of the country. Now there was There night in the mountains a great herd of swine feeding, and all the devils besought him, saying, Send us into the swine that we might enter into the unto them And forthwith Jesus gave them leave, and the unclean spirits went out and entered into the swine, and the herd ran violently down a steep place into the sea. They were about two thousand, and were choked in the sea. And they that fed the swine fled and told it in the city and in the country, and they went out to see what it was that was done. And they come to Jesus and see him, and was possessed with the devil, and had the legion sitting and clothed. and the right mind and the they were afraid. I'll say this clothed. Um to me when we talk about wearing dress and and modesty and so forth, if the Lord closed the Legion, don't you think we probably ought to be closed modestly? Just a tidbit there. And they that saw it told them how he befell to him that was possessed with the devil, and also concerning the swine. And when he was come into the ship, he that had been possessed with the devil prayed him that he might be with him. How be it, Jesus suffered him not, but saith unto him Go home to thy friends and tell them how great things the Lord hath done for thee, and hast had compassion. And he departed and began to publish in Ducobalus Dicapplis, how great things Jesus had done for him and all men did marvel. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this evening. Lord, we thank you for this time that we can Teach, Lord, your word. I ask God that you'll just use and guide my words, Lord, that they be your words, and that we can get something from your lesson. Be with pastor also, in your name I pray. Amen. One of the greatest things in the church today is for every Christian to become enthusiastic about his or her faith in Jesus Christ. I call that being a fanatic for the Lord. Now I know there's fanatics out there that are crazy fanatics. They're not for the Lord. They give Christianity a bad name But I don't want us to be one of those fanatics. I want us to be a fanatic for the Lord, bubbling over to serve the Lord, to pray for people, to do for the Lord. That's what I'm aiming for The maniac of Gadara, he was instructed to not say anything, but he could not contain himself when Jesus had done for him. These I I bet you once he was healed, all the all of the uh legions that he had in him, I doubt he sat still was just quiet and humble and you know, had no interaction and stuff. I suspect he was like the fanatic and he ran around telling everybody. Um He ran up to Jesus and he cried with a loud voice when he saw the Lord. It's amazing that he knew who the Lord was. We have the Bible in front of us. We have Christianity throughout the world, and a lot of people don't know who the Lord is. He had that ability. But he had an unclean spirit. People who experiment with sin or with evil think they can keep it under control, but we know that they can't keep it under control. Evil seeks to control you. The legions, the devils came out of the people come out of them, and the people served the Lord. Each time we see any of the he of the miracles or anything that God did, people didn't turn and not serve the Lord. They served the Lord Um and they were excited about it. When sin comes out of us, we can serve the Lord more abundantly. You know we get that thing covered, it's already covered by the blood when we're saved, but when we get it out of our lives, the sin out of our lives then we can serve the Lord more happily. We don't have that hinder us and we don't have that sin in our lives. The same way with that maniac, he had the sin in his lives or the devils in his lives Now, I'm going to switch gears on this because I use this as an example as him being a fanatic. Sports is America's favorite pastime, I think, for the most part. Everybody's familiar with some sort of sports. But my goal and my theme is is that we need to make God our America's pastime. We need to have him. We need to be so uh involved with the Lord and so excited about the Lord as we are with our hobbies, but most of all with sports. You know, sports fanatics, they're they're fanatics about their game Uh they know the rules, they know the positions, they know the players, they got the terrible towel, they got the cheese heads, they got the body paints. And they wear the team memorabilia, hats, jerseys, and all of that. But I'm asking that we do the same but do it for God. Take that same passion that we have for sports and convert it to the passion for the Lord. Um and that's why I said about the Super Bowl. Very many people were all excited about that. How many of us have our Bibles? Raise your Bibles up You know what? This is our banner. We this is our banner. This is our team banner. It says Holy Bible on the front of it. This is our banner for the for the Lord. Football controls the games, similar to sin that controls our lives a lot of times. But the sin is already covered by God's grace. Like unclean spirit that was cast out and went into the swine, which swine you notice that's what a football is made out of. There's my related there. Just in case you didn't catch that. You know, the s the the swine the sin or the legions which like I said have a sin went into the swine. So I'm not saying a football's a swine, but that's the comparison that I'm using So when we uh have to kick sin of our lives, we kick it around to the side of the field, to this side, to that side. Sometimes we'll let it go, sometimes we'll keep it. We stay in bounds and sometimes we go out of bounds. with the sin. Then we pick it back up again and start playing with it. Eventually through God's grace we kick it out of our lives through the field gold. What's the field gold? God standing at the end with open arms accepting you. He's already forgiven your sins, but he's standing down there with open arms, and you know what? That that score, if you will, has changed our lives because we've laid it down You know, in sports they have refs. Well we have the ultimate ref, we have God, and I'm not trying to be disrespectful on any of this, but we have God. The refs watch the field. There's numerous refs on the on the field watching every move, everything that goes on. We have the same, but we have the ultimate ref, if you will. He sees everything because he's everywhere. You know, sometimes you see those plays, sometimes on the games and they try to argue it and determine what went on. There is no argument with God. He is the final say so. He knows what happened. And one reason he knows what happens is because he also knows what happens in our lives. So Christians have the ultimate referee. Like a game, our lives are broken down into four quarters. Ages one through twenty, a lot of times we're learning about life. what it's all about. We're testing the waters of what we can do as toddlers and as young teenagers and stuff, trying to see what you can give get away with. You're dabbling in sin. Some that are raised in church, they're serving the Lord. Um In a childlike manner, if you will, because you don't have the experience and the age on you. But first, saved, on fire for God, and on the field. of life but bouncing to and fro. So you know and you've seen this a lot with young now there are some younger people that are just they grab the ball and run with it. They grab the Bible, they grab God and go with it But a lot are just learning things. Twenty age twenty through forty, twenty-one through forty, you're on your own, you're out of the field running from side to side, determining your career, raising your children, you're attending church You're getting involved with things, but you're m a lot of times the focus is not just directly God. You have a lot of other activities to keep you involved And then you get discouraged because you're young and immature in a sense, you get discouraged with maybe something that happened or you don't like something that the pastor preached or something that God's convicting you of. So you sit on the bench for a while. You take yourself out of the game Then we're 41 to 60. That's when the kids are gone. You've kicked them out. You've raised them. Your job is settled. You're either in the rut and enjoying life or you're just waiting until you're 65 Um you know, you r you renew your your life, your your time with your spouse because your kids are gone, so now it's you and her. No kids to argue about. You can still argue about money and and stuff like that, but you don't argue about kids' discipline or who's taking them to what games or that's all gone But so now you're back on the flaying fields because you've now gotten back into serving the Lord more because you've got these other distractions out of your life And then at age 60 and above, you're seasoned, you're more mature, you know how to play the game in life, but you get benched once in a while because you think the younger people are the ones that's playing on the field anymore. But you know what? Stay in the game. Your maturity is what teaches the younger generation. Remember there's a couple examples in the Bible where God tells the older women to teach the younger women. Um, if you happen to have a wife that's older than you, she's probably still starting to teach you. I ex I experienced that. So I'm sorry, I wasn't supposed to let you guys know that she's older than me. And on that note people say, What'd you do to your arm? What'd you do to your arm? I say that wrestling with my wife is not what it used to be. So Um Furthering, John the Baptist, I believe, was a fanatic. When we see him, he served the Lord in every way possible. He preached about Jesus' coming in Mark 1, verse 7. We read, this is when John the Baptist first came on the scene, and he said, and preached, saying, There cometh one mightier than I after me The latch of whose shoes I am not worthy to stoop down and unloose. So he was letting them because I think in the beginning they thought John the Baptist was Christ. Now if he was just Sitting on the bench and not doing much, they wouldn't have thought that he was that way. I believe he was a fanatic, not in a bad way. He was a fanatic, he was on fire for the Lord. Praise the Lord. We need people like that And even Herod knew that he was a just man. In Mark 6. 20, we read Herod speaking about um John the Baptist says, For Herod feared John, knowing that he was a just man and a holy, and observed him, and when he heard him, he did many things and heard him gladly Herod enjoyed hearing John the Baptist. I believe he was convicted enough, or he knew what John was preaching that was right. But of course we know that made John the Baptist lose his life. It cost him his life. So our objective in the game of life is to see souls saved, prayers answered, disciple others, and live for God because He gave His life for us, we should live for Him. We need to get get and keep our head in the game. We need to be a quarterback on the team, and each and every one of us can be that way. We can be that most valuable player in God's team. If every one of us was that way and had that aspiration to do that, imagine what the community would be. And I'm not saying that our church is not that way. I'm not saying that. I'm saying anybody in general In Psalms 40 verse 5, James took you around all the Bible this morning, and I'm going to do the same thing to you. I said, what better way than preaching God's Word? In Psalms 40, verse 5, it says, Many, O Lord, my God, are they wonderful works which thou hast done, and thy thoughts which are to usward, they cannot be reckoned up in order unto thee. If I would declare and speak of them, they are more than can be numbered. So God's word right there is There are wonderful works. In the Word, God's Word is wonderful works, more than we could ever do. But there are examples of what we can do. Every trial you have in your life, I believe you can turn to the Bible and you can find the response and find the answer of what to do in those situations. And then it says thoughts on us, usward. Thoughts which are to usward. So God's thinking of us. You know, sometimes we get lonely down in the in depressed and so forth and we think, oh nobody's caring, nobody's thinking. You know, we get to pity parties. And those happen because we're men and women. Um so But God is thinking usward. He's thinking about every one of us and everything that we're going through. So I got four things here to how we can become a fanatic One of them is fanatic Bible reading. In 2 Timothy, and we all know this this verse, 2 Timothy 2, 15. Study to show thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. You are persuaded. You are persuading men when you study, even if it's for yourself. So when we open God's Word every day, all the time, reading God's Word. It helps us. And I would say put that somewhere where you almost every day see that verse right there. Study to show thyself approved. It's a good reminder that, hey, I need to be in God's Word. You know, a lot of people get up, they turn the news on, the sports fanatics, they turn on to see who won what. Well, let's turn on the Bible, turn the pages of the Bible, and let's see what God's got in store for us today The entire time Christ walked on the earth, what did people do? They constantly crowded where he was at. They listened to him. They wanted to hear every word he spoke They studied him. Well, if those they had the privilege to study Christ because he was right there on earth. We don't have that privilege, but luckily we have his word to study. And the only way we're going to get to know God is by opening the pages He left his word in writing for us. All we gotta do is pick it up. We have to open the book. When we Bible read or we do studying, we meditate. We ponder every word. Like James said this morning, you can pull scriptures, you know, where he's talking about don't drink the water. You know, I mean you can there's many, many facets in the Bible. You know, I I think of when Moses When God told Moses to pick up the snake, he told him to pick it up by the tail. I ain't picking that snake up. Well, I'm wood because God told me to, but by the tail that means it's going to come around and bite me. Mm-mm. But God knew what he was doing, you know, um when he gave them the manna. He told them every day after you know they crossed the Red Sea, after three days they were doing what they probably had to be baptized because they were griping for food But anyway, after three days they started complaining and wanted something to eat. So God said I'll give you manna, which we all know that that is shopping saves um angel food cake, is what that is. That's what people say. Which I don't disagree with that because I do like that angel food cake. One thing that makes me sweet, but I'm gonna try to cover it with that vinegar stuff and see what that does for me. Or wrap it with it in a hot dog, that way I have my protein. But anyway, doctors will probably say no. But anyway, when we have he dropped them in and he told him, Eat it every day But on the sixth day picking up up for the seventh day, and remember after some of them didn't listen, I guess they didn't get the message to go out and get the manna. So the next day when they went out it had worms in it and it was it wasn't any good It was the dew, it was r uh rotten. But on that seventh day, God preserved that they had picked up on the sick. They preserved that food for the next day. To me, that's an amazing thing. He only did it for those days. He didn't preserve it on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday. So there's many nuggets in God's Word. We just gotta find them. We just gotta read them Um and you know what? Sometimes as you get certain ages you start forgetting things. Ed wakes up and asks Carolyn what her name is every morning. Um you have to remember um things that get harder. So if we're not picking God's word up every day, then it's not easy to remember these things. And we need to. We really need to do that You know, read about biographies like these missionaries that we read about. Find out, hear about one. And Amy Carmichael, Miss Dines, was just teaching the kids in Master's Clubs about her All the books that she wrote and everything that she did. Corey Kenboom. I mean there's many ones that uh that we can read and we can learn from Do word studies in the Bible too. I I love the word love. I've been doing a word study on love and it's a fascinating word and it's throughout the Bible Many, many, many times. Just learn of those. Entertain yourself with God's word, because if you're not, if not, the world's going to entertain you with their unbelief. They're going to tell you that God's word's not true. When I actually did a search on this fanatic, Christian fanatics, it was all negative because Christians are a fanatic for Christ i is not a positive thing in the world, but I would say that's because there's a lot of nuts out there. I'm not saying for us to be nuts. I'm saying for us to be Again, as those that love sports and stuff or whatever your hobby is, to do the same thing for the Lord. Be that excited about God's word. Absorb it indulge in it like we do a a show. You know how people used to love Days of Our Lives and All My Children and Oprah and those those day shows or even the night shows, you know, Forged in Fire, various shows that people like to watch in the evenings. And I'm not saying there's anything wrong with that, but have we put it above the Lord's word? Have we done it b have we read it God's word before we even entertain remember I did a in Sunday school here well back how much time people do in Bible study, twelve minutes a day, that's not a lot of time. when we'll watch a half hour program at the minimum. So really just really keep that in your mind. You know, God's rule book, if you will, the Bible, reflects his love for us. Fanny Crosby at age ninety said, My love for the Holy Bible and its sacred truth is stronger and more precious to me at the age ninety than it was at nineteen She stayed in the game, you know. I mean that is that is a long time and and she died at ninety-five years old Still loving God and still serving the Lord. So if we're a fanatic in Bible reading and opening God's word, it's going to increase our lives, it's going to increase our ability to serve the Lord and then to get others to serve the Lord. Now if you'll turn to Psalms fifty five seventeen We're gonna switch off. So we've had a want to be a fanatic and a reader. Now we want to be a fanatic in prayer. And prayer, as we all know, is very, very important. Myself, I'm a horrible prayer warrior. I pray, but I still wonder, Lord, am I praying right? But God already kind of knows what you're going to say, but He wants you to say it anyway. He wants you to pray to Him. He wants you Um My drive to Morgantown three times a week, I don't care for it at all. I'm not thrilled at the hour I'm getting up at four thirty or getting on the road at 4 30 and being there by 6. But I have really come to learn that I believe the reason God in is giving me that position is because 90% of the time I pray to him on my whole drive there. You know, we just talk about all kinds of things. Um He gives me a lot of material, a lot of messages if we'll I had this one down pat and then I forgot most of it. But um You know, prayer isn't important in our lives, and sometimes I think, like I said, God changed my schedule, if you will, so that I'm dedicated more time to praying to him. In Psalms 55, 17, the Bible tells us, evening and morning at noon will I pray and cry aloud, and he shall hear my voice. Evening and morning and at noon. What other time isn't there? I'd say this covers everything, every time that we have. God is hearing our voice. So if we're not praying, he's not hearing our voice. Prayer is our pipeline to God. Prayer keeps us connected to God. Consider praying, and this is Vicky's favorite verse, if I remember hearing correctly, Jeremiah 33, 3. Consider praying is a phone call to God. He listens to us. He hears us. We just have to utter the words. Um, even Jesus prayed in Mark 14, 36, which you know what, Christ is our example. uh for everything in our lives. And even if Christ prayed, uh you know, it was should be very important for us to pray. Mark fourteen thirty-six says And he said, Abba Father, all things are possible unto thee. Take away this cup from me, nevertheless, not what I will, but thou wilt. So even Christ is saying, God, whatever your will is. We don't pray to Christ for our will in our lives if we don't pray to Christ to keep us on track and to teach us and guide us and direct us We'll get off track. We'll get out of the field. We'll get off the playing field. And without prayer, we will be defeated. It is as it is as simple as that. How many people that we know of now that are in predicaments that if they'd have just paused and prayed, they wouldn't have committed the acts and the things that they have done or in the situations that they have been in. If they were reflected on the Lord and if they would have prayed to God their conscience and the Holy Spirit in them would have probably redirected their lives. So prayer is very, very, very important. So if we raise each day and start praying and start reading God's words I call that a fanatic for the Lord because you want it to be adamant every day that is a burning desire in your life to do that. Your feet hit the floor, whether you do it then, but you know you throughout the day you want to make that a very important part of your life. Okay, for Second Corinthians six one A fanatic in service for the Lord. This is all of our duties. When they, as workers together with him, beseech you also that ye receive not the grace of God in vain Down to ch verse four, but in all things approving ourselves as the ministers of God in much patience and afflictions in necessities and in distress. And that goes on to many other things. But it says ministers of God. If we're not out serving the Lord and doing for the Lord, if we're not on the team, if we're not on God's team Join a local team. We have Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church's team. I'd say it's the best football, basketball, sports team, soul winning, Bible reading, uh, Bible teaching. Uh team in the in the county. I dare say probably in the states. Some of the other guys is listed probably say no, but um they don't count. Just be involved with, and I know a lot of people are, but remember as James said this morning, the statistics, 80 and 90% of the people do all. God gives us the ability every day to do things When we got saved, you join the team of saints that are going to be in heaven. We already joined that team, but now we gotta play. Now we gotta be in the game. Now we've got to be a player, an active player. You know, Peter was a a fanatic for Jesus. Shoot, when those guys come up to uh get Christ, Peter was there, he whipped out his sword, cut the one's ear off. I'd say he was a fanatic. You're not touching my Lord. You know, we should kind of have the same passion for Christ. When people start putting down Christianity and they start um saying that Christianity is is not a real thing. We should have the passion that Peter had there when he whipped out the sword. We should whip out our swords and and figure of speech and and interact with what's going on, what's what's being said Of course, you know, Christ put the ear back on, which of course shows his love for people. Attend the Bible Institute. The Bible Institute is a great thing. Even if you don't want to do the tests and all that, that's all right. Sit there and listen to what Pastor has to teach from many years of experiences. You remember he says he went to college five or six years. A man that went to college six years knows a lot So um he yeah of course his thirty years in the ministry but any of them any of our senior saints and stuff that are there everybody brings something to it the Bible Institute teaches us a lot but not even that our Sunday school classes You know, we're getting ready to start a young couple's class. Just be involved with them. Surround again yourselves with God's word and with what he is Wants you to learn in your life. People come to church. God brought you here for a reason. He didn't bring you here to be a bench warmer. He brought you here to absorb God's word and then take that and do something with it. You know, we have the fingerprints, we have the track month that's coming up, we have faith promise, all of that. Those missionaries that we support, we can all support with with can support with our prayer and things, those are the ones that are going out. They're the extension of us. We can't be there, so they're out there Winning souls, they're out there praying in everything that we back here should be doing and uh should be doing in our own community The soul winning that we have on Thursday night. I've had many hindrances, if you will, because that's really been a passion of mine this year to get out in the soul winning. But it seems like every Thursday night something comes up. But I have to get those things away so on Thursday nights I'm here doing soul winning. We have to be out in the community and teaching people about God's Word. We have to be a fanatic about our service for the Lord You know, the church calendar is full of things to do. You know, see what our team is doing each week, each and every night, and be in the playing field, not the bleachers, but be out there supporting the team Be on the team and do things for our church. Attend church like we attend other events. You know, there's a lot of people that'll put church off second and they'll go to other events as a primary It should be flip-flop of that. Church should be the number one priority things due. Um you remember in the Bible when uh Christ called the disciples and the one said, I can't go because he needed to bury his family, the Lord said, Come with me. You know, God is a priority. No matter what, He is the priority in our lives. So we have to be a fanatic in soul uh in uh in service. And then we have to be a fanatic and soul-winning. Matthew 28, 19, and we all know this verse. We should. That's the Great Commission verse. Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, of the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Teaching and telling all. If we don't go ye and teach, then how are we going to be able to do it? How are we going to be able to do the Great Commission? You know we have our neighbors right beside us. We can give them the tracks, invite them to the wild game dinner, invite them to things that are coming out, the men's stakeout that's coming up. Uh the ladies' fellowships. You know, our family members. Sorry, honey, I can't do that this Sunday. I got church. I got church Sunday night. Sorry, I can't do that. You know what I mean? That the parents need to make sure their children know and your family know that church is a priority in your life. If it's not a priority in their life, it's still a priority in your life, and they need to know that. Um, and even strangers, you know, when you're standing at various places, whether it be uh paying for gas at Sheets or wherever you're at Dennies and stuff you can let strangers know about the Lord, even if it's just handing them a smiley face track. There's ways, and once you start doing it, it gets a lot easier. Sometimes it's hard because I think when we we pray the Lord, to ask the Lord to give us that ability to hand out tracts and stuff, then we start looking for it and then we start questioning ourselves, where are they going to get mad? Well, you know what? If they get mad They're gonna be a lot matter if they don't go to heaven. They're gonna be a lot matter then. Um so let's just hand those out, phone calls to people. And most of all this day and age is important because the media is mentoring our children. The electronics are mentoring our children. We need to mentor our children in every way possible. Keep God in their lives in the forefront of their minds that God exists. Even the evil spirit knew who Jesus was, but many people don't nowadays. We have to tell them. Jesus told him told uh in the um With the Maniac of Kadera. He told them, he said, this and most of the time you notice when Jesus healed or whatever, he told people not to go back and tell anything. But this time he told the Kadera to go back and tell what had been done. In Luke 15, 7, it says, I say unto you, that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, more than over 90 and nine just persons who need no repentance. Luke 15, 10, likewise I say unto you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth Angels cheer in heaven when one soul is saved. If we're not out there handing out tracts, trying to witness to people, doing our soul winning on Thursday night, the angels are not going to be rejoicing because no one's going to be getting saved But I dare say that the other religions that are out there that are not biblical religions will be knocking on the doors and those people will be being deceived. We just really need to pound the pavement, if you will, be a fanatic and soul winning. Winston Churchill said, a fanatic is one who can't change his mind. And won't change the subject. You know what? When it comes to Christianity, it comes to the Bible, we don't need to change the subject. And we don't need to change our minds. We don't need the world to influence us in a different way than what God's holy word does. I love this verse. It's Psalms 329. To me, this is the world's version of what a fanatic is. It says, Be ye not as the horse. or as the mule which have no understanding, whose mouth must be held in with a bit and a bridle, lest they come near unto thee. And I think the world thinks fanatics that way. You know, we need to close our mouths. We need to not tell anything about Christ. Wrong answer. We need to tell everything about Christ. We need to encourage one another and engage in God's work. We need to hold the banner for the Lord. Each day we need when you walk out of your house, your neighbors know you're a Christian. On Sundays they need to know you're going, oh, they're not going to Denny's, oh, they're not going to a football game or kids' game. They're going to God's house They're going to pray for me because you've told them, hey, I won't pray for you Sunday. You've been heart you've been on my heart, I'm praying for you. And your neighbors will know that. Our success in winning the game is keeping our eyes on the field gold, which is God. His arms are open wide to accept us, expecting those that we have led to the Lord. Remember the angels are ones that praise and cheer when one soul is saved. You know, in the Old Testament when they had to do the uh offerings all the time, luckily we don't have to do burnt offerings anymore. Especially the price of pork and things that would be expensive. I know Ed would be thinking that. Leviticus six thirteen, the fire shall ever be burning upon the altar. It shall never go out. Like the offering to the Lord of our fellowship, zeal for him should never go out. In the Old Testament they didn't want that fire to go out. Let's be a fanatic for the Lord and not let the fire burn that's in our hearts. Let's let it not go out. You know, the maniac of Gadera went, he went to God. He wanted to go with the Lord. When the Lord healed him saved him, got the legions out of him. They went in the 2,000 swine. He wanted to be with the Lord. But God said, no, go back to your area and tell them. Go and tell what has happened to you You can try and you can find true peace if you come to the Prince of Peace. God is the Prince of the Peace. He is our leader. His word is what guides and directs our lives. We need to be a fanatic for the Lord. Go all out for the Lord in every way and be a fanatic today. I hope this lesson has helped you some. It's helped me. Fanatic is a strange word that people don't want to associate with Christianity, but I believe we can put it in a positive manner. We'll pray. Father, we thank you for this time. Lord, we thank you for your word. Lord, it blesses us each day. Father, there's so much there that you've left for us to learn and to study, so much that you've left for us to use in our lives. I pray, Father, that if there are any tonight that are not saved, Lord, that they will come forward to accept you as their Savior. Lord, if there are those in the service tonight, Father, that are skeptical or or s or um scared, Father, to be a fanatic for you, Lord, that that have an uneasement about soul winning or praying for others, Lord, that you would just help them, Lord. Give them the strength. Lord, most of all the knowledge from your word, Father. Father, we thank you so much for being our Savior. Your name I pray. Let us man.