From my savior. Um but the devil tries to tempt you. Now you all know I drive from Morgantown home and I try to um uh drive within the speed limits So I come through Kingwood in that way. And I s I don't use the word s I swear, okay? I just didn't swear as in the bad word, but I swear that the devil must have brought every pokey person there is out tonight. Because I wanted to get home. Dump truck in front of me, that went out. Then all the way up from Kingwood up, I got behind a school bus We did hit 51 miles an hour at one time. I was thankful for that, and I thought, oh hallelujah, when he finally pulled off. So I got over past Terra Alta and where you go out to the golf course, whatever that road is and kept coming. So there was a car pulled in front of him and he thought, well he started poking. He turned off over going out to Alpine Lake and his bumper sticker or his bumper label around it said, Smile, God loves you. Before that there was a bird that went by and I'm like, Lord, could I just not be a bird for a little and just fly home? But You know God has a reason and has has whatever for us in store. So tonight I want you to listen up seniors, which you see most of you guys are in seniors. You guys all remember these? Remember when mom Took care of things, right? It got switched. I'm not shocked. Not shocked at all. But you know, we need to listen up tonight and be serious about what I'm going to tell you Because it's very important. I know all of us in here probably already know this message, but that's alright. We have kids, we have children, we have associates, we have people around us that need to know it. Also our lives need to present what I'm going to teach you tonight. So let me tell you about. So 8 August was Sunday, this past Sunday. Diane and I met 34 years ago. So it's not our anniversary, but it's our meeting anniversary. So this dude, while I was in the Air Force, he kept bugging me about going to church. I was raised in a holiness movement church where everything you did was wrong. I'm not being disrespectful to the religion, but I'm telling you it it it destroyed my younger life, if you will Christian walk wise because everything you do is wrong. So from that, it was just so this guy kept bugging me and bugging me and bugging me to go to church I didn't want to do that because I knew what church was, or at least I thought I was, because I went Mondays, I mean I went Sundays, Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night, I went every time the doors was open. Probably sometimes when the doors weren't open, we went I thank God for the Bible time that I learned. I thank God for that. But it scarred me in my love for the Lord because of all the negativity that was taught. So I went and by the way in your military we call it 3510. You look sharp, you have a way you wear your uniform, you have a way you wear your hair, you have a way everything that you do. So you're structured You only have two ink pens. You're allowed one pen or one pencil in your pocket, which you dis that's displayed. This guy had four in there. So when I saw that, I'm like, wait a minute, he wants me to go to church and he's not in 3510. I'm writing this dude off. I am not going to go with him. But I went with him And lo and behold, there was someone there that impressed on me and changed my mind about going to church, because she was at the church picnic. It was a church picnic on base. So Did God change my mind or by Diane being there or what? I'm not sure, but I'm sure thankful she was there because she was at church and she was going to church It was not something I was familiar with, the type of belief. It was a brethren church, but it was just like our church. It was just like a Baptist church. So from that Uh I um stumbled for quite a few years. When you're taught legalistic legality for many things, it's hard to just let those go. And also when you're taught with rules and stuff Military time-wise, my focus was everything is black and white. Sometimes I'm still that way, and I tried to change that. But Through Diana Lai's time of marriage and us continuing to go to church and stuff, God changed my heart. I know that I asked God to Saved me as a child, probably twelve years old. I know that. I know that took place. But it was always on again, off again. You know, if you did something wrong, then of course you're no longer saved And we all know biblically that's not right. But I'm going to tell you that's the view of the world. A lot of the world feels that way. But we know it's not accurate. So tonight I'm going to talk a little bit on that subject, but I just wanted to set my background. Now, Diane and also, when I'm in class and teaching, you guys won't believe this, but sometimes I say the wrong things Not on purpose or anything. It just comes out. So a lot of times when I'm teaching stuff, we have a system where she nudges me and I know back down So I asked her tonight and I'm like, hey, uh what's it gonna be? You gonna wear a hat or what's my f you know, how are you gonna key me to come down off the pole? And she's like, You're on your own. So I thought, you know what, President uh Bush Jr. , he got shoes thrown at him when at one place he was at, one of the briefings. So if I start to go the wrong direction, somebody launch a shoe up here But give the common courtesy to launch the other one too, that way I have a set of shoes to walk out here with, please Oh, and by the way, online, good to see you. Happy to have you. I'm sure some of you are out there. Okay, my sermon title, and it's going to be in Acts 17, but it's going to be a little bit until we get there So I talk about the religion and I use that term loosely. Religion, there are in the world there's over 4,300 types of religion in the world, which is amazing that we have that many religions. We all know we shouldn't have that many religions. About 85% of those global population identifies with a religious group. So that's 85% of people that say they're religious of some sort. So that's a good thing. You know, we're we're fifteen percent from a hundred. Now the thing is, is whether they're really or not, you know what, God can deal with people's hearts though. As of 2015, Christianity remains the world's largest religious group. And it consisted though of that, there's over one-third, 31% of the global population, of 7. 3 billion people. consider themselves Christians. That's a lot of people. The major branches though of Christianity are are literally countless sects and denomin sects and denominations. So there's a lot of denominations out there out of all of those Christians. I will say though, Christianity influences on history and the impact of the world today perhaps is more dramatic than any other faith on the planet. So Christianity is there. During the COVID times, during sickness times, what do people normally do? They call on the Lord, right? Or they think about Lord, they start kind of thinking of themselves and and um you know, someone's told that they're terminal If they've been raised any at church at all, I am sure they have reflect on that and reflect on what their feelings are towards the Lord and so forth. So, Christianity though, James 1. 27 says, pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this. to visit the fatherless and widows in their afflictions, and to keep himself unspotted From the world. So that means we're separated from the world. That means if we're Christians, then we need to act like it. You know, when you were kids, and I was teasing about the flag swap, but you know, when you were kids, sometimes You're so-and-so, you need to act like that. You know what I mean? We were taught that. You don't res do when you respect, when you do something wrong, you're not just respecting yourself, you're respecting your parent Everything influences your parents. Um if you were the banker's kid in town, you were probably the ones doing a lot of things that the banker himself didn't know about it. But You were as a uh you had a status symbol, if you will, when you were a child in the school you were going to because of who your parents were. So why are we as Christians any different than that? We have a status symbol of being a Christian And we should act like that and be like that. So the description is far different from the rules and rituals and hard-to-follow standards found in many of the world's religions today. That description is of keep yourself unspotted from the world. I and you are Christians. We're a child of God and we follow the sacred canon of Christianity, the Christian Bible. is the one that was given to us. That's the scripture we live by, we go by. Do we have to guess about things when we have the Bible? We have the Bible. Sometimes people might get in trouble with the law. On that note, people that get in trouble with the law. Miss Helen is the matriarch, I believe is the right word, of the church. She's been here probably the longest, but for two or three weeks now. She wears boots because of her she wears boots, I'm gonna say that. Um Miss Mary and Miss Dorothy have been with her, and a lot of times Miss Helen always sets like this, but a couple weeks now they've been on both sides And she wears boots. I thought that girl has got one of those straps from going to jail on her leg and she's got a boot covering it up. And then Catherine comes in, which Catherine is Miss Helen's grandson's wife. I thought, oh Lord, Catherine's got a uh wrap around her leg. Maybe she's got one of those devices on her feet also. So I'm not sure about that. So just keep an eye on them, please. Just as a side, you know, you've got to be observant when you're in church. You never know what's going on. But, so have you ever faced a life or death situation? Have any of us ever faced that? Maybe sometimes you're faced with a decision that could ultimately change your life as you know it today. In other words, your health. Your marriage, your job. We see the world right now, so many people unemployed, so many people sick, and so their lives have changed Whatever, wherever you are in your life, whatever the age, the career, the money we make, we will have to answer one question. Will we or won't we accept the Lord? And let the Lord live eternally and live eternally with him. That's the ultimate question, is will we or won't we? That's a big question that you can ask yourself in almost everything you start to do. Will this benefit the Lord, or won't this benefit my relationship with the Lord? Right now, a lot of the world have been raised in churches, and that's why I mentioned my the way I was raised, have been mentioned and raised in religious opinions that they've been raised with. What they believe about God and what they believe about the Bible and what they were taught there as children. It is not a sound doctrine belief in God, those opinions. They're not s they're they scripture pull or they take out the context things. That's what not what God wanted us to do So they battled for that for years. I battled for many, many years with that. I worked with a co-worker that was She and I, as far as I know, was the only ones that went to church and I said something about us going to heaven and she says, Well, I know I am Meaning but the religion she was in was a works based religion and you know not a not a salvation. I didn't want I didn't address that because sometimes at work you can't address those type things, but I wanted to say, I know for sure I'm going because Christ did it. Not the other things that I do. So kids today have have lasting effects on what they're taught or not taught. Children need to be raised in a sound Christ-like home and they need to attend church. All of you know that in here If you raise your children in church and they don't attend, it is a heartache for a parent. It's a struggle for a parent because they wish those kids would come to church That is why they need to see in their homes, not just on Sunday morning, us being a Christ-like individual. We have to be a Christian 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Everywhere we go. So we have to lead by example. Our children become the testimony of us and what they saw at home. Do we model our Christ-like behavior at home, or are you a Sunday morning Christian? Do your children, do your grandchildren, do your parents, your co-workers know that God has all of you, or does the world have a portion of you? Are crude jokes at the workplace and at the family reunions and those things tolerated? Our swear words Now and then, okay. Do people around you know you are a Christian? Our decision to accept or not accept Christ means everything to eternity. What we do now is not a temporary thing. Remember, Pastor preached Sunday morning. Every act we do, everything we say, God knows and it's written. So, our decision to accept or not accept Christ means everything to eternity. But maybe we have accepted Him and we know we are Christians, but we just don't act like it. And we all know people like that. I will say sometimes maybe it's a time to remind them. Again, I'm not saying be blunt and be rude and so forth, but again, what did mom and dad do to you? They reminded you of your actions. Sometimes people need reminded of their actions. They are also reminded of their actions by your actions. So if my actions are off at work and then I tell them about church on Sunday or invite them to a men's meal that we're having How do you think they're going to think if I don't act like Christian at work? And I don't want to pretend, I don't want to act like I want to be the Christian, the Christ-like son of Christ that I gave my life or that gave his life for me and I gave my uh love for him too. So this could be the turning point in your life, the time to make change Life changing questions is I will or I won't. I will accept Jesus or I won't accept Jesus. It's an either-or. I will live for him or I won't live for him. Sunday night I spoke of Adam Shaiva on Sunday night. You guys remember him, the missionary biography that I did. Fabulous man. I did not go in detail a lot more about him. He had a very um much of very struggle in life. But he didn't have an elaborate elaborate story of his salvation either. He had a battle with his salvation Uh he hashed the question over and over for five years about salvation because of the doctrine he was raised with. Remember, he was baptized in Lutheran uh church when he was young. So that m more than likely meant they went to that church. In Europe a lot of churches are or uh Church of England, uh Germany is it's uh Catholic type church everyone is a church member of it whether they ever set foot it in their lives or not. So that can be blinding to the kids not to really understand it. So They need sound doctrine. He did not have sound doctrine in his mind, but it's a must. He was raised at the time where Russia Empire believed belief was orthodox confessions So they confessed, went on, did it again, did it again, did it again. Some of our churches are that way right now. They confess and then God blackens that out and then next week, you know, I'm saved for three minutes and then boom I'm I'm back and not saved any longer. So he again he was baptized at the age of four. At age twenty two he began to search for Christ. He was tired of feeling this way. He was tired of seeing this go on around him. So he was this point on the road to real salvation. He was faced with the I wheel or the I won't options of life, but with different obstacles. He had a vision one time that his name was in the book of life, but it was a note in the margin that didn't make sense to him how his name would be in the margin, not the lineup with everybody else He was bartering. He prayed what he knew as salvation at the time. He prayed that it was name would or that he prayed and made promises to God, which resulted in doubt because he failed. Those promises failed. Um he had conversations, but guess what? They were with the wrong people. He had school teachers, friends. And the man that he didn't even know telling how to be saved and what would Christ was like and so forth, it wasn't from the Word of God I'm not labeling and saying all those people are bad. When I say school teachers and friends and all I'm not saying that. But I'm saying he didn't have somebody that had biblical backing to teach him. So he cre it created unbelief in his mind. He didn't have the encounter with God like Paul had on the road to Damascus. He didn't have that. But he had God uh pricking his heart and wanting him to be saved because God knew what his future was going to be. So he was even faced with rituals in his church. They attended the as the Lutheran church, they did the Eucharist To bring and that didn't bring peace to him. So when he would do that, still no peace. The devil can place roadblocks in our life And th that only can draw the Holy Spirit and give you change. Not the devil, but with what with the devil Doing that, God can intervene with you. The devil's trying to trick you in all of this kind of stuff. That ain't gonna work. So Baptist had launched uh a mission there in Lots where he lived, so he attended the church, the Baptist church. Now mind you, you attend a Baptist church But you're ranged as Lutheran. You've been baptized at four years old. You've been sucking on candy or whatever that Luther that thing is. Um Eucharist. It probably wasn't candy. Um But he had all of those in the back of his mind, you know, and I'm sure he had the different prayers and stuff that they taught them. So when he went to the Baptist church, the new one that was in town, guess what? He didn't like it He didn't like the leader. He didn't like the baptismal doctrine. Why? Because he was baptized at four. So I'm already baptized. I don't need that baptismal stuff. It was a conflict from his upbringing. So he started sh he started attending regularly, but was critical to the sermons. How many people are out of whack with the Lord and they come to church? And they, or people that are saved but don't come to church, don't live right, they're out of whack with God's teachings. He disliked the Baptist elaboration of the new birth, being saved again, a new life with Christ. He thought that the Baptist was all about baptism. Because he didn't know about what Baptist stood for. He didn't realize that it was salvation that God gives you, nothing to do with the baptism. But he let the influence of those around him that had chosen I won't to derail him, those people that he'd asked about and talked with, they were all giving him the I won't answers, not the I will answers. Then it happened. They were singing a chorus of some sort at that church. It just touched his heart. He went forward. And ask God to forgive him as he had been newly taught from the Scriptures. Started working in him and changed his heart, the Holy Spirit indwelled in him and started help leading him in a new view began to began to change him as well. 1869, he came to the conviction that his sins were forgiven and he was now accepted for baptism. He was baptized in an ice hole in the small river near Lots. Now let me say this. If we gave people the opportunity to be baptized in the winter at Deep Creek Lake or hold off till February or to June or July, what are they probably going to do? June or July, right? That's what they're gonna do, but first of all our pastor would say, No, you're gonna get out there in January. But anyway, that and that's what the Bible says. It doesn't say that. I'm sorry. The Bible gives an illustration of we need to do that soon afterwards. And it's a memory thing. Remember, he remembered he was twenty-two years, twenty-seven years old He remembered back when he was four years old and was baptized with the water. So he r so that was important to him. So now he's going to remember that he uh was being baptized in the ice. It also uh baptisms were kind of illegal at that time, so they had to do it at midnight because they were outlawed. So this guy wanted to be baptized, so he took that extra step and did it. So we nowadays do we have all those conflicts and and and um Do we have to fight with the church being over us and not letting us do things and that kind of stuff? We don't have that, do we? We are free to preach God's word. Right now, we are free He wanted to get closer to God. We have this opportunity right now to get closer to God. As people say, we don't know what the future is going to bring because of all the turmoil that's going on We have more opportunity to seek God than He did. We have the freedom of religion. So right now, our world is at the crossroads of I will or I won't Everyone that is a non-Christian and the Christians that have choices that they have to make, we go on into the New Testament of the Bible, and we see in Acts 17, and that's where I told you to turn, that God made all races. And all nations, and all of us, by one what? Anybody remember? What flows through our veins? Blood. He made us all one blood. We're either going to be all his child or not his child. We're going to accept him or not accept him. There's no other choices out there. There are those two choices. He created man and woman with love and with compassion for each other For this world. His plans was this world to be as he as we dream of heaven to be. That was his plans But Adam and Eve, of course, changed those plans. But you know what? In the environment we are in, we can try to make our little areas a heaven, meaning we can do what's right. We have a sin nature in us, but I will say that most things that we're faced with are really not hard decisions to do. I mean if we're faced with shooting somebody, you probably got to think hard about doing that. So it's not it that would be a complicated decision to do So if you felt that you needed to go in the Bible and search, go to the Ten Commandments, thou shalt not kill. So there it is. Many things that we deal with in a day-to-day life Be a good coworker. Do I need to find the Bible and go find the verse that says, hey, me to be nice to my neighbor? No. It was instilled in us and we were born with that. And most people were taught that as children I think we in society have went away with l a lot of things that grandparents and great grandparents taught and now it's been watered down and so forth and not taught much anymore in the homes. Um so it's a matter of we have to go back to the Bible. The world is choosing I won't. If it's right I won't do it, is what the world is choosing to do. They're going against everything God created us to do. And it's persecuting its own people by the foolish decisions they are choosing. Things that the world is so confused about now, these young children can figure out and have the correct biblical answer to by simple questions of what What sex are you? It's an easy thing to figure out. But now we've complicated it It's the Bible is telling us one thing which is the I wills, what God is asking us to do The world, as I said, is choosing, I won't. We were born with a sin nature. So what's that mean? We had rotten attitudes, sour dispositions, but we were given a choice. Today, when those guys were Going very slow in front of me. I could have been angry and I don't know what I would have done, could have done. I didn't pass 'em I just, I guess, you know, I kept thinking about my patience. I thought, is God treating me or teaching me to have more patience with this? Because it seems like that's been a thing in my life for a while now, every evening coming from Morgantown, growing on more patients. And you know, God puts things in our lives. And again, He gave us the choice of I will. We can choose I Will to do His will, or we can go the other direction. But you know what? Where will the I Will get us? We will get to heaven if we choose it. Acts 17, verse 24. This is Paul's sermon that Paul's teaching Verse 24 says, God that made the world and all things therein, seeing that He is Lord of heaven and earth, dwelleth not in temples made with hands. God dwells in heaven, and through the Holy Spirit, God is with us. That's where God dwells We don't have to go out and try to figure out where he dwells at. We know exactly where he dwells. Those that are saved Verse 25, Neither is worshipped with men's hands us, though he need any needeth anything, seeing that he giveth to all life and breath and all things. God is everything that we need. We just have to accept it. We just have to ask Him for it. Now, people that'll go out and ask for want lots of money and want lots of things like that. God will give to those people that that He feels they need that. Myself, I feel that health is a big thing that we should ask for. Because if I have good health, then that means I can serve him longer. That means I can pound the pavement and be out there telling people about him. That means I can tell people around me about him God gives us everything we need. He also gives us life. Verse 25. Wait a minute. Neither is worshipped with men's hands as though he needeth anything, seeing he giveth all to life, breath and all things. So he wants us to love and to serve him and fellowship with others I was in a conference and it was about equal opportunity stuff. And I'm not going to be political on this. This was the key thing that was said though. And we all nowadays are being faced with equal opportunity. uh rules and all of that. The key thing that came out of the meeting was you need to know your people you're around. And I thought, you know, that's not a bad thing. If you know your co-workers, you know who you what they believe, and so one is that gives you opportunities to share the gospel if you can't. You have to be sensitive about that But then you know the people that you're around and it should help prevent some things that happen nowadays. Does God not want us to go out and tell people about Himself? He does, right? He wants to go ye and tell the world, basically, is what he wants us to do. So if I can't know my neighbor that's at my job, how am I going to go across the hall and tell somebody about Christ at lunch? It's going to be real hard to do, right? So we need to give our life to Him in service to Him. That's what He created us for. Verse 26: And He had made of one blood all nations of men For to dwell on all the face of the earth, and hath determined the times before appointed, and the bounds of their habitation We all have one blood in us. We're all one nation in God's eyes. With that, if I we all have one blood then we're not different people as far as nationalities. Yes, we've we have um labeled people as different, but in God's eyes we are people We Christians are his family. We're all one big family. Christians, safe people are, no matter what nationality, no matter what race. Sinful man chooses to divide this world. Right now there's a huge division going on. The news puts it out every second of the day. The division, the wedge. God sees no nationality. He sees precious people that His Son died for. He gave His Son for you and me. He gave His Son for the whole world. Verse 27, that they should seek the Lord if haply they might feel after him and find him, though he may, though he be not Far from every one of us. So God wants us to seek the Lord. That's salvation. That's what He wanted us to do. Once man fell In the garden, from that point on, he wanted us to seek him. He wanted us to go and love him. He wanted us not to be the I won't. I won't accept you, Lord. I won't serve you, Lord. I won't change my heart for you, Lord. I won't live the way you want me to do. That's what those people are seeking. And God did not want that. Feel. The Holy Spirit will prick our hearts when we know we're not doing things that we're not supposed to, when we're ill towards people. Any situation, the Holy Spirit, if we have not quenched that Holy Spirit so silently that we can no longer hear it. God will make it known. You will feel when you're not supposed to say things and not supposed to do things. And there it says, and we will find him. He is in those Christians that are around you. We all in here know Christians that say they're Christians when it comes to certain things. They'll throw their hand up, I'm a Christian. But unfortunately you were dumbfounded by it because you never knew they were Christian because of their actions We can't judge them over that, but we can be a testimony around them. And you know, sometimes I believe it's alright to if you're in a situation where you know they say they're Christians to bring up that conversation. Maybe at one point in time they got saved and then they fell away from the Lord by t by uh Serving him and doing going to church and doing things, reading the Bible and doing things they're supposed to. That's a perfect opportunity to s to sp uh share the word. Share our word that you read that morning from the Word, from the Bible It's an opportunity that God's opened up for you. And it says that He is not far from every one of us. He is near. He is only one short prayer way, is the the distance of the Lord. He's not far at all from us Verse 28, for in him we live and move, and have our being, as certain also of your own poets have said. We are also his offspring. Hallelujah. We're Christ's offspring, those that are saved. There you can be a king, but you will never be you will never get this high. A king on this earth is not as at the level that our King of Kings is, our Savior is. And again, he is only a short prayer away. The world right now, we were born of God and we are his, but some choose to deny him, and they're in the I won't crowd. You turn to Matthew 4. 19. Okay. Matthew 4. 19 tells us, and he saith unto them, he gives them direction here, follow me, and what will he do? He will make you fishers of men. So I have to follow the Lord, and He is going to help me and make me a soul winner. He's going to help me To lead others to him. He's going to let people see that I'm in the I will crowd. I will is with the I am Matthew 11, 28 says, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and what's he going to give us? He's going to give us rest. So we might be in a spiritual battle with Satan, with the things that go on in our lives. We might be a battle with family. We might be a battle with our jobs. We might be in a battle with our health But God's going to give us rest. Now, sometimes you think, well, when's that coming? I'm really wore out. Don't know. God's going to give it to us. Is it plausible that we might get it when we pass on? I'm not sure. We're definitely going to rest then, because we're going to be in his arms. But He will give us rest. The Bible also tells us that He won't give us more than we can take. So again, if we're wanting to be in the I Will group We gotta be there and we gotta say I will to him. When he put someone in your path to give your testimony, put someone in your path To be nice to put someone in your path, to pay their bill or whatever. Multitude of things that God can put in people's paths. We have to listen and we have to trust in Him and know that that's what He wanted us to do Or we can step back and say, I won't do that. And I won't will get will not get you as far as you can go. Again, the world is telling us I won't And here's what's going to take place with the I won't crowd, with everyone, but the I won't crowd is for sure going to be the ones that's going to wish that they hadn't said, I won't accept you as my Savior. Acts 1730 says, and the times of this ignorance, God winked, which means he looked over, overlooked. At by now commandeth all men everywhere to repent. If we don't repent, then guess what's going to take place When we pass on, we're not going to have that chance to repent. It's finished. It's done. Verse 31 of Acts 17 Because he had appointed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness by the man whom he had ordained Whereof he hath given assurance unto all men, in that he hath raised him from the dead. Jesus is the man that God appointed to judge the world. God is Jesus is the one when I was twelve years old around that time the the religious things that I were taught didn't give me the assurance, knowing that I accepted Jesus and asked him to forgive me of my sins gave me that assurance. Later on in my life, uh Diane and I uh I forget when it was, I was still having a huge battle. Again, I was browbeat, if you will, of this religious belief. Um and we were going to we were s steadily going to church and I and I enjoyed going to church but inside I kept having a battle of well you know the the Bible says this that we scripture pull as I said And it was just a huge division. And I don't know whether if I would use the excuse that the devil was trying to get me to go from going to church and stuff, or I'm not sure what it was, but we were arguing And we shouldn't argue over the Bible, but there's times she's not nice. There, I let that out. I'm just teasing you. No, I wasn't not the one nice. I threw my Bible across the room. I was mad. I was done. I was so frustrated. I was tired of the internal torment. The Bible says this, but these people say this. These pastors preach this. I was so tired of it. And I launched that Bible. It's so vivid in my mind now. God said, if you pick that up, I'll go with you, and He's with me. He's been with me There are times if I am not careful, I won't say I revert back to that, but those when you're around people that have that type of opinion, sometimes you It brings that old nature out and you have to be careful. I know without a doubt of shout, God saved me My dress, my hair, my speech. Whether I wore lipstick, I don't. But anyway All of that did not save me, did not keep me from heaven or hell. My disbelief, me saying I won't accept you as my Savior. I won't serve you. I won't listen to you. I won't read your Bible. That's what would have kept me from hell. Not the I will pick this Bible up, Lord, and I will Listen to you, and I will let you carry me forward, and I will let you take me, and I will let you go with me. That's what saved me. So we can't let doubts, we can't let anger, we can't let unforgiveness allow us to miss the mark. Unfortunately, society is allowing that. They're letting that edge in the door. We've got to get up and we've got to believe and we've got to choose the I will. We've got to choose I will serve the Lord, I will live for Him, I will do what He tells me to do John 14, 3 says, and if I go and prepare a place for you, guess what he's doing? I will come again. He's going to come back to me. He's going to come receive me And unto myself that where I am, guess what? There ye may be also. Because I chose, I will. He is taking me with him. How wonderful to know that He will, if we accept Him, we know that He will indwell in us He will guide us. He will prepare us a place for us. And if someday he will come again where we will dwell with him forever. All it takes is an I will. You guys are probably thinking, Manny said I will, I will, I will. Good. I want that in imprinted in your mind. Because it's that question. I will do this, Lord. I will serve you. I will do what you want me to do. Or I won't The won't will not let us do and keep us in the will of God. Society, unfortunately, a lot of the bulk of that, eighty-five percent of people that I opened my message with 85%, there's a lot of those that are saying I won't right now. Are church houses filled on Wednesday nights all over the country? I will say no they're not. There's a lot of I won't going on. But you know what? We in here We're few, but we're not. We're many. We're many in here because we're children of God. We serve God. We've got to spread the gospel in our homes. In our workplaces, everywhere we're at. Psalms 32. 11 says, Be glad in the Lord and rejoice, ye righteous, and ye shout for joy. All ye are upright in your hearts. That's the I wills. The I wills are the ones that are upright with God. We're the ones that have the joy. Yes, there's heartaches that hit us. The gentleman that just passed away, oh yeah, Bernard. I thought, my my, how God, why? Why a man that is serving you at the fairs? You know, leading souls to Christ. In my negative thinking, I'm like, God, there's many people out there that deserve, if you will, and I'm not being judgmental. I'm just saying You know, in a crowd you would shove somebody else forward and keep him back here because he's doing so much for the Lord. But that's God's choice, and that's what God chooses to do. And maybe from this Somebody got saved. Maybe from this someone finds out that he passed on and his testimony of how much he loved God and served God, that their lives will change. Maybe that's the outcome of it But no matter what, as Christians, we have to rejoice in the Lord. We have to say I will to God. I asked Mark to to pray or to sing what a day that will be No more burdens to bear, no more sickness, no more pain. But forever I will with the one who died for me. What a day, a glorious day that will be. That people singing right there are going to be the I Wills. The I won't won't be in that group. They're not going to get his hand taking them and going to heaven. It will not happen We have to serve God. We have to love God. We have to spread the gospel everywhere we at, every waking moment. When you hear peace people say, oh time is running short, things are going to happen, when you're younger you kind of look at that and think, well, how do they know that? What do they mean by that But when you look around and see the conflict the world is having today, boy, oh boy, oh boy, something something is wrong. Something is wrong. It's gotta be getting closer. Because we sure got a bunch of nuts out there And God is the only one that can change that, but guess what? He wants to change things through us. We are as people, if you will, on earth It's trying to spread the gospel. He's spreading it through us through the Holy Spirit. We have to stand up for him and be the I wills. We'll close it this time. If you can stand at your feet, please. I pray that you know