And I'd like for us to read together, if you would, verse five and six, Hebrews thirteen, verse number five and six. Pastor just uh Pastor Matt just read this, but I'd like for us to read this together And um and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Ready, verse number five. Read it with me. Here we go. Let your conversation be without covetousness and be content with such things as ye have. For he has said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee, so that we may boldly say The Lord is my helper, and I will not fear what man shall do unto me. I want to take that phrase, that last phrase In uh verse number five, it says, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. I've entitled the message, I initially entitled the message, I will never leave thee. I mean people agree that's very creative I got working on the message a little bit, and I came up with this title I thought might be good. The Assurance of a Lifetime. The assurance of a lifetime. Let's pray. Ask the Lord Jesus. Father, I thank you for the Church of God. I thank you for our church here. What a blessing it's been to assemble together. Our singing. It's just stirred my heart this morning. The fellowship has just been a blessing to me. And God now as we open our Bibles, we have them in front of us here, we're asking That your Holy Spirit would take your word and speak to our hearts. God, I pray that those of us that need to be challenged in our faith, to be stronger and step out more in faith. I pray your Holy Spirit would challenge us to do that. Lord, maybe some of us need conviction Maybe we've allowed some things to creep in, and maybe we've neglected some things that we really need you to deal with in our heart and help us get that back where it needs to be. Or maybe some of us need just need some good encouragement Just be reminded that you love us and you're with us and you will help us. God, so whatever our need is, I'm asking God that you would, your Holy Spirit would use your word to meet that need. God, I can't do any of that myself. So Lord, you're here in our midst. I'm convinced of that. You promised that. And I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you. I present my body Please speak through me. Use this. I pray it would not just be just be a sermon. God, I pray it would be a message from God to help us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. For whatever reason, after I got shortly after I got saved and back in 1979, the book of Hebrews became a favorite to mine. Now, the book of Hebrews in some ways is a little difficult to understand some things in there. The book of Hebrews is a transition say. It's explaining, and we don't know who the penman is. The Bible doesn't say you read all 13 chapters, it's not going to tell you who God used to pen it. We know who the author is. God's the author. But we don't know who penned it. I'm pretty convinced it was Apostle Paul. We'll find out we get to heaven. It doesn't really matter. But The book of Hebrews is explaining the transition from uh what is referred to as the old covenant To the new covenant. Now, those are a little bit theological terms. Basically, what it means is that throughout the Old Testament, the Old Covenant, God used the law. To bring people to the awareness they needed a Savior. Galatians says that the law was our schoolmaster To bring us to Christ, teach us that we're sinners and we need a savior. And that's predominantly what the Old Testament message was: the law, we're sinners, we need a savior. Now throughout it, he's pointing ahead to who that Savior would be and the promise of that coming Messiah, Savior. And then you have the new covenant, which would be the new And the message of the New Testament is grace for sinners in the person of Jesus Christ The fulfillment of the Old Testament saying we're sinners, we've not lived up to the law. The law was never intended to make a person acceptable to God. Say, well, I'll keep the law and God will accept me. No. One, you can't, and that was never its purpose. The purpose of the law was to show us we need a Savior. We've fallen short. You with me? You follow? And so that's the old covenant. Now Christ shows up. He's born of a woman. And he lives a perfect life. And he takes upon himself the judgment of our sin. That the law condemned us, and Jesus took that condemnation upon himself, was buried, rose again. And that's the message of grace. That we're saved in the person of Jesus Christ. And so the book of Hebrews, for the first 12 chapters, is explaining that transition. Over from law to grace. It's written primarily, the immediate audience for the book of Hebrews was believing Jews Folks that were raised up under the law, under the Old Testament ceremonies, the Old Testament sacrifices, and uh uh and they they grew up in that, and that's what they understood. Now they've been introduced to Jesus Christ and they trusted him as their Savior. Now, if you understand New Testament history a little bit, those Jews Who accepted Jesus Christ as their Messiah came under intense persecution. Their fellow Jews, the nation of Israel as a whole, turned on those who recognized that Jesus was the promised Messiah. They put their faith in him, they received him as their personal Savior. And brother, the wrath of the religious leadership of Israel was turned on them. Persecution was intense. And so one of the things the book of Hebrews is addressing are these Jews who are being intensely persecuted for their faith in Christ. And here's the thing: they are considering Abandoning Christ and going back to Judaism. They're being tempted, they're being enticed to abandon and go back to the law and back to the sacrifices and the ceremonies. that were uh prescribed in the in the Old Testament, the Old Covenant. And Christ fulfilled all of that. But they're tempted to go. And that's primarily what the message of Hebrews is The theme, if you want to come up with a theme for the book of Hebrews, it would be this, the superiority of Jesus Christ. In other words, Jesus Christ is far superior than the sacrifices in the Old Testament. The sacrifice Jesus Christ made of himself for us Is far superior than any sacrifice of bulls and goats and lambs in the Old Testament. The word better is used thirteen times in the book of Hebrews. He's better. He's better. He's better. He's better than the old sacrifice. He's better than all the ceremonies they went through, the feasts and all that. All of those were object lessons, if you will, of what Jesus Christ was going to do for us. And what they were being enticed to do is abandon the reality of Jesus Christ to go back to the object lessons. of what he was going to do. And uh and so he's confronting that. Christ is better. He's better than the sacrifice, better than the Old Testament priest. He is our high priest. The others were just men. They live and die. They had to give sacrifices for their own sins. Jesus had no sin. He's the perfect high priest forever And so he's better than that old system that was designed to be temporary. It was designed to be an object lesson Until the re until the true and eternal pride priest shows up. To the true and eternal sacrifice is made. And so he goes through. He's better than the priests. He's better than the prophets. He's better than the sacrifices. He's better than the ceremonies. Better, better, better, Better All through the first twelve chapters, the prophets, the priests, the sacrifices, the ceremonies could not remove our sins. They could not. Take your Bible real quickly, and I want to get keep going through here. But go back to chapter 9. I just want to point I just want to show you how he goes about this a little bit Uh chapter nine, look at verse eleven with me. He says, but Christ beingcome a high priest of good things to come by a greater and more perfect tabernacle. That tabernacle in the wilderness later they built a temple. That was patterned after the true tabernacle in heaven. And so he's of a greater, more perfect tabernacle, the eternal one in heaven, not made with hands. That is to say, not of this building Now look at this. Neither by the blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood he entered once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us. Look at verse 13. For if the blood of bulls and goats and the ashes of a heifer sprinkling the unclean sanctify to the puring of the flesh, how much more shall the blood of Christ Who through the eternal spirit offered himself without spot to God. Purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God. With me over at verse 24. He says, For Christ is not entered into the holy place made with hands, but which are figures of the true. In other words, that old holy of holies and the altars and all that That was just patterns of the actual one that's in heaven. Even to this day it's there. Which are figures of the true, but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God. Uh not nor yet, verse 25, that he should offer himself often as a high priest, entering the holy place every year with blood, they had to go back and do it over and over and over and over again Christ did it once. For then must he have suffered since the foundation of the world. But now once in the end of the world hath he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. Let me give you a couple more here real quick. Well, verse twenty-seven, it's appointed unto men once to die, but after this judgment, so Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many unto them look for him shall he appear a second time without sin under salvation. One more passage, uh verse chapter ten. Look with me at verse three. Now remember he's comparing. He's saying Christ's sacrifice is far better than all that Old Testament stuff you grew up under and you were that was all just an illustration, object lesson of what Christ is going to do. Look at verse 3 But in those sacrifices, those old test old covenant, there is a remembrance again made of sin every year. They had to do it over and over and over and over. Now look at this next verse. For it is not possible that the blood of bulls and goats should take away sin. Now that's what they were doing. It was all picture of the blood of Christ that was going to be shed. What he's saying, here's his argument This is the argument God is giving in the book of Hebrews. That if you leave Jesus Christ And what he did for us on the cross, you have nothing to go back to. You say, oh, I'm being persecuted. They're saying I'm being persecuted. Uh-uh. I'm abandoning Christ. I'm going to go back to these old second Old Testament sacrifices. He says you're leaving, you're you're you have nothing to go back to. There's nothing in that. They're not going to do anything for you. If a church removes the blood of Jesus Christ From their message and from their hope and from their confidence, that church has nothing to offer as far as sacrifice and forgiveness of sins is concerned. There is without the shedding of the blood of Jesus Christ, there is no remission. There is no forgiveness of sins. And he says, you abandon that and you go back to that old, you're going back to nothing. It offers you no hope. It offers you no assurance. There's no forgiveness in that. It cannot take away your sins. The world's only hope is Jesus Christ and the shed blood on the altar in heaven today. It's the only hope. And when we abandon that, when churches and modern Christianity say, well we need a change with the time, it's a slaughterhouse religion, that Blood is nothing more than a red fluid that dropped in the ground, like some preachers say. They are abandoning the only thing that can take away the sins of the world. The blood of Christ, the blood of Christ, the blood of Christ. And so they're struggling with. By the way, that's why the devil hates the blood so badly. That's why he stirs up denominations and churches that aren't careful and get careless and reckless. And they'll take the blood out of the hymn book. They'll take the blood out of their preaching and they'll minimize and explain away and blaspheme the blood of Christ. Why? Because it's the only hope for a sin-sick world. The blood of Christ. And so you want to summarize what the book of Hebrews is. That's what it is It's a transition. The Old Testament, all that stuff was just an object lesson. And every person saved in the Old Testament was saved, not by keeping the law, not by offering these sacrifices. But putting their faith and trust in the coming Messiah that all of these symbolize. You with me All this here was just the object lesson of the coming Messiah. And every Old Testament believer was saved by trusting the coming Messiah. Now they didn't know. All the how it all played out, there's quite a bit of information given in the Old Testament of the Messiah. And we have the New Testament. Lo and behold, you and I, we look back on what He did for us And we know his name. We know how he showed up. And they knew some of this in the Old Testament. And we have this whole new covenant that we have that we can base uh put our assurance in and find our confidence in. And so the book of Hebrews is this transition book addressing these dear Jewish believers that accepted Jesus as their Messiah. They saw it, yes, I believe and they trust them. And now they're suffering the wrath of their own people. And they're struggling a little bit. And they're and they're and they're uh being enticed to go back. And he writes, now wait a minute, wait a minute. Jesus is far better Oh, he's a fulfillment of all that you're going back to is nothing. It's empty. It's fulfilled. It's all in Christ. All in Christ. All in Christ. I like that phrase from chapter 12. We used it as our theme. Looking unto Jesus. Looking unto Jesus. And so uh he goes through here and uh uh he uh uh s uh points out anything apart Oh, anything and by the way, this is brought out in this, anything apart from the blood of Jesus results in judgment. Say, well, I'm trusting my baptism. You can do that if you want, but I tell you you're making a terrible mistake because if that's what you're trusting in, you're going to end up under the judgment of God I'm trusting in my church membership. I'm trusting in my good works. I'm trusting in all this money I'm giving. I'm trusting in this, that. Listen, those are all wonderful. They all have their place. But only blood of Jesus takes away our sin. And anything outside of that ends up under the wrath and judgment of God. Now we come to chapter 13. That's the first time I preached on a whole book in ten minutes. Then you get to chapter 13 and it's I'm I'm looking at it, I'm I'm going over this study in this, and it's like chapter 13 is this Hajj podj. of different issues that he throws in as he's finishing the book. Now I'm being a little I'm going to be careful how I say this. This is all under the inspiration of God, right? Now I'm not suggesting it's haphazard, it's deliberate, but it's almost in my mind, I'm looking at it, it's like Miscellaneous issues that he wants to address quickly and briefly before he closes out the book. Look at verse 1 and 2 and 3. Pastor Matt read this a few moments ago. He says, Let brotherly love continue. Now he's talking about how they're living their lives. He's addressed all these weighty issues: the blood of Christ, sacrifice, all that, covenants. Then he says, Oh, hey, listen, you guys stay in love with each other. Let brotherly love continue. Be not forgetful to entertain strangers. Visitors show up. People, you come across people, take care of them, help them, be nice. How many people believe God's people ought to be nice? That's a novel concept. Entertain strangers. And notice he makes an interesting statement. He says, for thereby, verse 2, some have entertained angels unawares. How many people find that intriguing? Remember them that are in bonds as bound with them, and them which suffer adversity as being yourselves also in the body. He says, listen, love each other, help each other, care about each other. Then he goes on, verse 4, he talks about marriage and purity. We're talking about this in Sunday school in Malachi. Man, what an important Neglected issue that is in our day. Marriage is honorable in all, and the bed undefiled. But Horemongers and adulterers, God will judge. And again, this is completely off-subject, but adulterers, he's talking about folks that are married, that are unfaithful to their marriage vows. Intimacy with someone who is not my spouse. The word whoremonger's there, get this, it's the same word as our word pornography. Says pornographers and adulterers, God will judge. So he's talking about purity. Just makes that one statement there. Then in verse 7 and 17 he talks about church officers and leadership in the church. Verse 7, remember them which have the rule over you, who have spoken unto you the word of God. whose faith follow, considering the end of their conversation. Look at verse 17. Obey them that have the rule over you and submit yourselves. Look at this. For they watch for your souls. Look, this is what is sobering to me as pastor. As they that must give an account that they may do it with joy and not with grief, for that is unprofitable for you. You know what he's saying? He's saying the pa he's referring to the pastors, those that have the oversight of the church, the bishopric is the Bible term, of the church. They're going to answer to God. I'm going to have to answer to God for my pastor, me as pastor, Brother Fillmore back there. We have to answer to God for that. That's what he's saying. And then he talks about gratitude. Look at verse 15. By him, therefore, let us offer the sacrifice of praise. To God continually. That is the fruit of our lips, giving his name. We ought to be grateful people. You know what I believe that on our lips, all the time, this phrase ought to come off our lips constantly and sincerely God is good to me. God has been good to me. That's praising God. Thanking him. Listen, we have got it pretty good. We've got it pretty good. And I mentioned this many times, and some of y'all have experienced this first hand, but I've been in foreign countries on mission trips and uh been in some uh pretty poverty areas, third world countries. And I tell you, I can take you right now and introduce you to Christians who live in abject poverty and everything that you imagine in your mind that to be, that are happier than nearly any Christian I've ever met in the United States of America. God's good to them and they thank him and they're grateful and they praise him. So God's people ought to be grateful. Amen or not And uh and I'm you know I'm preaching it myself. Anybody here catch yourself complaining sometimes? Anyone catch yourself complaining a lot? Yeah, come on now. I complain about people complaining. So he has at chapter 13 he takes the the whole list of like and again I'm using this term hodgepodge of issues and he just makes these statements all down through here do this don't do that be sure of this make that this this Verse chapter five, the last part, he says, For he hath said, referencing Jesus Christ He has said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. Now these Jews were enticed to go back, abandon Christ. He goes, wait a minute. Christ is never going to abandon you. He's never going to leave you. We preach a lot. I preach a lot and I trust Bible preachers preach a lot. On our commitment to Christ. Right? Anybody ever hear me preach, and maybe using various terms, but preach on the concept we ought to be committed to Christ. Amen? I pray a lot for various people. They'll dedicate their home to Christ. They'll dedicate their marriage to Christ. Dedicate their life to Christ. We talk a lot and we preach a lot, and so we should, because the Bible talks about a lot. Our command Our dedication to Christ. But you know what he's addressing here? He's talking about Christ's commitment to us. Jesus' dedication to us. He says, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. That is commitment on the part of Christ. To us, to us, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. God declares his commitment to his people. By the way. Christ's commitment to me is the basis of my commitment to Him. Because He promised He will never leave me, He will never forsake me. That I can freely and confidently and unreservedly commit myself to Him. Commit my home to Him, my life to Him. Myself, I dedicate, I present my body, living sacrifice, wholly, acceptable unto him. Why? Because He's committed to never leave me and never forsake me A couple thoughts here. There's my outline going to be this. My first point is basically the message. And then the last two points I'm just going to make statements. Alright. So when I get when I say point two at two minutes till twelve, don't panic, all right? First thing I want us to notice is his promise. His promise. For he hath said. He, God, Jesus, hath said. Listen, this statement, this commitment by Jesus Christ that he will never leave us nor forsake us. Listen, it isn't Pastor Leatherman saying this that Jesus will never leave you nor forsake you. It's not some preacher saying this. It is Jesus Christ Himself saying, Ah, he has said, I will never leave thee nor forsake. It's not some Conclusion that a denominational organization comes up with, they have a committee meeting, all get together. Alright, is Jesus gonna uh leave us or forsake us. How many people vote yes? How many people vote and uh all right, we've come to we want all the churches to know Jesus will not leave you nor forsake me. Well God bless you. That's not where it's coming from. It's coming from Jesus Christ himself. He has said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. It's certainly not a government agency telling me that. The government agency was the one trying to assure me that Jesus will never leave me or forsake me, I would be skeptical. Right? I'm skeptical of anything, they say. Oh yeah, you'll have Social Security. I hope so. He has said it's Jesus Himself. I'm telling you, there is nothing more sure in existence than the Word of God. There's nothing I can be more confident, have more confidence in, than the words of Jesus Christ. I try to be sincere. If I say something to somebody, unless I'm joking around, which is probably too much, but if I say something to somebody I mean it. But I can't always live up to my word. Right or wrong. Anybody here ever have somebody not live up to their word? Yeah. Anybody here you didn't live up to your word? Yeah, we're all guilty because we're human, we're fallible, we're limited. A God Almighty, the infinite perfect Eternal God in the person of Jesus Christ says, I will leave thee, nor That's where if I was in Georgia, I'd come unglued right there. It's a promise of God. There's no greater certainty in existence than that statement, thus saith the Lord. He has said. It has the authority of God Himself behind it. This is, I'm studying this, and I'm not a linguist, I'm not an expert on any language, the English language or any other language. But I understand that this is a that phrase there, for he has said, is a very emphatic statement. In other words, it's kind of this way: For he hath said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. The emphasis is upon the one who is saying it. It's Jesus Christ, God Almighty, He has said. That's the emphasis in that phrase. He has said it's an enduring statement. Again, I am I am not an expert on like um I get my Wii's and bubble U's all mixed up and And what I'm doing. But I'm on I'm studying this and it it is in the perfect tense. And by that it means this. The way it's given to us. It is a one-time statement With continuing and eternal results. In other words, when he said this, there's no revoking it There's no going back. There's no there's no uh uh take backs, right There's no uh um what uh what what's the word I'm wanting there's no it's one time, it's in place, it's not changing. It's it it he's not taking it back. I guess what I'm meaning to say is he won't take it back. Never resend that's the word I was looking for, rescinded. It's an emphatic statement, it's an eternal statement. I will, he has said He's not going to unsay it. Now, there's two things that he said that he will never do. There's two things that he has promised, he assures us, that he will never do. Now, here's where it starts getting really interesting, at least from my perspective. He says, look at it there. I will, for he has said, I, Jesus speaking, I will. What's the next word? Never. I circled that. I have this whole verse underlined, but I circled that word never. I got studying that as I always do when I prepare messages. I looked up the word it comes from and how it's used uh in various places throughout scripture. This is an amazing word, the word never. Somebody tell me when is never No, you can't define a word with its own word. So when is never. At no time. Here's here I uh I I got I'll just boil it down. Here's the statement. This is what the word itself means. I will never, at no time ever, under any circumstances, in any condition, for any reason, in any way, will I leave you. In other words, it ain't gonna happen. Everybody got that one? In fact, the experts on all this, they say the word is actually like this. I will never, never, never, never, never leave thee. He overemphasizes it. He over-repeats himself. He uses a word that is the strongest, this is what I'm told, is the strongest word in any language that is a negative. In other words, there is no other word he could have used that would have been a stronger statement that this is not going to happen. He could have just said, I'm not going to leave you. Would you agree with me? If Jesus just said, I'm not going to leave you, that would settle it, right? That'd be okay. But he wasn't content with that He wanted there, he wanted to remove any doubt or any question as to whether he was going to leave us or not. Talking to believing Jews. Alright? He's talking to saved people. And as Gentiles, we're grafted in, so it applies to us. He says, How many folks here this morning? You're saved and you absolutely know it. Say amen. This promise is to you and I. I will never, never, never, never, never Five nevers. So, it's a strong word. Under no circumstances at all, for any reason, in any way, at any time, to any degree, will I ever leave you. There's nothing the world can do to get Jesus to leave me. There's nothing the devil can do to separate Jesus Christ from me. There's nothing I can do to get Jesus to lead me. Say, preacher, you don't know how bad I've sinned since I got saved. I trusted Christ that whenever, and preacher, I have sinned so badly Jesus Christ, there's no way He'd stay with me. He'll lead me. I know I've sinned so badly. I'm telling you, there is nothing you and I can possibly do to get Jesus Christ to leave us. If there was some way, if there was some possible way that Jesus Christ could be convinced and made to leave us, he would not have used that word never. But because he used that word never, there is not a sin in the world that can separate a believer from Jesus Christ. Now our fellowship can be broken. We can get out of sorts. But he will never leave us. He will never, never, never, never, never leave us. That shouldn't even be a question. That one statement should erase any doubt as to whether Jesus Christ ever leads a believer. Never, never. What a promise. What a promise. Now, there's two things he assures us he will never do. Let's look at them. He says, I will never, number one, leave thee. Leave thee. All right, I did my study on the word leave. It means this. To send back, to give up on, to let go of, to desert, or to walk away from. I will never leave thee. I'm never going to give up on you. I'm never going to desert you. I'm never going to walk away from you. I'm never going to let go of you. Never We lived in Colorado for three years and um we're in the ministry and it's so b Colorado's a beautiful state. There's a lot of amazing things. There's tremendous fishing, hunting, there's skiing. I mean it's just the hiking, it's just phenomenal Everybody ought to go visit Colorado at some point in their life, I think. And one well and we had a little bit of time one Uh I guess it was a summer. We took a day. And the boys uh were small. Daniel was like almost a baby still, maybe one. Sam was like three. Maybe four in there two or three or four, some were in there, very, very young. And we went up to, I think it was Breckenridge Summertime, there's still snow there all the time, but there weren't ski and and you could get a ski lift very inexpensively, just ride the ski lift. I mean the scenery is mind-boggling. So we said, yeah, let's get on the ski lift and uh we'll just ride up the mountain on the ski lift and and you can ride it down. And so we did. We got on the ski lift. Now this was a number of years ago, and it was just basically a bench. Anybody notice the benches we put out by the Activity Center? Aren't they beautiful? They're from the old church here. Uh their original benches from Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, the very first building. Isn't that something? If you want to buy one, see me, I'll talk to you So that ski lift, the seat was basically just a little aluminum bench, and it had one bar across the front. They brought it down. So it's Kathy, she's holding Daniel, Sam sitting beside us, just about three years old, and it's me. And we start going up that thing. And we start going higher and higher and higher. And if you know Sam, he sits still for about 30 seconds. And old Sam got squirming. And he's wiggling around and he's trying to climb up on that thing and it's like, I don't know, five thousand feet down on his way. We start panicking. And I'm telling you, I got a hold of that boy. And I held on to him. I think he still has my fingerprints in his arm I was scared to death that kid was going to fall. I held to him so firm. I mean I didn't hurt him, but I held on to him and I was not going to let go till we were back on ground. I was scared to death he was going to fall off of there. Jesus says, I've got a hold of you, and I will never, never, never, never, never, never let go of you. This is how he put it in John chapter 10, verse 28. I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never, same word, they shall never perish. Listen, and neither shall any man Pluck them out of my hand. I and my father are one, and neither shall any man pluck them out of my father's hand. When you and I trust Jesus Christ as Savior, our assurance, our security, and our acceptance and relationship with Jesus Christ is not based upon us holding on to Him. It is Jesus Christ holding on to me, and he said, I will never let go of you. See, oh, but Jesus, I did this. I will never let go of you. Jesus, I sinned so bad. I will never, never, never, never, never let go of you That's the second place I would come unglued if I was down in Georgia. Never. I'm not gonna leave you. I'm not going to let go of you. I'm not going to then look at the next word. He says two things. One, I will never, never, never, never, never, never leave thee, let go of you, abandon you, walk away, desert you. I'm not going to do that Number two, nor forsake thee. Alright, did my study on the word forsake. It's a companion to that word lead. They're very close. They're used in conjunction together all through Scripture, multiple times. Again, it means to abandon. It means to leave helpless. It means to reject or turn the back on, or to withdraw myself from. I think he uses the word I will never I will never never never never never never never leave thee nor forsake thee two words that are very similar different but they're similar I think he does that for emphasis And he does it multiple times through Scripture. We had time we'd look at it. I'm never going to abandon you. I'm never going to walk away from you. I'm never going to reject you. I'm never going to Uh forsake you, I'm never gonna withdraw myself from. I'm never gonna leave you behind helpless Uh my aunt and uncle for years ago would come down and help us, particularly at Sword Conference. Uh Uncle Dave and Aunt Bev. Some of you all remember Uncle Dave and Aunt Bev. Uncle Dave's bed-ridden. Aunt Bev's been with the Lord a number of years now Years and years ago, my cousin Krista, who had been down here a few times, um when she was small, they took a trip out west, I guess vacation or something. They had a big station wagon. How many people remember station wagons How many people remember the seats in the back facing the back? You could sit there. Those are great. How many people remember no seat belts? You just climb all over. It was great. It's amazing any of us lived, you know. They stopped at a road stop, I want to say Indiana, Illinois, somewhere out there. And they were going to go into a rest area. They stopped in the rest area and they were going to go and use the restroom. And they looked back and Krista was in the back of that. Uh station bike and sound asleep. She was just little. They said, we'll just run in real quick. Well come back out and hit the road. We want to make time. So Dame Bed ran in there, used the restroom. They come running back, jumped in the car, got in the interstate. They're driving an hour down the road and they said, uh Krista It's quiet. She's still asleep. Prista. Prista. They pulled her over. Look, she wasn't there. When they were in, she woke up, saw that mom and dad weren't there, figured they were there, she went running, they missed each other coming out. She was in the restroom and they drove an hour down the road. No cell phones. So they get off an exit, they call the police, tell them what happened, police go and find, they found Krista, she's standing, Mama Daddy left me, they hate me, they abandoned me They were, oh, we left our daughter. So the police helped them and they got reunited. Jesus said, I'm never going to do that to you. I'm never going to leave you in the lurch. I'm never going to leave you by yourself. I'm never going to leave you hopeless No matter where you go, what you do, where you're at, I'm staying right there with you How I'm going to help you be what God intended and created and saved you to be. I'm going to help you None of us are left listen, none of us are left to our own in our Christian life. We have an Almighty Helper. In the person of Jesus Christ, in the presence of Jesus Christ, and in the person of the Holy Spirit who dwells within us, we can be what God intends for us to be. You have a helper. I'm not going to leave you. I'm not going to forsake you. There has never been, there has never been one of God's people that Jesus Christ has forsaken. Not once. Now if a person is unsaved, if you're here under the sound of my voice, And you've never humbled yourself and come to the Lord Jesus Christ in faith, confessing your sin, believing that He died for your sins Trusting Him as your personal Savior and born in the family of God. If you've never made that decision, if you don't have assurance, sins forgiven at home in heaven, the Bible says that you are without God Without hope in the world, you do not have what this promise is. You cannot claim this promise. You cannot claim this promise. God loves you, He cares about you, He's kind to you, but you need to be saved. You need to trust Christ so you can, this promise is true for you. Those of us that know Christ, listen, I say this all the time: we are not better than the unsaved, but we're not the same. We have a promise that the unsaved do not have. That's why we want to get everybody saved so they can have that promise. There's never been one believer. There's never been one believer that Jesus Christ has forsaken them. Never one that He has left them. He said, I'll never, never, never, never, never, under any circumstances at all, for any reason, to any degree, in any way, am I going to do that. What a promise. He promised that again, we don't have time, but he promised that in Genesis 28, 15 to Jacob. Jacob was scared. He was alone. He saw this dream, the latter. He saw the Lord. And the Lord said, Jacob, I will not leave thee. You study life of Jacob, he messed up. He was a rascal. But God never left him. Never left him. Never forsook him. He made that promise to Israel before they went into the uh to the promised land and and uh and attacked Jericho. In Deuteronomy chapter 31, verse 6, be strong and of good courage, fear not, nor be afraid of them, for the Lord thy God, He it is that doth go with thee. He will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. And Israel went into the promised land with the promise of the presence of Almighty God. He told Joshua that in Joshua chapter 1, verse 5 and 9. Be strong, good courage, fear not, I'll be with thee. I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. You study those first chapters of Joshua, he was scared to death And Jesus kept coming back. God kept coming back. I'm with you, Joshua. I'm with you. I will not forsake you. I will help you. In 1 Chronicles chapter 20, David challenges Solomon. He's going to be the next king. It's going to build the temple, David said. Solomon, I can tell you from first hand experience, God will never leave you. Isaiah 4 Israel was in great need. They messed up bad. And God promised them, I'll never leave you. I'll never forsake you. What a promise. What a promise. Now, that's my first point. What's the purpose of him not leaving us? What's the purpose of this promise? Well, one, to preserve our salvation. My salvation is Christ. If He doesn't leave, my salvation is secure. You say, you mean you believe that once you get saved, you're saved forever? Yes. You can't separate Christ. He's never going to leave me. What if you sinned? I'll never leave you or forsake you. Now he'll chasten us. It's to protect our future. I don't know what tomorrow holds, but I know he'll be with me. He's not going to forsake me. I'm not going to face it alone. It's to empower our witness. He said, go into all the world and teach all nations. The Father, Son, the Holy Ghost, teach them to serve all things whatsoever command you, and lo, I'm with you always. I tell you, you go out, you say, preacher, I'm scared to death to talk to people about Jesus. What if Jesus was right there physically beside you? Would you have a little bit more boldness? Huh? Probably. Let me introduce you. This is Jesus. Oh, by the way, he created everything. He's all powerful. He's perfect, sinless. I'm here to tell you, he is with us. You shall receive power. After that the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and you shall be witnesses unto me. He empowers our witness. We witness, we have the presence of God. We're sharing the gospel. And then to point us in God's will, He leads us and directs us. What's the product of the of this promise. The purpose is to preserve my salvation, protect my future, empower my witness, appoint me in God's will. The product of his presence is told right here, verse 4 It's going to help keep me pure. Would you agree purity is a rare thing in our day and age? God, Jesus Christ, can and will enable a young person to keep themselves pure until marriage. You do not have to give in to the pressures of this world, and it is not easy Child of God, an adult man, adult woman, we can be pure in a sexually sinful, saturated society. Because I have the presence of God with me. Are you with me? I can be faithful to my spouse. I can have a happy, God-blessed, Holy Ghost anointed marriage because of the presence of Jesus Christ in my home. I can. I can. And so he talks about purity. It'll produce purity. It'll make us content. Look at verse 5. Says, be content with such things that have. Hey, if you got Jesus, what else? What's this world going to offer better than Jesus? Well, if I just had a bigger house, then I'd be happy. How about if you had the one that created the whole universe? And then verse number six he'll give us confidence on the So we may boldly say, I will not fear. The Lord is my helper, I will not fear what man shall do unto me. We don't have to be afraid of this world. We don't have to be afraid of people making fun of us. We don't have to be afraid. Now, this is easy for us to say because we don't face it, but we don't have to be afraid of persecution. We can be bold because we have the presence of Christ. He will never leave me. He will never leave. Say preacher, they're making fun of me because I had a Bible at work and all those guys were calling me names You've got Jesus with you for peace's sake. Huh? We don't have to be afraid. We don't have to be afraid. Every preacher stands behind the pulpit that preaches that knows Jesus Christ as Savior and preaches this book has no reason to be afraid to preach the Word of God as it is to men as they are Because of the presence of Christ. Every Sunday school teacher, every young person, wherever we are, we don't have to be afraid. Little girl Preacher preached, he gave the invitation for salvation. A little girl came up and she came over to the preacher at the invitation. She had tears in her eyes, and this is a true story. And she sat down beside the preacher. He sat down and he said, sweetheart, would you come forward at the invitation for us? She goes, I have a question. She said, if I accept Jesus as my Savior, will He leave me? And the preacher said, Well, sweetheart, why in the world would you ask me that question? And she began to sob. The preacher said she began to sob. And she said, this past week, my daddy left my mommy and me. And he left us alone. And we're scared. And she said, Will Jesus do that to me? The preacher began to cry and he held her and he said, Sweetheart, Jesus will never, never, never, never, ever leave you. She bowed her head. She trusted Jesus as her Savior. For the rest of her life, she has the greatest friend a person will ever have will never leave her. I don't know what you're facing. I don't know what's going on in your life. If you know Jesus Christ as Savior, we have hope. We have help. We have assurance. We have security in the person of Christ who will never ever leave us. If you're not saved, I urge you, come trust this Savior. He's good. He's good. I've known him for 46 years. He's good. You come trust him. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. Help us, Lord, in Jesus' name. Our heads are bowed.