Like snow, have I mentioned that lately? And uh wow, is it just me or is it getting old? You know, it's like every day. And uh last summer it's nice. Yeah, Carolyn likes it. Uh last summer Doctor Pat Creek called me up and uh sometime in the early summer and he said we're skipped um some uh teaching modules down in the uh Dominican Republic in March. Uh they have a s there's a seminary down there and there's various institutes around the country And uh he said, I'd like for you to come down and teach a module in in um uh at the time, I didn't know it was a seminary institute. And uh he said, Would you be interested? I said, sure. I I said, uh if we can work it out, I'd like to do it And so one thing led to another we're able to, and so Lord willing, very early Tuesday morning I'm going to be flying out of Reagan National Airport, flying down to Santo Domingo, uh down in the Dominican Republic, and be teaching down there Wednesday through next Sunday And so um I really appreciate your prayers that I'm excited about it. This morning I got looking at the weather and um I noticed that there's a potential big storm coming in Tuesday, Wednesday And uh just devastating snowstorm, bitter cold, um sub zero, high winds. I mean it's gonna be bad And so I thought, well, I'm going to look up the weather in Santo Domingo this week. And lo and behold, this is awful. Tuesday when we get there, it's supposed to be 83 degrees with sunshine And uh and it's supposed to be in the low to uh mid to high eighties all week long with slight chance of showers occasionally throughout the week. So you all pray for me while I'm down there. And um I'd appreciate that very much. We're thinking about just getting down there and canceling the seminar and the seminar and just sitting on the beach all week, but I don't think we'll do that. Luke chapter 9. I want you to notice with me just uh verse number sixty one. Luke nine, verse sixty one. Bro Pat read though this whole section here. But look at verse 6 and 1 says, and another person coming to Jesus said, Lord, I will follow thee, but Let me first go bid them farewell, which are at my home, at my house. I will follow thee. But, and so that's the name of my message. I hope I'm I've been praying, praying, Lord would help me to convey what I believe the message is here this morning. So ask the Lord to speak to our hearts if you would as we pray together. Father in heaven, I do pray you'd take this portion of Scripture It's been recorded for us. I ask, Lord, that you would take the truths here and the principles that are given. And uh I pray that through my body, Lord, through my presentation here, this sermon, that you would uh challenge us. to trust you and uh follow you. No doubt the vast majority of the folks I'm speaking to um have trusted you as Savior God, many of us, no doubt, have determined that we want to follow you, we want to live for you, we want to serve you. And uh so help us, Lord, to apply these truths to our lives. I yield my body anew to you this morning, Lord. I present uh present my body, I yield my will I ask with all my heart, dear God, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and that you would speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. How many people recognize the name Bill Nye? Bill Nye the Science Guy. When my boys were little, they loved to watch uh Bill Nye the Science Guy. Bill Nye the Science Guy is a knucklehead. He came out last fall at one point. He put together a video for the internet, and in that video he presented his argument. That Bible-believing Christianity is bad for children. That if you teach your children to believe the Bible literally, it's going to hurt our country. It's going to affect our future, and parents should not be allowed to teach their children to believe the Bible literally. Now he said, if you want as an adult, you want to believe it, that's fine. But you ought not to teach your children to believe the Bible is literally the Word of God. That is bad. Um this past fall, I think it was October, CNN w hired some organization fairly reputable. To do a survey of religion in America, and they wanted to determine what was the fastest growing religion in America And they did a very thorough study, and apparently as far as I can tell, it's it's legit, you know, it's fairly accurate. And their conclusion was this that the fastest growing religion in America Are people who identify themselves as non-religious? In other words, people who don't believe in God, don't believe that there's any such thing as as uh uh inspired scriptures of any sort. They just don't believe that. Uh the atheist organizations, uh secular organizations applauded this. They said this is great Finally unbelievers are getting the respect they deserve. And just uh it was met with accolades from the world's point of view that unbelief is the fastest growing belief in our nation. Uh I view that as very sad. If that is accurate and apparently it is, uh that is very sad. After the election in November, uh one of the Washington newspapers did a study on the religious, the religion of our representatives in both the House and the Senate and what their religious affiliations were. And here was their conclusion. They came to the conclusion that The Congress we have serving the countr United States right now is the least Christian Congress in the history of our country. Never in the history of a country have so few that represent us identified themselves as Christians of any sort And so the headline was this: the least Christian Congress in the history of the United States of America. Now I said all that to say this. Spiritually speaking, our country is in dire straits Would you agree with me? I think we've passed the tipping point. I think it's already turned, and um uh we are in desperate, desperate need of revival. Now, our context here in our passage of scripture, now with that setting in mind that I just shared with you, we come to Luke chapter 9. And Brother Pat read verses 57 through 61. And the context of what's happening here, Jesus is making his way uh towards Jerusalem. He's not just wandering around out there aimlessly. He is actually has a plan. He has something in focus. He is heading, he is making his final journey to Jerusalem. Now, what's going to happen in Jerusalem? He's going to be crucified. You're going to have the events of his final week before his uh crucifixion. He's going to uh introduce, he's going to have his triumphal entry into the city. And as nasing as that was, uh he's going to institute the Lord's Supper with the disciples. Um he's going to have that that horrendous experience in the Garden of Gethsemane where he's praying for God, his father, any way possible that this cup can pass from me. And then uh he makes that tremendous statement, nevertheless, not my will, but thy will be done The Bible says as he was praying there, of course he sweat, as it were, great drops of blood under the intense pressure and spiritual warfare going on. He's taken by the soldiers, he's brought before the high priest Uh he's condemned, he's passed off to Pilate, who shuffles him back and forth between Herod and finally they, Pilate and uh and just total frustration, it appears. just says, all right, just do with them whatever you want, and of course they beat him and take him out and crucify him. So that is where Jesus is headed towards. That's That's what's happening in Luke chapter 9. He is deliberately making his way step by step closer to that uh horrific event, to his own crucifixion. Now Jesus knew what was coming. You understand the crucifixion of Jesus Christ did not take him by surprise. He knew that was what he came for. And so he knew what this whole event was leading up to. He knew what he was facing. Now, the people around him Even his own disciples did not fully comprehend what they were heading towards. They did not fully realize what was about to take place. Now, Jesus had told his disciples on a number of occasions At this point, he had already told him, I'm going to die, and the third day I'm going to rise again. But, like you and I, it just didn't register. Did anybody ever tell you something's going to happen and you just really didn't pay it a whole lot of attention? Then it happened, it's like, whoa! Anybody know what I'm talking about? Uh you know, your kid your mom said to you, uh, you do that again, you're gonna get a whooping, just didn't register, you know, and then finally it came. That's kind of the way it was, not exactly, but uh the disciples. He told them very plainly what what lay ahead and for whatever reason they did not realize it. So the people around him, as he's making his way to Jerusalem Day by day goes by, step by step, closer to his crucifixion. Jesus knowing and very deliberately making this approach. People around him, uh in uh in very many ways ignorant. Of what this was all leading to. But as I studied Luke chapter 9, I got the distinct impression, though the people around him did not understand what was coming up. They knew something was up. I think, and I'm going to give you a verse here in a moment to to support my thinking, but uh I think though they did not realize uh what lay ahead They could feel the tension in the air. They could sense a crises was coming. Did you ever walk into a room and you could just feel the tension there. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You say, yeah, every morning I get up and walk out in the living room. Um uh no I'm kidding. Uh uh you just walk in and there's just tension there. You can't You can't see anything, you can't explain it, but you just know something's up. That is my impression of what's taking place here and what prompts the fellows in our text to say some of the things they were saying. Now look with me if you would at verse 53, a few verses back from where we read He's coming along there, and he sent messengers ahead to Samaria to make ready for him. Verse 53, and they, the people in Samaria, did not receive him. They said, we don't want him around here. No, we don't want him. Notice why? Because his face was as though he would go to Jerusalem. Now, you read that and you think that sounds kind of strange. How do you look at someone's face and you know where they're going to go? You know, I'm looking at Tom saying, well, his face is like he's going to Cumberland. Uh, you know, how would you know that I want to suggest to you that statement is telling us that this the people sensed there was something going on. There was something about the demeanor of Jesus Christ. There was something about his countenance. There was something about the way he was conducting himself that they could almost sense, I believe, a crisis is coming. Something is up. There's a conflict coming up. There's a sense of apprehension on his on the people's part as they look at Jesus Christ, how he's conducting himself and all that going on. I think that's implied here Now, as Jesus is making his way to Jerusalem, there's various responses to his teaching. It's kind of interesting. He gets to some places, as he's, as I said, making his way to Jerusalem. He gets to some towns. He gets to some communities and the people respond, uh the response is phenomenal. I mean people come out in droves, they They uh receive the teaching he's given them. Uh in some places you have multitudes believing on the Lord Jesus Christ, and you have phenomenal response By the way, I didn't mention this during this hour in Sunday school I did. We praise God for our wild game dinner. What a tremendous response we had last night. We had twenty-six people pray to trust the Lord as their Savior last evening And that's where God's people say, Amen. Praise the Lord. That's exciting. And so some places Jesus got to, some communities he'd show up in, and uh he'd teach and preach as he does As he did, and uh man there was tremendous response. Then he'd get to other communities, and he'd get to another town, and there was a completely different response. Some places he'd get to, and the response was cold and indifferent. They weren't interested. We see that here in Samaria. No, no, no, no. We don't want him around here. We don't want you guys around here. And so the response varied. And uh the another thing I find interesting, and I'm building up here, so bear with me, but another thing I find interesting is Depending on the crowd or the people Jesus was speaking to, his his uh approach varied. For instance, excuse me, if Jesus was speaking to unsaved people, if the crowd was unsaved people, and that was his big big crowds that he would address. people that need to be saved. His message, of course, was the salvation message. And he would give strong, for lack of a better word, he would give strong invitations. For people to receive him. And his message was simply this. If Jesus was addressing unsaved crowd, his message was basically this: believe. Believe. Believe. The Gospel of John, we're told at the end of the book of the Gospel of John That the reason John was written was so that people would believe that Jesus was the Christ. That was the whole purpose for that book being written And if you go through the Gospel of John and count up the number of times the word believe is used in the Gospel of John, 93 times. In 22 chapters, Jesus says, believe, believe, believe, believe, believe. So when it came to presenting salvation to folks that uh were under the judgment of God, needed a forgiveness of sins. He would present himself as Savior, and his message was simply believe. Just trust in me. Put your faith in the Son of God. Believe. For God so loved the world, He gave His only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him shall not perish but have everlasting life. So to the masses, to the crowds, it was very simple. He'd travel down the road, he'd get to a town, there'd be people there, uh have faith in God, believe in uh Lord Jesus, believe, believe, believe, and you'll be saved, believe, uh simply just trust And uh it was a very, it was a very simple message. All they had to do was believe. In fact Uh sometimes folks like to criticize people for having easy believism. You read uh some of the things that Jesus presented for salvation, uh may I It was like, you know, he'd say it's getting saved is like walking through a door. It's like taking a drink of water. It's like eating a piece of bread. Jesus simplified this matter of getting saved down to simply believing in the Lord Jesus Christ. Now let me be quick to point out He was not suggesting you just mentally acknowledge who Jesus is. When he said believe on me, he was saying trust in me, depend on me, rely on me to be your Savior, to forgive your sin. So is everybody with me? Everybody doing all right? Alright, amen. How many folks are glad it's snowing? You bunch of liars. And um no, I'm kidding. I'm glad you're happy. But um so that was Jesus' approach. But now this is what we're getting to our text. There was sometimes Jesus was addressing a crowd, usually, in fact almost without exception, a much, much smaller crowd. And his message wasn't nearly as simple. His message wasn't just believe, oh, it's simple, just believe. Getting saved is simple. It's not always easy. Sometimes people really struggle with it. I did for months before I got saved. It's not always easy, but the act of getting saved is a very simple thing: simply putting my faith and trust in Jesus Christ. But sometimes Jesus would have a crowd, as I said, often, almost all without exception, a much, much smaller crowd. And his message to them was much more challenging. And it wasn't just, oh, it's simple, just believe. There were incredible demands made. When someone would approach Jesus Christ as a believer, They're already saved. They've already accepted Christ. Their salvation is settled. And they would say something to Jesus like this: Jesus, I'm going to follow you wherever you go. His response was radically different than his response to those who came and said, I want to be saved. Nicodemus came to the Lord by night. Nicodemus needed to be born again. Very simple thing. Except a man be born again, you can't see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus questions a little bit. Then you've got great John 3. 16, for who God's word gave his only God's son, whosoever believeth in him. Very simple message. Here in other places, in our text, and in other places, you have people show up. These people don't need to be saved. They're already saved. And they're coming to Christ as a believer saying, you know, I want to more than just have my sins forgiven. I want to follow you. I want you to lead me and direct me. I want you to have your way in my life. I want to be a follower. And man alive. Jesus puts the hammer down on these guys. He says, Oh yeah? And then he gives these lists of demands and requirements. And I get the impression I get the very distinct impression that when people came to Jesus, not just not to be saved, but to be a follower of His, to be a disciple in every sense of the word. He's he's almost talking them out of it. Uh man Uh he doesn't he doesn't code it at all. Um he tells them about the cost that is required He talks about them to the commitment that is required. Now, I'll be honest with you, as a pastor, we want people as a church, we want people to be saved. Amen? That's what we're all about. I would have liked to get a little stronger amen there. I would feel a lot better about it. As a church, we would like to see people saved. Amen. There we go. That's what we want. And as a pastor, this is my approach, in contrast to Jesus Somebody comes and says, Preacher, I got saved some time ago, and man, I just want to be a follower of Jesus Christ. I just want to be his disciple. I just want to wherever he leads me. I just want to go wherever the Lord. What do you think my response would be to somebody coming up as a believer saying that? Yeah, it would be praise the Lord Hey, alright, jump on board. Let's go. This would be great. We'd get up Sunday night and testify. Brother so-and-so is uh is selling out for the Lord, he wants to be a father of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's not how Jesus responded. Jesus' response was, Oh yeah? You want to live in foxholes? Uh you want to take up your cross every day and follow me? You're going to be hated by the world? Uh you're going to lose everything you have? If you're not willing to do that, yeah, you ain't following me. And I I'm a little ahead of myself on this, but you read Jesus' response here, what Brother Pat read a little bit ago, it's It sounds borderline harsh. What he's saying to them. We would say, hey, praise God. You want to follow it? Amen. Glory to God. Jesus didn't do that at all. Now when people got saved, it was come on, come on board. Hey, believe, believe, everybody, get uh believe on the Lord Jesus Christ how shall we say when it came to following them, he's talking them out of it. Um because there was a price to pay. Um when these guys came, look here in your Bibles In verse 57, Lord, I will follow thee whithersover thou goest. Verse 59. And here Jesus is approaching the guy, says to another, Follow me. And then in verse 61, Lord, I will follow thee. That word follow is a very powerful word, really. If you're going to follow someone, if someone is walking, you're walking across here, and somebody is walking down there, if I'm going to follow that person, what am I doing with my direction? I'm changing my direction. Would you agree with me? I am surrendering up my decision as to where I'm going to go If I'm following that person, if they weren't there, I might go here, I might go there, but I'm following them, therefore I'm surrendering all the decisions as to the direction that I'm going, I'm yielding it all to them And so when Jesus said to this guy, follow me, when these two other guys came to Jesus and said, We'll follow you, they're making a pretty powerful statement. They're saying, Lord, I am surrendering up my decisions in life. I'm surrendering up my direction in life And I am going to let you decide the direction of my life. I'm going to let you decide where my life leads me and how my life is lived. So it's a very powerful decision, the statement that's being made here. Again, if it's up to me, I want to, man, part of my whole ministry is trying to get people to be followers and disciples of Jesus Christ. I mean we're out there looking for it. I pray for it. I've got prayer lists. Uh all y'all here, most of you for the most part, just about all of you, I I prayed for you every day this week. And uh If some of y'all knew what I was praying, you'd be scared. But um I pray No, I'm kidding. You'd be happy. Um for the most part. But uh But I pray I say Lord help so and so to sell out for God and and just let Him have His way, let you have your way in their life. And Lord help Sister So-and-so and God give her victory. And uh whatnot. And I pray down through there. Uh so I want to get as many followers as I can, but I read what Jesus did, and it's like he's trying to get as few as he can. And he's making all these demands, and it's like, wow. Now why is that? The price for my salvation was paid for by Jesus Christ. Right? It's all paid. You say, what do I got to do to be saved? Yeah, you can't do nothing. Jesus already did it all. You just received what he did. Right? But If I'm going to be a follower of Jesus Christ, that price I need to pay. That's a price where I've got to make some decisions. I'm afraid sometimes Because salvation is so free, because salvation is so simple, we uh automatically assume that being a follower of Jesus Christ It's completely free. Salvation didn't cost me anything. Being a disciple of Jesus Christ, that's not going to cost me anything. And Jesus is making it very, very clear. No, that's not the way it is Salvation is completely free. If you're here this morning and you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven, that when you die you're going to heaven, God can and will save you like that, completely free. You have nothing to offer Him. You simply accept the free gift of salvation. But if you're there this morning, you marry the Satan, you say, I want to accept I want to be a follower of Jesus Christ, hey, there's a price to pay for that. It's gonna cost me some things. And Jesus went to great lengths to distinguish Simply receiving the gift of salvation and being a follower of Jesus Christ. And so that's what it's all about here. To be a follower, there's a price for me to pay. It seems like as I go through here, the Lord put the greatest demands on those he was going to use the most. You had somebody that God was going to use to advance the gospel, bring glory to God, and do that. Boy, God just put all kinds of demands on that person. He expected more from those whom he was going to use. I had a privilege to sit under Dr. Lee Robertson for a number of years down in Chattanooga, great pastor down there, been with the Lord a number of years now. And I know I didn't work personally with him one-on-one direct directly under him. I worked under guys that worked under him in the church. It was a huge church. 10,000 members. Dr. Robertson, I was told by Tom Sexton and those who worked under him, and I worked under them, uh, they said uh Dr. Robertson's always gracious. Well he you'd see him in the street. Why I'd go in his office maybe once or twice a semester and sit down and get advice to try and come up with some reason to go see him and um sit down there and and whatever. He was very gracious. He was very kind. He'd do anything for you. You need anything? You need money. Oh what can I do? Do you need help with your school bill? Uh you alright? And he was very, very gracious and kind. But those who worked under him, I was told, said he was incredibly demanding. He expected 100% all the time sold out for God. You know why? Because those were the ones he wanted to see God use the most. And if I'm going to be a follower of Jesus Christ, if I'm really going to let God use me, If I'm really going to count and really have an influence in this whole sinful world for the cause of Jesus Christ and for the glory of God, there is a price to pay on my part. Bow hell and go to heaven, uh, it's a free gift. Thank God for that. Say, free, uh, free uh say, say what was the song we sang this morning? Um Something about being saved. As long as there's a thing about being saved, I love it. And uh saved, free, salvation is free. Praise God for that. I want to be a follower of Jesus Christ. Alright, that's gonna cost you. You want God to use you? You want to see people saved? You want to have an influence? You want to be a light shining in this old sinful world? You're going to have to burn up a little bit. It's gonna be some it's gonna cost. And that's the point he's making here. Um uh uh Uh following Jesus. I'm just going to give you three. I'm going to do what Brother Barron said. He took a long time. He says, I got three thoughts real quick. And so don't tell him I'm complimenting them. But uh Number one, following Jesus requires more than just a casual commitment. Look with me at verse 57. How many folks are still happy? All right, good. Uh someone told me before church, they said, Preacher, help me make sure I stay awake. So that's what I'm doing. Verse fifty seven And it came to pass that as they went on the on the way, a certain man said unto him, Now listen to what this guy is saying I will follow thee. If he would have just stopped there, that would have been a great statement, right? I wrote in the marsh of my Bible beside that statement, I put good intentions. There is no doubt in my mind, this guy had the best of intentions. Now, but look what he says. He doesn't just stop, I will follow thee. Look at the next, look what he adds on to that. I will follow thee. Look what he says. Whithersoever thou goest. Wow. I mean this guy is is I mean he's standing up to the Lord and he's saying good night Uh-uh, and and as I as I said, the word follow means I'm surrendering up my own direction in life. I'm surrendering up my own plans, my own plans for the future And uh I'm gonna follow you. And not only that, Lord, I'm gonna follow you. I don't care where it ends up. It might be a shack in Papua New Guinea. I'm going to follow you whithersoever thou goest. Where was Jesus going right now? He's going to the cross. Would you agree with me? This guy had no idea what he was talking about. I want to submit to you, this was a very casual commitment on his part. I don't believe he really thought this thing through. I don't believe he really got the information that he needed to make a decision like this. Um didn't Jesus say something very similar to the twelve disciples? He says, you don't know what you're asking. Are you willing to be baptized with the uh baptism I'm to be baptized with? Says you don't even have you don't even know what you're talking about. And so this guy makes this very casual statement That he really doesn't aware. Hey, this morning you say, Preacher, I'm glad God saved me and I just want to dedicate and sell out for God 100% Whatever it costs, I'm willing to do that. Let me ask you this: Do you really understand what that cost is? Are you willing to pay that price? Hey, Christianity is filled with ministries that were started out with the best intentions by people who did not count the cost. did not realize what they were getting involved in and whether they walked away from it, half-built towers and uh half-built ministries. And Jesus is trying to make that clear to this fellow, this is not something you just casually to be a disciple of Jesus Christ. Now look at uh Jesus' response here. It seems kind of harsh again to me. It says, Lord, I'll follow thee whithersoever thou goest. Praise the Lord. What a great win! What a great decision. Look what the Lord says. Jesus doesn't even address what he says. Foxes have holes, birds the air of nests, but the Son of Man hath not where to lay his head. What was he saying to this guy? He was saying, listen, it's going to cost you something. You know that. It may change your living arrangements. You follow me, it may affect your income. It may affect your free time. You might have to downsize a house. You may have to give up some vacation. If you're going to follow me. May change some things. Now he's not saying all those things were wrong, but he was saying That listen, if you're going to be a disciple of Jesus Christ, Jesus Christ takes preeminence over all other areas of my life You follow what I'm saying? And so he makes this profound statement. No doubt this guy had good intentions, but he was unaware of what he was saying. He was just too casual about it. Now when I got saved, May 7, 1979, has anyone reminded you of this recently? 10. 30 at night? Did I ever tell you about that? See me afterward, I'll tell you about it. But when I got saved, it didn't cost me my job. I had a to be honest with you for someone in my position at that time of life, at that time in history, I had a really good income. I mean, I was making about as much as my dad as a night eighteen, nineteen year old kid. And um and uh I I was living pretty good. I was an idiot, but I was living pretty good. When I got saved, it didn't cost me my job. I kept working there. When I got saved, it didn't affect what kind of vehicle I drove. Didn't affect what I did. It had no effect on that whatsoever. Didn't require anything from my job. I didn't lose any of that Now, my lifestyle was dramatically changed simply by the change of nature that was a result of my salvation, but it didn't cost me my job. But When God started dealing with my heart about serving him, about going into the ministry, about going off to Bible college, suddenly I couldn't go, I couldn't follow the Lord and keep the job I had. I was going to have to leave that job and give up that good pay and go off to Bible college, and I was going to have to work in an office supply store at about 25% of what I was making before It's going to cost me something to follow the Lord. And then I'd move down to Tennessee And then I had no job for the first year. I had to sell my car to pay for my uh uh schooling, and uh so the money I made on selling my car paid for my first year of Bible college, and so I'm working odd jobs, all I had was a bike. 22 years old, the only thing I own in the world is a bicycle. I was down there two weeks and that got stolen. Nice English racer, twelve speed. You know what Now, I'm not trying to say that I'm anything. There's people paid far greater prices than I have. But this is what I am saying. If I was going to follow Jesus Christ, I was losing a nice home. I was staying with my dad. No it no rent. Uh good income And God called me, and suddenly foxes had holes in the nest, and foxes had nests, and birds had holes. No, not that. Foxes had holes and birds had nests. And um and I was sleeping in a dormitory with eight other guys in a one-bedroom apartment. And Jesus says, hey, if you're going to follow me, you've got to understand there's a price to pay. Now that question, does that mean if someone's going to live for God, they've got to give up all their earthly possessions? No. There was a lot of guys in my same position that didn't have to do that. But the point is this: when we follow Jesus Christ, there's a price to pay a lot of times. It requires something of us. And so he following Jesus Christ requires more than just a casual commitment. You know who I thought of as I was studying this? I thought of Mike Stubbler. I love Mike Stubler. What a blessing that guy was. He got saved as a result of a wild game dinner about 10 years ago. Isn't that something? And he sold out for God. And I could give, I could, I could, we're one-on-one, I could give you some personal prices that he paid because he decided not just to be saved, but to live for God, to follow the Lord. But one that came to mind as I was preparing this, he called me up one day. This is after he'd been saved for a while and he was really following the Lord and selling out. And he called me up one day. He said, Pastor, I got a question I want to bounce off of you and see if I'm thinking correctly Said okay. He said, God's really been dealing with my heart. And he was an avid hunter. You guys knew Mike, he was an avid hunter, bow hunter and everything, and he had property and he shot all kinds of stuff He called me up. He said, You know, God's really been dealing with my heart. And he says, I feel like my hunting habit is hindering me from following the Lord like I should. He said, I don't think it's wrong. I don't think anything wrong about it. I'm not against people doing it. He said, but for me personally, I'm not able to follow the Lord like uh God wants me to. And be moments, he said, I'm going to sell all that, I'm going to give it up. He says, Am I thinking clear? I said, Mike, there's a price to pay if you're following the Lord. If that's what God's directing you, trust God And lo and behold, he sold all that stuff and he gave that up. Was it sin? Is it wrong? No, there's nothing wrong with it. It's nothing sinful. But for him, there was a price to pay. It's going to cost him something if he was going to be everything God wanted him to be. If he was going to be a total follower of Jesus Christ. You know what? This guy here said, I'll follow thee whithersoever thou goest. He said it very casually. I'm convinced when Mike said that, he meant it with all his heart. That's the difference. That's the difference. So to be a follower of Jesus Christ, we're not talking about salvation. That is free, simple. You accept it, God will forgive you and save you like that But once I'm saved, and you say, Boy, you know, I want God to use me. I want to make a difference in this world. God says, All right, there's a price to pay. It's going to cost a little bit. I put this down from verse 59 and 60. It requires utmost loyalty. Look at this. Verse 59. And he said unto another, Now this time the Lord's calling the guy to follow him. The Lord's touching him, touching his heart. Follow me! And he didn't give any specifics. He just said, follow me. Look what the fellow said. But he said, Lord, suffer. I circled those next two words. What do they say? Me first. Mm, right there is a red flag. Suffer me first to go and bury my father. Again, does Jesus not sound harsh here? Let the dead bury their dead, but go thou and preach the kingdom of God. Good heavens. I mean to me it sounds like this response. God speaks to his heart. Put it in our context, sitting in church, preachers preaching a message, something like this. God speaks to a person's heart, deals with their heart, say, Boy, I want you to follow me. I want you to just sell out for me, let me lead and direct in your life. And uh you say, Lord, I'm all for that, but man, I've got to go bury my dad first. Uh Does that not sound like a reasonable request on this guy's part? Lord, let me quit go bury my dad first That sounds reasonable to me. But the fact of the matter is, if you read this carefully, there's a whole lot here this guy doesn't say. He doesn't say his daddy's dead yet. In fact, most Bible scholars, I got looking this up trying to figure out what's going on here. Most Bible stars and they tend to convince me that this guy's father probably was not dead yet And what he was saying to the Lord is, I would like to spend the remaining years that my father has before he dies, I'd like to spend it with my father. Then whenever he dies and passes on, then I'll go and live for you. And that's the idea behind this. In other words, this is what people say often. Yeah, I'm going to follow the Lord. Someday I'm going to put it all on the line. Someday I'm going to yield it all to Christ. Someday I'm going to be a follower of Jesus Christ 100%. Someday, when all my ducks are in a row, when all the situation is just right, then I'm going to follow God And God says, let the ducks put themselves in a row. If you're going to wait till the situation is right for you to serve God, it ain't never going to happen. Now don't misunderstand what I'm about to say. I think there ought to be some things in place, but sometimes young people come to me and they say, Preacher, when do you think we uh I want to get married, but I'm gonna wait until I got all this. I said, if you wait until you can afford it, you ain't never getting married. Boy, that went over like a dead balloon. But Matthew and I got married, we were so broke it was pitiful. If we'd have waited till we could have if I Pray for me, pray for me, right now, pray for me. My wife says, everything you think just comes right out of your mouth. She's not here, so I'm gonna do it. If I'd have waited till I could afford her, we still wouldn't be married. That was bad. No, I was just joking, I didn't mean that. Listen, if we wait till uh if we wait till the situation's just right before we're gonna follow God, we ain't never gonna follow him. And he go to happy. And that's what the Lord's saying. He says, you've got to just step out in faith. Your situation with your father will work itself out. You follow me. You get out there and get involved, what I'm asking you to do, what I'm calling you to do, you trust me, and all that stuff, but the family's going to work itself out. Me first, knee first, knee first. Lord, I want to follow you, but I'm gonna do it according to my timing and according to my reasoning. I'm gonna work it all out the way I think it should be, rather than saying, Jesus says, Oh, good grief. Now it sounds harsh. Let the dead bury the dead. But what he was saying was listen, don't put conditions on following Christ. Let him call those shots. Let him lead and direct in that. Following Christ requires my highest loyalty, even greater than family loyalty. I mentioned about me going off to Bible college. When I announced to the family that I was going to move to Tennessee, go to Bible college, I had a family member. Um it was uh my grandfather on my mother's side and uh we were at a family thing and we announced then he's going off to Bible college in down Tennessee and he called me aside. He said, what are you gonna do down there? I said, I'm going to Bible college. He said, What are you going to study? I said, Well, Bible. What are you gonna do with that? Well, I don't know. Well, God's leading me. I think He's called me in the ministry. I think I'm gonna teach elementary school and a Christian school, and that's what I think the Lord's leading. Because why would you do that? I said, because I think that's what God wants me to do. God's leading me. He said, son, you're never going to make a living like that. Now I believe he was a saved man. He knew the scripture. Son, you're never gonna have how you gonna pay bills? How are you gonna live like that? I'm not starving yet. You know what Jesus' response? Let the dead bury the dead. You follow me, that will take care of itself. It'll all work out. Don't you worry about that. You trust me with that. Luke 14, verse 26, Jesus said something to this effect. I'm just for sake of time just quoting it. He said, uh he said, if a man doesn't hate his father, mother, brother, sister, his uh wife and children, his own life also, he can't be my disciple. You can't be my father. What? I gotta hate my family He's not saying I have to despise them and be mean to them and not love them. What he's saying is his he needs to be so supreme in our life That doesn't affect my following him. My obedience. There is no conflict between being a good family member and being a follower of Jesus Christ. And if there is, something's out of whack. And that's what he's saying. He says, you follow me, you trust me, that'll all work out. God will take care of that. I like, I just read the life I just read, just finished a week and a half ago, two weeks ago, uh the story of John Bunyan Pilgrim's Progress, what a neat guy. He was thrown in prison most of his adult life for nothing else than preaching the gospel without having a government license. Be like our government saying, Brother Lemon, you gotta have a license or you can't preach the Bible. Because you're not I'm not getting a license. You're not the one that gives me authority to preach or not and they threw him in jail. All he would have had to do was sign the application and get a license to preach. He could have been let out of jail Now it was their jails were miserable. I don't think they had I don't think they even had cable TV in their jails. I mean it was awful. And uh the family had to bring food and uh he absolutely refused to sign. And then the authorities, the one judge there was just so hateful, uh he got this. John Bunyan had a blind daughter She's nine years old, she's blind from birth, I think. They would bring her to the jail. And she would cry. And she'd say, Daddy, I need you at home. Daddy, why won't you come home? And they were using her to pressure him to sign to get his license to preach. You'd say if he loved that lime blind daughter, good grief, he'd sign that license, good night. He loved his family. John Bunyan did not sign that. Absolutely refused. It was violation of his biblical convictions. Did he not love his daughter? He loved his daughter deeply. But he was a follower of Jesus Christ. And that costs something. That costs something. So following Jesus Christ requires more than just a casual commitment. Oh, I'll follow you wherever you go. You don't know what you're saying. Follow me, the Lord says. I will, but let me work things out at home first. Yeah Let the dead bury the dead. Then our text here, following the Lord requires dying to self. Here you have that phrase again. Another said to him, Lord, I'll follow thee, but let, here it is, me first. Bid them farewell. Leave out the word first. You really don't have a problem. I'll follow thee, but let me bid them farewell. What he was doing was he was putting his desire above the Lord's. He's making his own will a higher priority than the Lord's. And in fact the Bible scholars here have convinced me in studying this that what this guy was doing, I want to bid them farewell that are at my house, uh in my home, uh what he was saying was I want to make sure I want to have their approval first. I'm going to follow you, but let me make sure it's okay with the gang at home. I'm going to bid them farewell. I want to get their blessings on it. I want them to say it's okay. I'll follow you, but I want to make sure my family's okay with how it affects them. Now don't misunderstand. I think if God calls a man to be a preacher, he ought to have his wife on board with him. I think you need to give a little time and let God deal with that. But wait a minute. If it comes down to me obeying God or obeying my spouse, I've got to obey God. And that's what he's saying here. So no man having put his hand to the plow, looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God. The Lord's response again seems harsh. But let me remind you: we are not talking about simply some occupation to make money in my life. We are talking about a conflict between heaven and hell. We're talking about a very real spiritual warfare between the hordes of the devil and the host of God We are talking about a very real warfare for the souls of individuals who will spend eternity in heaven or hell, and God is saying, listen, this thing is real, this thing is intense. This thing is between heaven and hell. There is no room for wavering. There is no room for divided loyalties. There is no room for self-centeredness. You must die to self and yield all to Christ. If I am to use you to keep people out of hell and make a difference in this old sinful world Guy goes off the military, gets to boot camp. Some of you guys can testify to this. They say we're getting up at whatever time Four o'clock in the morning, do this. Well the guy says, uh, but that's the time I always call mom. And she's expecting me to give her a call and give her snuggles How's that gonna go over? Oh that would be fine. That was no problem, sure. Why would that be an issue? Because these guys have got to get trained to the point where they're on the line, there's lives at stake. And you can't just drop and call mommy and give her snuggles whenever you want. And the reality of the spiritual warfare you and I in is just as realistic as the warfare that goes on in the battlefield here on earth. And God is calling soldiers. And God is looking for men and women who will sell out to Jesus Christ and put him first and supreme. in every area of their life doesn't mean I have to live in poverty necessarily, doesn't mean I'm going to lose my family, doesn't mean any of that stuff necessarily. But it does mean it may and will cost me something in this life. We're going to study the disciples in Sunday school. You read what those what it costs those guys. Almost every one of them it cost their life. In fact, the only disciple besides Judas that uh lived out his well Judas of course was Phoe, but only one of the uh eleven that lived out his full life was Jane uh was uh John. And he got boiled alive in hot oil. He spent uh he was exiled to Isle of Patmus. The guy suffered intensely for one reason, one reason only. He was a follower of Jesus Christ. Now what if he started out, he said, Lord, I'll follow you, but first I gotta go visit Pappy. First, I gotta go and uh uh make sure mama's okay. Make sure uh grandma's okay with uh me following you The night, not one of those guys would have been able to endure. You follow what I'm saying? And so there's a price to pay. There's a price to be. I someone says I want to follow Jesus, I'm like, yeah, come on. Well we'll work it out somehow. We we want followers. Jesus says, Alright, you want to follow me? It's going to cost you. It's a heavy price to pay. But I'm here to tell you, I read the end of the book, and it's worth it. Brother, it is worth it. Remember this, we're gonna spend longer in heaven than we are gonna hear. So this is temporary. That's forever. Anybody recognize this name? And I'll end. Recognize this name: Casey Bernal. Anybody recognize that name? We will in a minute. Casey Bernard was a 17-year-old girl. She had dabbled in Satanism. She's very rebellious in her earlier teen years. Her family was very frustrated where they didn't know what this was going to end up. Somebody invited Casey to a church, Bible preaching church. Casey heard the gospel. Casey Burnell got saved. I think she was about 15, 16 years old at this time. She got saved. When she got saved, God transformed her life. And she made a decision as a young teenage girl that she was going to be a follower of Jesus Christ. Whatever the price was, in fact, she wrote a poem, and for sake of time, I won't read it. She wrote a poem. About her giving everything to Christ and selling out. Now, on the surface, it doesn't sound much different than what these guys were saying in our text. But in Casey's case, was the real deal. She went to her school one day, Columbine High School And two madmen showed up with guns and went through room to room executing. Casey was hiding under her desk. And they came around and the one fella pointed the gun in her head and she said, Are you a Christian? Now others in the room said that they that survived said they're convinced that she'd have said no, she would have lived. They said she held her head up and said, Yes, as a matter of fact, I am a Christian. And the gunman said, Why? And as she started to answer, he pulled the trigger. Boom. Killed her. Now I don't know. We weren't there. But don't you think it might have been easy for her to say, no, no, no, I'm not a Christian. Don't shoot me, don't kill me, I'm not a Christian. I would imagine. But she was a follower of Jesus Christ. And as a 17-year-old girl, it cost her everything. What if earlier, when the preacher preached and he said about following Jesus? He said, Well, I want to follow Jesus, but I don't want to give up my rock music. Good night. If you can't give that up, how in the world would she look a gun in the face? Well, I just want to make sure it's okay with Jesus sounds like he's being harsh, but he's just laying down reality. If we're going to follow Christ, there's a price to pay. I'm telling you, we're at a point in our country where it's going to start costing us something to live for God. For years we could live for God, we could hold our convictions, we could live by the Word of God, and it really didn't require much from us. But I'm here to tell you, those days are gone. And we're at a point in history, as Christians in the United States of America, I am convinced either we're followers of Christ or we're not. And if we are, there's a price to pay. We're gonna see that in coming years, I'm convinced of that. So are you saved? If not, it's free as that. God will save you like that. You believe on Christ, trust Him as your personal Savior, He'll forgive your sin. You die, you go to heaven. Are you saved? If you're saved, I say, man, be a follower of Christ. I'm down here, yeah, follow Christ, follow him. And Jesus is up here. Foxes have holes. Birds have nests, but the Son of Man doesn't have a place. Let the dead bury the dead. Put your hand in the plow, don't look back. God says there's a price. There's a price. Think that thing through. Oh, it's worth it. We don't have time to get in it. It's worth it. Don't misunderstand, don't be disillusioned, don't be casual about it. Yeah, it will require something. I hope this conveyed what I believe God was teaching here. And I hope we're challenged to take our Christianity very seriously and step it up and be everything God wants us to be and to let Him use us. Whatever the cost. Father in heaven, please bless. Lord you challenge my heart tremendously in prepare