So, tonight I want you to turn with me to Proverbs chapter 23. Proverbs chapter 23. You know you can't open the Bible to the wrong page. Amen. Any page you open it to is a good page. Right. You say, why is that? Because it is the Word of God. Yes, it is. And uh I like just opening it up, reading, letting God speak to my own heart. And the proverbs are not just little cliches. They're not just um, how shall we put it, uh, cultural uh things that somebody put together. These are solid, solid godly principles And if you learn the principles that are in the book of Proverbs, it'll give you great guidance for your life. And I begin reading, Proverbs 23. I begin reading in verse 19. Hear thou, my son, and be wise, and guide thine heart in the way. Be not among wine-bibbers, among riotous eaters of flesh For the drunkard and the glutton shall come to poverty, and drowsiness shall clothe a man with rags. Hearken unto thy father that begat thee, and despise not thy mother when she is old. By the truth, and sell it not. Yes. Also wisdom and instruction and understanding. The Father of the righteous shall greatly rejoice, and he that begetteth a son, I'm sorry He that begeteth a wise child shall have joy of him. Thy father and thy mother shall be glad, and she that beareth shall rejoice. My son, give me thine heart, and let thine eyes observe my ways For a whore is a deep ditch, and a strange woman is a narrow pit. She also lieth in wait as for a prey, and increaseth the transgressors among men Who hath woe, who hath sorrow, who hath contentions, who hath babbling, who hath wounds without cause, who hath redness of eyes They that tarry long at the wine, they that go to seek mixed wine, look not thou upon the wine when it is red, and when it giveth its color in the cup When it moveth itself aright. At the last it biteth like a serpent, and stingeth like an adder. Thine eyes shall behold strange women, and thine heart shall utter perverse things Yea, thou shalt be as he that lieth down in the midst of the sea, or as he that lieth upon the top of a mast. They have stricken They have stricken me, shalt thou say, and I was not sick They have beaten me and I felt it not. When shall I awake? I will seek it yet again. Now if you back up and look with me again at verse 23. That verse says, buy the truth and sell it not. Also wisdom and instruction and understanding. Now, we often quote the first part of that verse, but actually there are four commodities in that verse that we're told should be secured. Using the terminology there ought to be bought and then never to be sold. The four commodities are truth, wisdom, instruction, and understanding You look at truth, I think most of us understand that, but at the same time, the exact opposite of truth is falsehood. And our world is um got a lot of falsehoods on a lot of counts Religiously, philosophically, uh socially, politically, I mean just run the gamut, and falsehoods are running rampant. Uh you know, they they say sometimes, you know, if the guy's lips moving, you know, well, you know, it's not just the political class that that applies to. It applies to a lot of people I had a fellow tell me one time talking about actually his own brother, he said he said he would climb a tree To get to tell you a lie when he can stand on the ground and tell you the truth. Now you say, what is the problem there? Some people are building their whole life on a scheme of falsehoods They find it advantageous, maybe uh the make it for making money, whatever the case, and so they just build lie upon lie upon lie. And religiously, that also is very prominent in our time. You cannot believe everything you hear. Just because the guy's on TV or just because he's on radio or just because of this or that or the other, because he's a pastor somewhere, does not mean he is a purveyor of truth And the Bible here though makes a very strong pointed uh uh application here, a very strong mandate to us and says Buy the truth. That means we've got to find it. We've got to locate it. We've got to get hold of it. He says, buy it and sell it not. Second thing that he says, second commodity, is wisdom. Now the exact opposite of wisdom is foolishness. Anybody can play the fool. The Bible has a lot to say about fools and foolishness. Enough that we should be steered away from it. Had an episode um well, it's probably been uh eighteen, nineteen, twenty years ago now. I had a major reaction one night to some food. I have some crazy food allergies that put me in in hot water in a hurry and that particular night uh my son rushed me to the local hospital and I was uh desperate with uh anaphylactic type reactions, uh gasping for breath as we rolled in and the lady the lady doctor assured me she was going to get me through it. I didn't know what she was or not And then uh whenever whenever she uh finally got everything settled down after a couple of hours, she came and she held one of those Effie pens up in my face and she said, If you ever Put a bite of food in your mouth without one of these close at hand. You are an absolute fool. And I looked at her from the gurney that I was laying on And I said, Well, dear lady doctor, I said, I said, you've been very gracious to get me through this tonight. But I said, I promise you I'm going to do my best not to be a fool And uh in fact you'll find me close to that epipin at all times, just out in the car now. So uh the fact is, you know, you can play the fool in a lot of ways. And the Bible tells us here to get wisdom. A lot of people know the truth, but yet they don't live by it. They don't walk with it. They do not make application of it. They know what's right. But then they do something foolish and go a different route, where if they had wisdom, they would apply the truth, they would put it into effect in their life, and so wisdom really is being able to take what you know and make it work. For you. Now, here's a third commodity. Not only truth, not only wisdom, but he says, get understanding. I'm sorry, get uh thirdly, it's instruction. Now The opposite of being instructed is to remain ignorant. Now, I wish you wouldn't use that word. I don't like using it either, but whatever we don't got what we need. It applies. Now, I think your family is like my family. All of us in my family, the day we were born, we were dumb as a box of rocks I mean, I'll just talk about my kids here that I love dearly, and my grandchildren that I love dearly. The day they were born, they didn't know anything They didn't know who we were, they didn't know what her name was, they didn't know how to count, they didn't know anything. So we have to learn. Well, how do we learn? We get instruction Thankfully for the generation ahead of us who tell us things that we need to know. You know, I went to school first day, five years old. Not not kindergarten, not preschool, we didn't have any of that. My dad drove up in the lot of the school and a big set of double doors. He said, go right through there, take the first door on the right. Five years old. Just dumped me out. Said, go I walked in that classroom. Ms. Mary Brown had about 30 first graders and about 30 second graders in the same room, and nobody to help her Well, I take that back. She had a Bible on one corner of the desk and a paddle on the other and she used them both whenever she wanted to. Amen. But she had perfect order. We didn't have policemen in the halls, we didn't need to have metal detectors, none of that. Now, uh the day I met Mrs. Mary Brown was a good day. She taught me to read, she taught me to count, she taught me a lot of things. I owe my mother that I owe a lot of people because they have taught me things. I have taken instruction. The fact that I was able to drive coming over here, somebody taught me 900 years ago, but they taught me How to drive an automobile. So getting instruction and determining who the teacher is. Yeah. Being sure that you get taught by somebody who is not going to take you down a wrong trail back up to point number one, if the instructor heads you wrong, tells you things you don't need to know, I mean all all of these tie together. He says, by the truth, by wisdom, sell it not, sell it not, by instruction, sell it not. And then the fourth thing, the fourth commodity here, is understanding. The exact opposite of that is we just we just don't figure it out. We just don't have the judgment. So, four commodities: buy, don't sell. And that's what I want to talk to you about here for a few minutes. I want you to know even at my age, I'm buying. I'm still buying, and I'm not selling. You know, I I kinda there's certain things that I like to shop for before I buy. Now I tease Betty Because sometimes I'll go in and she'll have a well say a basket of oranges or something that she's bought at the store and I'll say, Man, those look great. She said, Yeah, I went and she'll mention the supermarket where she went to get them. And I said, Well I know that's not where you usually shop for groceries. No, but but you know the deal they had on those? I saved ten cents a pound. And you drove how many miles across town I tease her about it. Now Betty's very frugal and by the way she's watching, so she's very frugal. But I tease her like that. Now I I Because she does that kind of stuff, typically I don't shop for the oranges, the apples or the whatever that we put on the table. She does that But I do like to shop for cars. Even when I'm not whenever even whenever I'm not needing a car, I still like to drive through and look at them Dad was in the automotive business growing up and it just kinda got in my like I have a friend who tells me I got gasoline in my veins. I don't think I do, but But I I shop. And if I am in the market for a car, I shop and shop and shop. And finally, you know, I'll say, okay, I think I think this one and try to make a deal for it And you can shop for a car all day long, go find something you like, and if you sell it tomorrow, it don't matter. I know you probably like the vehicle. You drove in tonight, and if you do, good. But if somebody offers you money and you sell it tomorrow and you're without wheels, your life can still go on. Some things do not matter one whit, one way or the other, about the viability or the success of your life. But some people Some people buy things, a little dab of truth, a little dab of wisdom, a little dab of instruction, a little dab of understanding, and then they go right out and begin to just set it aside. They begin to throw it away. They begin, in effect, to sell it. And they sell out sometimes just to be popular. And if I do this, everybody will like me. Some people sell out for pleasure. You know, hey man, I think I'll like this. This will feel good. And so they sell out for pleasure. There are other people who sell out for prosperity. Man, forget that truth and wisdom and stuff. If if I just bend the truth and do this a little bit, I'll make more money, and so they sell out. For prosperity. Some people sell out for politics. Polytics, you know that Many ticks. All right. Some people sell out because they get promoted, they get a position. Some people sell out because of their peers. By the way, the teenagers, you you guys sang well do beautifully. You're not the only ones that have peer pressure. Right. We all have it. Everybody does. It may be people in your own family that push you. Maybe maybe whoever they are, but they will push you. Now I I look at a person like Daniel in chapter five of Daniel. The old king said to him He said, You do what I want, you do what I need, I'll make you the third ruler in the kingdom. I'll put the finest clothes on you. I mean, he put a chain of gold about your neck And Daniel said, you can keep your rewards. I'll tell you what you need to know. Well it wasn't what he wanted to hear, but he said, I'll tell you what you need to know. But you can keep your rewards. You say, what was the deal? Well, Daniel was sold out, but he was not a sellout Yeah. Amen. He had sold out to the Lord. He had sold out to be right. He had sold out. To be the person that he thought God would have him to be. But he was not a sellout. Not for popularity, not for pleasure, not for prosperity, not for any of those things. Now, if you look at the passage that I read. The greater context of that chapter. And just think about these commodities of truth and wisdom and instruction and understanding and remind yourself: buy, buy, buy, and don't sell. Verse number one tells me that I should buy and not sell in the palaces of the powerful. Look at verse one. When thou sittest to eat with a ruler, Sometimes I've seen folks cave in the presence of some high-powered person like a governor or a senator or whomever I've seen some folks, I mean they were they were just, I mean, we're standing there talking, they're they're straight as an arrow, and the big shot walks in and all at once it's like Now, this passage tells us to not cave when we're walking amongst people in power in the palaces where the powerful are. Not only that, but if you look at verses 4, 5, and 6, it talks about the marketplace. When we're out working in the marketplace What are we to do there? Buy truth, by wisdom, by instruction, by understanding, live by that out in the marketplace. I've known any number of people who working at their job, they got pressured to do something, and they stood their ground. One of my classic stories I may have told you here before, I don't recall. Man, friend of a friend of ours was an executive with one of the major oil companies. Several episodes where they had pushed him and he wouldn't budge. There came a day when they the president of the company was trying to push him and others who were in leadership to go along with something that was totally, totally crooked. And he refused to do it. So the next day, he was given a transfer to some remote out-of-the-way place in Alaska. I mean in a little village back up on the backside of nowhere. He took the assignment, went to Alaska, stayed for three years. And one day the phone rang. It was the president of the oil company. And the president said to him, he said, Gary He said, I've got some people here who are trying to cut my throat. And he said, I know that I can trust you and I need you back at the home office. And Gary said, hey, he said, I'm the same person I was three years ago when you shipped me up here. And he said, look, you name your price. Just name what you want, salary-wise, I will pay it. Come back, I need you. Praise God I'm just saying folks, sometimes working in the marketplace, sometimes you may just get canned. I mean you may get fired, you may get thrown out. But if you do, you can still sleep at night. You know? This passage tells me that truth and wisdom, instruction, and understanding will serve me working in the marketplace. Verse nine talks about when you're confronted by a fool. It says, speak not in the ears of a fool. He'll despise the wisdom of thy words. You know, you can convince a fool Against his will, the little saying is, and he's of the same opinion still, and oftentimes that's true. Now I I would I would make an attempt to get my message across with whomever, but if somebody wants to play the fool, uh sometimes you just gotta let them go do it And hope that the day will come when they'll awaken. Now verse 10 talks about determining property lines are at stake, removing not the old landmark. Well, you know, in fact, if you go to uh the house where Betty and I live, we've got four tenths of an acre, and on all four corners of that property there's a metal s the metal stake. Driven down where they surveyed it and they put it there. Now if one of my neighbors comes out there in the middle of the night and moves it back in two feet, four feet Does it again in a few months, and after a while he's picked up ten feet of my property, he thinks. You say, what's he done? He he's not living by truth He he's committing an error there, and the Bible says that these commodities ought I mean we ought not I mean if we're going to live like we ought to live, we ought not to move those landmarks Verses 13 and 14 talk about raising children. Verses 20, 21, 29 through 32 talk about when liquor is flowing. When liquor is flowing. Well, have a little of this. No, not even a little. Amen. You know I'm amazed how many people in Christian circles these days are trying to find justification. I mean even some of these denominational groups Or finding justification about, well, you know, uh it's like, well, we're not going to become a drunk, but we're just going to drink. And I'm going to tell you, every drunk started with a drink. And if you don't ever take the drink, you won't be a drunk. Amen. You know? And this passage makes pretty clear, I mean, I'm telling you, this is not the only place in the Bible where liquor is nailed But it is nailed here. In fact, the Bible says very clearly, who has woe? Well, it's the guy who gets into that. Who has sorrow? And it says at the last. You just hang on, there come a day when it'll bite you like a serpent and sting you like an adder, and it'll make you make a fool out of yourself. This morning on the way to the airport, I was I was driving, 30-minute drive from Murfreesboro to the Nashville airport. It was um 3. 30, quarter four in the morning. It's amazing how many people were out that hour on the freeways. But we we pulled up, we we we uh caught up with a truck And uh Marla and I were chattering and uh and then I noticed this guy. He was over in my lane a little bit, and then he got over in the other lane, he got over in another lane Just weaving, weaving back and forth. So I got around on the side, came up on the side, and Martin said, No, he's not on the phone. So we dropped back a little bit, followed him for a couple of miles, weaving all over the place. You say, what's the problem with that guy? I don't know for sure, but I got a strong guess. My guess is he bellied up to a bar somewhere, or you know, he'd been smoking dope or something. And uh listen, when liquor When liquor is flowing, somebody, somebody needs to cry aloud. I thank God for my daddy, even before he got right with God, who who pushed and said to us boys, never, ever wrap your hand around it. Amen. And if you and I will do that. And uh a couple of our folks, Chuck and Pam. Word opened door when I was there and they know, you know, I hammered on it all the time with my church folks You know, just you say, why is that? Because they're out they're out there working and there are people offering them things, they're things pushing things at them all the time And when they come to church, somebody, somebody needs to put the microphone on and cry out and tell 'em, don't, don't, don't go there. You say, well who are you to say that? Well, I've got it here in the book. Yes. And that that gets us what we need. By the way, there's one other thing there. Verses 27, 28, 33 talk about strange women. And ladies, let me let me just say I don't think this has application either. I think this this the instruction here applies both ways We need to be clean. We need to live clean and not let ourselves get trapped by somebody's flirtations, somebody's enticements. You go down that trail, it's gonna hurt you. And this passage lays that out. And you say, What what are what are we what are we looking at We're talking about buying the truth, buying wisdom, buying instruction and understanding, and just not giving up. If you buy those things, you're buying right. You're buying eternally what you ought to have. Some things you can buy, sell, doesn't matter one way or the other. But these items you ought never to sell. My parents are in heaven now and so is Betty's. Betty's folks bought a farm in 1936 and lived their entire married life there. 60 years or so My folks bought a farm just five miles away from Betty's folks. They bought that farm in 1957 and we still, even though mom and dad are in heaven, I have a brother that lives there and we still own a little piece of that But when her folks died, we sold the farm. Mom and dad died, we sold a big chunk of the farm. They weren't big farms, but we sold most of both of them Mom and dad and my in-laws lived and died on those farms. At their death, Betty has six brothers Seven of them. I have three brothers and a sister. And at the death of our parents, we liquidated the assets. And our parents were not well they were not wealthy, but whatever they had, it got divvyed up between us You say, why was that? Didn't some of the neighbors get in on that? No, they didn't. You say, well, why did you all get in on it? Because we were their children, and we are the heirs, and whatever estate they had passes to the heirs. What I want to say to you tonight is not about your farm, not about your bank account, not about whatever possessions you have. Yeah. But in a very real way, every single one of us are building in a state. Yes. Building in a state. That we will either pass along to our children and our grandchildren, that we will use that estate that we build up I mean if we if we build out of truth, build out of instruction, build out of wisdom, build out of this understanding, build out of the truth that God has given to us, if we do that, it becomes something that we can pass along to some others. I want to have influence on my neighbors. I want to have influence on the other people who work at the sword. I want to have influence on the people who wait on me at McDonald's every morning. You say, what are you doing? Well, I'm just trying to build out of the kinds of things That I can pass along to them and know that I'm passing along a part of me, part of my state to them. Whether I have any money left over or not is not the issue I think my kids would be glad if if it were. But I'm going to tell you something, I know both of them well enough to tell you. They'll be way more pleased to say, yes, that was my daddy. That was my mama. And every one of us, by buying truth, buying wisdom, buying instruction, buying understanding, we we are buying something that we can pass along to other people and not be the least bit Ashamed to do so. So I'm just saying I'm buying. That's my resolve, it's my commitment, it's my devotion. I hope it'll be your resolve, your commitment, your devotion to buy these precious commodities. And never, ever sell them. There may come some times in your life when you'll be glad you have that kind of foundation to build on. I'm sure I told you the story, but some of you didn't hear it. 2008, flying out of Philadelphia in the middle of the day, headed home to Nashville. Up at 10,000 feet, and all at once, boom, boom, 10 sound like shotgun blast. They leveled off immediately for a few seconds. Then he banked hard to the right and I knew we were going back to the airport and on a try. Pilot came on and he said, we suck seagulls into the left engine, and it's destroyed the engine. Our right engine's fine, but the left engine is down. Now, there may come some times when you're on board and you're at ten thousand feet. in a big old compressurized metal tube and something goes wrong. Along with 141 other people. Now, end of the story was the captain said, I've already got clearance for a priority landing. That means we've got an emergency. He said, absolutely nobody out of your seat, fasten your seat belts, and hang on, we're taking her in. That's exactly what he said Whenever he touched that thing down, he touched it down with that one engine as light as a feather. Foam trucks were there, ambulances were sitting there, the fire trucks were there. I mean they they were ready for us Now, there are gonna be some days. Coming over here tonight, an ambulance scream past me going somewhere. There are going to be days. And whatever, whatever the burdens, whatever the tragedies, whatever the heartaches, whatever the sorrows, whatever the burdens that come to you, I'm telling you, if you if you build If you build out of the rotten, trashy stuff that this world offers you day by day by day, you'll not be ready when the airplane doesn't work right. You'll not be ready when the ambulance shows up. You'll not be ready to deal with that But if you build out of truth and wisdom and instruction from the right sources and getting the understanding that only God can give you, it'll enable you. To get through the valleys. Get through them. Everybody's gonna have some valleys. That's right But if you'll build out of the right stuff, it'll enable you. Something goes wrong, instead of you getting bitter, You say, what am I supposed to do? You're supposed to show up for Sunday school. Stay in church. Keep your feet under the table where God's good stuff's being served. Amen. Just hang tough with it. Don't let it embitter you. Don't let it crush you. If you build out of the right stuff, the winds may blow and they may blow hard. But you'll still be standing when the day's done. I'm buying truth, wisdom, instruction, understanding, and never, ever, ever, never Ought we to sell any piece of that precious verse. Amen. Dear Lord, help us to remember to buy what ought to be bought and never sell it. And Lord, thank you for your goodness. The precious privilege we have to be together here in this service tonight. Bless our praying, Brother Fox, as he leads the music. Bless Brother Harper as he comes to preach in a minute. Bless Brother Letterman as he leads and all of these precious folks that are here and those that are watching online. God help us, help us, I pray. In Jesus' mighty name, hear our prayer. Amen.