John chapter fourteen. The book of John chapter fourteen. Actually, to understand John chapter fourteen, you have to look at John chapter thirteen. You'll find this about me. I'm very interested in not just Uh uh i of course exactly what the Bible says, but to whom it is being said and why it's being said. to really understand the situation. As you get to John chapter 13, let me give you the background. Of course, they've just had the Last Supper, what we call the Last Supper. Jesus has washed the disciples' feet. All of that has taken place. And now Jesus begins to give them the bad news. I mean it is all bad news, the rest of John chapter 13 You have to remember that these twelve men that are in the upper room with Jesus, it's just the twelve disciples, but they're all just human beings. We look at them sometimes, we look at so many Bible characters as if they're supermen, when they're not, they're just regular old, average, everyday human beings that surrender themselves to the Lord And there's nothing that they accomplished that we cannot accomplish through the same power that they had. But as you get to John chapter 13, Jesus begins to unload the bad news And I'm going to preach a message this morning, and the the theme of the message is this for every John thirteen there's a John fourteen just around the corner. Look at John chapter thirteen and verse twenty-one When Jesus had thus said, he was troubled in spirit, and testified and said, Verily, verily, I say unto you, the one of you Shall betray me. There are no Sadducees in the room, there are no Pharisees, there's no high priests, there's no religious leaders or scribes that are there at that time. It is just the twelve men that have been following Jesus for three years. Twelve men that have seen his miracles, heard his teaching, twelve men that have given up everything to follow him, and Jesus says, One of you shall betray me. Now if he'd gotten finished feeding the five thousand men, plus women and children, with those five loaves and two fishes, and then cupped his hands together, maybe fifteen thousand people there, and said, Hey, one of you Shall betray me! They'd have talked about it all through Jerusalem and Judea and Samaria. Everybody, it would be in the Spread like wildfire. Everybody will be wondering which one of the fifteen thousand people that are here is going to be the one that's going to betray him. But that's not where he said it If he'd have said it as he pushed out onto the boat to teach people there on the seaside of Galilee and says, Hey, listen, listen, one of you shall betray me Everybody be talking about the five hundred or a thousand or two thousand people that were there trying to figure out which one is going to be the betrayer. But he says this in the most intimate of settings. He says this with his twelve disciples. And he says, one of you Shall betray me. Now think about this for just a moment because he doesn't say who it is. As we read the four gospel accounts, we find that every disciple, except for Judas, asked the Lord, Lord Is it I? Every one of them was afraid that they might be the betrayer. And by the way, nobody suspected Judas See, we are such brilliant theologians now in modern day fundamentalism that we're under the impression that if we were there and Jesus said, One of you shall betray me, that we would have all gone like this. And we would have all been pointing our thumb over at Judas, because we would have had it figured out, wouldn't we? We all would have known that it's Judas the m the money keeper that's going to be the one that's going to betray him. But even the disciples didn't think that at all. The Bible's clear about that. Look what it says, please. Verse uh skip down a few verses to verse twenty-six. Jesus answered, He it is to whom I shall give a shop When I have dipped it, and when he had dipped the sop, he gave it to Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon. And after the sop, Satan entered into him. Then said Jesus unto him, That thou doest do quickly Now no man at the table knew for what intent he spake this unto them, unto unto him, for some of them thought, because Judas had the bag that Jesus had said, uh said unto him, Buy those things that we have need of against the feast, or That he should give something to the poor. Judas gets up and leaves. No one suspected Judas. Now the disciples in their minds know two things. One, the betrayer is in the room. Number two, it wasn't Judas. That means you have eleven men in this room, all of them afraid they might be the one that's going to betray their master. Can you imagine how that would weigh upon their heads? Can you imagine what that's doing to their hearts? As Peter even asked John, who has laid his head on the breast of Christ to ask a second time. Peter's already asked once. Now he has a second time. Am I the one? Am I the one that's going to betray you? If that's all the bad news they got, it would be pretty bad. But skip down a few verses with me. Jesus continues in verse 31: Little children, yet a little while I am with you. In other words, he says, listen guys, I'm leaving. I'm not going to be around very much longer. Do you realize they've been accustomed to having him around? When he gave a parable they didn't understand, they would pull him off to the side and ask him what it meant, and he would explain it to them. When there was a demon they couldn't cast out, They would bring it to Jesus and Jesus would cast it out. When there was this storm that they couldn't uh navigate through, Jesus would wake up and say Peace be still. When they were all alone in the fourth watch of the night and the wind was contrary, it was Jesus that came walking on the water. Every time they've gone into a problem, every time there's been a question asked that they couldn't answer, they always had Jesus there. And now Jesus Jesus tells them something that he's never told a single Christian in the last two thousand years, I'm gonna leave. You and I have never known a moment. If you know Christ is your Savior, you have not known a moment since you got saved that he wasn't there. And now he tells these disciples, I'm leaving. Now you have eleven men in this room. Each of them think they might be the betrayer. All of them now know that even if they don't betray him, the master that they love with all their heart is leaving Now they've been apart before, haven't they? I mean remember when they went into Samaria? Jesus must needs go through Samaria and he sits down at the well. The disciples go on into town and go to the the cracker barrel there in Samaria to get something to eat Jesus sits there and talks to that woman at the well. But every time they've been apart, they've gotten back together. Remember the disciples came back and say, Lord, aren't you hungry? And he said, Listen, I have meat to eat that you know not of They were apart when Jesus went up into a high mountain apart to pray and sent the disciples across the Sea of Galilee after feeding those five thousand men, plus women and children. They were apart then, but Jesus walked out to meet them. Every time they've been apart, They've always been looking forward to the next time they're going to be together. But watch what he says this time. Yet a little while I'm with you, as I said of the Jews, ye shall seek me Let me let me read it because I'm gonna qua mess it up if I try to quote quote it. You shall seek me and as I said to the Jews, Whither I go, ye cannot come. So now I say to you He says, not only is one of you going to betray me, and every one of the disciples still thinks it could be them, they don't suspect Judas. Number two, he says, I'm leaving. Number three, he says, you can't go with me. Now we know when we read this passage of Scripture, do we not, what that two-letter word means in that verse. Whether I go, you cannot come Jesus is talking about going to an old rugged cross. He's talking about going to suffer and bleed and die, as he's told his disciples over and over and over again. Remember when he told them in Matthew chapter sixteen and verse twenty-one? And after this Jesus began to show and his disciples how must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things of the rulers and the chief priests and the scribes and be killed and raised again the third day He's told them as Jonas was three days and three nights in the belly of the whale, so must also the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. He's constantly been reminding them that he has come to die, and they're still just starting to get it now He said, I'm leaving, you can't come. We're going to be apart and we haven't been apart for three years. I'm going to be apart and you can't follow me. And somebody's going to betray me. And now the most spiritual one, or the one that constantly portrays himself as the most spiritual in the gospels. Simon Peter is going to speak up. It seems like Peter is finally getting it, doesn't it? Seems like he understands that Jesus is talking about death when he talks about going in this passage of Scripture. And Peter says, Lord, why cannot I follow thee now? I will lay down my life for thy sake. And Jesus looks at him. Jesus answered him, Wilt thou lay down thy life for my sake? Verily, verily I say unto thee, The cock shall not crow till thou hast denied me three times. Denied me thrice. Think about this for just a moment. What if you're sitting there? Jesus doesn't say, And Peter, you're the only one that's going to deny me. He just says, Peter, you're going to deny me Peter, the loudspoken, the one that always wants to be the center of attention, part of that trio, Peter, James, and John that's with him at the garden, it's with him uh with him at the Mount of Transfiguration. It's it's Simon Peter, the only person in all of human history who knows what it feels like to walk on water. That's the Simon Peter we're talking about. And Jesus said, Peter You're going to deny me three times. What do you think Bartholomew thought at that moment? If it's going to get so bad that Peter is going to deny him three times, how many times is Thaddeus going to deny? How many times is Matthew going to deny? I mean, this is going to get so scary that even the loudmouth who's going to pull out his sword here in a few moments and cut off the ear of the high priest servant, even Peter's going to deny three times How much how many times are the lesser disciples going to deny? Can you imagine now what's going through their minds? One of us is the betrayer. At least Peter and probably all of us are going to deny if it's going to be that bad, even if we don't betray, even if we don't deny. He's still leaving. And we can't go with him this time. You don't have to actually be the son of God to know what they're thinking, do you? You can see it on their face. You can see the furrow in the brow, the concern on their countenance. And it's at that moment when he's given them nothing But bad news for the last what fifteen seven sixteen verses of the Word of God. Nothing but bad news, and it's at that moment that he says Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not sure, I would have told you I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself that where I am, though you may be also, and whither I go ye know, and the way ye know. Thomas saith in him, Lord, we know not whither thou goest. How can we know the way? Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. I want to preach you a message this morning entitled simply This, If I go. The disciples have already been introduced to the greatest trial that they've ever faced in their entire lives, and it's going to get nothing but worse for the next three days. And yet there's always John 14 around the corner. I don't know what you're going through, I don't know what trial, tribulation, heartache, or sickness you're going through. I can tell you wherever you are in John chapter 13. John chapter 14 is still there. Let's have a word of prayer before we begin. Lord Father, we thank you for this evening. This morning, Lord, we thank you for our time together. Lord, I ask that you bless the message, that you have your will and your way. Father, for those that are here that do not know Christ as their personal Savior, Lord, we pray that today they'll realize their need of a Savior. Father, for Christians that will realize the need of a closer walk with Him. And leave encouraged by the words of your Son. To let not our heart be troubled. In Jesus' name. Amen. I want you to notice number one the purpose of his going. He says, Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me, my father's house, are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you I go to prepare a place for you. Now, so many times people will look at this and they'll read that word go as if it means that Jesus has gone to heaven to prepare us a place. That he has been up there with the construction crew building mansions every single day for the last two thousand years. I have a preacher friend. He's a very good pre Preacher, I love him, but he actually preaches a message describing Jesus in heaven as having a gold tool belt around his waist with a gold Stanley hammer hanging there and a gold tape measure on the other side As he is constructing mansions up in heaven. I was uh I was in a church in Dover, Pennsylvania, the Sterling Walsh's church. Man came up to me after the service at Preacher Do you know what's a real blessing to me? I said, no sir, what? He said, I look around and see all the beautiful creation and I realize that God created everything in six literal twenty-four-hour periods, but he's been building my mansion for two thousand years. That's not what Jesus said. I'm sorry. I hate to burst anybody's bubble. By the way, let me point this out. I I know other quote-unquote versions of the Bible talk about dwelling places. In my father's house are many rooms. In my father's house are many locations. I'm here to tell you when you get to heaven you can have an NIV Motel 6 if you want to. I'm having a King James mansion when I get there. But think about this for just a second. In my father's house, someday, if all the building permits come in and if we get a good price on sheetrock and all the gold is delivered and the roofers show up on time and we can get the plumbers to do what they're supposed to do. And we can get the electrician to stop calling in sick that someday if everything works just fine there might be some mansions up in heaven. That is not what it says. It says in my father's house are Many mansions, they're already there, they've been there a long time, but don't worry about it. God has a great maintenance program up there When did the mansions get built? It's easy. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. Boom, your mansion was already there. He's not building your mansion now. It's already there. And plus, when he talks about going, you can't separate chapter 13 from chapter 14. Just because there's a chapter division Doesn't change the context. Jesus is talking about going to a cross. He's talking about going and dying. And he says, listen, when I go to the cross, I'm going to prepare a place for you I want you to notice the purpose of his going is to prepare a place for us. First off, it's a place of relation. Realize in the Old Testament, God had a people? God had a nation. God had a chosen people, the royal priesthood. He had all of those things. But he doesn't have that anymore. You know what he has now? He has a family. He came unto his own, and his own received them not, but as many as received him to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. John chapter one verses eleven and twelve. Beloved, now Are we the sons of God? And it doth not yet appear where we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is The fact is, we are already the sons of God. Right now as we sit here, God doesn't have a people anymore. I'm not I don't come to God and say, Hey It's Richard Harper, my dad's name was, my grandfather's name was. I don't come and say, Listen, I grew up here and I grew up here and I'm from this clan and this tribe and this region. I can come straight to him and say, Abba Father, because no longer does he have a people. Now he has a family. Notice he prepared a place for me of relation. He prepared a place for me, number two, of approximation. Think about this for just a second. In the Old Testament, you would take your sacrifice. You would bring it to first the tabernacle and later to the temple You would give it to the priest who would take it inside and offer it up in the holy place or at an altar outside, while you waited outside, either in the courtyard or outside of the courtyard You didn't walk into the holy place. You certainly never walked into the Holy of Holies. You had never been in there at all. You waited outside for someone to go inside and talk to God for you But do you know what? I don't wait outside anymore. Do you know when this ended? You know when that took place? Because the Bible is pretty clear as to when that took place Colossians chapter 2 and verse 13, having forgiven you all trespasses, blotting out the handwriting or just which is against us, which was contrary to us, and took it out of the way, nailing it to the cross But the talking about the the access to the throne room, it's on the cross that Jesus cried with a loud voice and the veil of the temple was written in twain from top to bottom. That didn't happen any place but when he was at the cross, on the cross He said, when I go, I'm going to prepare a place for you. I'm going to rip that veil in half, and I don't stand outside anymore. I come boldly before the throne of grace to obtain mercy and receive grace to help in time of need. I don't wait outside. I walk right inside. I'm not outside in the courtyard while someone talks to God for me. I don't need a priest and I don't need a mediator. There was one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. I walk straight in. Why? Because he went to that cross. He prepared a place for me of relation. I come into his presence as his son and talk directly to the God of I don't have to make an appointment. I don't have to have a special emissary to lead me in. I walk straight in because he said, I'm gonna prepare a place for you. I'm ripping the veil in half All on the cross. There's a third thing. He said, I'm going to prepare a place for you. He prepared a place for us of justification. Think about this in the Old Testament with me for just a moment. Once a year, the High Priest would go into a place called the Holy of Holies Everybody would be outside waiting to see what was going to happen. If the Shekinah glory of God would be over there, if God was going to accept the sacrifice, if the high priest was going to do it correctly and be able to walk out, or if God's wrath was going to kill him. Once a year he walked in there, if he did his job absolutely perfectly, and God was pleased, all of the sins of the nation of Israel from the year before were remitted. But there was never a sacrifice in the Old Testament that would cover one of tomorrow's sins. If you told a lie fifteen minutes after he came out of the Holy of Holies, you were stuck with that thing for a year. There was never a sin, never a sacrifice of goats and bullets that was enough with this man. After he had offered one sacrifice for sin forever, sat down at the right hand of God, Hebrews chapter ten and verse twelve. See, he prepared a place for me of justification. When on that cross he nailed the ordinances uh on the cross. nailing it to his cross at that moment right there that's when he prepared a place for me of justification and now I can stand up and say with Isaiah Come now, let us reason together, saith the Lord. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as snow. Though they be red like white as snow, though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. I can stand up and say again with Isaiah in Isaiah 38 and verse 17, Behold, for peace I had great bitterness. But thou hast in love for my soul delivered it from the pit of corruption, for thou hast cast all my sin behind thy back. I can say with David in Psalm 103 and verse 12, as far as the east is from the west So far hath he removed our transgressions from us. I can say with the author of the book of Hebrews, in Hebrews eight and verse twelve, but I will have mercy on their unrighteousness and their sin and iniquity. Well I remember no more that happened on that cross. Even though he's given them all the bad news, I'm leaving and you can't come. Somebody's gonna betray me. Peter's gonna deny me. Even though all that's gonna happen, I want you to know, don't let your heart be tumbled, because where I'm going, to that old rugged cross, and you're gonna be scattered as Sheep without a shepherd. When I get there, I'm going to prepare a place for you. You're going to be closer to me than you've ever been before. Your sins aren't just remitted, they are completely washed away and buried under the blood of Christ. I'm going to prepare a place place for you of relation, of approximation, and of justification. Notice number one, the purpose of his going. Number two, the promise of his going. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I might come again. I will come again You get people all the time say, Well, well I Peter prop prophesied. They all say, Where is the promise of his coming? The promise of his coming is still right there in the Word of God It's still right there in John chapter fourteen. I I remember reading several years ago. I went on a a news website and excuse me, let me say that right I went on a news website. I'm not sure it it even counts as news anymore. I'm not sure it ever really did. But back then I thought it was. So I went on a news website. I won't tell you the name of the website There's no need to do that. I will give you its abbreviation. Okay, so I you you I I don't know if that clears it up for ya. But I'm on their website and I notice something, I notice an article written by the religion editor. I never put CNN and religion together, no matter how how long ago it was So I decided to read it because the title caught my attention. Why Paul Made Up the Rapture. I thought that must be very interesting. I'm certain this is going to be an astoundingly astute uh theological argument about Paul and the rapture. I found out it was written by a female Episcopalian priest, so that kinda helped me It was just a bunch, excuse me, a bunch of lies. Then I realized why she was on CNN. But anyway, back to the message. I'm sorry, I don't want to be political But the truth was, Paul didn't invent the rapture. Paul certainly talked about it, didn't he? Hold I show you a mystery, we shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed in a moment at the twinkle of an eye at the last trump, the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. changed, and this corruptible must put an incorruption, this mortal must put an immortality, so that when this corruptible shall have put an incorruption, this mortal shall have put an immort Halloween shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, death is swallowed up in victory. First Corinthians chapter fifteen, verses fifty-one through fifty-four. He said, The Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with a voice, the archangel, the trump of God, and the day in Christ shall rise first, and we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds. Therefore comfort one another with these words. 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, verses 16 through 18. Paul certainly talked a lot under the inspiration of the Holy Ghost about the rapture. We didn't make it up. Jesus said, if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you. unto myself. That's not the second coming when we come back on white horses behind him. That's him coming in the rapture to take us home to be with him forever and ever. Jesus makes a promise. I will come again. There's a promise at his going. By the way, people say, well, you Christians, you're kind of silly. It's been two thousand years and he hasn't come back. Hold on. Thousand years says a day and a day says a thousand years. In the mind of Almighty God, Jesus just left Friday. It hasn't been two thousand years. He doesn't have a calendar. He doesn't wear an Apple Watch. He doesn't he's not responsible. He's not obligated by the laws of space and time. He can do whatever he wants. And in the mind of God, if a thousand years is as a day, he just left Friday. You and I look at it because our life is but a vapor that appears for a little while and then vanisheth away. But he's the same yesterday, today, and forever. He said, there's a promise. I will come again. I'm going to tell you something, Christian. Most of the problems that we face in our John 13 moment. Most of them can go away or at least be put into the background of our mind when we think about the fact that we can come boldly before the throne of grace, that we are the sons of God And that our sins have been forgiven and washed and forgotten from the very mind of God with His perfect omniscience. He still promises not to remember our sins Whatever doesn't go away with that goes away when we stop and think about the fact that he could come back before this service is over, there could be a shout and a trumpet, and we'd be home to be with him forever and ever There's the purpose of his going, number two, there's the promise of his going. Number three, though, there's the peace of his going. You get to this passage of scripture. I think that's just allegorical. Walls of Jasper, they're just green. Gates of Pearl, they're just antique white. The Street of Gold's just a brandly uh brand uh brand new repaved Interstate 68. That should scare everyone in the auditorium. If I said that, would you be mad? Would you be offended? Hold on, don't get don't answer yet. Years ago I went up to a camp in Canada. I've preached there several times. Camp yes YES, it stands for Youth Excited About Salvation. It's a good camp. A lot of churches get together up there. They have four weeks of camp in the month of August every year. The first week is for the 16 through 18-year-olds The second week is through the 13 through 15 year olds. The third week, the the uh 10 through twelves, and the last week the eight uh seven through three uh eight through tens, all right? And so the the weeks, the smallest week, uh the smallest two weeks are the first and the last, but the first week is usually the smallest. We had sixty-five, sixty-six campers that were there that first week. A lot of them already have jobs. Some of them have already even started college by the time August rolls around But the week before I got there, I was going to preach the first two weeks. The week before I got there, the newly elected fire marshal for the town of Rodney, Ontario, came and inspected the camp. He came up with the conclusion that we were lucky that we ever lived through camp at one time. That that camp was nothing but a tinder box. We're lucky we all didn't die in an inferno. And he was one going to close them down And they said, listen, if you'll let us stay open just for these four weeks like we've done for the last twenty-five years and live through it, if you let us stay open for four weeks and then you give us a list of things to do, we'll do everything on your list. and make this the most fire retardant camp in the history of Canada. He said, I'll think about it. He then told him this one thing that you have to do. You can't use the second floor of any building on this facility. Now that wasn't a problem for the guys. The guys' dorm space or cabin space was on the ground floor and the basement in one room, one building, but the girls was on the ground floor and the second floor, so we lost half of our girl dormitory space. Wasn't that big a deal. We had about 32 or 33 guys and 32, 33 girls, and we had enough room on the ground floor. for that many girls. But the next week when the thirteen through fifteen showed up, there were 127 campers. 65 of them were girls. I'm sorry, uh uh uh yeah, 117 campers, 65 were girls, 52 were guys. Still no problem with the guys. Well we don't have enough beds for that many girls. So on the weekend between the two weeks of camp, they set up tents all over the outside for the thirteen through fifteen year old old girls to stay in. Now Maybe you it's been a while since you've had a teenager, but I will tell you this. Teenage girls, it's not a want. It's not just some extra thing. They need electricity. They use things that boggle the minds of every single man in this room. My daughter would use a curling iron to curl her straight hair. But she also had a straightener to straighten her curly hair. To me that looks like an eternal thing, doesn't it? Just as soon as you finish curling it You then gotta straighten it. And as soon as you straighten it now that it's straight, you've got to curl it again. I don't know how she ever walked out of the bathroom. It never made sense to me. Some of those girls when they got there, they were disappointed They were going to be sleeping outside. Now, some of the real young ones, the thirteen-year-olds, some of them were okay with it, but those 15-year-old girls, they did not want to be sleeping outside What if you get to heaven and you find out it's not a mansion? It is a motel six. Streets aren't really the street isn't really gold. Would you be disappointed? Watch me carefully, please, before you answer the question. If you really would be disappointed, then you don't understand what heaven is. See, heaven isn't heaven because of what is there. Heaven's heaven because of who is there. What does Jesus say? I will come again and receive unto myself. Listen to the definition of heaven. That where I am. There you may be also. That's what heaven really is. By the way, I know this is going out online. I know somebody's gonna want to take this and piece stuff together and make it sound like I said something that I didn't say. Let me just say for the record, God knows what gold is when he said the street of it is of purest gold. He knows what building material and making gates out of it. That's how wonderful heaven's gonna be. But if you and I think that we're gonna walk in and immediately go, Wow, this place is great, we've misunderstood. I honestly believe that we're going to be in heaven for about the first first ten thousand years. Then one of us is going to go, Hey, look, it is gold. Because we're going to be there worshiping him. We're going to be there on our knees singing Glory, Holy is the Lamb that was slain. We're gonna be singing praise to him. We won't even realize anything else or anybody else's there for the first ten millennia before it even it we even start looking at saying, Oh uh I I do have a mansion Wonder how many rooms are in that thing. Think about it for just a second. That where I am, there ye may be also How can any problem on planet Earth not be forgotten when we're with Him for eternity? Oh yes, John 13s are tough days. John 14s are great. Now Thomas is going to ask a question. Thomas isn't doubting here. He's just asking a question. Lord, we know not whether thou goes. How can we know the way? He's still not understanding it completely, bless his heart. That's a that's a that's a North Carolina and West Virginia thing. Bless his heart. You can say anything you want to about someone as long as you say bless his heart. Right? Oh my, he's losing his hair. Bless his heart. It's okay, see Thomas is going to be doubting Thomas. Do you know why Thomas is doubting Thomas? I want you to think about this for just a second, okay? Do you know why Thomas, 2,000 years later, is still always called doubting Thomas? He missed one Sunday. Look it up. He wasn't there that first Sunday. They said Jesus was here. He said, I don't believe it. He missed one Sunday. He was there the next Sunday. He only missed one. What I'm trying to say is you don't want to be a doubting Thomas, just make sure you're in church, okay? Thomas says, oh, I don't understand. How can we know the way? And then Jesus gives what I believe is his most dogmatic answer while he was in his earthly ministry here It is so it is an answer that is so succinct and so straightforward and and almost impossible to misinterpret. You can't say Well what Jesus is really trying to say here is actually this. No, you can't say that. It is too dramatic. It is too dogmatic. He says, I am the way. The truth. The life. And then one more. No man. You can't say, well, I think that that's That's not really what he's trying to. No, it's it's so you have to come to the conclusion. You have to come face to face if you're lost with John 14 and verse 6. There's only two explanations for John 14 and verse 6. Jesus is telling the truth, and you better get saved, or Jesus, excuse me for saying it this It is so dogmatic it cannot be any other thing. And I don't know that I've ever met a lost person. Even I've talked to people that worship Lucifer that wouldn't tell me that Jesus was a bald faced liar. What I'm trying to say is you don't believe that. You've been taught all your life a little bit about who Jesus is. You might not understand it all. You might scoff at some of it, but the fact is everybody in this room would be inclined to think that Jesus is telling the truth. So if Jesus is telling the truth and you don't know him as your Savior, You better come face to face with John 14, 6. He said, I am the way. Oh, this popular thing. Everybody needs to find their own path to God That's not what Jesus said. I am the way. Oh no, Brother Harper, I'm going to keep the Ten Commandments and go to heaven. Listen, you can't keep the Ten Commandments without trusting Christ as your personal Savior. The very first one is, Thou shalt have no other gods before me. And you'll have to trust Jesus Christ if you're going to have no God but God. The fact is, even if you kept the commandments, it wouldn't take you to heaven You're a sinner. You've been a sinner since the moment you opened your eyes, the moment you cried, the moment you came out of the womb, you have been a sinner Therefore, as by one man sin entered the world, and death by sin, so that death passed upon all men, for that all have sin. You don't uh you don't uh you you're not a sinner because you sin. You sin because you're a sinner. You've always been a sinner. You can't do enough good deeds to get to heaven. Isn't it an amazing thing? There are hundreds of religions out there that actually tell you that you can do enough good deeds to get you to heaven. But if you do this right and do this right and go to church this many times and do all of this, they tell you all these things that you have to do. And if you do all of those things You might just make it to heaven. Lots of religions that tell you that you can earn your way to heaven by doing good works. But watch me carefully. Not one of them tells you how many They don't say if you do fifty good works you can get to heaven. If you do a hundred good works, you can get to heaven. See, so when you're at on your deathbed and you've done 9,463 good works, you don't know if you needed to do 9,464. There is only one belief system on this planet, one, that tells you exactly how many good deeds you have to do to get to heaven, and that's Bible-believing Christianity, because the number is zero Because A, you can't do good works, and B, if you did good do good works, it wouldn't take you to heaven. Isaiah 64 and verse 6 says that all of our righteousness is are as filthy rags. You can't earn your way there. He is the way. It's not him being the way and you helping him out. No, he's the way Pretty dogmatic, isn't it? I'm not a way, I'm not part of the way, I am the way. Then this, I am the truth. There is no truth outside of our Savior. Years ago, there was a lady that was on television, or a woman that was on television. She she achieved a little bit of fame over the years. Ma maybe you've heard of her. I don't I'll I'll give you her name. If you've heard of her, just nod your head or laugh or w wave your hand or something. Her name was see if I can get it right Oprah Winfrey. How many of you remember her a little bit? Okay, Oprah Winfrey. Years ago she had this thing on her show. She had the Oprah Book of the Month Club. I watched the Oprah Winfrey show one time in my life, but I did know she had this thing called the Book of the Month Club. If Oprah had you on and had you as her book of the month Then you went straight to the top of the New York Times bestseller list. Everybody that was a secular author wanted to be on Oprah's Book of the Month Club. She had a guy on there one time And he had written this book. It's still available. He'd written his autobiography. His autobiography was about all of his struggles. Something about Shards of Glass was the title, I don't remember. But in all his struggles, all the crimes he'd committed, all the people he had hurt, just because of his drug addiction. It was a very moving story, very graphic story from what I understand And it it it just went to the top of the New York Times bestseller list, everybody was talking about it. But then some reporter, and they used to do this, some reporter actually reported He actually started investigating. The guy, the first chink in the armor was, he told a story about being in Cincinnati, Ohio. He gave the date and the time that he was in Cincinnati, Ohio And in Cincinnati, Ohio, at that date, at that time, he beat up six police officers because he was so high on cocaine. Well the truth of the matter actually is, at that date and at that time, he was in Cincinnati. He did get in trouble with the law. He had pulled over on the side of the road, he put a quarter in the meter, he leaned his driver's seat back to take a little nap. He slept so long that the meter expired So at the date and the time that in his book he was beating up six police officers, he was actually asleep in his car getting a parking ticket. They began to study and investigate, come to find out almost everything in the book was nothing but a lie. It was all made up. Now, Miss Winfrey was embarrassed. She had promoted this book, so she issued a public statement. She said this. I realize that many of the statements made in the book have been proven to be untrue. However The emotional truth of the book is still there. I had it. I did what only uh the only thing I could do back then I couldn't go on her Facebook page, it didn't exist yet, but I could send her an email. So I sat down and I typed an email. Dear Miss Winfrey. I'm very disappointed in you. There's no such thing as emotional truth. Everything is either true or it's false. It's right or it's wrong. It's holy or it's wicked. There's no such thing as emotional truth Sincerely, Richard Harper. And I hit send. And I felt so much better. Weeks went on. Now the news media is talking about that Oprah is going to have this man back on her show. And all of a sudden he's going to confront all of these things and everything like that. So I'm out. He was coming on the show on Monday, and so on Friday, I'm out with Pastor uh Pastor Seacrist. And we're playing golf at Rolling Heights Golf Club in uh uh uh Salisbury, North Carolina. And we're waiting on the first T. My phone rings, it's a phone number from Chicago. I answered it The lady says, Is this Richard Harper? I said it is, who wants to know? She said, My name is such and such, and she gave me her name. I'm one of the executive producers of the Oprah Winfrey Show Now I had forgotten about the email. I thought she wanted to interview me, but that wasn't what she wanted. She said this. She said, Miss Winfrey, you sent an email about this author and he's coming on the show. Now it all comes back to me She said, Miss Winfrey would like to use your email on the show on Monday. Is it okay? We have your permission. Now I hadn't said anything in that email. I would be embarrassed having read anywhere, not at all. By the way, if you're sending something that y it would embarrass you if they read it in public, just don't send it. I said, No, you have my permission. You can you can you can uh use that email on Monday when the guy comes on there. We hung up, it's a very pleasant lady hung up. Monday, I was watching Oprah Winfrey. It's the only time I ever watched it. She's gonna use my email on her show. You don't think I'm gonna be watching? Of course I'm gonna be watching. So I'm on there and There's two chairs set up on the platform. Oprah comes out. Everybody goes crazy like they did. And then she says and she introduces him and he comes out. Half the crowd cheers for him. The other crowd crowd uh crowd half the crowd is just booing and hissing and all that stuff. And he sits down. And she says, Well this has been a crazy time, hasn't it? Something like that. He says, Yes, Oprah. He said, I acknowledge. I thought it was pretty smart. He used her words against her. He said, I acknowledge that many of the things in the book have been proven to be untrue. But the emotional truth of the book is still there. Oprah Winfrey looked him in the eye and said I am very disappointed in you. There's no such thing as emotional truth. Everything is either true or it's false. It's right or it's wrong. It's holy or it's wicked. There's no such thing as emotional truth. I grabbed my wife's shoulder and I shook it. I said, I said that, I said that You know, she didn't give me credit, it never said my name or anything like that. But I want you to know I'm not bitter about that thing at all. There's no emotional truth. It's a part it it's not even half a truth. When someone tells you you can earn your way to heaven, you can be good enough to get to heaven. Oh, if you and there is no heaven or no hell. I just don't believe there is a heaven or a hell. What makes you think you have to believe in it for it to be true? The simple truth of the matter is, there's one way. There's one truth. There's one life. The wage of sin is death But the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. And I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. There's one life, and that's through Jesus Christ. You're sitting here today and you don't know Christ is your personal Savior, you're not sure if heaven is your home. Understand this. You're not going to get there any other way. There is no other truth, and there's no way you're going to have eternal life without Jesus Christ. And just to make sure You understand how dogmatic he is? The way, the truth, the life. No man. No man. No one's going to come to the Father but by me I don't know where you are in your life, but if you haven't trusted Christ as your personal Savior, I can tell you where you're going to be for eternity. I don't know what kind of background you come from, but if you trust Christ as your personal Savior, I can tell you where you're going to be 10,000 years from now. It's just that simple. Either Jesus is telling the truth, and of course he is. And you have to come face to face with John 14, 6. Not some preacher, not even some church. You have to come face to face with John 14. 6. There's one way. One truth and one life, and no man gets there without him. If you're a Christian, you're going through John chapter 13. I don't know who you are. I don't know what trial you have. Maybe you haven't told anybody the test results you just got from a doctor. Maybe you just found out that your sister's got stage four cancer Maybe you're grieving over a wayward son or daughter or niece or nephew. Whatever John thirteen moment you're going through right now. John 14 is always right around the corner. Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God? Believe also in me. My father's house are many mansions. For we're not so I would have told you I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you I'll come again and receive ye unto myself that where I am, there you may be also. Have her heads bowed and her eyes closed, no one looking around Our pianist is going to come to the piano and find her place in her hymnal, and then she's going to bow her head and close her eyes for the next moment. I'll give her a signal when it's time to play. The invitation time is between me and you and God. No one else is looking, no one else is involved. You can lie to me, but you can't lie to him. Your head bowed and your eyes closed. How many would say, Brother Harper, I know I'm saved? I know I've trusted Christ as my personal Savior. I know Jesus is my Savior. Heaven is my home. Would you slip your hand up, please, all over the auditorium? If you can say it just like that. Thank you. Put your hands down. Now you're here this morning and you couldn't raise your hand. The scary thing, because the devil's telling you that I'm going to embarrass you You understand that if I wanted to embarrass you, I could do it right now, couldn't I? I mean think about it for just a second. I could say, hey, everybody look up. These are the people that didn't raise their hand. I could do that. I want you to understand something. I wouldn't embarrass you no matter what. Also, if you and I shake hands after this invitation, I won't bring this invitation up with you unless you bring it up to me first. I'm not going to send someone back to get you. I just want you to be honest with me. There's no reason not to be, since I know who you are. where you're sitting and what you're wearing. And I know you could not testify and say that you know if you die today you'd go to heaven. So let me ask you this question, just those of you who didn't raise your hand. If it were possible today for you to know for certain That Jesus is your Savior and heaven is your home for eternity. Without joining a church, without signing a paper Without putting any money in a plate, and without everybody staring at you, you won't have to give a speech or anything like that. If you could do it just like that, wouldn't you rather know Jesus as your Savior than not? Now if you answer that question in your heart right there, everybody in this room knows they want to go to heaven. There are no exceptions to that. If you answer that question, yeah, if I could do it that way you described it, without being embarrassed, without joining anything, without signing anything, without doing all of those things, uh yeah, I'd like I'd I'd like to know that this morning If that's you, with just me looking and I know who you are, would you now just slip up your hand, I'll be the only one that sees it, and I won't do anything, I'm not coming back to get you I'm not sending someone back to get you. Slip your hand up right now. If you say, Brother Harper, I would like to know I'm on my way to heaven. Slip it up, hold it up high enough for me to see it, and then put it back down Now, if you're sitting here and you couldn't raise your hand on the first question. Why would you say no? Whatever it is that caused you not to raise your hand, I will tell you this straight from the Word of God, it's not worth it. What doth it profit a man if he should gain the whole world and lose his own soul? You didn't just say maybe, you didn't just say later. You said no. I'm going to ask one more time, then I'm moving on. I'm not going to belabor it. I'm not going to try to talk you into something. How many would you say, Brother Harper? I'm not sure if I died today I'd go to heaven. But I'd like to know that today. Would you slip your hand up and hold it high enough for me to see it and acknowledge it? Then you can put it back down. All right. Christian in this auditorium would say, Brother Harper, right now, right now, whether everybody knows about it or nobody knows about it. I'm going through John chapter 14. John chapter 13. Would you slip up your hand right now? Hold it high in the air. Thank you. I see hands all over the auditorium. Listen, Christian, the Bible is absolutely filled with people. They came to an altar because they were convicted. But do you know almost equally as many times people came to an altar just for comfort and thanksgiving? When's the last time you got out of your seat, came to an old-fashioned altar, just to say, Lord, thank you? Thank you that you've forgiven me. Thank you that you've saved me. Thank you that you're coming back to get me. And thank you, Lord, that we'll never be separated. How many in this auditorium? Just a moment. How many in this auditorium? You've not done that in a while. We're going to have a word of prayer. Then we're going to say it after we stand. The piano is going to begin to play. I'll give her a signal And I say this all the time, if you'll step out on the first note of the piano, you won't give the devil two notes to talk you out of it. You do what the Lord's laid on your heart this morning. If you're going through John chapter 13, why not step out and thank him for John 14? Lord Heavenly Father, we thank you for this morning. Lord, we thank you for your word. Father, we pray for those in this auditorium that could not raise their hand and say that they know that if they died today they'd go to heaven. Father, I pray that you'll continue to deal with them. They'll realize they're among friends. We're not here to embarrass them or humiliate them or mock them in any way. Help them not to believe the devil's lies. Father, for the Christians that raise their hand, and we know that your people all over the world are going through John 13 moments. Lord, help us to do what you would have us to do. Demonstrate our thanksgiving for John chapter 14. Father, have your will and your way in Jesus' name. With your head still bowed and your eyes still closed, let's stand all over the eye.