I'd like for you to notice verse number fourteen, just to get us started. The Bible says, Whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow. That phrase ought to be underscored in your Bible. For what is your life? It is even a vapor that appears for a little time and then vanisheth away For that ye ought to say, if the Lord will, we shall live and do this or do that. If the Lord will. That's what I want to talk about this morning. Let's ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, we come to you again this hour with grateful hearts. You've been so good to us. Like many say to me, Lord's been better to us than we deserve. And Lord, we believe that. We're grateful. And I ask now, as we just put aside our concerns, our burdens, our plans, our thoughts, for outside, and Lord, just open our hearts to your word here now for the next few moments. And Lord, with our Bibles open before us, I pray that our will would be yielded to your will as you speak to us. And I yield my will. I present my mind, Lord, and I pray that my thoughts, that your thoughts would overtake my thoughts as I'm preaching. The things that you would have said, or the the thoughts that you would have me to have as I declare that that would be the case, and not my own understanding, my own reasoning. I yield my body to you. I present it anew. I ask that you would fill this body with your Holy Spirit and control me as I preach. And that you can speak through me. So help us, Lord, to be wise and how we respond to what your word teaches us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. The book of James is one of my favorite books in the Bible. It's an extremely practical book on Christian living, on living the Christian life The emphasis in the book of James is not so much um Christian doctrine, Christian teaching about theology and all that. Some of it in there. All scriptures given by inspiration of God and profitable for doctrine. So there is some teaching about God and about spiritual realities there. But the emphasis of the book of James is not so much doctrinal or theological. The emphasis in the book of James is living the Christian life. Not Christian doctrine, but Christian living. Practical, how it affects us. I've said this often over these many years we've been here is we are an independent fundamental Baptist church By fundamental, we mean we hold to the fundamental doctrines of Scripture, the basics that the Bible teaches. We hold strongly to that. Now you can be fundamental in your doctrine and be liberal in your living. I know people and I've been in churches where their doctrinal statement is as fundamental, as scriptural as you can get But brother, their living was far from it. What we believe that the Bible teaches ought to affect how we live here on earth. How many people believe Jesus is coming back again? Say amen. Any moment, at any time, the rapture would take place. Amen? You know that ought to affect how we live. Say, well, I believe that. Wonderful. Praise the Lord. But don't stop there. Let it affect how you live. I ought to live every moment, every day, as if Jesus could come back at that moment. We believe that the blood of Jesus Christ can cleanse us from all sin. Died on the cross, shed his blood so we can be forgiven and saved. That ought to affect how we live our life And so that's what the book of James is about. It's taking the teachings of Scripture and applying to our everyday life. It's trusting God. What God says is so, and trusting Him, and then following those instructions. So James is. About putting my faith into action. I want to suggest to you, in the day and age we live in, we need more than just faith in doctrines. We need a life Doctrines lived out in our lives. This whole world, our country, needs to see what biblical truth, how biblical truth affects a Christian's life. How many people believe our nation's in dire shape? The only hope for America is Christians being shalt again like God's instructed us to be. And that means living out what the Bible says. Not just signing off on some doctrinal statement, but living that doctrinal statement out. That's what James is all about. I appreciate James. It's an intensely practical book. Now, what do we know about James himself, the penman? Of course, God is the author. James penned these words down under the inspiration of God, and they're perfectly preserved for us. But what do we know about this man that God used to give us this book? Well, he's most likely the half-brother of our Lord Jesus Christ. We say half-brother because James and Jesus had the same mother, but they had two different fathers. Jesus' mother was Mary. Jesus' father was God Almighty, God the Father. He was born of God, miraculous conception by the Holy Spirit of God. Without physical Father, Jesus Christ is the divine Son of God, 100% man, 100% God. Now, James, on the other hand, James' mother was Mary, just as Jesus' mother was Mary, but James' father was Joseph. Joseph, the husband of Mary. So he's a half-brother, we would say, of the Lord Jesus Christ. We believe. And it's interesting if you go back to his opening statement in chapter 1 and verse 1 He says, James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I it always strikes me whenever I consider this Uh his relationship with the Lord Jesus as a half-brother, he does not identify himself as a half-brother of Christ. He identifies himself as a servant of the Lord Jesus Christ. And what humility on my part. I tell you, if my half brother was the Almighty, eternal Son of God, everybody knew that was my you know, oh yeah, that's my half brother. Not James. He says, oh, he might be, we might be kin through my mother. But he said, but I'm his servant. I'm his servant. James is the, we believe, the half-brother of the Lord Jesus Christ. He's most likely the first pastor of the of the first church that ever existed. I call it the first Baptist Church of Jerusalem. Now, you say you don't call it Baptist in there. Oh, but we believe the same thing, I'm telling you. He's probably the first pastor of the first church that ever existed, apart from the Lord Jesus, of course. He penned this God-inspired book, the book of James. He penned it 2,000 years ago, Balton. But the amazing thing is, the book of James, and really all the Bible, but particularly the book of James, though it was penned so many thousand years ago, it is just as relevant today as if he wrote it last week. The Bible is alive. This world has changed in 2,000 years, right or wrong. Good night, yes, it's changed. We've explored, man, we're sending people into outer space now. And all the stuff from back 2,000 years ago, things that you and I do on a daily basis, they would have never dreamed of. This world has changed. Technology has changed in 2,000 years. But I'll tell you two things that have not changed. Number one is the nature of mankind. Man is just as much a sinner today as he was 2,000 years ago, 3,000 years ago, 4,000 years ago. You go back to the fall of man, our sinful nature has not changed one bit. Every man, every little boy and girl born into this world is born with that sinful fallen nature that has not changed. I'll tell you something else that hasn't changed. The Word of God hasn't changed. The same as it was on the day God gave us the Bible. Each book of the Bible, it does not change. God's word is preserved for every generation. And by the way, we don't need a new Bible every month. God's given us the old King James Bible. We just settle it right there. That's where we're at. That's where we're at. So man's nature does not change, and God's word does not change. And so when we come to the Word of God with this old sinful nature, God's word relates to my condition. God's word affects me. God's word instructs me and helps me and is a factor on how I live for God because my nature has not changed and God's word has not changed. God's word still speaks to the needs of man's hearts today. Now we're looking at chapter 4. The last few verses here, Pastor Matt read for us a little bit ago. I'd like for you, if you would, notice the first couple verses of chapter 4. He says, from whence comes wars and fightings among you. Anybody notice people still fussing? Two thousand years ago, people still fussing. Honor like that. Nations still going to war. Anybody notice that? Fighting all through history. It hasn't changed a bit. People fussing, churches fussing, homes fussing, neighbors fussing, politicians fussing, preachers fussing And he says, where does this come from? Where does all this animosity and fussing come from? These wars and fightings among you. Look at this. Come they not hence even of your lusts that war in your members? Ye lust and had not, ye kill and desire to have, and cannot obtain Ye fight in war, yet ye have not because ye ask not, and ye ask and receive not because ye ask amiss, that ye may consume it upon your own upon your what? Lust He starts out the chapter talking about war with God. Our wars with one another really are rooted in our war with God. Lord, I went my way, my lusts, my desires, my understanding, my reasoning. My life revolves around what I want, the way I think it should be. And he says, There's your problem. That's where your fussing comes in. And he begins the chapter with wars, particularly war against God, because I don't want God's way, I want my way. And then he ends the chapter. He begins with war with God that's rooted in our sinful, selfish desires, our own lusts. And he ends with the will of God being accomplished when I relinquish those sinful desires and selfish lusts. When I relinquish my selfish desi uh sinful Sinful and selfish desires. War with God, yielded to the will of God. Now I have a few thoughts. I'm going to jump right into it this morning. I want us to notice, first of all, the uncertainty of life. The uncertainty of life. Look at chapter 4, uh chapter 4, verse number 14. Whereas Ye know not what shall be on the morrow. I circled that little phrase, ye know not. Ye know not what shall be on the morrow. I did, as I always do, I did some research on that little phrase. I tried to see where it comes from, how it's used other places in scripture and other places in literature. And ye know not, has this idea. It is an emphatic negative. If you remember, I think it was last week we preached on Hebrews chapter 13, where Jesus said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. How many people remembered eight days ago when I preached on that? Yeah, four people. Amen. Praise the Lord. Great memory. And we pointed out that that little word never, I will never leave thee, we said it was a sevenfold, it was a I'm sorry, a five-fold negative. Never, never, never, never, never. It was the most emphatic term that i in liter in uh in uh in word studies the most emphatic term in the language To say that something is not going to happen. Well, that is very similar to this statement here. Ye know not. And the emphasis is this. You absolutely do not, under any circumstances whatsoever at all, have a clue. What shall happen on the morrow? He's very emphatic about it. We do not know what tomorrow holds. In fact, let me take it a step farther. You and I don't know what this afternoon holds. We don't know what the next hour holds. He's very emphatic. He's saying, listen, you don't know the uncertainty of life. God has given to us, He has built into our design, our mental design, our brains, our miraculous uh uh works of technology, divine technology. The modern computers they have today, they're trying to they're trying desperately to come even close to what the human brain Can do functions the human brain can do. And it's amazing to me that they spend billions and billions of dollars and decades of brilliant people trying to get a computer to do a fraction of what our brain can do. And yet they say our brains just evolved from nothing. Give me a break And God has designed into our minds, into our brains, this amazing ability to remember. To look into the past and recall events that took place in the past I was visiting this week with a lady 90 years old, born in 1934, in the midst of the Great Depression. And we got talking. I was visiting with her and she's a saved woman and praise the Lord testify. We had a good fellowship together. 90 years old. And she said, Pastor Leatherman, I was born in the Depression era. And she goes, I still remember Experiences she had as a eight, five, six, seven, eight-year-old, nine-year-old child in the depression What you and I, people my age, we just read about in the history books. She remembers vivid details. Of events 85 years ago. Now people agree with me. That's a phenomenal ability to recall Go back decades and decades and remember events and circumstances, in some cases very vivid. My problem is I don't remember what I did an hour ago I remember my sister just picking on me when I was eight, but I can't remember what I ate for breakfast this morning. But you agree with me, memory is an amazing, amazing ability to look into the past, to recall yesterday and Events I did and see them very clearly in my mind in the previous week and months and years, decades. It's an amazing thing This ability that God has given us. And as amazing as that is, and by the way, memory can be a great blessing or it can be a great curse. Boy, how many things I wish I'd kno uh I wish I could just put out of my mind. Can I get a witness? Oh, I wish they weren't there. And then there it can be a great blessing. Remember loved ones and experiences we had. I preach a funeral, I always encourage, listen, relish those memories. That's a precious gift that God has given. To remember. And as wonderful as that gift is, and as amazing as that gift to look back and see and recall the past, one thing we cannot do. We cannot look forward into the future. That is a closed door to us. It is an absolute darkness what the future holds. I look back and oh I can remember and all that. If I look forward, it's a veil. Close to us. The uncertainty of life. We don't know what tomorrow is. Ye know not what tomorrow holds. Very emphatic. Very emphatic. God has not given us ability to see the future. We can't see ten years ahead We can't see one year ahead. We can't see one month ahead, one week, one day, one hour ahead. We I was shortly after I got saved, I was uh tennis church, I was growing, it was that Let's say I got saved in May. It was the following year nineteen eighty. It would have been Easter, nineteen eighty. Easter service Big church, large church, good church. I ran 600 or so, big crowd. Always sat over here where all the spiritual people sit over in that area. Big church. You know that was facetious, right? That was halfway through the preacher's preaching like I'm doing right now, halfway through a man over in here in a big crowd Also he stands up it's gone. When he walked in that auditorium, the future was dark. He had no idea that someone would carry him out. Now, I'm not trying to be morbid. I'm trying to point out the fact the future is uncertain. Ye know not what shall be on the morrow. It's very emphatic. Proverbs chapter 16 and verse 9 says, A man's heart deviseth his way, but the Lord directeth his steps. Oh, we can make all the plans we want. We can think and we can convince ourselves and we can fool ourselves into thinking I know how this is going to play out. I know what's going to happen. I know where this is going. I know what I'm going to do. You can plan that all you want. I'm here to tell you. Only God knows the certainty of tomorrow Only God knows the certainty of tomorrow. The uncertainty of the future. Years ago and we had a young lady who came in on the buses, sweet young lady, she trusted Christ. She got saved, trusted Christ, got saved, she got baptized. She's about 15 years old, right in that age, maybe 16, in that rage somewhere. Came out faithfully, rode the bus, started coming Sunday nights a bit. If I remember correctly, she got involved in our visitation program. I mean, she was growing in the Lord. She was she loved the Lord. She had a good testimony. Sixteen years old, lived over across the state line. One Saturday a fellow came by who she knew, I guess they were somewhat friends, but He said she was going to give her a ride somewhere. He jumped in the car. She didn't know it, but apparently he had been drinking pretty heavily. Got driving crazy. We don't know what all took place in the car That Saturday afternoon, he ran that car into a tree and killed that little girl. Killed her on the spot instantly I'm telling you, young people, their future is uncertain. Middle aged, senior citizens. We think of us old folks, yeah, they'll kick off any minute there. They got one foot in the grave and the other on a banana peel. I tell you what, young person's future is just as uncertain. I did the funeral for that girl. Over Terra Alta up on the hill at the funeral home up there. I'm telling you that place was packed out. The schools let out that day so kids could come to the funeral. The the four the the chapel area there where we had the service jam-packed people standing around the sides, young and old. There was a stairwell there. That stairwell, kids, the people sitting on the stairs. I mean packed out. Out in the lobby. Outside the windows open, people standing outside. I tell you, I told those people how that girl had trusted Jesus as her Savior And with all my heart and to the best of my ability, I told them how to be saved themselves and what Christ had done for them and died on the cross, was buried, rose again. They could have eternal life. I poured my heart out. I gave the invitation. Scores young people raised their hand. They trusted Christ as Savior. Must have been 25, 30 people raised their hand. Yes, I'm trusting Christ. I'm calling on Christ. I'm here to tell you the future is uncertain. Ye know not what shall be on the morrow. I bought a when I was eighteen years old, we did some deer hunting. We'd go up to north central Pennsylvania, Tioga County, and up in that area. We'd do deer hunting. One year I was get kind of getting ready for deer season. I guess maybe it was after deer season, I don't remember, but I saw this ad in the paper for a deer rifle for sale. And I didn't I've just been using old shotgun with slugs. I wanted a rifle So here's this 3030 Winchester, Model 94, nice gun, for sale for like 80 bucks. That's a good deal, huh? So I called up and said, I'm interested. I saw this gun for sale. I'm interested. This is back when you actually had freedom to have guns. Remember in America when you used to have a Second Amendment So I just went, I caught up, she goes, yep, come on over, got her over there, and I looked at Gunner, I said, I'll take it. I said, I'm curious, why are you selling it I had the gun, I almost brought it over here, but I thought I'd get arrested. She said this past hunting season, my husband overslept the first morning of deer season. He got out a little late. It was just dusk, but by the time he got out to where he hunted, He's making his way up the tree line, she told me, and some idiot up on the hill saw movement along the tree line without even considering what it might be, put the bead on that movement, shot and dropped him dead on his tracks. That morning, I I'm holding the gun in my hand that he was holding when he was shot and killed. That morning that old boy put his boots on, not knowing that that night an undertaker would take his boots off. Here's the point I'm trying to make. Ye know not what shall be in tomorrow. The uncertainty of light. We don't know. Now, these are negative. We think of the negative things. Oh, this terrible thing might happen. This terrible thing. I'm telling you, there's a positive side to it. There might be something good about to happen. I don't know. I know that morning May 7, 1979, I got up as a sinful wretch on my way to hell. That night at 1030, I trusted Jesus Christ and I pulled the covers up over my body on my way to heaven And I didn't know when I got up that morning that night I'd be a saved man. I didn't know that morning when I got up that God would change my life before I went to bed that night. I didn't know My daddy didn't know when he pulled out Sunday night with a truck that when his lost drug addict boy, when he comes back in town, would be a child of God. My point is this: the uncertainty of life, you don't know what tomorrow holds, we don't know what the next hour holds, we don't know. We can remember last week, but we don't know what next week holds. That one you've been praying for for years may come around tomorrow. That problem that scares the daylights out of you May tomorrow dissolve and not even be anything what you think it is. He's very emphatic here. James, when he's writing to these believers, he's being very, very emphatic. He says, Whereas ye know not, you do not know. My daddy always said, I heard him say it so many times, when you put your shoes on in the morning, you never know who's going to take them off at night. Daddy was saying the uncertainty of life. So my first thought this morning is the uncertainty of life. I wonder how many people are thinking, boy, this is great. I went to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church and told I might die tomorrow. That's not the point I'm trying to make, although that is a very real possibility. The point I'm trying to make is we don't know. We don't know. Number two, my second thought is this The uncertainty of life, verse number 14, the first part, and the second is the brevity of life. Look again at verse 14, whereas ye know not What shall be on the morrow? Now look, he asks this question, for what is your life? And then he answers his own question. It is even a vapor. That appeareth for a little time and then vanisheth away. The brevity of life. He says, What is your life? He says, I'll tell you what it is: it's a vapor. Um the exciting thing about living in Garrett County, you don't never know if it's gonna be winter or summer when you wake up in the morning I think it was one day this week I was up early right at daybreak and I like to go out on the back deck. Did you know those birds sing so loud right when it's getting daylight? Anybody ever notice that? And I like to slip out on the back deck and I just stand back there, man, these what an orchestra. These birds are just singing. And I'm looking for my Oreoles and they hardly ever show up and I'm so mad at them. And these burgers are singing. And I noticed I'm standing there in my house coat and my uh slippers on, and just listening, enjoying the music. And I noticed that when I breathe, there is a vapor. I said, for Pete's sake, it's the last week of May almost. Why am I seeing my breath? I'll tell you why, because we live in Garrett County. It might be six inches of snow tomorrow. He says, James says, what is your life? He said, I'll tell you what it is. It's a vapor, mist. A vapor mist that's there for a little bit, and fool, before you know, it's gone. I've been thinking lately in the morning, I get it seems like a go to bed, it's go to sleep at night, and two seconds later it's morning. Dude. You know what? This old planet is just whoo just spinning, spinning, spinning, spinning, spinning. And the days just click off, click off, click off, click off, click off. Before you know it, we've come and gone. How many people have filled these seats? Have come and gone. We think about them every now and then, but they're off the scene and we're moving on, moving on, moving on. Now, we don't mean to be morbid. I know I'm sounding a bit morbid. I don't mean it that way, but it's important that we understand how fragile life is and how brief our life is. It's just a little while. Psalms David put it this way in Psalms 39 and verse 5. He said, Behold, thou hast made my days as a handbread. He said, my entire life, all the days of my life, from the womb to the tooth. It's just a hand breath. It's not very long at all. He goes on, he says, My age is as nothing before thee. Verily, every man at his best state is altogether vanity. And then he says, puts this little word in there that's a very significant word in the book of Psalms, Sila. And it means stop and consider this seriously. Every man at his best state is altogether vanity. That word vanity comes from the same word as breath mist. It's just gone. If you have your Bibles and you would turn to Jo uh um Job, Chapter number 9, keep your place there because I want to look at another statement James makes here before we're done. But Job chapter 9 and verse number 25 Job, of course, is being tested like nobody's ever been tested His faith in God, though it seems to wobble a little bit, nevertheless holds firm God honors him at the end of his trials, and most of us, I think, are familiar with Job. Lost all his possession, all his family, his wife turns on him. He's left alone. All his friends turn on him. It's just him and God in the midst of pain and heartache and fear. And yet his faith holds. It wobbles a bit. It wobbles a bit as he goes through, but it holds. And notice what he says in verse 25 of chapter 9. He says, Now my days are swifter than a post. Now he's not talking about a fence post. He's talking about a post as a runner. Anybody remember reading about the um uh uh uh uh my mind just went blank, the uh the post system to run out west. Pony Express Any any people remember reading about that? How they get mail out west before they had the trains and everything. Anybody here remember the sending stuff? And man, you read about that and they give that pony express runner, they give him some uh some parcels. And we need this in Kansas City. And he'd take off from uh Chicago or somewhere, wherever it was, and man, they'd get that pony and they had stations and they high-tailed it. I mean it was all out. And David says, that's the way my days go by. Just like a post, just like that runner racing by. Or not David Job says that. They're swifter than a post. Notice he says, my days are swifter than those. They flee away. That word flee away again ties in with the post. It means run quickly. In fact, that little phrase free away flee away. comes from a term that they would use to describe the flight of an arrow. I enjoy bow hunting A little target in my backyard and I stand on my deck and I pull that thing back and man you let set that release and it's boom that thing's in the in the target. Know what I'm talking about That time that that arrow flies from the at from the bow to the target, that's what he's talking about. They flee away. Job's saying, man, they fly. Life is so brief, it goes by so fast. He goes on, he says, uh they are passed away as the swift ships. He's talking about ships that would put their sails up and catch that wind. We were vacation down in Alabama a few years ago, summers ago had a wonderful time. And there was a pier there. We would go down in the evenings that went out into the uh the the Mobile Bay. There on we were on the other side from Mobile, Alabama. We were on the other side of the bay. And these big ships would come in. And you'd sit there, you wouldn't really pay a lot of attention to them, but when you first notice it they were over here. And you'd talk a little bit and look, next thing you know, they're over here. You talk a little bit and look, next thing you know, they're going out of sight over there. Shh. I'm telling you, that's the way life is. It seems like one day we're just here having a good time as a young child, playing in the backyard and swinging and riding and bike, and you get caught up, and then the next thing you know, I got a family. And then you get caught, and then the next thing you know, I'm I'm in the later years of life, and where did it go? It's like a ship that just swelled by. And then he says one more, he says there as the eagle that hasteneth to the prey. I like the fish down at Savage River Reservoir, I don't hardly get down anymore, but I really enjoy it. And there's eagles down there. I get out in that canoe, I like to go weekdays. Sometimes I'll have that whole place to myself. Now I shouldn't have told you that. Now y'all are going to go down there and ruin it for me. Sometimes I got that whole place myself and I'm fishing on these eagles up there. And you can tell when they're on the hunt. They'll sit up in that tree, some dead branch hanging out, or they'll be up there, and then they'll see a little trout that's getting up a little too close to the surface. And phew, like a torpedo. Derek and I were down there. We saw an eagle. This is this has nothing to do with the message. I just think it's a cool story That's the preacher's prerogative. We were down there fishing, the two of us, and we heard this splash, and we looked, hear this big bald eagle, I mean huge, has a catfish. Up on the bank, it had gotten in the water, drug it up on the bank, and was eating that three-foot catfish on the bank. Isn't that cool? But Job says, that's the way my life is, that eagle, shum, diving down to get the prey. The brevity of life, the brevity of life, the uncertainty of life. We don't know what tomorrow holds Life races by so quick, so quick, so quick. And we're not trying to be more morbid, but I think James is telling us, listen, don't squander your life Don't waste your time investing your time and effort in things that really don't matter That have no value as far as eternity is concerned. Who in the world cares how big your house was when you stand before God and eternal judgment of God? He says, be wise with your life, be wise with your time. Invest it in things that matter. Things that endure, things that last beyond the temporal, material things. That's what church is all about. That's what Christian life is all about, preparing for the eternal issues of life. If there was no eternity, if there was no life beyond the grave, then what we're doing is a waste of time But there is eternal realities, there is spiritual realities, there is life beyond the grave. And what we do now and what we invest our lives in does matter. So don't waste it. It's so quick. It's so quick. I've been I've done a lot of funerals over the years, and I consider it a tremendous honor. To be able to stand up and commemorate and honor the life of someone who's passed on. Whether I know them or not, what an honor that is to stand and comment on the life of somebody I don't take it lightly. And particularly back when I was with hospice a little bit, I did a little visiting for them, an arrangement. But I sat on a lot of deathbeds. Sit with people either as they passed away or just briefly before leading up to it. Now I'll tell you, I've had a heap of people knowing that their time was up, knowing that within a brief period of time they're going out into eternity. And by the way, I was able to lead a lot of people to Christ at that time. That's a very fertile. Soil. I've had a heap of people tell me, they knew their time was winding down. Preacher, I wish that I lived for God. I wished I'd used my life a little more intelligently. I wished I'd been a little more careful about how I lived and what I did and the places I went and uh things I got involved in. I wish I'd have been more careful. Had a lot of regrets from folks as they approached end of life. But you know one thing I find interesting. I never had one person, out of no doubt hundreds, I never had one person that said to me, Preacher, I regret living for God. Preacher, I regret trying to do right and live for the Bible. I regret dedicating my life to Christ I regret trying to win souls and keep my heart and mind pure and clean and right. Oh, I regret that. I never had one person tell me that. What I'm trying to say is, life is brief. Don't end your life with regrets. From youth on up, decide I'm going to live for God. I'm going to follow God's instructions and obey the Bible. Number one, the uncertainty of life. Number two, the brevity of life. And then, last of all, end with this: the will of God. The will of God. Look with me if you would at verse number 13 of James 4. Everybody with me still? I know this isn't swing from the chandeliers type preaching. But I'm telling you, this is serious stuff that cannot be ignored. Look at verse 13. Go to now, ye that say Today or tomorrow we will go to such a city and continue their year and buy and sell and get gain. Go to ye now that say that. Come down to verse 15. For that ye ought to say, if the Lord will, we shall live and do this or that. Now look, he rebukes them. He says, but now ye rejoice in your boastings. All such rejoicing is, look at this, evil You say, what? Is he saying that, well, you know, next week we're going to go here and I'm going to do that, and I'm going to buy this. He says that that's evil? That's what he says. Therefore, to him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin. The will of God, if the Lord will. Now it's not wrong to make plans. He's not saying it's wrong to make plans. When he says, if the Lord will, what he means by that is if this is God's intentions. What I need to do is think, well, is what pleases God? What is his intentions? That's the idea behind if the Lord will. The Lord will. What is God's desires? He's not saying it's wrong to make plans. He's not saying it's wrong to prepare for the future. In fact, we are instructed in Proverbs and other places to prepare, you know, plan ahead a little bit. We're told not to worry about the future, but we are never told not to prepare for the future. If you're here today and you're not saved, you ought to get prepared for the future by trusting Jesus Christ today. Salvation is the preparation for eternity. So he's not saying it's wrong to prepare for the future. But what he's saying is our planning and our preparing, listen, must never disregard the will of God. There's a hint of submission here. When I'm thinking about the future, when I understand I don't know what tomorrow holds, I understand my life is very, very brief. But when I think about the future, I must think of it in submission to the will of God. I think there's a hint of rebellion. On the part of the people he's addressing. It seems to me when he says there go to now, ye that by the way, that little phrase go to means come on now. Seriously, you're making all these plans. You know what God's, this is what I think he's saying. You know what God's will is You know what pleases the Lord, and you're making all these plans contrary to what you know is pleasing to God, to what you know is the will of God He says that boasting, I know what God's will is, but I'm going to do this. He said, that boasting is evil. There's a rebellion in this whole idea. Seems like they know what God's will is, but they're pursuing their own will. Again, he says. You're rejoicing, but now you rejoice in your boasting. It's evil to him that knoweth to do good, God's will, and doeth it not is sin. It's sin. Come on, guys, he's saying, go to now. Do not leave God out of your planning. Seek the will of God. What does God say? What is God's will? And then plan according to the will of God. Don't disregard the word of God and say, I'm going to do this. That is evil. That is boasting. But I say, all right, I know what God's will is. I want to submit to the will of God. Don't disregard the young people, older folks, all of us, don't disregard God's will. Don't say my will. Jesus prayed, not my will, but thy will be done. That's what James is talking about. What we pray is my will, not thy will. That's what they were saying. And that's evil. That's proud boasting. Proverbs 27. 1, boast not thyself of tomorrow. That's what they were doing. Disregarding the will of God. Would you agree with me? Now, maybe not everybody would agree with me on this statement, but I think a lot would. An atheist is a fool. An atheist is a fool. You say you're being arrogant, you're being rude. No, I'm being scriptural. Psalm 14, verse 1 says, The fool hath said in his heart, there is no God. There's no God in his thinking. He doesn't consider God's planning. He doesn't consider God's purposes. In fact, he at least verbally denies that there even is a God. Now I'm convinced every atheist down inside their heart and soul, they know there's a God. And they foolishly disregard what they know is true. So an atheist is a fool. However, An equal fool is a Christian that claims to believe But lives and plans their life independent of God. I call them practical atheists. Oh, I believe in God, yep, I believe the Bible. Yes, sir, it came gave me all the way And then go live my life as if God has no plan or purpose for my life, as if God's will is meaningless. I'll just do what I want. Amen. Good preacher, preacher, and then go just live my life however I want. That is just as big a fool as the guy that says I don't even believe in God Because practically it plays out no different. The will of God, the will of God. We were putting up fence yesterday. The fellas, man, I was just so grateful. We got some nice fencing out around our tower and radio tower and uh guy wires. And they put that thing up, and Brother Mark was heading this up, and a lot of other guys, uh most of the other guys knew what they were doing. And um there was one in particular had no clue, I won't say That it was the preacher, but nevertheless. But he'd hold that they'd hold that level up on there. Make sure that fence was right and straight, and they'd hold that level up. Make sure it was plum. For the Christian life, the word of God and the will of God is plum. If you disregard the will of God as it's given in the Word of God, your life's going to be out of kilter and out of whack. Right or wrong? And James is saying, don't disregard the will of God. Make sure your plans, your purposes, what you're doing line up with what God has declared His will to be in the Word of God. Don't presume on anything. I read about a Scottish preacher years and years ago who was visiting a glass blowing furnace. And when he walked in, he was just kind of touring, I guess, whatever, I don't know why he was there, but he was in and he saw this furnace burning where they put the glass in and melt it and blow the vases and things And so he walked in, he wasn't really paying attention, didn't seem to be anybody around, he didn't really say it for any purpose, just thinking out loud. And he looked in that furnace and he said out loud to himself Oh my soul, what must hell be like? What must hell be like And he walked on. He didn't know it, but there was a worker behind the corner heard him make that statement. About a week or so went by, that worker showed up in the church service where the Scottish preacher was. The preacher preached his heart out, gave the invitation, this worker came forward. And he says, you don't know this, but the other day when you were at the glass-blowing furnace, you made the statement, my my, what must hell be like? And he said, I couldn't get that statement out of my head. He said, every time I looked in the furnace, it was, what must hell be like? He said, I lay down at night, what must hell be like? And he said, Preacher, I came today because I don't want to ever find out what hell is like. And the old boy trusted Christ as Savior. Trusting Christ as Savior. Listen, we need to consider the will of God. We don't know what tomorrow holds. Our life is brief. We need to make sure we're right with God. We know him as Savior. We're living for him, a life that pleases him. Anybody recognize the name Cory Tenboom? I am with this. She was a prisoner in the Nazi concentration camp, spent years there. Horrific. If you read her story, it is unimaginable what she went through. I believe she had a sister killed there in the concentration camps, the most demonic, horrific things a person people can do to other people. But she was a believer. And through all that, she had faith in Christ. And when she came out, she had tremendous influence, tremendous testimony. She wasn't an independent Baptist, but she had a tremendous testimony of faith in Christ. She made this statement, I'll m with this. When a train goes through a tr tunnel and it gets dark, you don't throw away the ticket and jump off. You just sit still and trust the engineer. And this old certain, uncertain world, we don't know what tomorrow holds, and life is so brief. Listen, just trust God. Follow his instruction. Do what he says. Just sit still and trust him. And God sees us through every tomorrow. Every tomorrow. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to live by faith. Help us not to presume. On our will and our way. I pray, Lord, that these thoughts this morning you'd use it to help us. I wonder, with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I need to stop and just look at my priorities a little bit. How they match up with eternity and match up with the Word of God. And you'd say, Preacher, pray with me. I want my priorities to line up with the Word of God. Any like that, by the uplifted hand preacher, I want my life. Amen. God bless you. And sometimes we make plans and purpose things and we never even stop and consider what's the will of God in all of this. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I need to stop and consider the will of God. Any like that by the uplifted hand, preacher, pray with me. Sure, we need to. And maybe there's some this morning say, Preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven. I sure enough don't want to go to hell. I'm here to tell you Jesus died, suffered hell for you, and your place was buried, rose again. If you'll turn to him, trust him. To forgive and cleanse your sin, He'll forgive you. Give you new life. Is there any like that, preacher? Pray for me. I don't want to go to hell when I die. I want to know I'm going to heaven. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. And we'll pray Help you from the Bible get that settled. Any at all? Any at all. Father, I pray you bless now our invitation time in Jesus' name.