Like Brother Williams, we could do a tag team thing, couldn't we? Amen. Well, good to see everybody. Let me let me just say something about poor old brother Bowman. You gotta understand. He's Air Force. You understand what I'm saying when I say that? Air Force. That's not military. And and whenever you stack guys like him up against civilians The civilians are gonna win every time. Amen? It it's not like going up against the Marines or the army. Or the anchor clankers. Navy. Amen? So have a little bit of pity. Not much Personally, I think I think all we heard on there was double speak. I think he was just looking to get off that phone as fast as he could. Huh? You can tell them that. I mean if you're taping this, send them the C D. Amen? I don't care. So uh but listen, don't don't listen. Don't let that discourage you. He is a sneaky character. He is I'm t I'm telling you I've known him for a year. I preached count. He is sneaky. He is underhanded. He's double dealing. He's a conniver. He's a schemer. Are you getting all this? You send it to him. He's a schemer. You can't turn your back on these Air Force guys. Amen? And so this week, redouble your efforts. Amen? When you give somebody a track, give them two, count it as two, amen? Let's cut the head off while we have time, amen. Now I gotta get spiritual You think I'm kidding, I'm not Let me just say real quick and get right to my fact if you have your Bible turn over to John chapter six. I I I I do it every year, every time I come, but I I've got my uh CD and uh music preaching tapes back here Let me uh you know, we've got the adult music, we've got uh past the pirate music, we've got uh Bible truth music. Uh uh let me uh I I I say this every time. The money that we make off of those tables, we don't buy steak dinners. We don't buy suits. Uh all that money goes into what we call a new church ministry. We go into brand new churches that are just starting out and we pay for everything. It doesn't cost we we just uh last week Uh your preacher I think knows the guy. I think we thought but a little bit. Oh yeah. Yeah. Uh last week we did a free meeting. We went up to uh Uh Pastor Brandon Starns, he's just started a brand new work. Susquehanna Valley Baptist Church in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. We did a free meeting for him It cost him it didn't cost no expenses, no love, no nut. If we fly, which we didn't have to, that we we pay for the airfare, we pay for the we pay for everything. And uh uh uh uh last week Brand new church. Almost every night we were running a little over 30 people. That was great for a brand new church. I think there was one night where we were just under 30. He was tickled to death. And you see, out of that, out of that, he has contacts now that they can go, that builds the foundation of the church. Now the reason I say that is because of this. When you buy that stuff back there, you're not just getting good music, but you're having a part, I think, in a great ministry. Helping to start church, literally helping to start churches. And uh so that stuff is back there. And let me just say this too: on the on the far side, y'all know Byron Fox. He's a good buddy of mine. But on the far end there, he's got those that series of music for children. Now, when he comes in here, he charges ten dollars. Am I right or wrong? Now, here on I I I'm gonna beat him on this. He makes it, but I'm going to beat the if you buy all six of them this week, you can have all six for fifty dollars. That's good. That's less than ten bucks a day. If you listen, if you got your kids are gonna listen to something. Your grandbabies are gonna listen to something. Why not good Christian music? And uh so there's six of them back here. You can get all six for fifty dollars. That's a good deal. It really is. I'm beating if he found that out, he'd get mad at me. But I'm beating his prices. So the next time he comes in, you say, I don't want your music. Brother Barron's beats you every time. Amen. And uh so uh but but but it is back there. I hope you'll I really hope you'll take advantage of it Uh because we emptied the treasury out last week and now we've got to start building up again. We got another church we're going to be doing later on in the year, free meeting, and that will require a plane ticket and everything else. And so uh but uh that's what we use it for. Well, amen. If you have your Bibles again, John chapter six, John chapter six, and uh look at verse fifty-nine. John chapter six, verse fifty-nine These things said he in the synagogue as he taught in Capernaum. Many, therefore, of his disciples, now, many, plural or singular. And who's he talking about here? The disciples. This is important. He's talking about the cream of the crop. Am I not right? Disciples, when they heard this, said, This isn't a hard saying. Who can hear it? When Jesus knew in himself that his disciples murmured at it, he said unto them, Doth this offend you? What if you shall see the Son of Man ascend up where he was before? It is the Spirit that quickeneth, the flesh profiteth nothing. The words that I speak unto you, they are spirit and they are life. But there are some of you that believe not. Now who's he referring to? Go back up to verse 60. That's the reference. His who? Disciples, think about that. There are some of you that believe not, for Jesus knew from the beginning who they were that believed not, and who should betray him And he said, Therefore, said I unto you, that no man can come unto me except that were given unto him of my Father. From that time many of his disciples, again, disciples and many, plural Many, what's that? That's the idea of most of them. Many of the disciples went back and walked no more with him. Then said Jesus unto the twelve. We also go away? Then Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of eternal life. And we believe and are sure that thou art that Christ, the Son of the living God. Jesus answered them, Have I not chosen you twelve? And one of you is a devil. He spake of Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon. For it was for he it was that should betray him, being one of the twelve. I'm going to give you the title of the message twice tonight. You say why? Because my wife, Marley, before I got over here, asked me, What are you preaching on tonight? And I told her. And it was just quiet. I thought she hung up on me. And I said, are you still there? She goes, Yeah. I said, why the quiet? She said, I'm just trying to think of what you just said. So I'm guessing if Marley had to hear it twice, you probably do it. Are you ready? You ready for this? Here it is. If. Are you ready? If you is what you was, then you ain't How many want to hear that one more time? I figured all the army guys raised their hand too. Let me give it to you. Think about the truth here If you is what you was, then you ain't. Now, let me say this right here. Let me say this. As we go through this message You're gonna sit here and you're gonna say this. This is a salvation message. It isn't Did you get that? You're gonna say that. Has your preacher ever preached a message where you're thinking, where's he headed? Well you don't have to say it like that. And then And then at the end the light bulb comes. Have you ever had that happen? The light, and they say, Wow, now I know why he went down this. If that ever happened, it happens to all of us. Now, this message: if you're here tonight, you're not saved, it'll get you saved. But it's not a salvation, it's something to get us all thinking. And I believe unless we take this as Christians, The way God wants us to, we'll never see a revival. Never will. It's that important. If you is what you Was, then you ain't. Let's pray. Father, bless the time that we have here this evening. Lord, I pray now tonight that you do a work in every one of our hearts. Lord, I pray tonight. That every man, every woman, every young person would be brutally honest with their standing in regards to service What we do for you, how we live, how we act, the testimony that we have before others. Lord help us to evaluate that tonight. I pray that we'd have nobody here that would be so hard. But the Holy Spirit couldn't do a work in their heart tonight. Give us a good service, and again we pray that if there is perhaps somebody here tonight that isn't saved, I pray that you'd save them. Which in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Most of you that have been around, I do a lot of wild game. In fact, I do your wild game banquets and stuff like that. I do a lot of wild game banquets. I was at a wild game back with this January, had a ton of men there. It was in the gymnasium. The preacher came up to me and he said, uh He said, uh Billy said, uh, you see that guy, he pointed at a rowboy. He said, you see that guy over there? And I said, yeah. He said, he's a he's a former Marine, just like you were. He said he fought in Vietnam just like you. He said You'd get along good. He said, you ought to go over and meet him. I said, okay, so uh time go, you know, I went over and I I walked up and I I introduced myself and I said uh Preacher tells me you're a you're a former he said yes or he said I am. I said uh well I said uh did you go through Paris Island? He said yes sir he said I did I went through Paris Island I said, uh, well, I said, uh, what battalion do you see, uh what battalion do you go through? And he looked at me and he said, uh, ah, he says, uh That was so long ago I don't remember. Now you gotta understand something. There's only three battalions And that raised a little bit of a red flag. And so I said, well, what platoon? What platoon were you in? If he says 368, that was mine. If you say 368, you're 3rd Battalion. 152, 1st Battalion. I mean, it's not it's not rocket scientists. I said, Well what platoon were you in? He says, He said, Okay, he said that's a white I don't remember. I said, Well, what was your MOS Behaving they know. In other words, military occupational spend. Doesn't matter what branch of the service that tells you what you did. What was your MOS? He looks and goes, M-O-W? So I asked him the magic question that no Marine ever forgets. I looked at him and I said, Who were your drill instructors at Paris Island? I still have nightmares about mine. Tracy, Durham, and McKinney. I'll never forget them. He looked at me and says, You don't expect me to remember those names after all these years. And I looked at him and I said, Who were you with in Nom? And he got real white. And he said, I'd just rather not talk about it. I said, I can understand why. I went back up to the preacher. Preacher said, Did you meet him? I said, I sure did. I said, preacher, I said, I you know what? I said, I found out something about him that you don't even know. He said, what's that? This is exactly what I said. I said, that guy is no more a Marine than I am, Elmer Fudd. You see, listen, he had everybody fooled, deceived into believing that he was something that he wasn't. Now, can I suggest listen to me? Can I suggest something tonight? I believe tonight in the spiritual realm we are seeing absolutely no different in a lot of our churches. Now, under listen to me, understand something. I'm not trying to be mean tonight. Amen? Everybody got that? Hey, listen, I'm gonna say what I want anyway if you just nod your head and smell, you just make me feel better. But but I listen, I want to try and get you to think tonight that if you're saved, hey, listen, there ought to be a difference. There's a lot of people more and more as I travel, I know you see it too, brother. As I travel, I see people, well, preacher, I yeah, but boy, I I'm saved. I'm a but how they live their life is a complete contradiction. Well, yeah, I'm saying, and then they live like the world. Preachers say, well, yeah, yeah, they're so-and-so, they're they're Sunday morning Christians. What's a Sunday morning Christian? Come on! Can I say, can I remind you of something? Read your Bible. Back in Paul's day, New Testament day, when you said you were a Christian, it meant something You didn't say that lightly. The moment back in Bible days, the moment you said, I'm saved, I'm a Christian, do you know what that meant? Persecution. You lost your job. You lost your house. Many a time you'd lose your life Now, my question is this. Why is it that we have so many? Hey, listen, and by the way, let me just say this: I am not trying to get you to doubt your salvation. Amen? You got that on CD too? You'll hear me say that a couple times. Once you're saved, you're always saved. But why is it today so many of us We walk around, oh preacher, I'm saved, I'm a Christian, but how we live is a complete contradiction as to what the Bible says ought to happen after we get saved. Can I remind you of something here? In fact, if you had, we covered this a little bit this morning. If you have your Bibles true, turn over to Matthew chapter 7, just real quick. Now, if you got a Bible, turn over there. This is important. If I see you got a Bible and you're not turning over there, I'm going to preach till the 11 o'clock news. A couple people just grabbed songbooks. I just saw that. Look in Matthew chapter 7. I want to show this is interesting. Look at verse 20. Verse 20. Wherefore, now listen, is this Bible or is it not Bible? So your argument is with me, it's with God. Wherefore by their what? Fruits. Fruits. God says, whereby their Fruits, what? You shall know them. God says this: how do you tell whether or not a person is really saved? Fruit. Now understand something. I'm not talking a work salvation. I'm talking a fruit salvation. Big difference. Big difference. Stay with me Wherefore by their fruits you shall know them. Verse 21 Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter the kingdom of heaven, but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. Many. What's that word many mean? The majority. The majority. And by the way, I understand the principle here of false prophets, but this is also a general Bible principle, too. Many will say unto me in that day, Lord, Lord, think about what they're saying here. Have we not prophesied in thy name and in thy name have cast out devils? Think about what they've done, and in thy name have done many wonderful works. And then I will profess unto them, I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. What's God saying here? Think about this. God says this: there are a lot of people today that think they're saved. They think they're going to heaven, but they're not. You want a good example of that? If if you went back over to John chapter 6, if we could get into a think about this, if we could get into a time machine. And go back to Bible days. Time picture that. And then we were to walk around the crowd back in the days of Jesus and ask this question. We'd walk up to people and say, hey, question. Do you believe that Judas is really saved? Everybody would say, What? Are you nuts? Are you crazy? Of course, Judas is saved. He's a disciple. You see, listen to me. Judas had everybody fooled into believing that he was saved When he wasn't. Man, it's gotten awful quiet. Are you still with me? Not a salvation. Get this. I'm talking to us tonight. James chapter 2, verse 19. Thou believest that there is one God. Thou doest well. The devils also believe and tremble. You know what? Listen. As you sit here tonight, think about this. Do you understand the devil believes everything you and I believe? Probably more so. But does that make him a Christian? Devil's on his way to hell. You see, I think, personal opinion here, I think the big question that Matthew chapter 7 and John chapter 6 ask is this. It's not whether or not you know God, but whether or not God knows you. That's the big question. And so as we sit here tonight, How can again, this is not a set, but it's gonna sound like it, but it isn't. How can we identify a true believer? How can we absolutely know That we're saved. Isn't that the most important question you can ever ask or answer? It is. Let me give you three thoughts. Let me give you three thoughts on this. Can I encourage you to do this tonight? Take the test. Take the test. First of all, first thought. Number one, the exam of being a true believer. Let me just say this. I don't know about you, but me and school never got along together. I only had a couple favorite classes. Recess. Lunch. Study hall, gym, and the dismissal bell. I hated exams. But can I suggest something to you tonight? This exam right here is not an A or an F. It's a heaven or hell exam. What does God say here? 2 Corinthians chapter 13 and verse 5. Get what it says here. Examine yourselves. The exam of being a true believer. Examine yourselves. Well, what's the exam? Whether you be in the faith. Examine yourself after you absolutely positively know that you're saved and on your way to heaven. Now stay with me, the light bulbs will come on at the end. Prove your own selves. Know ye not your own selves how that Jesus Christ is in you, except ye be reprobates. God says this. Take the exam with Scripture. With Scripture, you can prove that you're saved. You see, listen, if if I walked up the Petroleum and I said this. Pastor Leatherman, are you really saved? Now I'm gonna tell you something, and it's the reason I say that. He's gonna give me sensory overload. Am I not right? He's gonna, by word of testimony, am I not right? Did you get what I just said? Stay with me. By word of testimony, by Bible verses By the time he's done, there is going to be no doubt in my mind that he's saved and on his way to heaven The reason I say that is because what bothers me so much today is there are so many of our people in our churches. That walk around and they say they're saved, and yet they don't seem to have a clue as to what that means. Or what the end result ought to be. I was in North Carolina. And the preacher asked me to preach my testimony. I preached my testimony on Sunday night. Monday, the preacher, his wife, me, and another family, uh, husband, wife, and their 18-year-old son. And their 18-year-old son, I've known him since he's a little boy. I preached to him in camps. I preached to him in his church. I mean, I've known him for years. We're sitting there, and he says this. He said, the 18-year-old boy says, you know, Brother Barons, I'd sure like to have your testimony. And I said, no, you wouldn't. He says, what do you mean? I said, uh, I would much rather have your testimony than mine. I gave 20-some years of my life to the devil. I said, I would much rather be like you and have a testimony of being saved and serving God at the age of five or six or seven. And I said, by the way, if you think about it, everybody has a testimony. I should have shut up, but I didn't I looked at him and I said, for instance, give me your testimony. And it got real quiet. He got real red and he said this. He says, Well, he said, My mother tells me That I prayed that prayer when I was five. But you know what? I don't ever remember praying that prayer, and it's always bothered me. His mother jumps in. Well, I remember you repeated those words after me, and so you're safe. I looked at the mother and I said, listen, I love my mother, but my mother isn't getting me to heaven Jesus is. And I said, son, you're not saved. And it was like a thousand pounds was lifted off his shoulders And he said, Preacher, you're right. I need to get saved tonight. And he got saved that night. I was just up the road. I'm not going to name the church. If I name the church, I think you'd know the church. I was just up the road preaching a meeting. I get done. I'm walking out the back door. The preacher's wife is sitting here. The preacher's right here next to her. I get almost out the door and the preacher goes, Brother Barrett! Just like that. He scared me. And I turned around. And uh his wife, I can see, he says, I need to see you down here right now. And I'm thinking, what I preach about women. And you know how your mind goes, you know, and and when I'm walking down, I think I didn't say anything about ladies. I wasn't I wasn't even offensive that night like I normally am, you know. And uh you know I walked down here, she's and I listen. This is a they've been they've been in the ministry for over 30 years. Both of them, pastor and his wife, both of them were raped. Her dad is, I know her dad. Her dad's a pastor. Raised in a Christian home, I got down and said, Preacher, what's the problem? He said, Tell him. She looks up, she goes, Brother Barons, I'm not saved. Dumb old me. You know what I did? I tried to talk her into being saved. I said, of course you are. I said, I've known you. I said, you're dead the face. She said, that's the problem. She said, I have been raised in this all my life. And I just grew up assuming that I was a Christian And she said, tonight for the first time, I have realized I'm not saved. She said, What can I do? I said, Really? Let's turn around and get saved. She got saved that night. Folks, listen, I am running into this everywhere I go. And so first stay with me. Not trying to get you to doubt your salvation. Everybody got that again? First of all, we have the exam of being a true believer. Secondly, the evaluation Of a true believer. How do you evaluate whether or not a person is saved? Hey, real simple here, Matthew 7:20. What you say again? Wherefore by there? How do you know whether or not a fruit they're fruit? They start producing fruit. Wherefore by their fruit ye shall know them. You can look at a person, and by their fruit, you can say, you know what? That person saved. Let me give you another Bible verse. I believe the verse that I'm about to give you makes the difference as to where people spend forever. Are you ready for it? Familiar verse. 2 Corinthians 5:17. Let me give it to you. This is a powerful verse. Therefore, if any man, what's that phrase any man mean? Anybody Everybody's sitting here tonight. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, what what do you mean? If they're really saved Be in Christ. He is a what? New creature spiritually. Old things, the way you used to live The things you used to like. The things you used to want to do. Old things are what Passed away. But now wait a minute. We come to one word, and so often we minimize or just read over that next word. What is it? And that's how we read it, isn't it? Aho The who. Do you know how you ought to pronounce that word? Do you know how you ought to read that word? How many want to hear it? You're going to hear it. Here it is. Watch. Behold! Woke some of you up, didn't I? But that's how it's supposed to be. It's the idea of seeing. Take a look. Look at that! Behold! Well, listen, if you're saved, what should you be beholding? What should you be seeing? Here it is: all things are become new. How do you really know whether or not a person or you are really saved? You're changed. You start bearing fruit. And again, listen to me. I'm not preaching a work salvation, I'm preaching a fruit salvation. Let me just say something here If you're depending on a few words that have come out of your mouth that you call a prayer of salvation to get you to heaven that's never changed your life, it would scare me to death. Because my Bible says when you get saved, you get changed. I said this morning, man, you know, I was raised a Catholic. I believed in a work salvation. Went in the Marine Corps. I mentioned the Marine Corps. Can you imagine my lifestyle? Wow. It'd been eight or nine years since I had even darkened the door of a church. And then I got shaved. What happened? I lost ninety-five percent of my language. I lost ninety percent of what I drank. I rediscovered a new liquid called water. You think I'm kidding? I don't talk about, but I'll tell you what, I I mean it's unbelievable. Um, I I didn't want to, I didn't want to, but listen to me, I lost 100% of my friends. When I got saved, I wanted to come to church. No, wait a minute, no, no, no, understand. Well, Sunday school Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night. I was at church when they didn't have church. I'm not a kid, I was a pet. Hey, that's what salvation does. And by the way, I wasn't called to preach yet. I wanted to see people get saved. I got rid, listen to me, I got rid of thousands. Literally, you could ask my wife, thousands of dollars of rock music. That's what salvation does. You see, listen to me. If you is what you was, then you ain't. I look at people who walk around pressure. I'm safe, they don't look at the way they live, and I know I have to wonder, you know, they got what I got God give out half doses of salvation. Maybe I miss something. Hmm? He doesn't. Hmm? Are you still with me? This sounds like a salvation message, doesn't it? No gets you saved. But I'm talking to you tonight. And you'll see why in a minute. First of all, the exam of a true believer. Second, the evaluation of a true believer. Thirdly, and lastly, the evidences. Of a true believer. If you're saved, listen to me, and I don't apologize, but listen, if you're saved, there will be evidence. When you walk into a courtroom, you present what? Evidence. The evidence either convicts you or it exonerates you. What's the evidence? Matthew seven twenty. Wherefore by your fruit, your fruit 2 Corinthians 5 17 If you're saved, behold everything. All things become new And so you're sitting here tonight and you say, preacher, and I'm not trying to get you to doubt your salvation, third time I've said that, if you're really saved, what evidence ought we see out of everybody? Let me give you just a couple things here. They all begin with the letter A, so they're easy to remember, even if you're in the army. Amen? First of all, number one, let's read. You're here today to say, preacher, I'm saved. You know what, listen, do you know what we ought to see out of you in this church? Number one, new accomplishments. Ephesians 210. For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good works. Which God has before ordained that we should walk in that. You see, listen. You're sitting here tonight and you say, preacher, I'm safe. Listen, you know what we ought to see out of you? You ought to want to do something for God. You ought to want to serve God. You ought to be looking for ways to serve. Let me tell you something. Everybody in here, if you're saved and you're a member of this church, everybody in this church ought to have a ministry. Ouch. But that is a natural byproduct of being saved. You say, well, preacher. I come to church. I'm glad. I'm glad you come to I want you to come to church. But now wait a minute. Do Catholics go to church? Do the Mormons go to church? Do the uh Jehovah's Witnesses go to their church? Do the Muslims go to their mosque? Does that make them saved? It's more than that. You're saved. God says, listen, I ought to expect to see new accomplishments out of your life. If I wouldn't do this. But if I had a stack of papers And I started, I handed one to your preacher. And I came down through and I handed one to everybody tonight that said they're saved. And at the top, here I wouldn't do it, but at the top, here's what it would say. This is my fruit that proves that I'm saved. And then I had everybody here tonight fill it out. What would you write? Man, it has just gotten real quiet. Come on. I'm giving you what God says. Why are we getting so uncomfortable tonight? What would you write? Can I remind you? Wherefore, by their fruits, what would you write down? What fruits do you have that prove that you're saved? Not a work of fruit salvation Number one, new accomplishments. Number two, new appetite. Before you got saved, what were your appetites? Worldliness, carnality, fleshly, sensual things of the world. They were the most important. Am I not right? John chapter two, verse fifteen and sixteen. Love not the world. Appetite Neither the things that are in the world. Now notice this is God's word here. If any man, that's anybody, this is God, if anybody, if any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. They're not really saved. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh and the lust of the eyes and the pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world. You see, I'll say it again. If you're saved, then you want to go to church. You want the most natural thing in the world. You want to hear good preaching. There are things in your life that you want to get rid of. There are things that you want to add to your life. You begin to get new appetites. I mentioned it. When I got saved, man, there was so much stuff I got rid of. So much Spiritual stuff. Marley, my my wife, if she knew I was saying this, she would kill me. Marley, before we got married. She was a flower child. You know what I'm talking about we're talking 60s. Remember that? I'm not kidding you. She was a bubblegum chewing mini skirt wearing teeny bopper. Oh, I would die quick for that. If she knew that, I would be dead. But when she got saved, bang, new appetite. She started dressing modestly. She she I mean she just changed over. That's what salvation does. New accomplishments, new appetites. Here's the third thing: new affection. You're sitting here tonight and you're saying, I'll tell you what, I hate this kind of preaching. Maybe you'll better check and see whether or not you're saved. Because when you get saved, there is a natural love for spiritual things. You get a new affection. The things you once hated, you know, listen, before I got saved, I'll tell you something I hated, I hated church. I'd hide before I go to I mean if I said it it'd been eight night before I'd even I'll tell you something when I got when I got saved. You couldn't keep me away from church. Mark chapter 12, verse 30 and 31. Get this. And thou shalt love. What's that? Affection? And thou shalt love the Lord thy God. Watch this with all. What's that word all mean? Everything. Everything. With all thy heart and with all thy soul and with all thy mind. This is a lot of all with all thy strength. This is the first commandment. Marley and I have been married now. We just celebrated our 42nd wedding anniversary. I love Marley more tonight than I did when we first got married. Now, because of that I show her, I look for ways to show her that I love her. Does that make sense? My life revolves around my wife. That makes sense? Is that not what love ought to do? Now, bring it right over the spiritual realm. That's what love does in this. Listen, you're here tonight, you say, preacher, I'm saved. If you're saved, you've got a new affection. What's that? You love God. Your life ought to revolve around Him. Your number one priority. You know who it ought to be? It ought to be God. And you ought to be working to show God that He's number one in your life. If that isn't the goal of your life, something is very, very wrong. Really wrong. Come on. First of all, new accomplishments. Secondly, new appetite. Thirdly, new affection. Two more. Fourthly, get this one. This is important. Fourthly, new attitude. When you get saved, you get an attitude adjustment. You're no longer rebellious to the things of God. You want to obey God. Did you get that? 1 John. This is a hard verse for a lot of people. 1 John 2, 3. And hereby do we know that we know him. Isn't that an interesting way to word it? God's saying this: here is how you can absolutely, absolutely know that you're saved. That's what he's saying. And hereby do we know that we know him if we keep his commandments. But wait a minute, he's not done. He that saith, I know him. A person who walked around the preacher, you know, I'm saved, I'm a Christian. That's what he's saying He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar. God says, You're a liar. That's not me, that's God. is a liar, and the truth is not in him. But whoso keepeth his word, in him verily is the love of God perfected, hereby know that we are in him. You see, listen to me. If you're saved, the most natural thing in the world is you want to obey the word of God. What do we mean by it? Real simple. You get saved. You're here tonight, you say, preacher, I'm saved. Here's what happens. Obedient. Am I not right? Obedience. What's the next step after you get saved? Baptism. Am I not right? Scriptural baptism. You're here tonight, you're saved, you've never been scripturally baptized. Listen to me. You are living in disobedience to the word of God. It's just that simple. And God can never bless a disobedient until you get scripturally baptized. You need to get baptized. But then wait a minute, what's the next step? You join your local church. That's what God ordained down here in this earth. Again, if you're not a member of a good fundamental, I mean, listen, you're living in disobedience. God can bless you, God can't use you. What's the next step? Well, there's a bunch of things happening, am I not right? Bunch of things. You become faithful. To every service. You start tithing You uh you get a ministry. You start serving. You look for ways to do things for the Lord. You know, Luke chapter 6, and verse 46 says this. It's an interesting verse. And why call ye me Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say? God says, you have no right to call me Lord when you're disobedient. Pretty strong, isn't it? New accomplishments, new appetite, new affection, new attitude. Last thing. You have a new adversary. You have a new adversary. I'm going to tell you something. Moment you get saved, you're in for the battle of your life. 1 Peter 5, verse 8 and 9. I'll just read the first part. Be sober, be vigilant, because your enemy, the devil. I'll say what I said this morning. Before you got saved, you're in John 8. 44. You're of your father the devil. When you get saved, you go from the father of the devil to you go from a child of the devil to a child of God. And the devil hates that And he's going to battle you every step of the way. People come up to me, I've had people come up and say, Well, preacher, I'm saved, and I have never had a battle, I have never had a struggle. You know what I said, listen to me, you're not saved. You're not saved. Now, here's where the light bulbs come on. Doesn't it sound like a salvation message? Come on. And listen, if you're here tonight, you're not saved, it'll get you saved. But if you're here tonight, if you're here tonight, you say, Preacher, you just got done preaching this message. You said it's to Christians. I'm sitting here tonight, and uh you have not shook my faith that much. I'm glad I haven't. I'm glad I haven't. But can I ask you this? You're here tonight and you say, Preacher, I'm saved. I know it. You can't, then let me ask you this. Then why don't you start living like it? Isn't that a simple light bulb? Come on, help me. Isn't that a simple question? Preacher, I am saved, and let's start living like it. We say we're saved, and yet we live like the heathen. You have no right to call yourself a Christian unless you live like it. Do you know why? Do you know why a lot of our friends and our neighbors and our we say we love them, amen? We say we want to get them saved, but do you know why a lot of your friends and your neighbors and your relatives Never get saved and they die and they go to hell. You know why? Because they never see anything in your life that they want. They look at us, they see the way we live, and they say, Why do I want what you have? You live exactly like I live. And so we never have that open door to give them the gospel. Come on. I'm going to say it again. Listen, God says this: if you're saved, there are areas of your life that ought to change. There are spiritual qualities that you need to begin to live and exhibit as a Christian. Am I not right? Then why don't we do it? So that others, as they think about this, others as they watch us, they look at us, and here's what they say. When we live like this, they say this, you know what? I don't know what they have, but they've got something different. It may take three, four, five, six, seven years. They may laugh at you, they may mock you, they may think you're weird, and they will. But one of these days, they're going to get their back up against the wall. They're going to have problems, they can turn nowhere else. And you know what they're going to think? They're going to think of you. And they're going to say, you know what? They have the peace and the joy and the h- I can't explain, but I'll tell you what, whatever they got, I want. If you is what you was, then you ain't. If you really is, then let's start living like we is. Amen? Let's bow our heads and close our eyes. Every head bowed, every eye closed. Nobody looking around. Folks, listen to me. I want to say this again. I am not trying to be believe me, I'm not trying to be mean. I'm not trying to embarrass anybody. But boy, I tell you what, if there is a day and age Where we need to start living like we're saved. It's today. It's today If we listen to me, if we don't do it, I'm talking about the people here in this church. If we don't start, nobody else is. And we'll have no influence. People are gonna die and go to hell. Here's my question: it's a simple question. I'm wondering how many we have here tonight. I'm talking to men and women and young people. I'm wondering how many we have here tonight that would say, preacher, you know what? I I'm so I know I'm saved. I'm saved. No doubt in my mind. I'm glad you said that. But then you'd say this, you know what? I could live better like I am saved. I could have a better testimony. I could be bearing the fruit that a saved person ought to be bearing. Brother Bearings, as you preach tonight. The Holy Spirit of God has dealt with me about living better as a Christian, having a better testimony, bearing more fruit. Would you pray for me tonight that I'd live better as a saved person, as a Christian? Would you just slip up your hand tonight? Just slip it up, hold up high. Thank you. Amen. Thank you. Wow. Almost everybody. Thank you. I appreciate it. Almost. By the folks, listen to me. When I pre- we're on the same boat, I made it the same stuff you are. Same stuff. I could live better. You know why? Because I'm not perfect. I have struggles just like you. I'm not perfect. I have ups and downs. I have battles. I lose battles. I win battles. I'm just like you. But I also realized as I have those battles, as I live my life, there's others that watch me. There's others that watch me. And I listen, I don't know about you, but I want them so much, so especially as I get older, I want them so much to see something different in my life. That maybe they don't have, but down the road they want. How about you? Is uh I I we had a ton of hands raised. I I I don't know if I missed him, but let me just ask, is there anybody else here that would say, preacher? I didn't raise my hand the first time. I know I should have. But I'm going to raise it now. And I'm going to ask you to pray for me that I'd live better. Would you pray for me? Would you slip your hand Just slip it up. Thank you. Another hand over here. Thank you. Another hand here. Anybody else? Hey, listen, for some of you, listen, this is not this is not a light thing. For some of you tonight, for some of you tonight, that might make this might make the difference as to you coming up to the pastor after church maybe, or sometime this week and saying, Preacher, you know what? I need to get a ministry in this church. I need to become a bus driver. I need to start working on a bus route. I need to start helping out in a Sunday, whatever it might be. But you need to get a ministry. Maybe for some others here, you need to come up this week, see the preacher, and say, preacher, you know what? I need to get scripturally baptized. I need to join the church. I need to start having a part of this ministry. There's some things I need to get rid of in my life. There's some things I need to add in my life. This is what this week's all about. And I'll guarantee, listen, I'll guarantee, if we started living like Christians, like we preach tonight, there would be revival in this church. There would no doubt in my mind, there'd be revival. I wouldn't have to preach on soul winning. I wouldn't have to preach on prayer. I wouldn't have to preach on all this stuff. This would bring revival. Right here. Right here. Anybody else, real quick? Anybody else? Just slip it up, put it back down. I'll pray for you. Anybody else? Real quick. Anyone else? Let me ask one other question. Maybe we have somebody here. I don't know. Maybe we have somebody here tonight and you say, Preacher, after you preach this. I have realized that I'm not saved. I've been put on an act, and I need to get saved. I don't want to go to hell, I want to go to heaven. Would you pray for me also tonight? Would you just quietly slip your hand up and put it back down? I won't embarrass you. But just slip it up, put it back down. Anybody at all? Just slip it up, put it back down, and I'll pray for you. Anybody at all? Just high enough so I can see it. Anybody? Anybody? Thank you. One back here. Anybody else? Anybody else? Father, thank you for the time that we've had here this evening. And Lord, help us to understand this is what you expect out of saved people. This isn't Bill Baron. There's so much scripture here This is what you expect out of us. The unbelievable difference that we would see in the life of a church if all of us would just start living and acting like normal Christians. Lord, tonight I pray that we do that. If there's some here that need to join the church, help them to do that. If there's some here tonight, they may be a little bit scared, but they know they need to get baptized, help them to do that. If there's dear folks that are sitting here tonight and they're not active, they're just warming a pew. Help them to remember there's no crowns in heaven for pew warming. It's for ministry, it's for service. And I pray that tonight would be the night they make up their mind. I'm going to quit warming a pew. And I'm going to get a ministry. I'm gonna start doing something for God. Help us to do that tonight, Fort, in Jesus' name we pray. With heads bowed