Numbers twenty, verse one, then came the children of Israel, even the whole congregation, into the desert of Zen. The first month, and the people abode at Kadesh, and Miriam died there, was buried there, and there was no water for the congregation, and they gathered themselves together against Moses and against Aaron. And the people choked with Moses and spake, saying, Would God that we had died when our brethren died before the Lord. And why have he brought up the congregation of the Lord into the wilderness, and that we may that we and our cattle should die there? And wherefore have ye made us to come up out of Egypt to bring us unto this evil place? It is no place of sea, nor figs, or vines, and pomegranates, neither Is there any water to drink? Now if you'll remember, they've already drank water there once before this. So I find that interesting. But verse 6. And Moses and Aaron went from the presence of assembly unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and they fell upon their faces, and the glory of the Lord appeared unto them. The Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Take thy rod and gather the assembl thou the assembly together, thou and Aaron thy brother. Speak ye unto the rock before their eyes. And shall give forth his water. Now shall bring forth to them water out of the rock. So so so thou shalt give the congregation and there be strength. And Moses took the rod from before the Lord As he commanded him and Moses and Aaron gathered the congregation together before the rock, and he said unto them, Hear now ye rebels, must we fetch you water out of this out of this rock? And Moses lifted up his hand, and with his ra he smote the rock twice. Water came out abundantly. The congregation drank, and their beasts also. The Lord spake unto Moses and Aaron, because ye believe me not to sanctify me in the eyes of the children of Israel, therefore ye shall not bring this congregation into the land which I have given them. Let's pray. And then the message this morning. Lord, I pray that you would fill me with your spirit, Lord, that you would just kind of take over the service here. And uh put me behind you, Lord. If if there's anything that I'm about to say that goes against your word, I ask that you keep me from saying it. Lord, and I just pray that um you would use your word. Your spirit would bring conviction and challenge us this morning. And it's in Jesus' name. Amen. There's nothing like cold refreshing water when you're real thirsty, you know what I mean? Um when I was uh it was between my between high school and it was a summer right after high school and um I was trying to get in shape for football and things like that. Did a lot of running. And then the Katocton Mountains, um there up up near Thurmont and all that, we I I ran those trails a lot there. There's a state park there, ran a lot of trails, did a lot of hiking just trying to just stay in shape and stuff like that. It was hot one day. I mean I was we were we were running and um my dad was running with me and we were just I mean it was hot. And didn't didn't have any water with us. So we came to a uh a a s uh little bit of water there, drank it, got really sick. And uh man I got real sick. I l I lost like seventy pounds in a month And it was just I was I it was I was just sick, whatever was in that water. But um when you're that thirsty and you're that hot and it's you're you're that parched It doesn't really matter. You see water, you're drinking it. You know what I mean? And so I know what it's like to be thirsty, and the children of Israel were in that s uh situation here in Numbers twenty. They had been there before. Now when it was just uh now my dad didn't drink the water. He was smart. He you know, but anyway, um w when you're that thirsty, you you'll drink whatever. But when you have That many people and animals and man, that that that can get contentious real quick as as it did. They were uncomfortable And then there's an element of faith that they were lacking as well, though, and I pointed that out while I was reading it. They drank water there once before when there was no water. And so anyway, but if you if if there was a person in uh the Old Testament that would be what we would consider famous or well known, I think Moses would be right up there at the top Um been a lot of sermons about Moses. There's been a lot of I mean w we teach the the kids early on about Moses and um M his mother putting him in the river there when and and being drawn out of the n of the Nile and uh and and all that goes on there about growing up there with Pharaoh and And Pharaoh's household and and uh and then of course he went to the the backside of the desert, he murdered someone, ran from Pharaoh and and so he's hiding there for forty years and uh starts a whole life there, gets married, has kids and All that goes on there. And then the pivotal moment there was when, of course, the Lord spoke to him out of the burning bush. That would freak me out a little bit See a bush burning like that and it's not consumed and I think what would scare me a little more is when God says, Excuse me, who made man's mouth? Remember the whole story there Of course he didn't say it just like that, but you know what I mean. That would that would scare me a little bit. But of course he um we went back to Egypt, and man, all that God did there That was scary too. A lot of scary stuff going on in Moses' life, and he's watching all of it. And of course, God's using him all through that. God's preparing him his whole life for the this task of leading uh the children out of Israel out of Egypt and and um the plagues of of Egypt That that would just be nasty to have the water turned into blood like that. That would just be nasty. And then but but he's seeing God do all of these things. Every every wonder, every miracle, every every act that he has seen, the frogs, the lice, the angel of death, all of that. And I'm trying to, you know, I'm running through that real quick, but the point I'm trying to make is Moses has seen God do all of these things. Um or even before before that, well during d during the burning bush when he puts his hand in his coat and pulls it back out, his left wrist pulls it, puts it back in, pulls it out, it's it's clean. And then you know, all of that stuff Moses knew God had power. Moses knew that. Moses knew God was in charge. He's seen that over and over and over again. And uh, of course, Aaron had as well, uh Aaron being with Moses. Well, Aaron was there uh when when of course Moses was born and seen all of that, and um it's pretty awesome. It's pretty awesome. And and then of course after uh the the the the death angel comes through and f and uh the firstborn Every house is is killed unless the blood was on the door. Um then of course they leave. They they spoil Egypt, they leave, and they go out in the wilderness and they cross the Red Sea. Another wonder, another miracle. And and then the Egyptian army drowns in it. And then while they're wandering, It's just miracle after miracle. I just wrote down a few here, but God had a track record of providing for Israel in miraculous ways. And it wasn't ways that made sense. It was clear, evident, this is God. The C splitting. You know, that you don't just do that. Um we had some water in the in the basement this morning. We cleaned it up with the shop back. Jamie brought it over and we were cleaning that up and saw this all the power suction of the shop back and it's like you know it's Getting a little bit of water at a time. The split that water, there's no explanation for that. I like to have seen it. You know, and you s you watch these movies and stuff and cartoons or whatever and they're walking through, I wonder if they could see like the the fishies in there if they could stick their hand in it. I don't know. I don't know what it looked like. That'd be cool. That'd be cool. I don't know. But the the point is, is there is a track record of God providing every need in miraculous ways. Mana. What is it? That's what it is. Mana. I mean it's just it just showed up And God said He provided and it did. Whoop, quail, meat, you know. In fact, there's so much it's gonna make you sick So God provides in just miraculous ways over and over again. I mentioned a few of these. Remember in Exodus 15? We won't read it, but yeah, let's read it. Exodus chapter 15. Verse 22. This one kind of stands out to me a little bit. This isn't the sermon. It just kind of stands out to me as this this is only God that could do this. And I wish this would have happened. To me while I was running those trails. Exodus chapter fifteen, verse twenty-two. It says, Um, So Moses brought Israel from the Red Sea, and they went out into the wilderness of Shur And they went three days in the wilderness and found no water. That's a long time without water. And when they came to Mara, they could not drink it for the water of the Marah, for they were bitter. Therefore the name of it was called Marah. People murmured against Moses, saying, What shall we drink? And he cried unto the Lord, and the Lord showed him a tree. And when he had cast it into the waters, the waters were made sweet. Sweet. That's awesome. That's God. Like, and again, that'd be cool if while I was running and it's like, man, that water, I know that's filthy, but I'm thirsty. Hang on, let me grab a branch and throw it in there and we're good, right? That that the only explanation for that is God did that and provided for his people. He miraculously provided Moses. He were miraculously prov provided a a way to get out of Egypt. He miraculously provided bread, water, whatever they needed. Quail in Exodus chapter 16 in Mana. And then remember the brazen serpent? If they got bit, there was a way they could be saved. He provided a way, and again, only explanation for that is that it's God that cured them. You know, you get bit by a poisonous snake and you're going to die, but if you look at that, you're healed. There's no common sense in that. That's God that did that. That's a miracle. And over and over again, he has provided for their well-being, for their nourishment, for their safety, for their livelihood, everything. Moses has seen this the most. Aaron has seen this. The people have seen this. And then now we're going to get to get to where we're at here. There's two separate occasions Where the children of Israel were at this place here in numbers, Merba Kadesh in the wilderness, and both of them they were thirsty, and they got water out of a rock. We'll go read the first account, Exodus chapter 17. Exodus 17. And it's verses 1 through 7 Exodus chapter seventeen of the chisel of the children of Israel. Journey from the wilderness of sin after their journeys according to the commandment of the Lord, and they're pitched by Rephedim, and there was no water for the people to drink. Wherefore the people did chide with Moses and said, Give us water that we may drink. Sounds familiar, doesn't it? It's the same story. And Moses said unto them, Why do ye tide with me? Wherefore do you tempt the Lord? And the people thirsted therefore for water The people murmured against Moses and said, Wherefore is this that thou hast brought us up out of Egypt to kill us and our children and our cattle with thirst? Now this is just a by the way, who brought them out of Egypt It wasn't Moses. God used Moses, sure. It was God that delivered them. But they're blaming Moses, right? Verse 4. And Moses cried unto the Lord and saying, What shall I do unto this people? They be almost ready to stone me. They were mad at him. They were mad at him. Verse 5, the Lord said unto Moses, Go on before the people and take with thee the of the elders of Israel and thy rod wherewith thou smotest the river. Take in thy hand, go, behold, I will stand before thee, there upon the rock in Horeb, and thou shalt smite the rock, and there shall come water out of it That the people may drink. And Moses did so in the sight of the children of Israel. Called the name of the place Masah and Meribah Because the children uh uh because of the tiding of the children of Israel, because they tempted Lord saying, Is not the Lord among us or not, or is Lord among us or not? So then here in Exodus chapter 17, the first time they they were in this same spot, same situation, the people complained. They had gone a long time without water. They explained to Moses. Moses went to God. God gave him instruction. Lord tells him, Take his take his staff, hit the rock. He said, I'm going to be there before him, be standing there before you hit the rock. And um the water gushed out. And and and this is just uh uh the way I picture it. I picture it a m a massive boulder splitting and like a whole river flowing out. That's the way I picture it. Because if you know if you hit if you hit a little rock and it's just kind of like sprinkling out, it'd be a long time to feed like a million people, you know, or to to give water to a million people, you know what I mean? So I picture just it gushing out And uh then Numbers chapter 20 is where uh we read just read from. I won't read the whole thing again, but here's what happened. The people complained. Verse 1 through 2 or verse 1 through 5, really. They're thirsty again. Now, they're wandering in the desert again, I mean, for 40 years because of their disobedience. They wouldn't have had to go through this again, but they did put themselves through it again. You follow me? So they put themselves through it again, and they're at the same spot with the same need. And there's a lot of times where I wonder if we would just do what God says if we wouldn't we end up in the same spot every time and have the same problem, same need. We just need to listen to God. But anyway. So the people complain. Moses goes to God. God tells Moses to take his rod, but the instructions were different. This time, instead of hitting it, he was supposed to speak to it. Speak to it. And so he says um and a a lot of people will will say you know the the problem with the this disobedience by Moses when he hit the rock was you know it was a you know it changed the type of Christ and all that. I'm not going to get into all that I would tend to agree with that, but I could be wrong. The point is, is he disobeyed. That's the point. God said, speak to it He didn't. He hit it. And it's very interesting the way that this happens. Look at verses number uh eight look start in verse number eight here. Or nine. And Moses took the rod from before the Lord as he commanded him So far is he doing what God says? Yeah, he's doing what God says. And Ad Moses and Aaron gathered the congregation together before the rock. So far so good. And he said unto them, Hear now ye rebels, must we fetch you water out of this rock? I think this is where it started to go south. It's God that's doing it. It's God that's providing it. He's giving Moses instruction. But he said, must we fetch you water out of this rock, you rebels? He was mad. He lost his temper. He was angry. And usually when you lose your temper, you end up Hitting something. And so he did. Verse ten and Moses and Aaron gathered the congregation together before the rock and said to them, Hear now, you rebels, must we fetch you water out of this rock? Now who's the wheat? It's him and Aaron. What did Aaron do? Nothing. He's just standing there. So Moses and Aaron are standing there. And Moses saying, we got to do everything for you. I really wish, and this isn't the message, but I really wish I could have seen Aaron's face. Was he like, leave me out of this? Or was he like, yeah, that's right, Moses. I I don't know. I wish I could have been there But he said, must we fetch you out of this rock, water out of this rock. Verse 11. Moses lifted up his hand, and with his rod he smote the rock twice. Now he smoked the rock once before and water came out. So I I just picture it this way. Just just humor me for a minute. I just picture him going to the rock I need a rod. I need a rod. I should have brought a rod. I'll pretend I have a rod. I just see him go into the rock and he goes and hits it. He gives his speech about how angry he is. Then he hits it. Nothing happens. And so he hits it again and then the water gushes out. Have you ever I don't know, on your computer or or or something like that. You try to make something work and it doesn't work. And so you do the exact same thing again and then it works. Or you call tech support and they say, have you tried unplugging it and plugging it back in It's like oh yeah. And then it works. It's kind of funny. But anyway I saw a picture of Moses going through that or he gets real mad. Must we fetch you water out of this rock? Hits the rock Oh, it didn't work that time. Hang on, let me reboot. Again, and then it works. Now for a few for a few minutes, few seconds, I don't know how much time transpired there. But I wonder if he was thinking, yeah, did it again. Took care of these people that are aren't grateful. You know what I mean? Because that was his attitude. Must must we fetch you water out of this rock? We've got to do the everything for you Hit the rock, hit it again. Yeah, okay, okay, now you can get your water. And then verse 12, the Lord spake unto Moses and Aaron. Because ye believe me not, to sanctify me in the eyes of the children of Israel. Therefore you shall not bring this congregation the land which I have given them. Let me ask you a question. Did Moses like do some of what God said? Yeah. Gathered the congregation, took the rod. You know? But but he didn't do everything. Right. He didn't do everything, God said. Did water come out of the rock? Did everyone get and it was good water. It wasn't bitter water. Everyone got what they needed. Congregation got what they needed. The animals got what they needed. Everyone was good Except for Moses and Aaron. Verse 12 Lord spake unto Moses and Aaron, not the congregation. We get you ever get really and this isn't something I have written down, but if you ever get really mad at someone and bitter towards someone and you lose your temper, they don't get hurt. You do You do. Bitterness hurts the person who's bitter, not the person they're bitter against. You lose your temper. You hit something that you shouldn't. You're the one that gets hurt, not the person you're you get real angry at someone, maybe you're fighting with someone, you get really mad, and so you punch a hole in the wall. Well who hurts? Your wallet. You have to pay for it, you follow me. It's so anyway. Um It was different this time, wasn't it? The problem was the same. The command was a little different. And I don't want to get too far ahead of myself, so let me s let me try to stay on track here. The people complain. Moses goes to God. God tells Moses what to do. His instructions were very specific, and Moses follows them, but not completely, which means he doesn't follow them. And as a result, God tells him he will not enter the promised land. Now I just want to point out some observations. How many of you have heard that before? Maybe you've heard this before in the comparison of the two events. I just kind of want to point out some observations, and then at the end I'll make a few applications. But the here's just some things I noticed that just kind of stuck out to me. One was this. Moses' sin was wide open. The whole congregation saw it. Everyone saw him lose his temper. You know, it's bad when you lose your temper. It's bad when everyone sees you lose your temper. It's like really bad. You know, if I'm At home, by myself, lose my temper, that's bad. But if I was right here and I got really mad at lost my temper and started breaking stuff That'd be really bad. I'd probably get fired, right? That'd be really bad. The consequences were were were were were greater, I think, partly. Well, I don't know for sure, but I know that it was in front of everyone. And I know that God didn't like that. Go to Deuteronomy chapter 32. And God points this out to him. Deuteronomy thirty two and verse fifty one. Um back up verse forty eight Verse 48. This is toward the ends of Moses' life. They're getting there. It's 40 years is bowed up here, and we're getting ready to go over. Right? Deuteronomy 32, verse 48. The Lord spake unto Moses the selfsame day, saying, Get thee up into this mountain. Abram unto unto Mount Nebo, which is in the land of Moab, that is over against Jericho, and behold the land of Canaan, which I give unto the children of Israel for possession. That was this whole calling, was to get them there. And die in the mount whither thou goest up And be gathered unto thy people as Aaron thy brother died in Mount Horan was uh gathered unto his people. Why? Because ye trespassed against me among the children of Israel at the waters of Mervah Kadesh in the wilderness of Zinn, because ye sanctified me not In the midst of the children of Israel. He mentions it a few times. He points that out a few times here. This was in front of everyone. Yet thou shalt see the land before thee, but thou shalt know not go thither unto the land which I give the children of Israel. Just a just something that kind of sticks out to me there. Everyone saw it. Everyone noticed it. Uh y you should never lose your temper. You should never get mad. Never never I mean that's we if you lose your temper you lose. But if you're going to do something like that in front of everyone, there's going to be some heavy consequences that come with that. Yeah, that might be with with a lot of things, you know. Um But the point is, God pointed this out a few times. This was in front of everyone, and it sanctified me not God saying well sanctified means set apart. You're showing the children of Israel that I was not sanctified. I was not set apart. You follow me? He was showing the children of Israel I am going to disobey God. That's serious. So, Numbers 20, verse 12, again, he says, in the eyes of the people. And then also, um, not only uh the just just something to notice, his sin was was wide open, it was in public, and everyone could see it. Moses' sin was a sin of unbelief and of doubt. Again, verse 12, the Lord spake un back in Numbers. Lord spake unto Moses because he believed me not. And this is why I was, this is what I don't understand. He saw miracle after miracle after provision after provision, and he believed him not I just f I don't I don't know. Maybe he thought, well it worked that way last time, so I'll do it again the same way because I know it'll work. I know he said speak to it, but I'll hit it because it worked I don't know what his reasoning was, but I know that the Bible says God said you believe me not His sin was a sin of disobedience, of rebellion. He wanted to do it his way. And it was on purpose. He knew what God said, and he chose to not do it that way. That was a decision. And his God's instructions were very specific, but there may have been some leeway there. I don't know. He said, speak to the rock. I mean, what do you what do you say to a rock? It's like, hey Yeah, I don't know. It's like um um I'll t I'll take uh two rivers please. I I mean what do you say to a rock? I I don't know. He didn't I I don't see where he said what to say to it. He said to speak to it. But he didn't speak to it. And as mad as he was, and as much as he was yelling, it probably would have been really easy to speak to it. But he hit it That was a conscious decision to not completely follow the steps. So his sin was wide open. It was in the right where everybody could see it. It wasn't private. It was a sin of unbelief and of doubt. He purposely disobeyed God. What were the results of that? Well, people still got water. The people still got water. God's good, isn't he? He could have perfectly said, uh nope, never mind You disobeyed, so now all these people will suffer for your disobedience. He still gave them water. He still took care of the people. God's good. And I find that encouraging. The people that he was mad at still got water. And that goes back to what I was saying. When you get angry and bitter and you're you lose your temper and you're mad at someone and you want you're just frustrated with them They'll be okay. You won't be. So don't just it and and and I I I heard my dad say this all the time. I don't know if it's original with him, but he s he always said, if you lose your temper, you lose You lose your temper, you lose the battle. You lose your temper, you lose the argument, even if you're right. Was it wrong for them to murmur against God and against Moses? Absolutely. But Moses lost his temper, so he he lost So you can be perfectly in the right, but if you lose your temper and do something wrong, you did something wrong. So anyway, Moses, the people still got water. People still got water. God still provided, and God can still do good even when we mess up. But result of his sin, he didn't go to Canaan. He didn't get to go to Canaan. Now Canaan, and if you study the scriptures and all this, is a good representation of not of heaven, but of being God's will. Living the victorious Christian life, being where God wants you to be. Um because y y you know, they were in and out of Canaan, right? So, you know, the y you you when they rebelled against God and God would judge them and then they'd get right with God and and and then God would deliver them and then You know, that cycle went over and over again. Then they went into Babylon and then some came back and and you know what I mean? So that that's not heaven. I'm not going into heaven, then coming back out, and then going back in and coming back out, and you know what I'm saying? It's not gonna be a cycle the rest of eternity when we're b back and forth. Cain Canaan's a picture of being God's will Living a victorious Christian life. And so what that tells me is rebelling against God is going to keep me from being where God wants me to be. So he lost his blessing. Deuteronomy chapter 34, go there real quick, please. Deuteronomy 34. This is like a three page introduction and a half a page sermon. So that's okay though. Deuteronomy 34 and verse 7 says, Moses was 120 years old when he died, his eyes were not dim, nor his natural force abated. So what did he die of? What was his cause of death? His cause of death was rebellion. It wasn't old age, it wasn't cancer, it wasn't a heart attack, it wasn't it wasn't a car accident or chariot accident, whatever His cause of death was rebellion, was disobedience. I just kind of find that interesting. He would not have died then. He had more years in him, physically speaking. Um lost his blessing, lost his life. It was given to someone else. His blessing was given to someone else. Joshua got to lead him in. So I wonder, side note, not in my outline, but I wonder how many of us lose out on God's blessings and someone else takes our place because of our bitterness, rebellion. Disobedience. Didn't that happen? Oh yeah. Happened to him. And the only ones that missed out were Moses and Aaron. What did Aaron do? What what did Aaron do? Why w what did Aaron do that caused him to miss out on Canaan? What what did Aaron do? He didn't do anything. He didn't do anything. He didn't speak up. You know you can do nothing, and that be a sin. Him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is How many blessings have we missed out on because we Oh, I'm staying out of it. Now, there's a lot of things you should stay out of, okay? Don't go meddling where you don't need to go meddle, right? But if you see if you see someone that is about to hit the rock, uh it might he all he would have had to have done, I don't know, I doubt he would have had to have tackled them, you know what I mean But maybe it could have just been um Moses, God said to speak to it. Moses, God God didn't say it that way. That might have been all it took. I don't know. What did Moses do? Nothing. And I I I I I I I don't want to get too far ahead of myself and I need to stay on my outline here, but I wonder how many Of us are just doing nothing and gonna suffer the consequences for it. All that wickedness that's going on in our country and in our government Well I didn't do it. I'm staying out of that. We might not make it into Canaan, you know you know what I mean? We might not make our country might not be around much longer just because, well I'm staying out of it. It's none of my business When's the last time you called a representative? When's the last time you wrote a letter? When's the last time you spoke out against some of this nonsense and foolishness? You follow me? Well I I'm just staying out of it. That's what Aaron did Anyway, that was free. So what can I learn from this? I've got six applications real quick. No, five. I got five. I took one out. One, I think we should just do things God's way. Let's just do things God's way. Let's just follow the instructions. That would be number one. Let's just follow the instructions. Um God gives instructions. We should follow them for for salvation. God gave instructions, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, thou shalt be saved. Easy instructions. If I don't follow him, don't get to heaven. I try to work my way there. I try to you know use it as a catch-all and I don't trust him, but I kind of like trust in this for a little bit, trust in this a little bit, oh and I'll try trusting in Jesus too Okay, that's not following the instructions. Romans talks about that. Um you know, if if salvation is uh of of of grace, then it's no more works, otherwise the works is no more works, or if it's of works, then it's no more grace, otherwise grace is no more grace I think I'm saying that right. But you know what I'm talking about. I i if we don't follow the instructions, we don't get to heaven. Um that's simple. It's not that we have to do anything. He did it. We just have to place our trust in Christ. Not that in something else. Well, there's instructions that God has given us for marriage. A man marries a woman. That's it. Anything outside of that, it's not marriage. I mean you can call it that if you want. Um I'm not saying it's not possible. People sin all the time, just like people lie all the time, but if you tell a lie, it's not the truth. You know, you've got to follow the instructions. Are there consequences for not following the instructions? Oh yeah. And I think it just makes sense. Looking at the Bible, looking at history and personal experience, it just works out better when we do what God says. The way He says God doesn't give us instructions because he hates us. He gives us instructions because he loves us You know, boundaries that parents have for their kids isn't, you know, they're not staying up late at night trying to figure out how they can make their kids miserable and suffer. If they are, that's weird, man. Shame on them if that's the case. No, they think of ways to protect them and guard them like they're supposed to. They love them, right? That's what God is. That's what He's doing You follow the instructions. Why did God give Moses instructions? He wanted to take care of his people. And he still did. It's just Moses missed out on a blessing. But Just follow the instructions. We look at instructions like it's, oh, I've got to do this. Oh, I've got to I've got to obey my parents every time. I've got to do what God says. I've got to follow these instructions. Oh, this is awful and miserable. What in the world? I'm grateful for the instructions. You know, you get a um a project you're working on or something or or um my desk in my office, I get that I got that I don't know a few months ago and put it together. Um I use the instructions. Without 'em, it's just a pile of s screws and and boards and I mean I could have made something. Huh. Might not have been the same. You know what I mean? I'm glad they were in there. And I put it together and It's a nice little desk. Um and you could do that with anything. I mean we used to make my me and my brother used to make uh model airplanes and stuff. We we put them together. Um He always got uh like his favorite was the P51 model. He built that over and over again. And I was a real patriot. We all know that the P forty seven won us the war Anyway, so I'd throw that together, P forty seven, I'd always be building those model airplanes. I have one in my office, just a little one. But man, we built those all the time and his always looked way better because I was younger than him and He was a lot more uh patient. And so I would just throw mine together and it looked awful and it would fall apart and Stuart would put his together and it it looked man It looks like the real thing, just smaller. But oh, I forgot where I was going with that. Oh, it followed the instructions. It worked out better. But I didn't follow the instructions, it didn't work out very well. Um anyway, you get the point. So um then it just because You have a finished product doesn't mean you did it right. Like I put that model together, put my little model P47 together, and I was so proud of that thing, and it just looked Not right. Just because it was put together doesn't mean it was right. Can you imagine if they would have done that with real ones? Oh we'll just throw them together real quick. We don't need to worry about following the blueprints. We'll just you know put them together and send them up there That wouldn't have worked out very good just because you have a finished product. And I say that because Moses got the water, the people drank, the people got water, the animals got water, they had the finished product, but was it right? No. And sometimes in our mind we can justify that. Like, oh, it all worked out. It all worked out in the end. We completely take Romans 5. 8 out of context. Say, oh, it'll all work together for good. No, you disobeyed. Can God still make good things happen out of bad things? Sure. But that's not an excuse to say, oh, it'll all work out. You follow me? And so they got the finished product, but man, it was not the same. Rebellion is costly. That's the second application here, and I'm gonna kinda speed through it. What seems like slight Disobedience can be very, very costly. You know, there's um some people that are just They are so rebellious and they're open about it and you know it and they know it and everyone knows it. They want you to know. How much they hate you, how much they hate your rules, how much they hate everything. They are rebellious and you see it That wasn't really what he was doing. He mostly obeyed. But just that little bit. You follow me? Just that one thing was off. It's like You know, you y y your parents might have rules for you regarding your computer or your phone or something like that. Um It might be screen time like how much screen time you get. It might be what sites you go to, or either there might be some rules regarding it. And you go just a little bit over your time. Or you go just a little bit Again, me and my brother Stuart. You pray for him. I miss him. I haven't seen him in a long time, Stuart. But anyway, um We used to really uh get as close as we could there to to breaking the rules without actually breaking them and then we'd end up actually breaking them. You follow me? So we we were allowed um for a while there it was we were allowed one hour of computer on Saturdays and thirty minutes every other day. That was our allowed time. We'd get like 31 minutes in like an hour in four minutes. You follow me? It's like, well, that's because it took longer to load. Which it did. It was the nineties. It took longer to load, right? Um whatever. Did we sin? Yeah. Yeah. Were there consequences? Yeah. We just didn't get it the next day. That was e that was an easy that was an easy uh thing to figure out. But rebellion is costly. You get It's something a little more serious and there's a little more serious consequence. Well it wasn't that bad. No, it was bad. And there's consequences that go with it. I gotta move on here. Rebellion It's costly. Um third a third application I think we can take home. If you want to live in Canaan, you gotta follow the rules. Canaan's not heaven, it's a picture of it's not a picture of heaven, it's a picture of being in God's will. But man, it's a blessing while you're there. And if you want that, you've got to follow the rules. If you want to live in mom and dad's house, you gotta follow the rules. You wanna live in Canaan, you've got to follow the rules. We live in a an apartment that we rent. If we want to rent there, we've got to follow the rules. You don't follow the rules, that's fine. Get out of Canaan. Right? Moses didn't want to follow the rules. Okay. He disobeyed God. Well, he lost Canaan. If we want to be in God's will, if we want to live the life that God wants us to live, if we want to live a victorious Christian life, we've got to obey God. And then um fourthly uh uh application by way of application here, we should not settle for second best. Now he still got water out of the rock, God still provided, but he missed out on what was best. Did he get something good? Yes. Did he get what was best? No. A lot of times we settle for good, not for God's will. If it's God's will for you to do I I I don't know, we're working with teenagers, we we always look at it in terms of what your career is gonna be. So we'll say, you know, it might be God's will for you to be a doctor, it might be God's will for you to be a uh police officer. It might be God's willing for you to be a pastor. It might be God's will. You know what I'm saying? We'll go through careers like this or calling or whatever God's calling is for your life. And and you know, especially with uh preaching to to teenagers and stuff, we say, you know, what's God's will for your life? It's not just a career. It's not just you know I mean God has the if uh if the only will for God's life was what you do for a living, what do you what what's the rest of it? There's a lot more to life than just making a living, isn't there? God's will is not just what you do for a living. God's will is your whole life, your family. What you do for a living. Your church, obviously, what he wants you to do. Just stuff. I mean, but don't settle for what's good. There is a lot of good options. And again, especially thinking in terms of the way we preach to teenagers, there's a lot of opportunity Of good things for young people to do and for old people to do. Trying to switch gears talking to adults here, just bear with me. There's a lot of good things that we can do. But that doesn't mean it's what's best. That doesn't mean it's what's right. Now if I was a that'd be weird, if I was a doctor. That'd be weird. I wouldn't even I mean would I work like you cut someone open and like work on them? What do doctors do? They go fishing? Right? No. Um but would that be a good thing if I was, you know, a doctor and and saving people's lives and giving surgery? That'd be that'd be a good thing. But it's not what's right because it's not what God had for me You understand what I'm trying to say? Don't settle for what's good. Do what God leads you to do. Do what God says. Do what's do what's Best, which what's best is his will. Canaan was what was best. Sure, it was good that they weren't in Egypt, but it wasn't Canaan. Don't settle for second best. Don't just miss out on Cana And my last point was I kind of already mentioned this, so I'll wrap up here, but Don't sit by and let someone else miss out on Canaan. Aaron He didn't do anything. And we already talked about that. Where was Aaron? He was right there. He got punished too. He was an accomplice. Your brother's about to hit the rock, say something. Your brother's about to hit the rock, say something. I don't want to Live a good life. I wanna live I want to live God's life. I want to live got God's plan for my life And I don't want some little stupid rebellious act Some little just act of where I lost my temper and got mad and said something I shouldn't have said or did something I shouldn't have done or hit the rock. To keep me from being in God's will. Well God says that you're supposed to do oh fine, I'll do it, but I'm gonna do it my way. No, that's you can't do what God says your way. Which is what he tried to do. You can close your Bibles. I'm pretty much done, but are you trying to do things your own way? Are you following the rules? Are you in God's permissible will or his perfect will? And I didn't explain those much, but basically Just because God allows something to happen, that doesn't mean it's his perfect will. He'll allow it And a lot of times we use that, well, God allowed it to happen, so it must have been his will. Well, it was his permissible will. He'll let you. Yeah. He didn't stop it. But that's not what he wanted you to do. You follow me? And I don't know. I don't heart to heart with you, I don't want to Have a good life. I want to be in God's will. I don't want to do things my way, hit the rock, force it, and make something happen. Hit it twice if I have to finally get No, I want to do things God's way. I don't want to miss out on Canaan. And I pray that's your heart. I don't want to miss out on Canaan. I don't want to miss out on the blessings that go with being In God's perfect will. Heads bowed, eyes closed. No one look around for just a few moments, please. How many would say by raise of hand, I don't want to leave this out. I've briefly mentioned it, but you know I may say, you know what, I'm I'm I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven. You mentioned that God has a way, a set of instructions on how to get to heaven, on how to be saved, and I I don't know about that. And if I died right now, I don't know where I'd go, but I'm kind of concerned about it I'm not going to embarrass you and point to you and make you give a speech or anything like that. In fact, that's the reason we ask everyone to close their eyes and bow their heads, just so no one gets embarrassed. But if you say, you know what, uh I'm not sure if I've died right now, if I'd go to heaven or not, would you pray for me? That's you, could you just slip your hand up and put it back down? No one's looking except for me No, I'm not going to call you out. I just want to pray for you. That's all. Pastor Matt, could you pray for me? I'm not sure I'm saved. If I died right now, I'm not sure if I'd go to heaven, but I am concerned about that. Could you slip your hand up and put it back down? Our next question is this. And we say, you know what? I've been trying to do God's will my way. And I see that. God's used his word and he showed me some things in my life where I'm trying to do what's good and I'm trying to do do it my way rather than God's way. He's dealing with me about that. Pray for me. If that's you, could you raise your hand? My hand's up, by the way. Put him down. We have a tendency to try to force God's will, don't we? Well, this is what God wants me to do, so I'm going to make it happen. Heavenly Father, I ask that you would bless this invitation. It's in Jesus' name.