Turn your Bibles to Genesis chapter number six tonight. Get turned on here. All right, there we go. Turned it on. Well it's good to see you. I see a lot of familiar faces, some new. I love seeing new faces as a growing church. I think most people here know me. Some of you might not. If you don't, I'm Pastor James Kent. I'm an assistant over at Calvary Baptist Church in Mannington, West Virginia, with Lee Bowman. Pastor Letterman's over there And I was really looking forward to getting to hear him. I miss past Pastor Leatherman, but for those who don't know me, I actually grew up in this church I actually grew up on the bus route here. Uh my mom and dad's actually sitting back there. I grew up here. I came to church here for the longest time. I actually The Lord did great I saw the Lord do great things, but I'm seeing great things done here. I really miss M L I B C. I love Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. I love what it's done for me and my family. I really appreciate it. I love seeing that the church is still going strong You know, I appreciate Brother Mark and his testimony here. I love seeing him up here doing a great job. Kids, that was great. I love seeing y'all. That's good. Hopefully you found Genesis chapter 6 now. I'm going to read verse number 5, and then we're going to jump over to chapter number 8 and verse 21. So keep your finger there. But look at chapter 6 verse and verse number 5. The Bible says, and God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth. And that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. Now turn with me to 821 Again, the scripture says, And the Lord smelled a sweet savor, and the Lord said in his heart, I will not again curse the ground anymore for man's sake. For the imaginations of man's heart is evil from his youth. Neither will I against smite any more everything living, as I have done. Father in heaven, I thank you so much for the opportunity to preach here tonight. I thank you so much for this church and what it means to me. I thank you for the faithfulness of many members still here, and I thank you so much for that. And Lord, I pray for these new ones that they could be grounded in your word and that they would continue in the work here. Thank you, Father, for your goodness to us. I do pray for Pastor Leatherman that he would has given the glory that uh Calvary needs. And I thank you so much for him. I pray for Pastor Grant and his child, Lord, that you help them. And I thank you again so much for the opportunity to speak here. And I pray that you give me the words, give me clarity of thought in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, Brother Mark, I want to say before I get started here, you know, one thing it's one thing to One of those things that preachers deal with is sometimes impromptu, which I'm used to that. I'm okay with that, so I I don't mind doing that. I'll tell you another thing though, Brother Mark, that is really, really challenging for a preacher is when you have it all figured out what you are going to say. I actually have a message in my Bible I preached in Sunday school this morning at Calvary. I said, Lord, I believe that's what I'm going to preach when I get there. It's one thing that it'd be impromptu, it's another thing when God you have everything figured out and God says, No, I want you to preach this message. Well I said, Lord, I I I preached that message for a while. I mean I preached it before, but I haven't preached it for a while. I mean I'm not as familiar with that one. Yes I know, but I want you to preach that one Well Lord I haven't preached at Mount Lake in a while. I don't even know if I preach that message over there. I don't care if you preach it there. You preach that message. I tell you what, when you're a preacher and God works in your heart that way The easiest thing to do is just say, God, okay, if that's what you want me to say, that's what you want me to say. You know, television would have us to believe that the imagination is something for children. But the Bible says otherwise. In fact, the 35 times I found this word throughout the scriptures, I only recall one time it involved children. And that was in the second verse that we read, dealing with the fact that even from our youth that our imaginations are wicked The fact is that the world wants us to believe that this is just something for children. Each and every one of us exercises our imagination. Imagination, by the world's definition, is the ability to form new images and sensations in the mind that are not perceived through the senses such as sight, hearing, or senses. But imagination described in the scripture is far different. In fact, when we come to this word in the Bible, the thought here is what goes through your mind and heart. Imagination is putting together of these thoughts It is the framing. The per I I've almost brought up some Legos with me. I'm almost did that. I I d I have Legos with children. I almost brought those up. It's like thoughts you you think in your mind. That's one piece. Imagination is the putting together of those thoughts. And if we're not careful, our imagination can be an easy playground for the devil You see, you could probably think of any kind of heinous thing. I think of murder. I think of what just happened just recently I seen on the news of how people were willing to try to take lives with bombs in our own nation The heiniest sins that we can think of, we may say, oh, those are bad, those are ha it's just as as awful as it can get. But I tell you what No matter what the sin is, it is most likely started in your imagination. You see, whoever planted those bombs, I'm sure they just didn't get up that day and say, This is what I'm going to do. I'm sure they're planting for some time. How they were going to meticulously pull off this act. And as we look at them and say how horrible that is, if we're not careful, each and every one of us as sinners can do the same thing. We can work in our minds some wicked things. Our imagination is not how TV promotes it Not something fun, not something that we can just make a uh big little thick kitty thing. This is something God takes very seriously I want to give you some truths about the imagination tonight, and I'm not going to give you all of them. I look at the clock. I'm going to try to get you out before the hour. I had somebody come up to me before I left and say, Brother James, you're still one of my favorite preachers. I remember when you preached for two minutes. I'm like, Well thank you I'm known not to be long-winded, but I do want to get the point across. The first truth I have is this. Imaginations are produced in a naturally wicked environment. And the verse we just read in chapter number six, we read again, if you have the scriptures, in verse number five, and God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. You know, the principle for a first mention in Scripture is how we usually understand things work in the Bible. And this is the first time we see this word mentioned And we see in this portion of scripture how imagination can be used throughout. And what I see here is this that imagination takes place in your heart. Oh yes, I know your mind's involved. But when the Bible talks about your heart, it's talking about that spiritual heart you have. And God says in that heart Have our imaginations, those thinking process. Knowing the Bible, in Jeremiah 17 9, the Bible says the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked, who can know it Imagination takes place in a naturally wicked environment. Your heart is not something that you should follow. For your heart can cause you many problems. Your heart is a major problem. It's deceitful and desperately wicked, the Bible describes. You know, it scares me sometimes that the only thoughts that come out of my heart It's no wonder Christ said in the Bible in Matthew chapter fifteen, Do ye not yet understand that whatsoever entereth in the mouth goeth into the belly and is cast out in the draught? But those things which proceed out of the mouth come from the heart, and they file the man. For out of the heart proceedeth evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witnesses, blasphemies These are the things which defile man, but to eat with unwashed hands defileth not a man. Your heart is a naturally wicked place where these imaginations are going to take place. If you're not careful, your own heart can come up with some pretty wicked things and imagine some pretty wicked things I tell you what, you're driving down the road, you if you're not careful your heart will get into the atua. I can't believe they just did that to me. I tell you what, raising children. If you're not careful you can get in that flesh and be like, Oh boy, what are they doing now? You better be very careful the imaginations that get in your heart. I get encouragement from Jeremiah also in that portion of scripture. A lot of people when they read verse 9 leave out verse 10. But verse ten reads, I the Lord searched the heart, I tried the reins, even to give every man according to his ways. You say, how's that an encouragement? It's encouraging to me that the one who dwells inside of me, and if you're saved, he dwells inside of you. The one who dwells inside of you knows your heart, and he's not afraid to point out what needs to change. I know it's not easy sometimes when conviction comes, but I'm grateful for the Holy Spirit's conviction in my life. Because if you was left to your own self, there's no telling where you end up because as a man you will make mistakes, but God does not make mistakes We need, as the psalmist does to say, search me, O God, and know my hearts, try me and know my thoughts, and see if there be any wicked way in me. I tell you tonight, you need God. You need him. You need him to examine your heart. You need to ask him, God, is there anything in my life that needs to change? And be ready if he does say something needs to change. Sometimes we ask him, Lord, do I need to change anything? And he sure does show you what you need to change. Oftentimes we'll ask that question, we're not willing to change, we just want to act spiritual. But I tell you, when God points out something that needs to help you to grow, you better listen listen because it could take you the wrong way. Ask God to search your heart. Guard your heart. The Bible says in Proverbs 4. 20, Keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it life. Like how Brother Sommerdorf who was here said it. Your future success is based upon your heart If you guard that heart, you ask God to search that heart, and you change according to his word, you're going to lead into a path that God is going to make successful. Why? Because God's word says when you follow this book, you will be prosperous and you will have great success. But if you choose not to do those things, you do not put that guard up, being known that that deceitful heart will imagine things that are going to hurt you. We need to guard our heart. We need to ask God to correct our heart, to guide and direct us, search us. And get God's word in your heart. One of the first verses I ever memorized was Psalm 119. 11, Thy word have I hid in mine heart. That I might not sin against thee. This book will keep you from sin. You don't have to spend much time in it to figure out What's right and what's wrong. I tell you a lot of people like to make it look like it's hard to understand, but it's not. God puts it down that even little children. Now I can get up on Sunday mornings, I can talk to little children Principles from this book that's going to change their lives. Principles that as a child that I could learn that could change my life. You need to be careful of your imagination because it takes place in a wicked empire in your heart. Need that guard. You need God. Here's another truth for you to think about. Godless imaginations w will lead to wicked actions. Godless imaginations will lead to wicked actions I hope you brought your Bibles. I forgot to ask if people had their Bibles with them. But turn with me to Genesis chapter number 11. We're going to use the scriptures a lot. In Genesis chapter number 11, you have the Tower of Babel, some call Babel. The Tower of Babel, though, we find where God confounds the languages of the world. We have these people who decide they're going to go against the grains, they're going to go against What God said. They are going to instead of populate and fill the earth, they're going to stay in this one location. They're going to build a tower to heaven, they think. This is what God had to say about all this. Verse number 6 of chapter 11. And the Lord said, Behold The people is one, and they have all one language, and this they begin to do, and now nothing will restrain, nothing will be restrained from them which they have imagined to do God says they thought about this, they imagined this, they had this great idea in their minds, in their minds, that we were going to build this tower to heaven. They left one thing out. They left God out. They left out the fact that God told them back in Genesis chapter number two that they needed to cover the earth. They left out the fact that God didn't want them to build a tower of heaven. God had a way to heaven, and it's through Jesus Christ. When they left God out of their imaginations, it led to wicked actions. Let me remind you that there is only one way to heaven. I don't know everybody's testimony here. I don't know that you're saved. You may be just like these people, and you're trying to build your own way to heaven. There is no other way to heaven other than Jesus Christ. The Bible tells us in Acts chapter number 4, neither is there any other name under heaven. There's not one person that can save you other than Jesus Christ. There's no other way to the Father the Father, the Bible tells us in John 14, 6. We see that their actions they are doing, and God stepped in because what they were doing was wrong. And when you leave God out of your imagination, you will do wicked things, and you can guarantee God's going to step in. Note that they said, let us build whose top may reach unto heaven. We know this is ridiculous. Scientifically, they could not build this top that reached to heaven. But in their imagination, it was okay. Isn't that crazy how our minds can work like that? This is a silly illustration, but I'll use it to give you an idea. You can picture right now in your mind a duck with antlers. Ducks don't have antlers, but now in your mind, I'm sure you're thinking about a duck with antlers. It can't happen, but in your mind it can. And if you're not careful, that's what your imagination is going to do with You see, what it'll do is in your mind you try to work around facts and it looks okay in your mind. But sooner or later the facts are going to come back and you're going to have to deal with them You may be thinking about doing something that is so ungodly, you know that people say you shouldn't do it. You know what God says. You're leaving God out of the picture. Let me warn you, your wicked imagination is going to lead to wicked actions. and then it's going to lead to God's judgment. These were thinking wrong thoughts, but let me remind you, godless imagination will always lead to sin. And it may not be the thinking about some sort of wickedness that you're doing. For example, you may be thinking of good things like having a career, someday who you're going to marry, things like that Nothing wrong with that. But if you leave God out, you will have a way that you want to do things that if you're not careful when God tries to step into your life and say, Well, this is what I have planned for you You're going to go the wicked way. You're going to disobey God. Why? Because wicked imaginations, leaving God out of your imaginations will lead to wicked actions. As I hasten on hasten on, let me give you this thought. Imaginations can be influenced by the wrong crowd. Imaginations can be influenced by the wrong crowd. Turn with me to Deuteronomy chapter 29. You know it's easy to tell young people this and c I know because I work with young people, it's easy to tell them you better be careful with who you hang around with. Let me say adults. You better be careful who you hang around with. Children are not the only ones who are shaped by others. And the older I get, the more I've realized that even in my age, people can shape you if you're not careful. You need to be careful who is shaping you. Imagination can be influenced by the wrong crowd. Deuteronomy 29, look at verse 19. And it came to pass when he heareth the words of this curse that he blessed himself in his heart, saying, I shall have peace. Though I walk in the imaginations of my heart, to have drunkenness of thirst. What we have in verse number 19 is we have a man who is to have decided, you I won't take the time to read the verses But in the previous verses, he decided that he is just going to do his own thing. He says, I don't need God. I can have peace doing my way. I can get drunk and I can be okay. He had in his imagination, in his mind, and but you see it in the world today, you have people who think they could do things their way and it's going to be okay. You look at our public schools, you look at our nation as we People think they can do things without God and it's going to be a let me remind you, if you're not careful, you could get on that boat too. Just because you're saved doesn't mean you will be influenced by the right people. You're gonna have to make a choice. Who is influencing your imagination? You were to back up in the few verses before we see that in verse number sixteen, for ye know not how we have dwelt in the land of Egypt and how we came through the nations which we passed by. And ye have seen their abominations and their idols, wood and stone, silver and gold, which were among them, lest there should be among you man or woman, or family, or tribe whose heart turned away this day from the Lord our God. You see, they were in a nation. They were around other nations that could have easily influenced them. And sad to say, when you read through the book of Joshua, But you get to the book of Judges, you get to the book of First Samuel, first King, that's exactly what they did. The nations around them influenced what they did. What God they were going to follow. Let's have a king They let others influence their imagination. If you're not careful, others may influence your imagination. Sad to say, God warns what the destruction is going to be. The Lord will not spare him, verse 20 says, but then the anger of the Lord and his jealousy shall smoke against that man. And all the curses that are written in this book shall lie upon him, and the Lord shall blot out his name from under heaven. I can't say it enough. You follow that wicked imagination of yours, you can be sure you're going to face judgment. You can be sure that your life is going to suffer from the consequences of your actions. For sin will bring God judgment. The solution is simple. God tells them in the previous verses, verses 10 through 15, enter a covenant with them Webster decides the covenant as a mutual consent or agreement of two or more persons. In other words, you need to make a commitment with God and say, God, this is what I'm going to do. You can count on God, he's going to do his part. You can count on God that He is going to keep His word and He's going to bless you when you do what He tells you to do. So when something goes wrong, it's not with God, it's with us. Be careful who influences you. It's no wonder that 1 John 2. 15 states, if any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. You better be very careful who you have influencing your imagination. The next one's in Deuteronomy chapter 31. So chapter 31. As I look at this one, this one's a powerful one, I believe, and one we ought to take diligent heed to. Imagination can be influenced By music. Imagination can be influenced by music. Look at Deuteronomy 31-21. The scripture says, and it shall come to pass when many evils and troubles are befallen them, that this song shall testify against them as a witness. For it shall not be forgotten out of the mouths of their seed, for I know their imagination which they go about, even now before I have brought them into the land which I swear. God states in this very verse, He knows what Israel is going to do because what's going on in their hearts. Didn't we talk about that? He knew what road they were going to take, he knew what's going on in their imagination. So God tells Moses I want you to write this song. That way, when they have this song, when they get to that point, when they get in that sin, this song will testify to them that they are wrong. that it's still God that they can come back. And let me remind you that ought to be the purpose of our songs today. Yes, we know we our songs ought to bring or honor and glory to God, but our songs ought not to point us to ourselves, ought not to testify our ourselves. They ought to testify of the Lord Jesus Christ, of how he died on that cross for us. They ought to testify of God's love, his mercy. They ought to testify how we as sinners need God. Music has an influence. It's through the scriptures. Music ran off the evil spirit from Saul. Music was used to worship the golden calf in Nebuchadnezzar. Historians tell us music was used to drown out the cries of children as they are crucified to the Moloch. You write this verse down in Colossians 3. 16. I'm going to save time from turning there. But in Colossians 3. 16, the Bible says this, let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns. and spiritual songs. Singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. The Bible says teaching and ammonishing. Two things I see in that verse is the music will teach you and music will ammonish you A question you ought to ask yourself is, what does my music teach me? What is your music teaching you? You know, the CCM crowd likes to teach that music is neutral. The fact is in Scripture it's a totally different situation. Illustrations how they use music to influence. We see here in Deuteronomy how it influences our imagination. Colossians teaches that it teaches us. Music can influence your imagination. And if you're making light of what's in your music album, you better take heed because it's either going to help you to grow as a Christian, it's going to help you to fall as a Christian. Time and time again I've seen person fall over and over because of how their music was. Why? Well the scriptures say because it's going to influence your mind. It's going to influence your imagination. Here's another one to think about Wicked imaginations hurt others. Wicked imaginations hurt others. Turn to Job chapter number two. Job chapter number two. While you're turning there, I'm going to read some verses to you. Job 6. 26 says, Do ye imagine to reprove words and the speeches of one that is desperate? Job 21, 27, Job says this about his friends, behold, I know your thoughts and the vices which ye wrongfully imagine against me. Look at verse 13 of chapter number two. The Bible says this. So they sat down with him upon the ground seven days and seven nights, and none spake a word unto him, for they saw that his grief was very great. That verse tells me that they sat on the ground, that they were quiet, they didn't say anything to him in his grief. But I find it amazing what was going in the heart from those other verses, they couldn't keep it in very long. And you may be able to imagine hurt against others. You may be able to imagine bad things about others for a period of time, but what you're imagining is eventually going to come out. I tell you, you better be very, very careful about sowing discord among the brethren. You know the Lord says that he hates that, the book of Proverbs. God hates that. And if you're thinking about doing evil to another brother or another sister in this church, you are going to hurt this church. I'm not saying people don't need correction. But there's a far cross between correcting somebody and just trying to destroy them. Job's friends thought they had it figured out. They were attacking Job almost to say. Tell you what, they didn't have it all figured out. We know, because we know the book of Job. We know what God was doing in Job's life. We better be careful when we think we got it all figured out in our imaginations. Wicked imaginations will hurt others. Wicked imaginations will lead to deceit. Proverbs chapter 12. Proverbs chapter 12. In Proverbs chapter twelve, verse number twenty, we read As the leaves turn in the Bibles, we see that wicked imaginations will lead to deceit. You say, I'm not a liar. If you've got wicked imaginations, you better be prepared to be a liar The Bible says in Proverbs twelve twenty, deceit is in the heart of them that imagine evil, but to the counselors of peace is joy. Deceit is in the heart of them that imagine evil. You can guarantee when you choose to imagine wickedness in your heart, you think, oh, it's in my heart. It's not hurting anybody. It's going to hurt others. The Bible teaches us that deceit is in your heart as well. I don't think of an I can't think of anybody that loves to be lied to We don't want to lie to. We don't want people to lie to us. And thinking evil things about others. And if it's we're not careful, we're going to be lying to others to cover up those wicked imaginations. It is possible also, and we must be careful never to imagine wicked things against God, the book of Nahim, if you need to use your concordance to find it, but the book of Nahim in chapter number one. It is possible, and we must be very careful never to imagine God Nahum chapter number one, verse number nine says this. What do ye imagine against the Lord? He will make an utter end. Affliction shall not rise up the second time. Verse number eleven reads of chapter one of Nahum. There is one come out of thee that imagineth evil against the Lord, a wicked counselor. Yes, it is very possible to imagine against the Lord. And you know, we look at these portions of Scripture and we think, oh, how foolish it is of them to imagine something against God. But how careless are we to do the same thing. I tell you, it's easy to get into a financial hardship or it's easy to lose a loved one. It's easy to go through some sort of persecution or to go through some tough time and thank God, what are you doing? And if you're not careful, our old flesh will imagine some wicked things against God. Let me read you the warning in verse number 12. Thus saith the Lord, though they be quiet, and likewise many, yet thus shall they be cut down when he shall pass through. Though I have afflicted thee, I will afflict thee no more. That leads me to my last thought is this. Wicked imaginations will lead to your destruction. Wicked imaginations will lead to your destruction. It's easy to think, well, my mind, it's just in my thoughts. It's not really in my life. It's just in my head, those imaginations. It's just in my heart. But what the Bible shows us is totally different. When we look at Deuteronomy chapter number six, those men who imagined wickedly died in the flood. When you looked at the Tower of Babel, it looked at that incident, you see the people, how they were all unified, and now they were all dispersed because of the languages. You look at Job's friends, they were reproved It led to those in Nahum to be destroyed. What encouraged me to do this message years ago or several months ago at least. When I did this study on imagination was in the book of Jeremiah, eight times in Jeremiah, it says they followed their wicked imaginations. Judah kept falling over and over. They wanted to go after imagin their wicked imaginations. They want to go to their wicked ways. And Jeremiah, the weak prophet, would stand up and tell them to get right, and they say, No. Then you come to chapter 37 through 39. You come to Jeremiah and say, hey, tell us what God wants us to do. We'll listen. Tell us what God says. Well God tells us He tells them what God says. Don't go to Egypt. They went to Egypt. They went after their imaginations and they were destroyed. Turn to Romans chapter number one. Over and over again we see in the scripture, individual after individual, who has their imaginations. Who used it for wicked purposes. And though on the outside it may not be seen, on the inside of their hearts they were imagining wicked, ungodly things, and they were destroyed. Say how could that be possible? Romans chapter number one. Romans chapter number one is a great picture. I hear people make the argument, well, how do people that don't hear about Christ, what about them? God uses Romans chapter number one to show that they are without excuse in this world. But Romans chapter number one, verse 21 reads as follows. Because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful, but became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools. I love working with young people. I don't think I've ever had a young person that came to me and said, Brother James, when I grow up, I want to be a fool That's what I'm shooting for. I'm gonna be a fool. Now some of 'em that happens, but that's not what they're aiming for. I tell you if you want to become a fool You have a wicked imagination, you're going to become one. You want to suffer the judgment of God, you follow your wicked imaginations, you will be sure to suffer the judgment of God. Let me say these things in closing. I'm not going to go through them. I don't have time. You know, these are some principles I God has given me about imagination that helped me. Number one, remember that God hates it. I told you he hates sowing discord. He hates wicked imagination as well, Proverbs 6. 16. Keep your thought life pure. Keep your thought life pure. Because that's where your imagination is going to follow. Philippians 4. 8 is a good verse to understand what are the things and it goes through the list. Think on those things Guard your heart the place of imagination. We already looked at that. Ask God to search your heart. We looked at that. Put God's word in your heart. Set your imaginations on God. Isaiah 26, 3 says, Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on thee. You know that word mind is the same word used for imagination in the book of Genesis. God says when your imaginations are stayed on him, you'll be peaceful. What do you think about? Do you think about the Lord? Ask God to help you with your imaginations. I looked at a lot of illustrations in the Bible that deal with evil imaginations. But in the book of 1 Chronicles 2918, David does it great with illustrating how our imagination can be used for good. The people offered the temple willingly and joyfully, and David asked God to keep that attitude in their imagination. That they would imagine to keep that joyful attitude, that they would imagine to be willing to give. Ask God for your help with your imagination. And then lastly, get rid of any imagination that goes against God. 2 Corinthians 10, 5. teach us to cast down those wicked imaginations. You know the word cast down doesn't have the idea to just put it down as a piece of paper. The word cast down, I hope this pen is in you. Throw it down. It looks funny, but you know that's what we all do with those thoughts when they come into our mind. When we begin to put those processes in our mind, we need to throw it down, get rid of it. Imagination. It's not something for just kids, it's for you too. Be very careful what you do with your imagination. Because what it can do can lead you to a successful life that lives for the Lord. Or a life that does what Satan wants. Father in heaven, thank you so much for the opportunity to preach tonight as we go to invitation time Lord, I do pray that you would continue to work here at this great church. And Father, I pray to stay on the right road and right path. With heads bowed eyes closed, I'm not going to ask for too many shows of hand, but I'd never like to pass up an opportunity to pray for someone who doesn't know they're going to heaven. I tell the young people this every Sunday and I've seen it each and every one of them each week but I still ask 'em, is that you? Do you not know you're going to heaven someday? And I want to pray for you at this invitation that's the case. Anybody else says, Brother James, I don't know I'm going to heaven, would you pray for me? Anybody like that? I'll pray for me. I'll pray for you. Anybody at all? Now maybe you're here. I don't know how God touched your heart. But as the music begins to play, let's all stand at our feet