Samuel nineteen And I'm going to begin reading in verse number 8. I'm going to read down through verse number 17. 1 Samuel chapter 19, verse 8 through Verse 17. My intention was to cover this whole section. I just want to kind of highlight some things, cover it, but uh we're not going to get the whole section. We're going to get the first few parts We're working through the life of David. And let's see what this has to say tonight. 1 Samuel chapter 18. Or chapter 19, I'm sorry. Verse 8. And there was a war again. And there was war again. And David went out and fought with the Philistines and slew them with a great slaughter, and they fled from him. And the evil spirit from the Lord was upon Saul, and he sat in his house with his javelin in his hand, and David played with his hand. And Saul sought to smite David even to the wall with the javelin. But he slipped away out of Saul's presence, and he smote the javelin into the wall. And David fled and escaped that night. Saul also sent messengers unto David's house to watch him and to slay him in the morning. And Michael, David's wife, told him, saying, If thou save not thy life tonight, tomorrow thou shalt be slain. So Michael let David down through a window and went out and fled and escaped. And he went out and fled and escaped. And Michael took an image and laid it on the bed and put a pillow of goat's hair for his bolster. Now the bol word bolster there just means like a headpiece that made it look like that's where his head was. And covered it with a cloth. And when Saul sent messengers to take David, she said, he's sick. Saul sent the messengers again to see David, saying, Bring him up to me in the bed, that I may slay him. And when the messengers were come in, behold, there was an image in the bed with a pillow of goat's hair for his bolster. And Saul said unto Michael, Why hast thou deceived me so, and sent away mine enemy? Notice how he refers to David, Sent away mine enemy that he has escaped. And Michael answered Saul. He said unto me, let me go. Why should I kill thee? Question, was that a true statement? No, she lied. David didn't threaten her life at all. I noticed in verse number 17 is where I get my title, does anybody here ever, when you were young, uh I don't know if you admit this Maybe, but for you when you were young you had an imaginary friend. Anyone anybody know of somebody that y when they were young they had an imaginary friend Our little granddaughter, she had a little imaginary she had an imaginary unicorn and um it talked and did everything, could swim is amazing. Well, Saul didn't have an imaginary friend. Saul had an imaginary enemy. He viewed David as his enemy. And that was simply a figment of his imagination. David existed, of course, but he certainly was not Saul's enemy. Let's pray. And let's look at this. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, that you would bless our study of this portion of Scripture. I prayed that you would speak our hearts, help us to learn from this. Lord, I ask with all my heart that you fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew, and I pray That you would speak through me and apply some principles here to our lives that we can be successful in our Christian life and we can honor you Lord, that day we stand before you, Lord, how we'd like to hear you say, well done. And so use tonight's thoughts to help us accomplish that in our lives. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. How many people remember our good friend Dr. Bob Hamblin? Anyone remember he's with the Lord now. What a dear friend he became to me personally. And he was such a blessing to our church. He preached a message here a number of years ago Um and I don't remember the text, I don't remember the title, but he made a statement. One of the points within his message was this, something to this effect. I'm not sure I'm wording it the way he did But something to this effect. He said, make sure your problems are actually problems. Or another way of wording it was this: make sure it's a problem before you start solving it as a problem. If sometimes if we imagine that something is a problem We get in our head that this person or this situation or this circumstance is a real problem, and I treat it as a problem when in reality it is not a problem at all What am I causing? I'm causing a problem. And I'm taking what I imagine to be true that is not true and making it even worse than what I imagined it to be. We need to make sure that when before we respond to something or react to something, that we have the correct information and we have a correct understanding and a correct perspective on something. before we react to it that way. In Saul's case, that statement that Brother Hamlin made years ago, in applying it to Saul's case, I would say it this way Make sure that man is actually an enemy before you respond to him as if he is an enemy. Make sure he's actually an enemy before you treat him as an enemy. Now, all Christians have problems, right? Oh do. Some of us are better at covering them up than others And some folks, they're a little more severe than others. I don't want to diminish that. Some people, you ever meet somebody, it's like everything, everything is great. They never have any problems at all. I'll tell you, they they do They do somewhere in there. And then y there's other folks, that's all they got is problems. You know, like whole pro life But uh what we need to do, uh what I'm trying to say is this is all Christians, we all have to deal with problems. All Christians face adversity. We all do In fact, I want to take it a step further and put it this way: all Christians, if we live godly in Christ Jesus, are going to face, are going to have adversaries 2 Timothy 3. 12 says, All that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer what? Persecution. And the Bible says very clearly that if we live for God as we ought to in this world, this old fallen sinful world If we're living godly in Christ Jesus, we are going to suffer opposition, adversity, and we're going to have opposition to some extent. And the Bible's term for it there is persecution. Now we don't have persecution in our community like some folks around the world do. How many people agree with me? Christians, dedicated, godly Christians in Saudi Arabia probably have a rougher time than we do. As far as opposition and adversaries. Sure. Sure. However, what we need to do, and what I'm seeing from Saul's reaction to David, is we need to be very, very sure that That is actually persecution before we start seeing it and responding to it as persecution. I've heard a lot of people say that um uh they were being persecuted for their faith when all they were was just reaping the consequences of being a knucklehead You know, they're just doing dumb things and being rude and arrogant and people respond to that. It had nothing to do with how godly they were. When I was training uh the fellows with Neighborhood Bible time, we had a guy and he was a good guy and and I considered him a friend and he's uh He's all servant of the Lord. This was years and years ago. But he was traveling. He called back to the office. I was in the office. And uh he was somewhere, it was very, very hot. It was summertime. It's very hot And the family that was putting them up for the week, keeping them for the week, had uh put a bed up in the attic area for 'em and had them up there. It was very hot And um he called in and boy he was worked up and uh he says they're persecuting me because I'm preaching the truth to the teens and so they put me in the attic where it's all hot and they're persecuting me And I said his name and I said you know you're maybe you're right. I said, but most likely they just don't have anywhere else to keep you And they're trying to do the best they can. And they might not even be aware. So why don't you talk to them? Ask them if there's a little cooler place. As it turned out, they weren't persecuting them all. They loved his preaching everything. And so not everything I view as persecution is necessarily persecution. Be careful. Not everything I view as a problem is always a problem. And not everybody I view as an enemy is necessarily an enemy. Sometimes God allows people into our life that challenge us And God is using them to help us develop our Christian life. When we were studying the Sermon on the Mound, I learned, God taught me something that has helped me tremendously. And when he's talking to disciples, if you remember, the Sermon on the Mount is a discipleship message. He's teaching his disciples what it means to be a disciple. And in there he said that we are to bless them that what? Curse us. We're to pray for them that despitefully use us. We're to do good to them that revile us. I think I don't know if I have that lined up right, but He's teaching, he says, a disciple when they are cursed or reviled or treated badly A disciple of Jesus Christ does not view that person as an enemy or something. What we view is as somebody to be a blessing to, to try and encourage. And this is what I got out of that study was this Anytime I have somebody that's antagonistic to me, anytime I have somebody maybe that is, I view it as causing me problems, is simply the Lord giving me the opportunity to exercise my dis being a disciple to them Gives me an opportunity to be a blessing and display discipleship to that person's life. And so my point is this: Saul was viewing David As an enemy, and David was not his enemy. We've been emphasizing this. David was his friend. He was one of the best things to come along for King Saul and for the nation of Israel In a long time. Now they were being defeated. Now they're having victory. The nation's getting the military is stronger. But Saul's envy. Stained his thinking, and now he sees David as an enemy, and he's not. So it's an imaginary enemy I've been around long enough. I've seen preachers at odds with other preachers over things that are not necessary. They feel threatened or whatever and they'll and they'll go. Now listen, I don't believe in compromise. I think you need to take a stand if somebody's compromising or not doing right You know, I'm not gonna buddy buddy with them. I'll love them and pray for them, and but I'm not gonna buddy-buddy with them. But sometimes preachers uh get at each other's throats over simply preferences, over simply different m ways of doing something. That is not unscriptural necessarily. You follow what I'm saying? And they'll view that other, oh, they're the enemy. No, they're not the enemy. Christians do that. Christians do that. And then we react and we treat somebody like they're an enemy when they really aren't. And what do we make them into? We make them into an enemy. And we produce the very thing that we're trying to avoid. And so King Saul had plenty of actual real enemies, the Philistines being a big one. He had plenty of enemies to him to be fighting. He had plenty of enemies. to him to be a watch out for. He had plenty of enemies to kick to uh sick his uh military leadership and his military machine on. He had plenty of actual real enemies He didn't need imaginary enemies. Now this is, I want to look at this passage here. I broke it down into four sections. We'll look at the first three tonight, Lord willing. Verse number eight, I notice that David is refocused on his responsibilities. He's refocused on his responsibilities. Then in verse number nine I notice this evil spirit returns of the Lord. This evil spirit of the Lord returns to Saul. He's back again. This evil spirit And then verse number three, Saul revives his malice towards David. What did King Saul tell Jonathan just a few verses before this? That he was not gonna what? I'm not gonna kill him. Look up there, uh verse number um six. He says, As the Lord liveth, he shall not be slain. How long did that last? Well this malice returns. This malice, he revives this malice towards David. Then the last point, which we're not going to get to tonight, I notice Michael Uh uh David's wife responds to Saul's plan to kill him. Her response. And by the way, her response tells us a little bit about the character of Michael. I was a little critical of her earlier when she was first introduced, and I think you're going to see the reason for that here when we get to that section. But let's come back to verse number 8. David refocuses uh on his responsibility. Look at verse 8. And there was war again. Well let's back wait a minute before we look at this, what had just transpired With David and King Saul and Jonathan, what had just transpired? King Saul had told Jonathan and his servants to do something. They told them to kill David. His servants were okay with the plan. Jonathan was not okay with the plan So he remember he told David, hey, my dad's out to kill you. And he says, but you stay here tonight. You just said, I'm going to go talk to him tomorrow. He did the two things, took his time and he talked to him. He went, and Jonathan's uh uh intervention on behalf of David succeeded, quote unquote. And Saul listened to Jonathan his son and he said the right words, but they didn't last very long. Now he's back out to kill him. But look at this. Now think about, put yourself in David's shoes as we read verse 8. And there was war again. And David said, I ain't helping King Saul. He tried to kill me. Not what he said. What did David do? He went out and he fought with the Philistines and he slew them with a great slaughter and they fled from him. What is David's role in King Saul's administration? What was he appointed? He was head of the military. He was put over all of this. David's responsibility is to make sure the nation is safe. David's responsibility is to lead the military out in these wars when these wars come in and defeat the enemy. Now I don't know about you, but if I was working under somebody and that person had made several attempts to kill me and now is recruiting other people to try and kill me I don't know that I'd be real excited about stepping in and doing the job that that person has given me to do. Any can I get a witness? Anybody? But David, to his character, he says, that's my job. That's my responsibility. And I am going to stay focused on what my responsibility is. Unlike King Saul, David was fighting the real enemies of God's people. These aren't imaginary. And so he's fulfilling his responsibility. Let me just inject this thought here about David. I think we're going to see this as we work our way through his life Very rarely do you find David fighting his own enemies, his own personal enemies Can you think of who would be David's personal enemy? A personal enemy to David? One is very obvious. King Saul. He's out trying to kill him. He's a legitimate enemy of David's. But not one time do you find David pursuing after Saul and trying to respond in kind In fact, on a couple of occasions when he did have opportunity to kill Saul, to dispatch Saul, he refused to do it. He said, I will not touch what? God's anointed. I am not going to do it. The holy oil of God is on that man. God's anointed him for that role in that office as king. I am not touching him. There was another enemy. Now there may be others I've thought of too. There was another enemy a little bit later on. You could call him an enemy that David refused to respond to. Is anybody reading my brainwaves thinking of who I'm thinking of? Absalom somewhat, but David didn't really attack him. David responded in defense, and even then he said, Don't kill the boy, don't kill the boy. And so I thought of Absalom, but I don't know that David was uh was uh was a situation. I'll tell you who I'm thinking of is Shimei. Remember when Absalom runs him out? What's Shimi doing? Anybody remember reading that? He's cussing him out. He's calling them bad names. He's throwing rocks at him, throwing dust in the air? I mean, if it was me and I had a slingshot, I'd have been the guy And David says, hey, don't touch him. His his bodyguards, I like his I like his bodyguards. They say, oh let it, we'll go take care of him. Don't you worry, David. We'll take care of that guy. David says, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And listen to his reasoning. We'll get at this five or six years from now. We're working our way through. He said to him, he says, if God told him to curse me, I don't want to fight God. Wow, what an attitude. So, very rarely do you find David fighting his actual enemies. Now There's one situation where I think David had, and I'm probably stretching this a little bit, but I think David had an imaginary enemy similar, not exactly, but similar to King Saul's view of David. Anybody think of someone that David wanted killed because they was a threat to him? Uriah. Uriah. Now well, I don't know who's exactly an enemy, but in David's mind, Uriah was a threat to his well-being. You think it was just simply self-preservation? No, I think with with David it was a question of sin. David's sin killed Jeriah. David was trying to cover his sin. He was trying to cover his sin. And it was a sin that's called Uriah's death. Hey, I'll just get rid of that and I'll just think. Everything will be great, I'll work everything out. You were saying the exact same thing my wife said when I bounced this idea off of her. She told you. She's really So be that as it may Nevertheless, David sees his responsibility here, and his responsibility is to protect the people of God. In fact, I see two responsibilities on David's part. One is to fight God's enemies, not his own enemies, to fight the enemies of God's people. And his second responsibility is to serve God's anointed man. And we're going to see here in verse 9, this evil spirit comes on him, and David comes back, and he's playing the instrument For the man that was just a little bit before was trying to kill him and on numerous occasions have tried to kill him. And he's playing the music for uh the calm The Evil Spirit upon King Saul. So David is refocused on his responsibility. Now, this is what I want to take away from this. I believe it is a It is an important characteristic in the Christian life. It is an important ability in the Christian life, and that is this. to remain focused on my responsibilities as a Christian, regardless of how other people are treating me around me. David could have threw down his shield, he could have threw down his swords, he could have said, I am not working in an administration. that behaves this way and has this attitude towards me, and he could have walked out there and not one single person would have blamed him. But he says, I have a responsibility before God, and I have a responsibility to my nation, and regardless of how I'm treated, or regardless of what the circumstance may be, I am going to fulfill my responsibilities. And I believe that is a very important and perhaps a rare ability in the Christian life. And if I want to succeed, now look at this. If I want to succeed in my Christian life I must develop the ability to act right, behave right, and do what God has instructed me to do, whether anybody else around me is doing it or not. And whether anybody else around me is supporting me, they may be fighting me to my grave to do what God has told me to do. My responsibility is to do what God has told me to do. And I see that in David. Uh when uh when it says there that uh there was a war again and David went out, I thought, what a man. Here's a guy that has everything, every reason in the world to say philly, and he doesn't. He goes out and fulfills his responsibility He stays focused on what his responsibility before his God is. Man, what a challenge to you and I as Christians. is to stay focused and do that. I'm going to keep a right spirit. I'm going to be gracious. I'm going to be Christ-like. I'm going to stay after souls. I'm going to stay true to the Word of God. And regardless, I'm going to stay after it. In times of the opposition, I need to stay focused on my responsibility. In times of misunderstanding, in times of injustice, in times of accusations I'm going to stay at what God has instructed me to do. I'm going to fulfill my responsibilities as a Christian. I had a I had a preacher friend of mine down, he was in West Virginia, back it was early when I first came here. We had a little fellowship, got together, there's about five or six, eight of us. And uh we get together, have lunch, and just kind of fellowship together, trying to encourage each other. And um this guy all the time he'd come in, oh the church didn't do this for me, the church isn't doing that, and boy, he just was overwhelmed by everything and finally he just threw in the towel. And I often thought and I talked to him a few times, I often thought, I said, man, that guy just needs to get his eyes off of how other people are treating him and get his eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ and preach that book and get out and win souls and do right and provide leadership and let God deal with the rest of it And that's what David was doing. There's times every Christian is going to face opposition. Every Christian's going to have adverse adversaries. Every Christian is going to have difficult problems. But that doesn't change our responsibility as Christians. Regardless of, hey, regardless of how my wife may treat me, and she treats me great, so don't start anything. But regardless of how my wife treats me, she could be the worst woman in the world. I'm not going to stand before Jesus Christ and give an account for how my wife behaved. I'm going to stand before Jesus Christ give an account of what kind of husband I was to her. We say, well, if she was this, then maybe I'd be a little better husband. It might be easier to be a little better husband, but your responsibility is to be a better husband whether she's that or not. Right? Sure. It's too late now. Good. I've always looked upon that as possibly being a some sort of a physical or mental malady, but it was brought about Yes. Yeah, I agree. Saul put himself in that position. I mean, but it's really Yeah. King Saul is. But my point here is this that regardless of how Saul was behaving, David was going to do what his job was. And I and I'm dwelling on that a little bit here because I think that is so vital in the Christian life. So many times I think things would be a good idea. Oh yeah, absolutely. And it would have been a whole lot easier for David to do his job. Right, right, absolutely. But again The thing is, David, what I'm trying to draw from David is this, that he did right regardless of Saul's behavior And that applies in so many areas of the Christian life. Hey, whether, and and I'm not I'm just using this for an example, but a preacher ought to preach the word regardless of whether church folk are for it or not Man, you ought to preach standards, ought to preach right and wrong, whether church for it or not. A husband ought to be gracious and loving and kind and provide and take care of his wife, whether she's faithful or not. Right? He used to love her as Christ loved the church. How many people here are glad that Christ's love for us is not dependent upon our actions? How many people were glad Christ, God's provision for us is not dependent upon our actions. And so a husband in that same way is to care for his wife doesn't matter. Stand before the judgment seat of Christ, David's going to answer for the leadership he provided to the military and for his responsibility. He's not going to answer what Saul did or didn't do And a wife is going to answer to God, just like the husband is. Regardless, that husband might not provide. He may be a knucklehead. He may he may be all kinds of terrible things. And you could write the list. The wife's job is to love that husband. Be faithful to him and honor him as much as humanly possible. And you could just go down the list. of areas here. And I think this is an area in our churches that is incredibly lacking. And we base Here's what we do. Unlike David, what we do is say, well, I wouldn't obey God if they were doing their job part. Well, I would I would be a kind of Christian. I'd be the husband I should be if my wife was doing her part. No, no, no. I'm not going to stand before Jesus Christ and give an account for how my wife behaved. I'm going to stand before Jesus Christ and give an account what kind of husband I was. And vice versa. That's exactly what it is. And David could have come up with every excuse in the world not to do his responsibilities as an individual, but he refused to make excuses. He did it even to the jeopardy of his life. Bob Jones Sr. used to have a little statement he would make this long before my time, but he would say this, do right till the stars fall. Man, how we need that in our day and age. How we need that in our day and age. In times of opposition, times of misunderstanding, and times of injustice, and times of accusations. I fulfill my responsibilities. I do what God has called me to do, what God has instructed me to do, regardless of what goes on. By the way, as we get closer to the coming of Christ We're going to be more alone, more and more and more. We're going to have to act practice what I'm preaching on right now. Can you think of anybody in the Bible that did their responsibility, regardless of difficulties and opposition around them, besides David? Can you think of others? Daniel. Man, what a testimony. Daniel purposed in his heart that he would what? I'm not going to defile myself. King's meat. He says, I've got a responsibility before God to keep myself pure. You can do what you want. I'm not. What about Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego? We are not bowing the knee. We've got a responsibility before God to do right. Regardless of the opposition, regardless of the difficulty, we're going to do what's right. We're going to do what God has instructed us to do. Can you think of others in the Bible? I've got a list here I put together So Paul. What a tremendous man they st I I like to I just read it not long ago. Matt Kathy and I read in our devotion at night just not long ago, but where they stoned him and left him for dead. Where was that at? Lystra? Heinball, is that where it was? I think so. He gives me all my messages. And um And what did he do after they he he revives? What does he do? He goes right back into the town preaching again. Wow. Uh what about Noah? 120 years, he's preaching, building art, just stays there. You idiot, you're a knuckle. I don't know. They s we always say they made fun of him. Nobody got saved. We know he's a preacher of righteousness. But but he didn't give up. He I God told me to build an arc. Ain't never raiding Noah. I don't care. My responsibility is building arc. Nobody else wants an arc. I don't care. God's responsibility is doing arc. Everybody thinks you're a Crazy. That's fine. They thought that for anyway. But uh he just stayed at it. I put Noah down. I put Daniel. I put Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Somebody said Jeremiah Joseph? Elijah? You go right down the list. I thought of Hosea? Man, his wife's out. Playing the harlot, and he just stayed right faithful to God. Man. And then you know who else I thought of? The crown of them all. The Lord Jesus Christ. He set his face like a flint for Jerusalem. I do always those things that please my Father. And the whole world literally turned against him But he fulfilled his responsibility. I see just that one little statement here where David says, where it says, that one little statement, and David went out and fought with the Philistines. I thought, wow. What character, what what a what a commitment to his responsibility. One of the most challenging characteristics of the Christ successful Christian life is staying the course and staying focused. in spite of all this injustice and accusations and misunderstandings and opposition, it's vital. We've got to do that. Listen, our country, and you mark my word, they already are, you mark my word, our country is going to be passing laws that we can't preach things that this book clearly teaches. Now I've got a responsibility as a preacher, and we have a responsibility as a church to stay faithful to this old book. Regardless of what the government says, we must obey God rather than what? Man. That is exactly what we're talking about here. A responsibility for God, regardless of whether they're saying people get on, folks get on the internet and say hateful things about me and about our church, and I've read them. That's fine. My responsibility isn't to some people putting nasty stuff out there. My responsibility is to God David. Saul's threatening him, trying to get other people to kill him, say, I'm sure he's saying hateful, terrible things about David. The enemies of God's people, and he says, I stand before God, I've got a responsibility to God. He straps his sword on, puts his helmet, his armor on, gets his shield. He says, Let's go, boys, we got a responsibility to God. Don't even worry about him. Man, I don't know about you, but that that stirred my heart. And uh let's see. Well, we're not even going to get to verse 9. Let me give you verse 9 real quick. And this is this, the evil spirit from the Lord returns. Now we talked about this earlier. If you remember back chapter 18, I think it was, or 17, 16, might have been 15. But this evil spirit is not a demonic spirit. This isn't a devil. The Lord does not send devils I can't find that anywhere in Scripture. The word evil is used, and we just mentioned this in a message recently, but the word evil is used sometimes to describe misery, unhappiness, unpleasantness. And this evil spirit of the Lord, I think, is the consequence of God removing his presence from King David. And King David is here in this miserable, unpleasant, distressed state. I put this statement down. A man without the presence of God is empty, is unhappy, is miserable. That is this evil spirit that Saul brought upon himself with his selfishness, his self-will. And God says, I'm sorry, you are I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm removing my presence from you. I don't believe he lost his salvation. And of course we talked about the Holy Spirit in the Old Testament But he's a miserable man. And you know what else I thought, Brother Brian? When the evil spirit of the Lord, when God's presence is removed and that emptiness is there, and that frustration and that misery of selfishness, self-centeredness, That prompts people to act irrationally. Irrationally. You get somebody so wrapped up in themselves, they become irrational And we're seeing that in our society, right or wrong. And that's what we're seeing in King Saul And so he's gonna he's acting irrationally. So this Holy S this evil spirit comes up uh is returns, um this the this uh This frustration and this misery of heart and mind because of his spiritual condition. I got a couple minutes. Bear with me. I want to look at the third one here real quickly. And Saul revives his malice towards David, verse number 10. Look at this. And I'll probably have to pick this up next week, but let me just touch on it. And Saul sought to smite David even to the wall with the javelin. But he, David, slipped away out of Saul's presence, and he smote the javelin. Now I underscored those next three words, into the wall. And that and David fled and escaped that night. I use the word malice. I think that is a biblically correct term to describe King Saul at this point. What is malice? If somebody has malice in their heart towards somebody else, what does that mean? Somebody help me. Oh no good, that was it's bad. Aha. That's what I'm getting at. If I have malice in my heart towards whom am I going to pick? Ken Spranza I've got malice in my heart. He that guy can make all kinds of stuff. I can't make stuff. I've got malice in my heart You need to come to Fingerprints tomorrow and see the uh the edomatic staple thing. It's pretty cool. And I got malice in my heart. It's bad. I have bad thoughts towards him. I think bad things about him. But not only that, malice has the idea, is I want him to be hurt. I want bad things. I don't want to just think bad things about them and say bad things about them. I want bad things to happen to them Malice is this dislike, hatred taken to an aggressive level where I desire destruction on that person. Does that not describe King Saul? He desires for David's injury. He desires for David's suffering. He desires for David's demise. That's malice. He changed his words to his son, but not his heart. His malice towards David was two things I put down here. I'm going to have to quit. The first one it was fierce. This was not just a little the I wish he'd trip and break his arm It was more than that. Look at this. I highlighted this here a little bit. Saul sought to smite David even to the wall with his javelin, but he slipped away in Saul's presence. And he smote the javelin into the wall. Now I'm not a builder, so I don't know, but I don't think they had drywall back then. In fact, I doubt it was wood frame buildings, Randy. It was probably what? Some stone. I mean some sort of masonry or stone or something that they made. This is the king's palace. This isn't some hut where a peasant lives in. So this is solid, this is stone, this is not just drywall or plaster on the wall. And Saul threw this javelin so fiercely That that javelin stuck into the wall. There's a reason God included that statement, that it stuck into the wall. That is fierce. That is intensity. This malice in Saul's heart has absolutely taken over him. Now, Saul was no weakly. Saul was no little sissy. He wasn't a girly man. Man, this, I mean, he's head and shoulders above others. He's been in battle. He's killed his share of Philistines. And this malice has absolutely taken over him, and wham! Bitterness and malice are never stagnant. I got two verses in Colossians and Ephesians I want to look at. We'll have to look at that next week, but I want to make this statement. Bitterness towards somebody, anger, it'll develop and if I don't deal with it, it will develop into malice, and if I don't deal with it, it never stays stagnant It continually grows and takes over and takes over and takes over until somebody is destroyed. And King Saul here, this is absolutely taken over him. I think it's hard for us to imagine the frame of mind that King Saul is in at this point. No doubt about that. And uh but I put this down, that that malice was fierce, but I like the end of the verse, I put this down, but it was futile. David got away. And David's going to keep getting away because God has anointed David as king. And there's nothing King Saul can do to stop that. And it is futile, it is futile. Nothing good ever comes out of malice. It never, in the end, it never succeeds. I put this down: malice indicates moral and spiritual failure. Now I don't know. I don't know. I I believe God is sovereign. I believe in his province. We cover certain subjects at certain times for certain crowds. And I leave that in God's hands. But I'll say this: if any of us are harboring bitterness, anger, hatred, or malice towards anybody in this world I'm telling you, Saul is an example of what that will do to us. It will eat us up and it will destroy us. And here's the thing, the person that is harboring unforgiveness, the person that's harboring anger, guess who always is the one that gets destroyed? The one harboring it. The one harboring it. Made it difficult for David. Made it miserable for David. And he had his own struggles as a result of it. But it destroyed Saul. It destroyed Saul. Colossians three says this put off all anger, wrath, malice Put it off. Ephesians chapter 4. Put off all. Let all bitterness, anger, wrath, malice put away. There can be no room for that in the heart and life of a believer. The only thing I do with malice, the only thing I do with bitterness and unforgiveness, the only thing I do with that is I repent. Confess it is sin and put it off because it will destroy us. It absolutely will. Every aspect, it will absolutely destroy us. Let's pray. Father in heaven Lord, these are sober lessons we see here. We see David's commitment to his responsibility. What a challenge that is to us. We see Saul's Bitter malice over an imaginary friend, uh imaginary enemy So I pray you'd apply this to us and help us not to entertain that type of thinking even remotely Help us, Lord, to step up and say, I'm going to fulfill my responsibility as a Christian. I'm going to do what God has instructed me to do by faith for the Lord. For his glory. So help us, Lord. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, if there be any, say, preacher, God spoke to my heart tonight. I don't know what how or specifically how the Lord might apply these thoughts to your heart and life But you'd say, preacher, God has spoken to my heart. And I need to respond in faith what the Lord has spoken to my heart about. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? God has spoken to my heart. I want the Lord to have his way, and I want to be a success in my Christian life. I want the Lord to be pleased. Father in heaven, bless our imitation, I ask now. In Jesus' name. Amen.