Thank you very much. Appreciate that. I'd like for if you would please to open your Bibles in two places. The Gospel of John, chapter number six, and the book of Ephesians, chapter number five. And I just want to say uh uh uh thank you for uh the privilege of being able to come. This is a wonderful, this is a wonderful church. And uh don't ever take your church, your pastor, uh your spiritual leaders for granted And just thank God uh really appreciated those testimonies, especially the ones that were saying something about are thankful for the church because uh uh outside of the home Which is the basic unit of society and the first um uh organization that God instituted, ordained, but But uh the church stands next in importance. And if you want to be uh uh fed right, led right, and even be dead right You want to be in a good church. And you got one. You got a great pastor, and it's been enjoyed to be here. Appreciate all your hospitality and all of that. I want to read in John chapter 6, verse number 63. It is the spirit that quickeneth the flesh profiteth nothing Now focus on those four words, underscore them in your thinking. You may even want to underline it in your Bible. The flesh profiteth nothing. On our best day, with the purest of motives and the best of biblical methods, we still profit nothing If we do not have help from God. Now, over in the book of Ephesians, chapter number five He says this, be not drunk with wine wherein its excess, but be filled with the Spirit. Now, those of us who are New Testament Christians, and we are under the law, excuse me, under the grace Need once in a while to be reminded that believing in eternal security and everlasting life Does not mean that we have a license to sin. There are 375 divine imperatives in the New Testament for the believer. A divine imperative is just simply a command. If you would say to your son, Horatio Please take out the trash. That is not a command. That's a request. Or if you would say to him, Horatio, you know, it'd be a good thing if you'd take out the trash. That's not a command. That's a suggestion. But if you say, Horatio, take out the trash, that's an imperative. That's a command. And there are 375 divine commands, divine imperatives in the New Testament. A divine imperative simply means it's a command from God Almighty. Two of them are found in Ephesians 5. 18. One of them is don't get drunk. Now that's good. That's good for everybody. Amen? The truth of the matter is we ought to have enough sense and enough spiritual death that we wouldn't have to be told, but just in case we don't, he says In the Greek, it's an imperative statement. And then the second one is: be filled with the Spirit. That's not an option, that's a command from God. I'll speak to you tonight on the importance of being filled with the Holy Spirit of God. I'd like to read, you don't have to follow if you don't want to, but I'd like to read a few verses of Scripture out of the book of Acts, chapter number one, and then over in chapter number two It says in Acts chapter 1, verse 4, and being assembled together with them, commanded them, this is Jesus. commanded them that they should not depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the promise of the Father, which saith he, You've heard of me. For John truly baptized with water, but ye shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost not many days hence When they therefore were come together, they asked of him, saying, Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel? And he said unto them, It is not for you to know the times or the seasons which the Father hath put in his own power, but Ye shall receive power. After that the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem and all Judea and Samaria, and unto the uttermost part. of the earth. In uh Luke chapter twenty-four, I think about verse number forty-five, he said this. Now understand, these statements are given uh to uh the disciples, and this is after three and a half years of training in Jesus Institute They traveled with him. He taught them and prepared them for their ministries. He uh is going to uh uh pay uh the sin debt on the cross, he's going to be resurrected. He's going to ascend back to heaven. He's going to send them the Holy Spirit of God. And the ministry that he handed them was the world. He didn't give them a city. He didn't give them just a general location. He gave them the entire world. Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel. But even after he's trained these men, he said, don't start out in your ministry until you be indued. with power, clothed, uh robed uh with power from on high Luke 24. Well, these disciples, after Jesus ascended back to heaven, they gathered together in an upper room and There's but there's a hundred and I think it was 120 of them. And they had a 10-day prayer meeting. You say, do you think they just met every day in that room and prayed? No, I think they stayed there the whole ten days Personally. And they stayed there waiting. For the promise of the Father. You get to Acts chapter number two, and it says in verse number one And when the day of Pentecost was fully come, they were all with one accord in one place. Now that does not mean that they all drove Hondas. You you you take that verse and uh get over there in Philippians chapter two, and I'm gonna tell you it's a heartbeat and the dream of every pastor. To have a flock that are in one accord, in uh one heart, one soul, one mind They were not only in the same place, they were in unity. They were together Suddenly there came a sound from heaven as a rushing mighty wind, and it filled all the house where they were sitting, and there appeared unto them cloven tongues like as a fire, and it sat upon each of them, and they were all filled with the Holy Ghost And began to speak with other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance. And there were dwelling in Jerusalem Jews, devout men, out of every nation under heaven Now when this was noised and draw, the multitude came together and were confounded because that ever man heard them speak in his own language. I think there's something like thirteen different languages uh that uh these uh spirit-filled men uh God uh allowed to speak to uh so they could communicate the gospel By the time you get to the end of Acts chapter number two, you find a great crowd had been gathered together, and Peter had preached a sermon on the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ, and 3,000 people got saved and baptized. You want to know why? Because they were not operating in the power of the flesh. They were operating in the power of the Holy Spirit of God. Amen. Now in Ephesians in Ephesians chapter five, God says to you and me Be filled with the Spirit. We're to be filled with the same, we're to receive the same power, be filled with the same Spirit that those disciples were and those uh those early church people were in Acts chapter number two E. J. Daniels used to say, of all of the sources of power, education, talent, money, organization, promotion, politics, hard work. None is sufficient to meet the power needs of a Christian if he is to live victoriously, witness effectively, and work efficiently for Almighty God. Be filled with the Spirit is simply saying to be filled when controlled by the person of Almighty God, because that's exactly who the Holy Spirit is. We need to be reminded that he's not an inanimate source of power. The Holy Spirit of God is a person. He's the third person of the Trinity. He's as much God as God the Father. He's as much God as God the Son. It's overwhelming to me. My wife and I have been saved since 1966. Baptist preacher knocked on our door on Thursday night, September 29th, 1966. We both got saved that night. In fact, my wife and I do everything together. We got married on the same day We sell our we celebrate our anniversary on the same day. We celebrate our spiritual birthday on the same day. We got saved on the same day. We got baptized on the same day. American Express card, I don't leave home without her. No, I said all that for a reason. I'm going somewhere with that. Yeah yet you have to excuse me every once in a while I have one of these Senior Moments. Only mine aren't moments Mine lasts a heap longer than that, amen. Sometimes. I think I said last year. I I had something happen a year and a half ago, I was preaching over a place called Salem, Virginia On Sunday morning. Now those of you that teach and and preach, you you know that uh while you're while you're teaching and preaching Your mind is running ahead of your mouth. You're thinking beyond what you're saying. In fact, you've got any sense you do anyway, because you're planning on what you're going to say next. I'm giving this illustration. Now, the purpose of an illustration is to light and clear understanding on a point in the message. So I'm halfway through this illustration and I'm saying to myself, Hamlin, why are you giving this illustration? It has nothing to do with the message. That was a year and a half ago. I still haven't I still haven't figured it out. Well, I don't know. But anyway, so you just have to excuse that, but uh what I was wanting to say I I stalled long enough to get my thought back. Since 1966, there are certain Bible truths that still I just stand in awe of One is the fact that Almighty God dwells in this body. That just overwhelms me. Amen. If we're walking in the flesh, we won't sense his presence, but he's there. Amen. And to be filled with the Spirit simply means uh to yield uh uh uh uh uh the control of our life And our thought processes and our tongue and everything yielded to the Spirit of God. The Spirit of God, see, either one of two persons is going to control Either we are, or he is. One or two. And if we're controlling our life, if we're calling the shots, if we're making our own decisions Then it's not going to profit anything. Because the flesh profit not. Amen? Walk in the Spirit, and you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. Be filled with the Spirit. We'll talk to you tonight about the importance of being filled with the Spirit, having the power of God. Now, I want to give you, I want to give you as quick as I can nine reasons. There's a bunch more, but I want to give you nine reasons why God commands you and me To be filled with the Holy Spirit of God. Be filled with His Spirit. It's not optional. Why? Number one, so we'll make the right decisions in life. So we will be led right. There are many devices in a man's heart. Nevertheless, the Lord that shall stand, Amen. There is a way which seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death Romans 8. 4 says, as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. And so the Holy Spirit has come to dwell uh in us and to help us uh make the right decisions, you know Desire determines decision. Decision determines direction. And direction determines destiny. Where we are in life, the biggest contributor to where we are Is the direction that we took, and the determination for the direction was the decision that we made. But what governs and controls the decision Either the Holy Spirit or the carnal nature. Amen. See, the proverb says the righteous desire only good. So when we're walking in the Spirit, you know what our desire is? Our desire is to glorify God and to please God. Amen. And so with that desire then we're going to make the right decisions, and the right decisions is going to keep us on uh going in the right direction with our life and we're going to end up in we're going to end up in the right place. Amen Amen. All right now. So uh uh uh reason number one uh is to be led right. Then number two, in fact I'll have you go ahead And uh turn, if you would, over to the book of uh 1 Corinthians, chapter number 2. The second reason why we need to be filled with the Holy Spirit is so that we can get an an understanding, a scriptural uh understanding of the scripture. Now notice in in um uh 1 Corinthians chapter number two. I'm sure you've probably been through this and you know you know all that, but uh just humor me and let me do this Alright. In 1 Corinthians 2, verse 9, the Bible says, But as it is written, I hath not seen nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man the things which God hath prepared for them that love him So we say, boy, we don't know what God's got in the future. Eye hath not seen, or ear hath not heard what's coming, but boy, we know it's going to be good. I'm going to teach you a very valuable lesson about Bible study. There are 1189 chapters in the Bible, in the 66 books of the Bible. Now, this holds true. I've checked this out. This holds true. In all of the 1189 chapters. that have at least ten verses. Verse number ten always follows verse number nine. Now you know why I got two doctorates. See you can't stop at verse nine. Because verse ten says, but God hath revealed them unto us how By his Spirit. For the Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God. For what man knoweth the things of a man save the spirit of man which is in him Even so, the things of God knoweth no man but the Spirit of God. Now we have received not the Spirit of the world, but the Spirit which is of God. that we might know the things that are freely given to us of God, which things also we speak not in the words which man's wisdom teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth, comparing spiritual things with spirit The natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God. They're foolishness unto him. Neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned. But he that is spiritual judgeth all things, yet he himself is judged of no man. For who hath known the mind of the Lord that we may instruct him? But we have the what? We have the mind of Christ. Now what is he saying in there? Well first thing he tells us in there is that the spirit, the spirit is the one That teaches us all things. Alright, now what has he given us to help us to learn and be taught all things? Well, the obvious answer is the scripture. All scripture is given by the inspiration of God Literally, God breathed. Amen. Huh? Holy men of old spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. So uh the uh the the the person of the Trinity that wrote the Bible was the Holy Spirit The men, about forty, around 40 men that wrote the 66 books of the Bibles, all they were were secretaries. God told them through the Holy Spirit, He told them what to put down. Now we have to remind ourselves of that because every once in a while, and we all do it, we catch ourselves saying, Now Paul says or Timothy says or whatever well, no, it's not really what Paul said Paul Paul just had sometimes he sometimes he had a secretary that took it out too. But he got it from God. By the way, that's one of the strongest reasons why we believe in the preservation of Scripture. Amen. See, we believe it's all inspired by God. What does that mean? That means that God told them exactly what to put down. Amen. And then not only that, but he has preserved it for his generation. I don't know why anybody uh that claims to be a Christian would have any problem at all believing in the preservation of the scripture Almighty God, who in eternity past put one foot on nothing and the other in nowhere and created all things, don't you think he'd have enough power to preserve his word? He values his word above his name, the psalmist says. So he wants a perfect A word for every generation. Now, in order for that to happen, he's got to preserve it. Amen. So he's the author. And the preserver. So then when we get saved, it says, now we have received the Spirit. One of the reasons the Holy Spirit comes To dwell in this body is to what? Is to help us understand what we're reading. He's the author Now he lives inside of me. And so when I'm looking to him, when I'm asking him to help me, then he's the one that's going to teach me spiritually. That's going to keep me from getting off on uh left field or getting wrapped up in some cult or something like that. So uh in order to understand the scripture we have to be controlled by the Holy Spirit of God. Does that make sense Hey, how about this? Let me give you a third reason why we need to be filled with the Holy Spirit of God. And that is so we can pray right. Man, we won't even pray right if we don't have God helping us He said in Romans chapter 8, he said, the Spirit helpeth us with our infirmities. Now, what's an infirmity? Any of you guys in the army? You know what the infirmary was? It was the last place in the world you wanted to go. That's where doctors learned to practice. Especially in boot camp. Well, what what is the infirmary? Well the infirmary that's just a that's just a military uh term for hospital. Amen. Now nobody goes to the hospital voluntarily. Because they want to, unless there's some deadbeat looking for a way to get out. No, you go there, you go there because you have an infirmity. You go there because there's something wrong physically. You go there because you're either wounded or you're sick. Amen. And so Romans chapter 8 says, you know, you know, you've got an infirmity. And the Spirit helpeth us with our infirmity. What is the infirmity? We know not what to pray for as we are. Huh? There's two things that he does for us to help us in our prayer life. Number one, he helps us to know what to pray, but number two, then he also prays on our behalf. Amen. So we're not even going to have a powerful prayer life without the help of the Holy Spirit of God. And you know what? Boy, there would, preacher, there would be, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, there would be some serious changes. in our prayer life, if we weren't just conjuring it all up, and if we were asking the Holy Spirit to direct us in our prayer life Uh let me give you another reason. Another reason why. All these are sermons in themselves if you really want to spend some time with. Um That is to have the power of God not only to live right, but to witness properly We read the verse in Acts chapter 1. He said, Ye shall receive power. After that, the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses. Now, now I've been involved in Independent Fundamental Baptist Church from the word go. They're the people that led us to Christ in 1966, and we've been with them all the way. And I and I I I'm I I'm not opposed to the Megan church. I've been uh uh uh part of them uh and and all of that, and uh I'm certainly for confrontational evangelism the right way. And I'm I'm for all that. But you know, I think as I look down through the years of forty uh well over forty years, uh I think that we uh we've been guilty of making a a big mistake in training people to be witnesses. And I think we got the cart for the horse. I think we put so much emphasis on methodology And that's and that's God's love. That's an agape love. Well, I just have a hard time loving people. You won't, if you're controlled by the Holy Spirit of God, you're going to Charge me up again. Okay, here we go. Shoo dog, man, I can hear that. All right It's that sel self-sacrificial love. The agape love is willing to do whatever's uh necessary to meet the needs of the object of its affection Jesus displayed debt when he went to Calvary. Amen. We'll be controlled. We'll be filled with the love of God. Be filled with the Spirits to have the joy The fruit of the Spirit is joy. Amen. Buddy, if there's one segment of society. Uh that doesn't have to worry about uh about the Muslims or the Islam or or uh worry about uh uh uh w what's gonna happen to y you know our country's about ready to collapse, you know And uh and some Christians get nervous about, hey, uh uh this is not part of the message, but I'm gonna put it in anyway. Uh I I preach over I preach over in Redneck Country in a place called Brown County, Indiana. The church is in a community called Bean Blossom, Indiana. It's just north of Naubone. Yeah. Yeah, I'm telling you the truth. That's where Brian McBride's a member of this church. So anyway, I go there and preach every year. So I spoke to the preacher's wife a few months ago and I said I said, Mary, how's everything going? She said, well, not very good, Brother Bob. I said, what's the matter? She said, she said, one of our finest ladies has been with us for 12 years, a grandmother, a Sunday school teacher, just a vibrant a vibrant Christian, the kind of person that uh when you've been around her you just feel good. You know? You just feel refreshed. You just picks your spirit up. Said said she came and taught her Sunday school class Sunday. And left. Um said her husband lost her lost his job a few months ago and the bills began to pile up there foreclosing on her house. Uh the pressure The pressure got so great that he he left. She um she sat down on Tuesday morning, gonna lose her house, lost everything else, lost her husband. She wrote out three notes. Three of them, four, wrote four. Uh three of them, one to each of their three grandkids, another one just had a large note, and apologized for what she's gonna do. Stuck a twenty-two in her mouth and Blew herself into eternity. A sad thing. That's trade. She's a Christian woman. A good woman. Faithful woman Lost the joy of the Lord. All the worry and pressure of the world and all uh of the economy and all that coming on top of her she took her life. But you know what? That didn't have to happen No matter how serious our situations may be, the fruit of the Spirit is joy The fruit of the Spirit is peace. The peace that passeth all understanding. What's the next one? The fruit of the spirit is it gentleness or long-suffering? Long suffering? You know what it means? You know what long suffering means? It means to suffer long Means patience. Now that's that that's the one gets me. I don't have a lot of patience. M my wife and I we drive a lot. We we live on the road. And it's interesting what the government's trying to do to us. Some way, somehow, they get a hold of my schedule and they know exactly where I'm going and and so they'll have road work out there. Anything to slow me down to get me backed up in traffic, you know. Well God in his foreknowledge knew way back in the fifties knew he's going to end up putting me on the road to evangelism. And so he he moved on the mind of uh President Dwight David Eisenhower to establish the Interstate Highway System. And the reason is because I'm going to get out there. See, I don't drive for pleasure. I drive on purpose. When I get behind the wheel of an automobile, I know where I'm going. And generally I got a time frame to get there. I mean I got places to go, I got people to see, I got ministry. So so he created this interstate highway system so uh the The leanest place it would be is there's always at least two lanes going in each direction. You know what that left lane is? That's the Hamblin Lane. That's the lane for the Sunday afternoon drivers to stay out of. That's what the right lane is for. But the Hamblin lane is the passing lane. And uh uh so every now and then I'll I'll I'll come up I'll come up on some guy that that pulls out in front of me in my lane and makes a career out of passing that car. And before I realize it, I pop my cork and I don't cuss If somebody wrote it out, I'd probably sign it, but I don't cuss, uh but I'll get worked up and my face will get red and I'll start spitting all over the windshield Get out of my way! Where'd you get your driver's license? What are you doing in my way? My wife says, hey, what about that message you preach on patience? I don't preach that message anymore. Get out of my way But you know what? If the spirit's in control I don't act like that. Because the fruit of the Spirit is long suffering. The fruit of the Spirit Gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. We say temperance means self-control. Spiritual temperance is spirit control. Amen. Let me give you a sixth reason why we need to be filled with the Holy Spirit. And that is to have God's supernatural ability. in our life. Acts 4. 13 says, and when they when they realized however it says that they were unlearned and ignorant men. They took knowledge of them that they had been with Jesus. In fact, the enemies had to admit A most notable miracle hath been done. This we cannot deny. Huh? Super. Do you know you know those disciples? You know they were just ordinary men Huh? In fact, some some some sometimes they act a little crude, you know But they were empowered by the Holy Spirit of God when they lost out their ministries. Supernatural ability. Now I I'm I'm I'm for the right kind of higher education. I'm for Bible colleges. I've been in them, started one and been uh uh been uh uh officers and and in different ones and and all of that. And I'm for the right kind of training. But I'm going to tell you something. Let us never rely on our talent or our education to try to do the will of God and the work of God. effectively. Huh? Because we need that supernatural enablement. The difference between the church today and the church of the early of the first century is patterned in Acts chapter 1 is the fact that they relied on the Holy Spirit of God. their power. They took knowledge of them. They had been with Jesus. And later on in chapter 4 it says, and with great power. They testify. Supernatural. How about this one? Here's an eighth reason to have Holy Spirit boldness They were they were they were ordered not to teach and preach anymore uh in the name of Jesus or face uh face uh um i in incarceration all that. So they just gathered together and they prayed. They said, Lord, you you know their threatenings. And it said the place where they prayed was shaken. I almost preached on that tonight. The place where God meets with his people. The place where they were heather was shaken. And they spake the word of God with boldness. Oh, you say I'm just too timid I'm just too timid to give somebody a tract or knock on somebody's door. Well, if you're going to do it in the flesh, you better be too timid. But if you go in the power of the Holy Spirit of God He'll give you the boldness. Not brashness. Not abrasiveness. But boldness. Amen? And then I think that's the eighth reason I'll check my notes here in just a minute. But there's another reason. And that is to be a spiritual fountain of blessing to other people. You know what Jesus said in John chapter 7? Out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water. This he spake of the Spirit. A spiritual artesian well. Every church has got at least some. Never doubt. No matter what happens physically, uh financially, never, always, just, always just the bright spot. Just lights the place up. Out of his inward being flows this he spake of the Spirit. That's what he's talking about, those rivers of living water. Huh? I want to be like that Now I got a face that for some reason or other on the outside doesn't smile. So people think I'm a grump. I collect eagles and uh I got this got this I got this one eagle that's uh that's a uh a a frontal uh picture of an eagle And did you ever look at an eagle? I mean, they're kind of a foreboding looking thing, you know. And the caption underneath it says, I am smiling. Well, you couldn't tell how look at it. That's kind of the way I am. But you know what? I want to be a fountain of blessing. I'd want to be the kind of person that people avoid. Because I want to be a blessing and a help. We're supposed to exhort one another. That word exhort is a powerful word if you study it there in Hebrews 10. And uh part of it means to be part of it means to be encouragement, you know, and be a help And uh that's one reason why going to church is so important. Amen. Where we come and we get blessed, but we're also to be a blessing, to be an encouragement, to be an exhorter. Uh and we'll do it when the Spirit of God is flowing. He shall be like a river uh of uh how this whatever it says. Out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water So those are some that's not all, but those are some of the reasons why we need to be filled and controlled and empowered by the Holy Spirit. Well, that leaves one more question to be answered, and that is, how can I, as a believer, understand it? You know, uh Elijah, it says Elijah was a man of like passion as we are. Yet, boy, look at the powerful prayer life that he had. You know how what we what we would say where I'm from uh over in the country, uh when they said Elijah was a man of light, but you know what we would say about that? That means he put his breeches on one leg at a time just like we do. So it wasn't anything exceptional. Some people have the mis uh uh mis I think misguided idea that Samson was some big green hook. No, he's an ordinary size guy See, the power that he had, and that that tremendous superhuman strength didn't come from his physical ability. It came from Almighty God. Huh? See? So I'm just saying, God wants to fill and empower just ordinary Joves and Marys like you and me. But the truth of the matter is, I don't see a lot of it. I see us walking in the flesh more than we walk in the spirit. Well, how can I be filled with the Spirit? Well, first of all, you've got to want it. You've got to have that desire. You know what Isaiah says? I will pour water upon him that is thirsty and floods upon the dry ground. We're going to have a thirst. We have to have a desire. We have to have a hunger for God to control our life. And I'm going to tell you something. Christian friend, if you have ever been filled controlled by the Holy Spirit of God, you knew it. And you're never the same. sense. You can't settle for anything less. Huh? How can I be filled with it? There has to be a concern. I have to have a desire Then I gotta consecrate I gotta consecrate my life. What does that mean? I gotta have the right motive. Why do I want to be filled with the Spirit so I can be the best Sunday school teacher in the place? No, no, no. I want to be filled with the Holy Spirit, so I'll be the best soul with it. No, no, no, no, no. No, those are all those are all personal, selfish motives. Uh-uh. It's gotta be for the glory of God. Amen. Thirdly, I gotta be clean. I can't have one foot in the world, one foot in the church, and expect God to fill me. He's not going to fill a dirty vessel. We can't hang on to unconfessed sin and expect God to control our life. Won't do it Then I gotta claim this promise. How did I get saved? On the human side, how did I get saved? I got saved by believing the gospel and trusting Him and calling upon Him. Romans 10. 13 is not a bad verse. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Amen. So how am I going to how am I how am I going to how am I going to be filled with the Holy Spirit? As a Christian, how am I? Well, the Bible says that the just shall live by faith Amen. So I'm going to have to, by faith, ask him to fill me, to control me. Luke 11, 13 says, if ye then being evil know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your Heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them He's not talking about uh giving the gospel to the lost. He says, your heavenly father. What does that mean? That means he's talking to God's people. Amen. Fellow was looking at an art museum looking at a painting. It was a picture of an ox. On one side of the ox was an altar. On the other side was a plow. And the caption underneath said, ready for either Ready to work, ready to die. Stephen, filled with the Holy Spirit, in Acts chapter 7, was stoned to death Somebody said he wouldn't stone to death, he was rocked to sleep. Said, boy, what a waste. So early in his ministry. Well, Apostle Paul was looking on Saul of Tarsus at that time. Well, you don't get through two more chapters until you find Saul of Tarsus becoming Paul, the great missionary evangelist. an apostle. Amen. Look what Paul did in his life. So it's all up to God How he uses us, we've just got to make ourselves available and we've got to surrender to him. Now I also know after 43 years preaching, I know that this message not everybody gets a hold of. Because we're so carnal in uh in our thinking and and so many humanistic philosophies have in a subtle way of just settling control our thinking processes. But I also know when God directs me to preach this message, I know that there's somebody in the crowd that's sick and tired of being sick and tired. Of walking in the flesh. And they want to be controlled by God. And you're the one I'm speaking to. How can I be filled? Just come kneel at Jesus' feet. Say, Lord, I want to be Phil. He that hungers and thirst after righteousness shall be what? Shall be filled. I want to be. I ask you to cleanse my life. Take control of my life. Fill me and empower me. Now, what do you think? Now he says in the Bible, this is a command, this is an order. My friend from Odd, West Virginia, Dr. Tom Wallace, used to preach a message entitled Order from Headquarters. So this is an order from headquarters. He says, be filled with the Spirit. So let's just suppose when we start the invitation, let's just suppose there's somebody in this room. This is going to get up, they're going to come, and they're going to kneel at that altar, and they're going to ask the Lord to empty them of sin and self and fill them with the Spirit. And they're going to claim Luke 1113. What do you think God's going to do? You think God's going to say, don't you shut up and go back to your seat? Quit bothering me. No? No, no. You know what he's going to do? He's going to change your life. You asked to be filled. You got the right motive. You're willing to be clean. You're willing to claim the promise? You're not going to jump up speaking tongues, start swinging from these shamelaires or deacons and shoot you. But you'll be different. You know how often we have to do that Every day. We've got to surrender to God every day. That's what Paul meant when he said, I die daily, you know. I'm crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live. Yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, how do I live it? By the faith of the Son of God who love me. gave himself on it. Anybody want to be filled? Anybody want to be different? Anybody want to reach new depths and heights for God? Deeper. deeper walk, greater victory. Come and yield yourself to the Holy Spirit of God. God. Be filled with the Spirit. They stand together, heads bowed. They may want to do some singing, playing the music, whatever, but uh you if you're interested, if you're concerned, don't you wait. Make a beeline for this altar. Anybody that wants to be controlled, empowered, you slip out, you come Lord, I want you to take total control of my life. You come. Preacher. Jennifer, how about have thine own way, Lord? Folks are coming already. God's definitely dealing with hearts. The Spirit of God has touched on something in our lives that we need.