And that in the mountains, nine to ten thousand feet in the air, in the mountains of Kazakhstan about a month ago, and uh just an amazing thing. Great song. Thank you, folks. If you would turn your Bibles to uh Philippians, I want to go to two passages of scripture. This is kind of a last minute decision I made to change the message for tonight. And uh was just thinking through things this week and jotting things down. And um, like I said, just yesterday afternoon or so, um Uh I thought, you know what, I'm gonna try and share some of these things that have been going through my heart and mind. I think I'm a little strong there, Dave. Um but I wanted to say this, I appreciate Catherine at the piano, appreciate her stepping up there and helping out Um number of other folks are sick. My wife went down this morning and Jennifer's whole family is wiped out with the bug. So I appreciate Catherine. and stepping up there. But uh I've been joting down things, just stuff I've learned in the last eighteen years, uh pastoring here. It's eighteen years can't har can't hardly believe that, but um It's been a blessing. And one of the blessings is the smart Alex God has sent to be members of our church. And announced this morning I was going to preach on what I learned eighteen years and um I won't tell you it was Joy Wagner, but as she was going out, she goes, Oh, this will be the shortest message we've heard ever And um so I told her just for that, it's an hour-long message. Not not really. Look at Philippians chapter 4 and verse 9 I might just still be a little strong, Dave. I'm afraid to raise my voice. There we go. Thanks. Philippians chapter 4, verse number 9. Notice what the Bible says. It says, those things which ye have both learned and received and heard and seen in me, do. And the God of peace shall be with you. Look down at verse number 11. Not that I speak in respect of one, for I have learned, in whatever state I am, therewith to be content. Paul says, you guys learned something. He says, I learned something. Come over, if you would, to 2 Timothy chapter 3. 2 Timothy chapter 3. Now I'm not going to deal with the subjects that he talks about then learning. I want to talk about what God taught me, but I want to point out the fact that learning is an ongoing process. Especially in our walk with God. Look at 2 Timothy 3 and verse number 14. But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned. and been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned that. Now of course Timothy is written to the young preacher boy Timothy by the Apostle Paul under the inspiration of God. But he says this. He says, you know, you've been in a ministry, you've learned some things. It's been some things you've picked up. And that's been true in my experience. And I just say this The 18 years being here, I have learned more pastoring Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church in the 18 years I've been here than I learned in Bible college and all the books I read and all of that It has been a tremendous learning experience, especially when you have members that are smart alecs like that. You have to learn or you get eaten alive. Let's have a word of prayer, and I'm just going to go down the list. Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom Father, bless now. Lord, I want to be sensitive to your spirit. God, I want you to be pleased and just to help all of us. So I pray that you would just uh fill me with your Spirit and take the principles from the Word of God and help us apply them to our lives, Lord, that we can all grow in our walk with you. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Let me give you this one first. And this is, when I talked to Kathy, this is one that uh uh came out. Uh oh uh immediately and very strongly. And that was this. One thing I learned is the reality of a spiritual warfare that we are in. It did not take me long when I took that title pastor and assumed the responsibility of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I never anticipated the level of spiritual opposition. That comes with serving God in any capacity. As youth pastor, youth evangelist, I was under others. and uh all of that and I knew there was a spiritual warfare. I knew it because I read it in scripture. I'd experienced a little bit of it, but I'll tell you, and I don't know how you explain it I don't know how to convey it in words, but when you when we stepped into taking responsibility and answering the call of God to pass the church, it became incredibly evident that there is a spiritual warfare going on and tremendous opposition to the Word of God. Now, don't misunderstand what I'm saying. I'm not saying from people. I'm talking about a spiritual opposition, a spiritual oppression. There is a whole lot more to life in this world than just what we see. You understand that There's a whole lot more. There is a spiritual world out there. And my wife and I, we felt like, in many ways, we felt like we ran into a warfare going on that we never imagined. And got right in the middle of it. But I think it was this. I believe, and I still believe, God had and has a plan for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I have no doubt about that. It looked awfully grim for the folks that were here then. Didn't know if the church would even go on. There was even talk if I this was before I showed up, but if I understand correctly, there was even talk of uh of maybe selling the property and disbanding and uh the church not existing. But I'm convinced God had a plan for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church It's not God's will for it to close up and shut down. Satan saw that, and Satan wanted to fight that. And so we come walking ignorantly into that and wham. Spiritual warfare. So what's I guess what I want to say is this, folks, this stuff we talk about, God, the devil Spiritual things. Listen, it's not just talk. It's for real. This is reality. There is a spiritual war out there. You do have a soul. I do have a soul. There is a battle for our soul and for our lives. There's more to this. than just what we see. Now I'm not trying to get charismatic hocus pocus heeb jeeps type stuff. But I'm talking about very real, very powerful spiritual forces. So First thing we learned, we weren't here very long, we learned the reality of spiritual warfare. And we were right in the middle of it. Second thing I learned. It didn't take us long to learn this, but I've become more convinced of it over the years. I believed it because I read it, but now I believe it because I've seen it, and that is this: God is faithful. We've learned that God is faithful. And by that I mean this. I've learned that I can trust God. In any situation, in any circumstance, I can trust him. And by trusting, I mean this. I can be convinced that God knows what is best And that I need to just do what he says. Follow his instructions. Follow his guidance he gives us. I can trust that what he's leading us, if it's according to the Word of God, I can trust him. God will come through without a doubt. God's faithful. I've seen it over the years. Um there have been times when uh uh man I t I was telling my wife this afternoon There have been times as pastor Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, everything was so positive and the people were so great. I felt like some sort of rock star You know? I just walk home and it's like, man, I'm the greatest there ever was. And then uh there was other times when the criticism and rebuke and it's like I was convinced everybody hated me. I mean it's civ the criticism's so severe it'd make your hair fall out. And um You know, and you and you you come crawling home and it's like you want to crawl down in the crawl space and don't ever want anybody to see me again. You know what I've learned? Both those times, God's unchanging. He's just the same. God's just faithful straight on through. And from that, I learned don't get, when things are going great, don't get too high. And when things are going bad, don't get too low. God's faithful right on through there. And so I learned we learned that God is faithful. God is faithful. Stay focused on the Lord. I love the verse we're memorizing this month. Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on thee. Why? Because he trusteth in thee God's faithful. We can trust Him. We don't have to get worked up. We've seen in 18 years we've seen Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church go up. We've seen it go down. We've had times where people getting saved left and right, getting baptized. I mean just God moving. And we've seen times when it got stale and a little stagnant and not a whole lot happening. And you know what I found out? God's just faithful right on through it. Just keep your mind stay on them. Just keep trusting them. Just keep doing what he says and plug forward. So number one, the reality of the spiritual warfare. It's for real. Whether we recognize it or not, it's for real. Number two, God is faithful. I put this one down. Number three, God is merciful. God is merciful. I wish, and I'm really glad that I'm saying this, I'm glad it's a small crowd tonight, I wish I had never failed. I wish I could stand up here and say in the last eighteen years as your pastor, I've never failed in any way. I wish I could say that. But the honest truth is I can't say that. There have been times I failed. There's been decisions I made, were bad decisions. And there were actions taken sometimes that were the wrong actions to take And uh I I wish I could say I've never done that. But you know what I found out? If I come clean with God, God's merciful. Over and over. And he says, all right. You know who I think of? I think of Jonah. Jonah messed up, huh? God said, go to Nineveh, where'd Jonah go? Harshus, he went the opposite direction. And uh uh but what did God do? Uh God worked them over a little bit, but the Bible says, and I think it's chapter three, God came to him the second time. Aren't you glad God's merciful? One person is, praise the Lord. Aren't you glad God gives us second chances? I look at it sometimes. I think there is no reason in the world I ought to be used of God for to do anything. Yet God's so merciful. And he allows us to be a part of what he's doing. God allows us to have a part in his kingdom. What a great God. What a great God. So I learned He's awfully merciful. Sometimes there have been times I get home. Sunday night and go back in the room, get out of my suit, and I think, Lord, how in the world can you even use me? And uh then I'll get my Bible out and read. My mercies are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. Yes. His mercies never fail. So I learned that God is merciful. God is merciful. I put this one down. Number four. I learned that the Word of God is very powerful God's word is powerful. Hebrews 4:12. The word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword. You know what I've seen in these 18 years? I've seen this old book change some lives. I mean just turn them around. We've seen this book. We've seen marriages healed. I put some things down. We've seen God's word change lives. God's word changed my life. Uh bring carry folks through difficult times. It's been exciting to um uh s have people call. They're going through A valley, a dark valley, and they'd call me up. And I'm thinking of several occasions where late in the night the phone would ring. I'd say hello, and they'd say, Pastor, I've just been going through it, but let me r let me share this verse that God used. To help me. Somebody come in and say, here, let me show you something God showed me and helped me through this difficult time. That book is a powerful, powerful book I had the idea years ago that you had to take the Word of God and shove it down people's throats, or they wouldn't get it You had to take that old book and just beat people over the head with it and intimidate them and and uh uh try and uh uh intimidate them You know what I found out? I don't need to do that with God's word. All I gotta do is just give it to folks. Just preach it. Just declare it. Just share it. Put it out there. That truth is powerful. It's amazing times. This is so I I talk sometimes about the romance of preaching. And by that I mean this. When you step behind that pulpit and you start preaching that book You never know what God's going to do in people's lives. And people come out and I'm standing back there shaking hands and people walk by. And they'll say, boy, preacher, that statement, that verse you quoted, and uh, and I think, I never quoted that verse. But God's using his word and convicting and applying it to ways in their lives. And it's amazing. The power. God's word is powerful. I put this one down. Number five, something I've learned. I like this one. It's a privilege to serve God. I've learned it's a tremendous privilege. Here's the thing, I'm trying to say, I'm not doing God a favor by serving him. Boy, uh I gave him a whole 18 years of my life pastor that church. I really did God a favor, you knucklehead. God could use a donkey if he wanted to pastor this church. And some people said, I think he has. But um I heard that. It is not me doing God a favor. It is God giving me a tremendous honor to serve Him. And let me say what's true for me to stand behind this pulpit is true for any of us to stand at a door and share the gospel with somebody. Or to stand in a Sunday school room and teach the Word of God to a classroom of children. Listen, don't ever think that your ministry for God, that you are doing some favor to God God is being very gracious and giving us the privilege of serving Him. I learned something on this trip, this last missions trip, that I never saw it before for whatever reason, or at least I saw it much clearer in my mind. And that is this. God is already working. God is at work. All he's doing is inviting you and I to get in on what he's doing. I'm convinced, as we stand here right now, I'm convinced the Spirit of God is working in people's hearts and lives all through this community. God is working, convicting this person. God's bringing this person. God's out there working. In fact, every morning the sun comes up. It's God showing his glory to this old sinful world and trying to communicate through creation his existence. God's working. And what he does, he says, I want you to get involved in what I'm doing. I want you to get involved in bringing souls to Christ. He's the one that does the saving. We're just allowed to have a part Isn't that neat? I think that's neat. It's a privilege to serve God. What an honor. For God to allow me to be a part of what he's doing. Isn't that great? Let me ask you a question, who builds the church? Christ. Christ said, I will build my church. It's not the preacher. You know what the preacher gets to do? He just gets to get in on what God's doing. Who saves the soul? Does the soul winner save the soul? No. God saves the soul. But you know what he does? He lets the soul winner get in on it. Let's the soul winner have a part. Isn't that something? And so I learned it's a great privilege to serve God. I put number six down. I learned the importance of knowing I'm in the will of God. The importance of knowing I'm in the will of God. I tell you, one thing that I've not been able to shake 18 years. And that is this. This is exactly where God wants me to be. I'm doing exactly what God created me to do. We came here in 93 and we were here for a little while and things started to grow and it was picking up. It was probably the middle of the 90s or late 90s. I got a call from a friend of mine I went to Bible college with. Dear friend And he had kind of hopped around and did different ministries and they were uh fine and and he called me up and uh I guess it was uh when Dr. Smith had put a sermon in the sword or something And he said, I saw your name, and he says, how are things? And I told him how God was blessing, the church was growing, souls getting saved. And he says, and we had known each other, we'd worked together on different things before. He says, What's what's going on? He says, what are you doing? That's working so well. And I said, Mark, I don't know. I'm not doing anything different than we've always done. I'm not I'm just doing what the Bible says. I said, I think the difference is I'm finally exactly where God wants me to be. be. I've found the niche that God created me for. I found that little cog that I am in the big wheel of God's scheme of things. And it's just working. And I've not been able to shake the absolute conviction that I'm where God wants me to be. Now let me ask you about you. I'm convinced that every one of us ought to be as sure that they are in the will of God as the preacher should be sure that he's in the will of God. Amen? Whatever you're doing, you ought to be convinced that this is God's will for me. This is God what God wants me to do. I've had opportunities to go to other churches these 18 years. Had calls uh just uh this past summer, got a call And I've had no interest, no whatsoever. I'm convinced this is where God wanted me to be. Can I tell you this? There have been some times where I wanted to leave. It w it wasn't the rock star times, it was the hair falling out times. And I go home and say, God, I just want to get as far away as possible. But I could not shake that this is where God wants me. is where God wants me. Now if you're gonna try and get rid of me, you've got to convince me God doesn't it's not God's will for me to stay here, is what I'm trying to say. And so, um uh uh the importance of knowing I'm in the will of God. I put number seven down. See, this is longer than you thought it was going to be, isn't it, Joy? Uh number seven. Here's a sad one. I've learned the deceitfulness and devastation of sin. Staying at a being at a One ministry for an extended period of time, and some of you folks that have been teaching Sunday school for years, you can relate to this maybe. You see two things. One, you see people go through and you see them grow And be something for God. You see the power of the Word of God in their life. But there's a there's a flip side to that. And you see folks, sometimes folks get saved and come in. Adults. And they come in and they get saved and they get involved in the church. But then sin creeps in. And they make the decision to disobey the Word of God and violate scriptural principles. And as pastor, you try and work with them and help them and warn them. But you just see the devastation it brings to that home, that marriage, and you just see it deteriorate. And as I'm standing here, I could go, I could right now get my car and drive to Holmes. And I could illustrate to you, here's somebody that had great potential for God. Saved them, God they were strong, and they allowed sin in. They disobeyed God. And boy, wild horses couldn't drag them back into the house of God. Seen young people grow up, taught the things of God, principles of Scripture, and for whatever reason they make decisions. I don't want to live that way. I'm not going to submit myself to the Word of God and the will of God. You just see their lives go out. You know, for and it's and it breaks your heart. But after a while, it's just like you start seeing it and you say, I know where this is heading Unless they nip it in the bud, I can tell you where this is ending up. And it's a tragedy And, you know, it just makes you hate sin all the more. It just makes you want to preach harder against it. So I've learned the devastation of sin, seen lives completely destroyed. Just as we've seen souls saved and grow, we've seen the other side. We've seen folks with tremendous potential disobey God. And years later it just all collapses in. Under this thought, I wrote this down. That illustrates the importance of having biblical convictions. Everybody, every Christian, young and old, ought to have some biblical convictions. The young people down here, young people ought to establish biblical convictions. Moms and dads raising children ought to have some biblical convictions. Hey, those of us that are older, we ought to hold to those convictions. Don't let them slack in the later years of life We're to have convictions about what we're convinced the Bible says we should do and what the Bible says we should not do We ought to have some convictions about our uh uh how we use our time, about how our use investment of our money We ought to have convictions about sin and righteousness, what's right and wrong. I've seen it without fail when biblical principles are violated. Pain and hurt and destruction follow. So we ought to have convictions. I think in the day and age we're in now, we ought to have convictions as far as interaction between men and women Strong biblical convictions. Not going to violate principles of purity, goodness, and holiness and right. We're going to do right. Learn in 18 years, sin is deceitful and it's devastating. And I could sit down this afternoon, I was jotting some more down. It's going over with Kathy. And uh But I can't do them all, so I'm gonna give you one more I learned. And I hope I'm not attained in any of this, but these are things that have been brought to my attention, I should say. And that's this. We cannot ever, ever, ever, ever quit. We've just got to stay at it. Just stay at it and stay at it and stay at it and stay at it. I would far rather burn out for the Lord Jesus Christ than rust out. I don't want to quit before it's over. I don't want to. He said, Brother, we knocked on all these doors. Let's knock on them again. Brother Hendley, you've been preaching that same message for eighteen years. You gotta be saved. You gotta be saved. Do right, don't sin, trust God. You know what? We'll just keep right on doing that We're not going to quit. We're not going to quit. Never, ever, ever, ever quit. Why don't we as Christians just say, God, you're going to have to squish me like a bug before I stop serving you? Just don't quit. Let me say this: don't quit on your marriage. Say, oh brother, and this is listen, there's a what is impossible with man is possible with God. Time to do it. Don't quit. You say, oh, I'm quit. I'm going to quit giving to the church, my finances, the economy. Listen, don't you quit I'm going to quit witnessing. No, don't you quit. I'm going to quit these standards. No, don't do it. Just stay plug-in right away. Stay plug-in right away. And don't ever, ever quit. My prayer is that if the Lord tarries and my great great grandchildren, if I ever get any grandkids, but um My great-great-grandchildren will be able to come to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, and you know what I'd like to think? The same old book's still being preached here. Same old gospel still being. Hey! Invitations still given at every preaching. Just don't quit. Don't quit. Uh I would like to be an old man and look and see some of these kids uh still faithfully bringing their Bibles with their uh the spouse and their kids and just being faithful to church. Just not quitting, just not quitting. Just not quitting. Just not quitting. Say, Brother Leatherman, I failed. Then get up and go on. Amen? Brother Lman, I don't know. I'm getting tired. We'll just keep right on going Maybe take a breather, take a little vacation from Monday to Tuesday, then come back to church Wednesday. No, I'm all for vacations. But uh don't quit. Don't quit, don't quit, don't quit, don't quit, don't quit Say, what did he say Sunday night? All this stuff he learned, what did he say if you'll just tell folks this? Don't quit. Just stay at it. Let me give you a verse, and then I'll quit Look at second second Timothy chapter four and come over to verse number seven. Now this, don't worry, this is not my swan song tonight, alright? But look at verse number 7, 2 Timothy chapter 4. Paul is at the end of his life. Look what he says. I've fought a good fight. I've finished my course. I've kept the faith. You know how you could summarize that? You could say this. Paul didn't quit. Just stayed at it. Found out what God wanted to do, and he didn't quit doing it. Just stayed at it. Just stayed at it. Now I don't know where you're at. You say, oh, preacher, I'm tired. All right. Rest if you must, but don't you quit. Say, preacher, I just I've blown it. All right, just men fall. But they rise up seven times and they don't quit. They don't quit They don't quit. So before we go to the Lord's Supper, let's ask the Lord to search our hearts. Let's not let sin creep in our hearts and lives and minds and homes. Let's keep it pure. Let's keep it right. Hold the standard eye. Let's keep trusting God. Let's claim His mercy. Let's stay at it. But let's don't ever ever quit. Amen. Father in heaven, I pray you maybe some of these things would encourage someone And maybe some of these things would be a help to us as a church. And I pray, Lord, that you would bless us, help us to rejoice in the opportunity we have just to do anything for the Lord Jesus Christ. That you would give us that tremendous honor of serving you in any capacity. Help us to rejoice in that. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed, I'm just curious. How many would say, Preacher, God's Holy Spirit did speak to my heart tonight about some area in my life That I want to be in line, that I want to be right, that I want God to be pleased with. Is there any like that in some specific way you say, preacher, God dealt with my heart? God bless you. Hands all around, many hands. Now, as we go to the, before we go to the Lord's Supper, maybe you want to come to an old-fashioned order and just say, God, search my heart. Help me in this matter. Help me to stay at it. Help me to trust you. And uh God will help us. God will help us. Father, bless now the invitation, I pray. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Catherine's just going to play a few verses of invitation. Why don't you find a place old-fashioned altered? Let's work together at keeping this church going forward