So to turn to the book of Hebrews, the book of Hebrews, chapter number eleven. I'm going to uh mention one verse and then we'll pray together and we'll see what the Lord has for us. That's Hebrews chapter eleven and verse number six. Verse number six I hear the pages rustling and I was up here having a hard time finding Matthew and Pastor Leatherman asked me if I knew where Matthew was. Of course I do, is rated in there. Okay. Have you ever done that? Just fumble as you can't find it. Alright, the verse is this but without faith It is impossible to please him. For he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Let's pray. Father, thank you. For the Lord Jesus Christ. Thank you for salvation, as we have already seen and testified today, the importance of the gospel. Thank you that not only can we know you and have our sins forgiven, past, present, and future, and have a home in heaven, but Lord, you'll leave us here to accomplish the mission. Of making and maturing disciples. So we pray today as we gather together for corporate worship on the day that we remember the resurrection of your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. That we would lay aside all the distractions which there are in our lives. That's part of life. We lay everything aside. We open up our hearts. And Father, may our worship be authentic. May be real, may be transparent, may we lay aside the hypocrisy of whatever else and just concentrate On your word, may the Holy Spirit do what none of us can do, and that is change us into the image of your dear Son, from glory to glory and glory. And Father, without saying Or whisting, I should say, I do not know the needs of the church, but you do. And Father, if there be someone here today that does not know you, as their Lord and Savior, born again from above, we pray that even today they would be saved. We pray this now in Christ's name. Amen. Well, there's a lot of verses in the Bible that take a long time to try to understand what it's trying to say. Have you ever been there before where you read something, you're like, Oh, what in the world is this even saying? And and so it it's difficult. But then there's other verses that pretty much are really laid out. I call them the Dick and Jane verses. They're uh Jane saw this, Dick jumped uh over. You know, those very easy ones and we find that here in this verse. So it's not a complicated to unpack it. The complication comes in applying it. There's no problem with anybody in here whether Emma, right? Whether the youngest here, Emma, I'm not going to say who the oldest is, or you're the oldest in here. It does not matter. The the the simplicity of the verse is very simple. It is the application and actually doing that in our life is the difficulty. So let's take a look at our verse. It says But without faith it is impossible to please him. What a simple thing to understand. I don't know what you think of when you think of the word impossible, but impossible is impossible. There's no way it can be done. If you're watching a ball game and a guy reaches out and he at the last second he throws his arm out with no time left and he catches the impossible pass. It's not impossible He just did it. Because impossible is saying from nothing, something, let there be light. Impossible is to go to a funeral And then go to lunch with the man that was dead when Jesus raised Lazarus from the dead. And you saw a woman ninety years old pregnant, you would say, don't say anything, because that's impossible that she's pregnant Well yet God turned back the time to allow a woman at 90 to be pregnant. God does the impossible. He is the only one that can. Your faith is impossible. Outside of Christ. You can't work your way to heaven, you can't buy your way to heaven, you can't hope your way to heaven. It is the gracious giving of Jesus Christ who died on the cross On our behalf and us receiving Him, it's all Him. The regeneration is impossible, but it's possible with God Now the scriptures say so then without faith it is impossible. That's why when you read in the Old Testament, those that have never been converted, but they're gooddoers. And they're morally straight. Even the plowing of the field is wickedness because they're doing it outside of faith. All things must be done in faith. That's why it's called faith promise. Because if God's not in it, then the impossible can't happen. And so for without faith it is impossible to please him. So what is faith? Well, faith is the requirement. Well faith is is um is is the confidence in the character of God. In knowing who he is and that he is immutable, he never changes, we jump. Faith is not blind, faith is seen in this regard here, is that I know the character of God. I understand that he's unchangeable, he can't sin. He is pure, he is holy, he is the creator, he is all and in all, he is God. And based on that, I jump, knowing though I can't see it, he's there. The impell is that way. They're able to keep them in a zoo and only have a fence that's about this high. Why? Because they're great leapers. They can leap sometimes twelve, fifteen feet in the air. Boy, would I like to do that I'd be a millionaire. I'd be playing for the Bulls or something. But you can jump over that. And and but but if the impala cannot see where his feet will land, he will not jump That's the faith God doesn't want us to have. That is self, that is flesh-dependent. He wants us to jump and leap and live by faith based on his character. That he will complete what he calls. And we can trust him in that area of our life. That's important. So the Bible says, because without it, it's impossible. So anything that's been done outside of faith is wood, hay, and subble. Because it can't go anywhere. It will die with this generation. It will have no legs. It will not continue on. It can't. It's not bore in the grace and the mercy of God. It's not his direction. But when we go by faith, the impossible takes place. We see that in this chapter. So faith is the requirement So how do we increase our faith? How do we stretch our faith? How do we increase our faith so we have the faith to give, the faith to live, the faith to share our faith, the faith to go on when circumstances are unbelievable. See, because God's not a God of circumstances, He's a God of sovereignty. So our circumstances can't sideline us. We must live by faith, or we'll never complete the mission. If you live by self, by sight, you'll quit. You'll stop coming to church, you'll be bitter, you'll be angry, you'll walk away. Why? Because it's you gotta live by faith. You you can't explain those things, but God can. And God is able to do the impossible. So faith is the requirement. So how do I how do I stretch my faith? Allow God to increase my strength, my my faith rather. Well one is this. And if you know this verse you can finish Finish it with me. Now, faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. Was that a true statement? Do we believe that? We sure do. That's why we use the Bible. I noticed already the Bible's been opened two, three times. Verses have been said because this is the pillar and ground of truth. These are the 66 love letters. These are the letters that God has left to us to reveal Himself, not only in nature, but now we have the Word and we're able to understand it because the Holy Spirit illuminates. So this is the pillar and ground the truth. But if we just hear the Word of God, we learn of faith. So when we look at here and we say, by faith Enoch was translated. We see by faith Noah. By faith Abraham. We see those by faith. We read that and we say, wow, is that not incredible? Look what these people did. By faith, he built an ark and he trusted the Lord in that circumstances. Sometimes Because we're so far down the road, we don't realize that this space was all in real time. When Noah heard to build an ark, you realize how ridiculous that was. But because we look back, we don't see it as ridiculous because we see the end But it was in real time. And so by faith, we read these things and we're encouraged, but we say this, oh, but I can't. That that that that that that faith is different faith. No, those people were the same. In fact, if we brought Elijah in here today, because the Bible says in James, he was a man of like passion. He was just like you and I. He had to brush his teeth. He got discouraged. Now I don't know if he wore a pants or he just had a garment, but he put his garment on the same way we would. If we were to cut his hair, shave his beard, and put him in here and sit him in here in this row, we would just introduce ourselves and say, hey, I'm Elijah. We'd say, Oh, okay, where you live. Because he would be just like us. What was the difference? The difference was faith. He was just like you and me. But by faith, God did the impossible in his life. By faith, God did the impossible in Noah's life. By faith, God did the impossible in Abraham's life. By faith all these things that we see were done in impossibility. God of the book of Acts is not dead. He is alive and he's working the same way today. In other words, by faith in the dispensation that we live in, he is planting churches People are being saved. Missionaries are going out. And we can see in our life that we can live a pure life. We can live a holy life. And we can say no to sin by faith. So if you're struggling, well, because you're living by sight. You're just like the antelope. If you can't see it, you won't go. It will take faith, the exercise of faith. So we understand that we get faith by reading. I hope you're reading your Bible. I hope you're taking time to understand the scriptures. And they are full, aren't they? And they are quick and they are powerful and they change lives. But you can live your whole life, come to the cross in salvation. Know him and yet never accomplish anything because you do not increase your faith. So How do we increase our faith? It's not just by reading it. That's one way that we know that there is a God, that we know that He wants to do the impossible, but yet He's not doing it in my life. Everything's the same I mean I started 2018 this way, and guess what? I'm ending it this way. And there's been no change. Well, you're living by sight. But the Bible says we must experience faith. Experience it Now, faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. For by it the elders obtained a good report. Now, how many of you have ever Been on a roller coaster. Raise your hand if you've ever been on a roller. Raise the high so I can see. Okay, now here's the question. How many of you are afraid of roller coasters? I am. I'm the guy that holds all the purses. I'm the guy that gets in there. Well, when I was younger and I was dating, 'cause now I'm a few years old, but back when I was really young uh probably their ages. I remember my wife said let's well she was my wife, I was just dating her. She said um let's go to Great America. Anybody ever hear of Great America? Have you ever heard of the Amuse Park? Well they got roller coasters and they get you know terrible things there. Just horrid things. Nightmare type things. And so anyways I said, sure, let's go, because man, it's get to be with my girlfriend, right? Let's go. So we're getting there and um all the way there is my I find out my wife and still today the faster the better the higher the whatever that's she's all about it And so when we get there, she says, Let's go to the roller coaster first. I'm like, Oh, you've got to be kidding me. The roller coaster. So of course, you know, we ran over to the roller coaster and we get there and it's like bigger than whatever, I'm sure it was a lot smaller, but it looked awful big. And we get there and we're going through that long snake line. You know that line takes like like an hour to get through and everybody's like talking and having a great time. I'm like my countenance was terrible because my wife said to me, she look well, girlfriend times, she says to me, You're afraid of roller coasters. I wasn't saved at the time, so I lied. I said, No, I'm not. Why would you say that? I'm not afraid. Oh my God, I'm so afraid. And so I remember we're we're staking through that line, and the closer we get, the more panic is on there. You know how they have the screens where they show people And they look like they're having like a great time. They're not even holding on. I'm like, you gotta be kidding me. Just want to get this three minutes over with. You know they have that little they have that little sign there that says um Things that disqualify you, I was hoping. It said if you're this tall you can't go on. I know I'm short, but I was tall enough. It said if you have a bad back, well you know, nineteen, you know, the back's okay So that was okay and and it said um it it said if you have uh anxiety or certain medicine, blood pressure, I'm not on anything like that. And it says if you're pregnant, I know it looks like it, but I'm not pregnant, and so I I'm I'm qualified to go on. So I get on this thing, I look over at the guy running it, he's probably getting six bucks an hour back then, and it doesn't look like he can tell the difference between the red button and the green button. And I'm putting my whole life into this guy's case. Where did they find this guy? Was he on the street and he was unemployed? You know how you see that and you say, come on, just push the red button and when they scream, push through the other button I'm like, oh this is not good. So we get in there and sure enough uh my wife went to get in the front I said, oh. I can't say, oh God, I prayed because I wasn't saved. I just said I'm not getting in the front. So sure enough, we get in the roller coaster and we're in the back, which is good. And then there's that noise. I don't know if you're familiar with that noise, your first This is your first ride, right? And you're wondering how you hear that noise. Click You're like, oh, you can't even get out. And all of a sudden you hear and you hear that noise. Click click click click click click click click. You're not moving, but you hear click click Now all of a sudden you start moving, you look, you're going click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, And you are just beside yourself. And the next thing you know you get to the very top and you hear it already cause you're in the back Woo! No one's saying hey, you know, they are screaming. And all of a sudden what happens? You are over it. And it's like the end of the world. Everybody else has got their hands up. I mean I am holding on The death grip, my eyes are not open, they're completely closed. I'm losing there's no cell phones, but I'm losing my wallet, my money, everything's coming out of the pockets. I am at death end. I'm seeing my whole life in front of me And so we're we're we're going and then and then we we get to the bottom of it and I'm like, oh click, click, click, click. Are you kidding me? There's two hills? Who would invent a roller coaster with two hills? And click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, and down the other side and off of it. Well let me take you back to when I was in line. There was this little place that was off to the left before you get up there and the teenagers, when I was a teenager, that we called it the chicken exit. It's where, you know, it's that last chance to get out, you know, oh I gotta go to the bathroom. You know, you haven't gone to the bathroom, you know, forever. All of a sudden you gotta go, oh I gotta call my mom. Right, you're nineteen, you gotta call your mom You know, and so you know, you guys pre-cell phones. So, you know, a guy called my mom or you know, oh yeah, oh that leg or something. You know you and it's the chicken eggs, and every while once in a while you'll see someone taking it. They're going against the whole flow You can tell that something's not right. They take that chicken exit. When you get off that roller coaster, if you don't take the chicken exit, And you get on that roller coaster, you lose all control. You have no control. There's none at all. You are in the complete Giving of whoever made it, whoever checked it, whoever the engineer is, you have no control at all. You can't stop it. You can't you can't do anything at all. You are trusting completely in that ride If you take the chicken exit, you never experience that thrill. You never experience that near-death experience. You never experience what it's like to be on the roller coaster. Now most people most people get off the roller coaster and they get off and they say to their friend, man, alive. Give me. That was great. Let's go. Again. And if you're my wife, it's like, oh, that one's too small. Let's get a bigger one. One, you know, that goes like this, you know, upside down, and everything like that. But if you take the chicken exit, you never know You never have that joy and that experience of the thrill of the ride. I like to relate that to faith. If you take the chicken exit every time that you are challenged by God to take the next step of faith, and you take the chicken exit, You'll never be in Hebrews 11 by faith. You can't be because you took the chicken exit. See, instead of getting on there scared and out of control and no way to control this the circumstances. See, when you don't take the chicken exit, it is by God's character that is there to catch you. You jump, and it doesn't seem like there's anybody there, but he is there to catch you So the life that we live has to be by faith. You can't take the chicken exit. Let me ask you something. Are you taking the chicken exit? Now we're not talking about being ridiculous of what the Bible does not say. We are talking about Bible principles. Bible truth that God expects of his people, and that is to grow in grace to take steps of dedication so you're no longer drinking milk, you're no longer up and down in your walk. but that you are firm exercising meat so that you can accomplish the mission. What's the mission? Making and maturing disciples. That's missions. See, if you take the chicken exit, you will never ever experience the joy of the Lord here on planet Earth, though saved. What area of your life are you taking the chicken exit? Because if you will trust the Lord by prayer and Bible principles, we're not talking about something that's just kind of out there. We're talking about something that is mandated, something that God says. When God says This is what I want. He will perform it. The Bible says that in Philippians 1 6. When David was called from the backside of the sheepfold to fight Goliath, God prepared him. David didn't take the chicken exit. We see that with all these men that are and women that are in the Bible in Hebrews eleven. We see that they by faith. That is the ingredients. Young person, middle-aged person, old person. Are you living by faith? If not, you're living in the flesh, and the flesh is always sin. You can't accomplish anything. The fruit won't stay. So faith promise is important, but you can't give it. Outside of faith. You're going to have to trust the Lord by faith. That doesn't mean that you say, okay, I'll give a million dollars. Because God says that there is a reality to his will as well. We don't say that unless God impresses that so much upon us. What what God does is is is he gives what's not there in in the reality to accomplish his mission. I learned that from Brother Holmescher. I remember one of our meetings, I don't know if Brother Dennis remembers this, but it was the sale of the building, the building wasn't selling, and there was a great financial issue, how are we going to continue if the building doesn't sell, that is gonna what's gonna fund bottle time and it has for the next sixteen years, you know, how are we gonna do that? And and there was that and and Brother Holmes who said we're still going to have bottle time because this is God's program. If your life is God's life, then it will be accomplished. Don't take the chicken exit. Let me just kind of get off a little bit off of faith promise and say this. Are you giving, are you taking the chicken exit in your purity? Are you giving up your purity for a moment of satisfaction when God wants you to keep it until that right time? Are you taking the chicken chicken exit and raising your family? And just letting them raise themselves. Are you taking the chicken exit in your finances? Are you taking the chicken exit in your relationships? Are you taking the chicken exit in your church attendance? Are you taking Chicken exit, whatever the Holy Spirit puts on your heart God doesn't want you to take the chicken exit. When you take the chicken exit, you gotta go back in line. And and I don't know about you, but I hate the lines. It's like wandering in the desert They're boring and they take forever. You're already there. Don't take the chicken exit. The Bible shows us here men after men and woman after woman that they they they sojourned. They they gave up much, but they didn't give up anything they found out. Uh by faith he sojourned in the land of promise as in a s a strange country dwelling in tabernacles with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise. Look in verse ten. For he looked for a city which had foundations who builders and makers as God. He could see where other people couldn't see. He could see the end. If you can't see the end, you will never live for Christ. The end is we win. We don't fight to victory, we fight from victory because of faith. Faith is the victory. This isn't for you to fill out a card today. I'm not here to get you pumped up about putting more money down. I'm here to tell you that if you don't take the chicken exit, God's going to do the impossible in every area of your life. Regardless of what it is. God does that by faith, through faith. We see that. It's all in every one of these verses. It's by faith or through faith. God does not work outside of faith. He says in verse thirteen These all died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off, they were persuaded of them, embraced them and confess that they were strangers and pilgrims in the earth. They lived by faith. They never tied anything down here to earth. They never took the chicken exit and and made this place their own. They always knew they were so journeying. They lived by faith and And and the book of Hebrews, of course, it would be wrong for me to say that the the canon's still being written because that would be wrong because the Word of God is complete. And uh Revel Genesis to Revelation. But in a spiritual sense, I'm saying that uh the book of Hebrews eleven is still being written. It's being written in the heart of God. When you don't take the chicken exit, your name says by faith. By faith, Larry. By faith, whatever your name is Did not take the chicken exit. And we will die too if the Lord doesn't come back. We'll die in faith, knowing that one generation the Lord will come back. Now there's something else I want to show you here too. If you'll take your scriptures. Because there's much here we can talk much about Gideon, Barak, Jeff, David, Samuel, they they they in verse thirty-three, who through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouth of lions. quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness they were made strong, wance vallant in flight, turned to flight the armies of the aliens, women received the dead raised to life again and others were uh tortured. All right, let me just stop there. And so there's all victories. So we think, oh faith. Well if I said all faith, it's all victories. Well, it is all victories, but it might not be the way that you expect it to turn out. Because look at here, let's be honest with the scriptures. Look in verse thirty-six, and others had trials of cruel mocking and scourging. Yea, moreover, of bonds and imprisonment. They were stoned. I don't know if you've ever been stoned, I haven't, but I've had a stone hit me before. It's not very comfortable. They were stoned. Saw the sundered. I can't imagine that. They say Isaiah was put in a log, a hollow log, and saw the sunder. They were tempted, were slain with the sword. They wandered about in sheepskin and goatskins, being destitute, afflicted, tormented. These are very visual words. When we say these words, we understand them. destitute, afflicted, tormented. They're not pretty pictures, of whom the world was not worthy. They wandered in deserts and in mountains and in dens and in caves of the earth, and these all having obtained a good report through faith. received not the promise. In other words, they didn't see the same thing in their lifetime. They did not see it come to an end. They were cut short, but they really weren't. Because their faith opened up opportunities for those behind them to be saved. God had a reason for that because the plan is when you're by faith is not this world, it's the next world. So it doesn't matter if God takes me at thirty-three. It doesn't matter if God takes me at twelve. It doesn't matter if God lets me live until I'm a hundred. Whatever it is, it's a life of faith, and God knows what's best. And and is and by faith we gotta be saying, Lord, however it is. But they attained a good report by faith. Now, skip down to twelve, we'll end here. It says, wherefore? Seeing we you know division chapters are nice. But they they they they ruined the flow of the letter. So you you realize that these are together except for we got we got the division because we need it That way we can find verses, we can preach better, we can share better. But the wherefore means the same as therefore. Whenever you see wherefore, therefore, you want to look back at the last chapter. So it's saying, because of chapter 11 So remember that. Chapter verse number one and twelve is because of chapter eleven. Wherefore, seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witness Let us lay aside every weight and the sin which has so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us, looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despised the shame, and is set down on the right hand of the throne of God. This does not mean that your uh relatives that have gone on before you are looking over the heavenly banister down at us. They are beholding the very eyes of Jesus. They are not interested in what's going on down here. They are in heaven with the Lord. Full uh waiting for the rest of us. They are beholding his eyes. As a day is to the Lord as a thousand years to us. In a couple days all the relatives are going to be there anyways. And and and so what what this means to us is is we don't look we look back at eleven and say, what was the ingredients and what happened here that allowed them not to take the chicken exit? And it's by faith through faith. So wherefore seeing this great witness, it's not everyone that's in heaven. It's the ones that we know. Maybe you know someone that's going on to heaven. that you could add to that list. It is their witness we look at. It is their martyrism, their witness that we look at that they're in heaven. It was their walk of life, not not them looking at us, but us looking at them and looking at their life and saying, there it is. There it is. Without faith, it's impossible to please God. So if I live my life in the flesh, that's it. But if I live it by faith, God's going to do the impossible. He does that. You've experienced that. You're born again. If you're saved here, you've experienced the impossible. And that was by faith. So why would we go back to sight? If faith was the ingredient that was the saving of the work of Jesus on the cross by faith, then why go back to sight? Continue on in that same faith. It's the gospel unto the saints. Now that you are saved, live by that same faith. Just like you trusted him. You depended on the Completely on the work of the cross. Now depend completely on him for him to take you to where you cannot go. Don't take the chicken exit. Don't do it. God will do the impossible, not by the big crowds. God does the impossible By the few. God doesn't need thousands. He doesn't need hundreds. He just needs the ones that won't take the chicken exit. So today as you are renewing your faith promise, I would I would really think through this in your heart, the faith aspect of it. We can always give an amount. I can look at my bank account right now and if someone said to me, Hey listen, I need a hundred dollars right now, it would not cost me. I mean if I had to give someone a check for a hundred dollars I could do that and my wife and I will not go without food. Our mortgage will get paid. We'll be okay. Uh we might, you know, h certainly a hundred was there, but it's not gonna what I was saying is not gonna sideline us. God wants faith. He wants You to see him do the impossible, to provide in other ways that you had not thought of. And that's what we mean by faith promise. It's it is is trusting the Lord in that area. And you need to be wise and pray about it. But let let me just end with this. I know it's 1151. I need to end. But listen, I'm not only concerned about that aspect, but what about all those other aspects that were mentioned today? What about your purity? What about your relationships? What about the way you interact? What about bitterness? What about anger? Are you turning that over to the Lord? Or are you just taking the chic chicken action and say, Well, I'm just gonna be bitter? Or I I'm just gonna be this way. No, God wants everything. He wants your whole life. So this is more than just faith promise, though that's what we're concentrating on today. Would you stand with me? And would you keep your eyes on me for a moment? I don't know your need. I really don't. I you don't know my need. I have needs. I'm the same as you are. I'm no different than you are. I I have to live by grace. It's all by God. It's all by Him. I I take the chicken exit. There's been times that I have looked in my life and said, Oh, you took the chicken exit There are times that I can definitely say there were times that I took the chicken exit. But we don't have to. You can take and get on the roller coaster, and it'll be a ride of your life. A right of your life. There's no disqualifications except sight. So if you look at that sign, the only thing it says is everything else gets on there. Bad heart, age, height. You could be six years old in here, whatever it is, the only thing on there that is a disqualifier that you'll have to walk away is if you're gonna live by sight. You can't get on the roller coaster of faith. You can't do it. It won't work. It must be by faith. It must be by the character of the Lord. With your eyes closed and your Heads bowed, and I'm not the Holy Spirit. I don't shave the sheep, but God does. He sends His Spirit. You have it. What is it? in your life. What is it that you've been taking the chicken exit on? You need to repent of that. The Bible says so. You need to repent of that sin and say, God, you're right, I'm wrong. Here's the areas that I've taken the chicken exit on, whether you're 99 in here or whether you're at the age of accountability, whatever it is, I need to get that right. And then you need to by grace Now take the chicken exit. And for this church here, this is a a huge day for you because this is when you are concentrating on missions. By faith, you're going to have to fill out that card. You're going to have to do it by faith. Now I didn't say do it by ridiculous. I said you're going to have to do it by faith. You're just going to have to do it by faith. And and and God's going to have to step in. He's just going to have to step in. As the music starts, I'll turn it over to Pastor Leatherman. But if you're unsaved in here today, and you're a deacon, a Sunday school teacher, but you're not saved, you need to be saved today. If you're here today and you're just never trusting the Lord, everyone thinks you have, but you haven't, you need to be saved by faith. If you're here today in the need of something else, you respond to whatever the Holy Spirit is doing in your life.