Ecclesiastes chapter three. But I'm excited about that. And um I think that would be a blessing to have some folks in the front low row and play different instruments, and that would be good. One thing I failed to mention, and um we have of course missions conferences coming up in uh May, and uh that to me is uh the highlight of the year of everything we do And uh so one of the things we're doing in preparation for that is we got our little world glob our little globe um banks And we have a handful left back on the table as you go out on your right. And they're marked each evening, Wednesday night, Thursday night, Friday night. I know a bunch of you already got some. I noticed most of them are gone But uh we're ordering more, we're gonna get some more, and uh we'll have them back there, Lord willing by the end of the week, uh by next Sunday But what we want you to do is take one and whatever night it is, try and get that thing filled up with change. It holds about $20 to $25, a loose change. Get that thing filled up and then the night that is indicated on there, we want you to uh bring that that night and we present these to the missionaries, and I'll tell you, that just really adds up and is able to send them off with some good money in their pocket and help them along the way. I just confirmed yesterday one of our missionaries to Japan, Brother Henry Ward, is going to be with us. for our missions conference and been a faithful missionary there many many years and so uh we want to be ready and and be a blessing to them. So grab that count that uh globe back there and like I said we'll get more And we want to load these guys up and just let them leave here with a pocket full of money. I think that would be a blessing. Ecclesiastes chapter 3. I want to begin reading, uh let me see if I'm turned on here. Yep, I'm on my end. Uh verse number 11, and I want to read down through verse 15. Uh we're reading that passage, but I only want to speak on the first part of verse 11, but I want to read it in context. Verse 11 he says, He hath made everything beautiful in his time. Also he has set the world in their heart, so that no man can find out the work that God maketh from the beginning to the end. I know that there is no good in them. But for a man to I know that there is no good in them, but for a man to rejoice and to do good in his life, and also that every man should eat and drink and enjoy the good of all his labor. It is the gift of God I know that whatsoever God doeth, it shall be forever. Nothing can be put to it, nor anything taken from it. And God doeth it, that men should fear before him That which hath been is now. And that which is to be hath already been. And God requireth that which is past. I want to look at that one first phrase there of verse 11. Where the Bible makes this statement. Of course, this is Solomon preaching this message. And he says, he, God, hath made everything beautiful. And get this, in his time. I want to speak on that in his time. And so let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father, once again, we just pause. We bow before you, Lord, as the choir sang this morning, we bow our hearts and and uh uh in a sense our knees before you Lord and we're asking you to be merciful to us and we're asking you Father to speak to us and teach us your will for our lives personally I pray that uh you would apply these thoughts from your word to our hearts and lives as you know we need uh have see fit as you see fit and we need Lord, this coming weeks, no doubt it's going to be challenging for many of us, and there'll be some ups and downs, unexpected blessings and unexpected challenges. So we want to be prepared and we want our hearts to be pure and we will be right with you. So I'm asking you tonight to speak to us through your word And challenge us and help us. Fill me is my desperate plea with your Holy Spirit, dear Lord, and speak through me, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Now it's been a while since we've been here in Ecclesiastes, so I just want to take a moment and briefly review, get everybody up to speed. Book of Ecclesiastes Of course, God is the author. We always emphasize that. God's the author of the Word of God. But Solomon is the penment. And Solomon is actually a sermon he is preaching later in his life. And uh as you're familiar, most of us are familiar, Solomon did not end his time on earth very well He got away from God. He got a long way from God. It is amazing how far a person can fall, even one, even ones that were used greatly of God. Can fall tremendously. And that's the case with Solomon. It's a tragic story. And the way I see Ecclesiastes is Solomon is preaching this sermon, still king of Israel And he is kind of reflecting back, I think, as to how he got to this point, how he had fallen The decisions he made and the actions he took that produced the condition he finds himself in so far from God. And we looked at that and just it's difficult to comprehend how deeply Solomon had fallen. Key phrases from the book, and I think these are important to understand. One word and phrase you're going to find throughout the book is vanity. Vanity of vanity, always vanity, vanity and vexation of spirit. Of course the word vanity means empty, to be without meaning. So what is this preacher, this king of Israel, a prophet of God, used to pen several books of the Bible, what is he doing Saying that all is vanity and vexation of spirit. Why is he saying that? Well, the other phrase explains to us a key phrase, and that's this: under the sun. Under the sun, all through the book of Ecclesiastes, find that statement, under the sun, under the sun, under the sun. And I believe that's the key to understanding Ecclesiastes. The entire book of Ecclesiastes, for the most part, is the perspective of life lived under the sun. In other words, a life that is lived as if God did not exist, as if there's nothing beyond what's above what's the what was under the sun. Do you follow what I'm saying? I think we understand that It is a life lived without God. A life lived only for what is here and now, only for the material. So I was reviewing back over this and preparing for this evening. It dawned on me. The Book of Ecclesiastes is probably one of the greatest indictments on materialism that has ever been written. Um uh vanity of vanities, saith the preacher, vanity of vanities. All is vanity. What profit hath a man of all his labor which he taketh Under the sun. And he's describing to us the consequences of trying to live a life independent of God Under the sun, under the sun. He has pushed God completely out of his life. And now he finds himself empty. He finds his life purposeless. Purposeless. There's no purpose. He finds frustration, vexation of spirit. He's frustrated on every hand. He has pushed God out of his life. I had some quotes and I was going to work them in, but I decided not to. Quotes of atheists about life. And you're hard-pressed to find any atheists say positive things about life, especially as they come to the end of life. There's quotes after quote after quote of people who have tried to live their life under the sun, as if nothing else existed than what's under the sun. And there's frustration, it's darkness, it's emptiness, there's fear, there's anger. And that's where Solomon is at. We look there in the opening chapters, we notice chapter 1 and chapter 2, he tries to pursue wealth. And he wants to find fulfillment. He wants to find, he wants to fill that hole in his soul. With wealth. And it doesn't work. He was the richest man on earth. And you know what his conclusion was? Vanity of vanity. All is vanity. It's vexation of spirit. This money did not do a thing for his soul. His money did not bring fulfillment to his heart and soul Then he noticed that he sought wisdom, and particularly education. And he was going to learn everything. He was going to be the most educated man on earth. And he had the resources and the means to do that. When he learned all this stuff and he learned all these things, what was his conclusion? Vanity of vanity, always vanity. You can know all the facts in the world, and it won't do a thing to fill your soul with what only God can fill. Cannot fill that hole in our soul that needs the Lord. Then he pursues wild living. Wealth, uh, wisdom, wild living. I mean he just threw everything to the wind. He says, I'm dropping all morals, I'm dropping all standards, I'm dropping I'm just gonna live it up, I am gonna indulge every desire of the flesh, I'm gonna indulge every every desire of my heart and soul. I'm going after it uh 100%. What was his conclusion? Vanity of vanity, always vanity, vexation of spirit. I'm telling you, the pleasures of this world cannot do for you and I what we desperately need and what only God can do for us. We see that in our world today. And then he pursues work. And he's going to build buildings and he is going to get after this thing. I'm going to be the greatest. I'm going to produce and produce and produce and produce. Now, I'm not the greatest worker and all of that stuff in the world, but I can kind of relate to that. I like to do things. I like when I'm done, I have something to show for it. Anybody know what I'm talking about? That's why I like fingerprints Man, we can work there, work there, and I like to see how much we got done. Well that was Solomon's mentality. I'm just gonna produce all this stuff. I'm gonna work. But he's doing it all under the sun. And when he does all that, he's done. What is the conclusion? Vanity of vanity. A life lived independent of God is empty. Is frustrating is vain. And that's where he's at. So he's been building, and uh it's getting pretty morbid. But he gets to the end of chapter 2 and the beginning of chapter 3 and there's a little change in his tone, I think. I tend I think I see it there. And it's like, and I made this statement in our, I believe one of our last messages on this, it's like Solomon is trying so hard to live life without God, to push him out. But God keeps showing up. And it seems like to me, now this is this is me, I I could be completely wrong with this. I thought it was wrong one other time, I was mistaken. Um uh I could be completely wrong with this, but I'm thinking what's happening is Solomon as a young man, and for most of his life. He walked with God. He was used of God in tremendous ways. The Spirit of God moved upon him, and he was used of God to record scripture, inspired scripture. I think the presence of God is still down deep in his heart and soul. And those seeds that were planted earlier in his life and that awareness of God and that experience with God. And what he knew was true about God was still stirring down deep inside his heart and soul. And that awareness that what he's trying to do is futile I think that awareness is there, even though he's trying to ignore it and not hear the voice of God stirring him. And it keeps coming back. And we start seeing here that he is recognizing that yes, God is a factor in life. Now, I don't think he's where he ought to be yet, but I see that happening. That tells me something. That tells me when we teach young people the Word of God, that does not leave them. That later in life, often those truths that they learn and they and when a child, a young person comes to a church where the presence of God is there, And God is moving and lives are being touched and lives are being changed. Whether they respond immediately or not or whether they stick with it or not, I think what takes place, what they experience is down inside their heart and soul and years later it may bear fruit later on. You know what I'm saying? And I kind of sense that a little bit with Solomon here, that what he knew before, what he experienced before, is still lingering. Now we know we can't lose our salvation. I'm not talking about that. But his fellowship with God is walk with God. And that God is still working there. And so that encouraged me And working with our young people. We see him so often, and and uh, you know, we try to do everything we can from our end to keep it from happening, but we see him, God do great things in their lives. And then they get older and they move off and it seems like they just get away. You know what I'm talking about? We got a couple of young ladies that Kathy and I stayed in contact with that rode the buses here 20 years ago. They're grown, they got almost grown kids now And God worked in their hearts in such amazing ways. And while they were here, what God was doing are like. And now they're away. And we love them dearly. And we're like I said, we're we're staying in contact and trying to help them. And uh but every now and then they'll say something. That tells me what they experienced here is still in their heart and life. I think that's what's happening with Solomon. He's so far from God, but he knows the truth, and it's there. So now we come to this verse here, and I just got a couple minutes. So notice in verse number 10, verse 11, he says, He hath made everything beautiful in his time. I notice here in this little statement the sovereignty of God. I see the sovereignty of God. He says, he hath made. All things beautiful. God is doing this. Now what does it mean? What do we mean when we talk about the sovereignty of God? Well the word sovereign or sovereignty means this, to be supreme in power. I think we all understand and we all agree God is all powerful. Amen? God is almighty. He is omnipotent, is the theological term. God is all powerful. The word sovereign means to possess the highest authority. There is no higher authority than God. There is no greater power than God. God possesses the highest authority, has the highest ability. And when when Solomon says here in his awareness that yes, God does exist and God is who I knew he was back years ago. He's saying God he hath uh made all he hath made everything beautiful in his time. I think he's recognizing God This is the way I put it. God has the unfailing ability to make all things beautiful in His time. In other words, God is able to take the events of our life because he is so powerful, because of his supreme authority, he can take the events of our lives and he can turn them around. In the midst of all his vanity and all his vexation of spirit and Solomon's frustration and emptiness. He recognizes that there is an all-powerful God working in the affairs of life. It's important for you and I to understand that God is working in our lives. God is working. You say, well, I don't see where God's working. I don't see that God's doing anything in my life. You might not see it. It's not because it's not happening, it's because you're blind to it. God is working. Here's Solomon trying to live his life. Push God out. Push God out. No, no. Under the sun. Only under the sun. Only under the sun. And yet God keeps working. And he's like, man, I put this, atheists and scoffers may mock God all they want, but God keeps working. God keeps working. God's still working in this old simple world. You say this world has completely abandoned God. Yeah, but God hadn't abandoned this world. And Solomon may have walked away from God, but God didn't walk away from Solomon. And Solomon says, he hath made. God is able. God is sovereign. If you're here tonight and you're away from God And you're not in fellowship with the Lord, and you might be putting on a show and you got it all out there, but in your heart, your walk with God, you know it's not right. I'm here to tell you, God is able to reach you and get a hold of you and turn that around If you're praying for someone, you're working for someone that seems so far from God, I'm telling you, God is able to make all things beautiful in his time. The sovereignty of God. Then I notice here the scheme of God. The scheme of God. Notice he says he hath made everything beautiful in his time. Now by scheme of God, I mean the plan of God. What is this sovereign, all-powerful God? What is he trying to accomplish? What's his scheme? What's his plan? It's to make all things beautiful. Now God, looking at that word beautiful And uh, well, what's he mean here? What's the idea behind this? The word beautiful means what you would think it means, to be pleasing, to be attractive, to be pleasant But as I got studying this, I found there's other aspects to this word. And they all fit together beautifully in the word beautiful, but um it has this idea To be put in a correct arrangement, to be placed properly, have a proper placement. in time or in place. To be put in perfect order. In fact, one of the definitions, one of the um uh the um What's a word that means the same thing as another word? Cinnamon. Synonyms. One of the synonyms of the word beautiful used here is harmony. To be all things put together in place in a proper arrangement. And I thought, well, that's interesting. And something is beautiful when it's put together in a proper arrangement. How many people think it would would not be very attractive if I walked in here Wednesday night and my nose was on the top of the middle of my head? They say, what? They say, uh he's beautiful. Look at that, it's beautiful. Nobody would say that If my ears were crooked, you know, one was up here and one was down here, you'd say, Well, that's something's wrong. That's not beautiful. Do you ever see these paintings, Picasso? You know their eyeballs are out of line and all of that. Nobody looks at that and says, Oh, it's beautiful. I look at it and I say, that's weird. But you see another painting like the Mona Lisa or something where everything is exactly where it ought to be and it's in proper range. That's a beautiful painting And what I think he's saying here is that God can take the events of our lives. And in his time, we'll touch on that in a moment. He can make them beautiful. He can take the things that are out of whack and put them back in whack. Right? He can take things that are out of place and put them back in place. And in his time, he can do amazing things. I thought this was interesting. Look at verse number one. He says, to everything, there is a season and a time to every purpose under the heaven. Then he goes on and he lists these events of life. Born, die, plant, harvest, time to uh pluck up, uh kill, heal, break down, build up, wheat, laugh, mourn, dance. Throw away stones, gather stones, embrace, refrain from embracing, get, lose, keep, cast away, rend, sow, keep, silent, time to speak, love, hate, war, peace. All these events of life. But I thought it was interesting. He says verse 1 he says, to everything. Then he lists these things. Then we get to verse 11 and he says, he hath made what? Everything beautiful in his time. I wonder if the two aren't related. I wonder if Solomon isn't telling us here, God through Solomon telling us here, listen, all the events of your life in God's time he can bring them through and happen at the exact time and the right way because of his sovereignty to work something beautiful out when it's all said and done He hath made all things, he hath made everything beautiful in his time. God can take the events of our life. And if we will trust him and wait on him, he'll work there and he'll say, oh, this is so terrible, this is awful, this is a horrible thing to happen. Wait a minute. God is sovereign. And he can take all things and work them out and arrange them in a way that it comes out where his will is accomplished And things work out good. Does that make sense? I want to show you a verse that I thought of when I was studying this. Come back to New Testament. I want to hurry here. Chip has made me put me under the Really put me under the squeeze here. I hate him. We're gonna drop his support. For those that don't know, while I was going chip preach, I only preached 15 minutes and everybody was so happy. And so now they're all mad at me. Look at 1 Peter chapter 2. Real quickly, come over here. This is fascinating. I tell you, this encouraged me. It kind of ties in with this morning's message a little bit. First Peter chapter two and verse number nine. Are you there? Look what it says. For those in West Virginia, it's right before 2 Peter. Verse 9. 1 Peter 2, verse 9. Look what this says here. But yeah, a chosen generation. He's talking to believers. Are you there? Don't talk, Joy. Stop talking, Joy. And uh But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation. Look at this. A peculiar people that should show forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness in his marvelous light. That word peculiar is a peculiar word. It means this, to be encircled. Say, what in the world? You're a encircled people. Now if I had a whiteboard up here, a chalkboard, I would draw a picture and try and illustrate, I think, what this is teaching. If you would, just picture a circle drawn and then a dot in the middle of the circle. That dot would be peculiar, as it's used here. It is encircled. We are a people, as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, we are peculiar. We are encircled by God. We're not part of this world. We are peculiar. We're encircled by God. And what I think he's saying is nothing can come into our hearts and lives that does not first Pass through the will of God. And God is able to take these events that He allows into our life that comes through that circumference around us of God's will. And we can do dumb things and we can make bad decisions, but nevertheless we're peculiar. And God will allow consequences of decisions we make. He'll allow them into our lives but he is allowing them into our life. And because he is allowing them, he can take them and arrange them in such a way that out of it something beautiful is accomplished Am I making sense? He hath made all things, the events of life, beautiful in his time. In his time. It's what Romans 8. 28 is saying. It's with Romans 8. And we know that all things work together for good. To them that love God or the called according to his purpose. All things are made beautiful, put in the right arrangement, put the way they should be, put in made beautiful or good. in his time. In his time. That leads me to my third thought is this. The schedule of God. We have God's sovereignty. He is over all. He take whatever situation we find ourselves in, whatever Horrendous decisions we may have made, whatever terrible uh condition we find ourselves. And he is able To take that and accomplish his scheme, his plan, make things beautiful, bring the arrangement around where something beautiful comes out, but it's qualified In his time. In his time. I think that's the key phrase of this whole thought. It's in God's time. In God's time. Not all things are beautiful at the moment. How many people have ever been through a deep valley or a very difficult time and at the time you thought nothing good can come out of this? Anyone know what I'm talking about? I've been there Oh, this is there's nothing. This is a mess. This can't ever get fixed. This can't ever be made right. This is there's no way anything good's going to come out of that. At the time, it's not beautiful It doesn't say he makes all things beautiful as you're going through it. He says he made all things beautiful in his time. All things are not beautiful in and of themselves. Notice he says all things. And the idea is all things mixed together as they come together: birth and death. uh sewing and and plucking up and war and peace, all those things together in and of themselves might not be that beautiful, but together God can make something beautiful out of that. All things arranged together in God's time are beautiful. Are beautiful. One of the greatest challenges In experiencing God's blessings. See if you don't see if you can't relate to this statement. One of the greatest challenges in experiencing God's blessings is learning to wait on God. Right or wrong? One of the greatest challenges to experience spiritual maturity and spiritual growth, one of the greatest challenges is waiting on God. We want it to happen right away. I want it, when I took the church here in 1993, a step behind the pulpit, Dennis Leatherman wanted to be a mature, powerful, wise preacher right now. Now I haven't accomplished I haven't achieved that yet, but that takes time. That takes time. Good, strong, godly Christians, that takes time. You've got to go through some valleys. We've got to see God do things We've got to learn to fall at our face so we don't trust ourselves so much. In his time, in his time, one of the greatest challenges in the Christian life is learning to wait on God. And God's timing. I thought of Joseph. Joseph had the, I put it this way, the poison of his brother's jealousy. That wasn't pleasant, that wasn't beautiful, that was ugly. Their attitudes towards him, how they treated him. I had he had the pit, the ugly pit of his brother's rejection. When they were going to kill him and threw him in the pit, remember? And they hated him so much they were going to kill their own brother. And that wasn't pretty, that wasn't beautiful, that was ugly. And then they sold him, instead of killing them, they sold them to the uh the merchants and they took them down to Egypt and there Potiphar buys them and you know the situation with Potiphar's wife, he gets thrown in prison, and he finds himself in the prison of false accusation. I don't know about you, but one of the most difficult things in life is to be falsely accused of something. That hurts. And that's difficult to deal with. And Joseph experiences all of those things, in and of themselves, are very, very ugly, but in God's time. God brought all that together and made something beautiful. And an entire nation is saved from starvation. And a family is restored. And when that chap chap when the end of Genesis, when Genesis is finished, the end of Genesis, that family's back together again. And they're apologizing and they're trying to make things right. And Joseph makes a phenomenal statement. Ye meant all these things to be evil. I'm not quoting exactly, but ye meant all this to be evil. But God meant it to be what? Good. You know what Joseph was saying? He hath made all things to be beautiful in his time. In his time. I don't know what you might be going through. But I'm telling you this, our God is all powerful. Our God has the final say on everything. And whatever we're going through, if we'll wait on God and trust Him, do what He says, have faith in Him. He'll bring all those heartaches and difficulties and ugly things in life. He can arrange them in a way, and when we get there and we look back and we say, that is an amazing, beautiful day. What God has done in my life. How many people here? On Thursday, the Schofields made biscuits and gravy. I don't care if we put any uh Romans together, we'll just eat biscuits and gravy. And um How many people here like biscuits? How many people love biscuits? How many people would like to just skip the flour? And we say, all right, we're gonna have biscuits, but we're only having part of the biscuits, we're just gonna have flour. How many people would like that? Oh, that would be great. We'll go eat flour. Nobody would want that. What else do you put in biscuits? A raw egg. Now some of you are sick. You would eat a raw egg. But uh We wouldn't want that. What else is in biscuits, Brian? Baking what is it? Baking powder. Oh, we're gonna have baking powder. Oh, mmm, that would be delicious. Uh what else? Lard? Do you put lard in that? Yeah, l lard's a better word. Uh throw lard in there. Oh, we're gonna have lard and uh But Sandy, I guess what Sandy does is she takes it. Was it Sandy or Brian? Don't never mind They mix all that together. But wait a minute. What if they said, all right, we've got all the ingredients of biscuits, we've mixed it all together, and we're going to have those ingredients for biscuits Yeah. You know what? There has to be some time spent in the oven. Hurry up, desk it's But in their time, they come out and they're delicious. And we're going through life and we're still cooking. Still baking. We got some flour, we got some lard, we got But in his time, we'll trust him. We'll be able to look back and say, to God be the glory. He worked all things beautifully. Isn't that good? We're going to finish out today. We're going to have the Lord's Supper here in a moment. I think an invitation time On a Sunday night, Lord's Supper, is a good time just to humble ourselves with my Lord and say, Lord, I'm going to trust you. Lord, the sins in my life and the areas that are not right, and the unbelief, and the doubt, and the disobedience. Lord, I just want to pour all that out. I want to acknowledge that. I want to confess it. I want to forsake it all. I want my heart to be yielded to you. And I want you to use me this week to be an influence. I want you to fill me with your spirit. I want to come to the Lord's Supper with a pure, clean heart, rejoicing in your sovereignty and your great love. Amen. Let's stand together father up