I think this I think a lot of Americans are living below their station life as well. Uh I don't really believe that we understand to the extent that we need to who we are as Americans. We're no better than anyone else. The only difference that Americans have that the rest of the world doesn't have is that there was, as I said in Sunday school, a man that said, hey, we believe that there is a God and God gives us Inalienable rights, life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Now all those three are under attack today. And the reason why is because we have basically flourish so long in peace and prosperity that there's a danger of great prosperity. You know what the danger is? We get complacent and apathetic And you see that in Israel, and all the cycle of Israel, when they get so prosperous, they start taking things for granted, huh? And then God has to basically bring them back to a point where they start looking to Him again and thanking Him and realizing that He's the source of their blessings. Uh I want to just tell you very quickly the five-point premise of awake America is number one, we need to get educated. I mean we need to get to the point where we understand who we are as Christians, as Americans. Number one, once we get educated, number two, we need to get engaged. This is a process of government that begins with we the people, and we're supposed to be self-governed people, and the reason why we're not It's because we have left off that engagement a long time ago. Again, we elect someone, we say, Oh, that's the end of it. Now we've got a good uh you know person to represent us, and so we'll go about our daily business. No, no, no, no That was never intended to be. We're supposed to be engaged constantly, looking at the bills and calling them and you know there's enough people right here this morning say, Bill Harney, you're excited about this conference? Very much so Why? Because it only took fifty-six men that started this country. We have that plus here today. You know what that means? We have enough people here today to literally change the course of this country just here in this one meeting. If we could just get a hold of some things, I'll guarantee you God will be able to react to our actions. We pray and we intercede to God, and he divinely intervenes for us. time and time again, personally, collectively, nationally. Amen. Isn't that good? To realize that we still serve a God that answers prayer? Amen. Now I want you to come tonight. Tonight, I'll tell you what, I'm preaching a message tonight on the miraculous interventions of God in our nation's history. And how we can garner those same miracles that God did for us in the past, for the present and the future. And I mean I'm going to be preaching tonight a message, I'll guarantee you, that you will not want to miss because God Still the same God as he's always been. He's the same yesterday, today, and forever. And we need to start praying for some miracles. Amen? You still believe in miracles, don't you? Amen. How would you like to see a miracle in your life? Well, I don't think that would happen. You know, God did that for the people in the Bible, but I don't think it's God. Yeah, he will. He's no respect of persons. Amen? And I've seen some miraculous things occur in my life. I mean some miracles. And I believe that God will continue to do those, but we need to stop suffering from the sin of unbelief. Amen. I don't think I could do that. Oh you know what? I I do. I I do. And the reason why the Lord didn't do many miracles In certain places because of their sin of unbelief. I refuse to suffer from that. I'm not going to do that. I'm going to believe God. Amen? So uh we need to get engaged Once we get educated, we need to entreat God's mercy upon our country. We need to be praying for mercy upon America. Not that God blesses America, God have mercy on America right now. Amen. And then encourage others to do the same because your strength in numbers But the bottom line is, so we can continue to evangelize the lost. I don't know about you, but I'm sure I'm glad I'm in church today. I'm sure I'm glad that someone came to me with the gospel of Jesus Christ. I'm glad that someone was willing to take some time and sit down and show me how I could accept Jesus Christ as my Lord and Savior. Amen. Aren't you? I mean I'm glad I'm going to heaven Yeah I was we were just talking a minute ago and we were you know comparing notes uh a chuck the other chuck in here there's another chuck there's a couple chucks a couple more chucks for very intelligent very highly motivated individuals And uh and and Chuck was talking about Sharon, his wife, Sharon w with two R's, okay. And he said, you know, I married up, I said, I married up too. He said, Well, i if I didn't marry Sharon, I'd be I would have been in jail thirty years ago. He's an honest man. I mean, you know, cook okay. And and I said if I didn't marry my wife, I'd probably have been dead. That's how wild I was when I was growing up, okay? But uh Save me. Isn't that wonderful? Every once in a while, you know what we need to do? And just realize where we were, where we could have been, where we are today, if God has saved us, if we've accepted Jesus Christ as our Lord and Savior, and where we're going. Oh, I don't know about you. That gets me excited. We're going to heaven. You thought about that race recently? Hey, get this guys. When we when us guys we go to a marriage, you know what I mean? We want the ceremony to get over with Marriage is the ceremony's for the woman. Okay? All right, I do, yeah, I do. And you know, put a double lip lock on that girl and let's go to the reception. Amen? Okay? But hey the reception now, now that's something that us guys like, okay? Because that's what we're gonna eat. You realize we're gonna have a marriage supper of the Lamb? Up in heaven. And you know, it's gonna last for a long time. Say how long? I don't know. There won't be any time. It's eternity. Amen. That means you'll be able to eat as much as you want and not gain a pound. Because you'll have a glorified body. Amen. Isn't that good? You won't have to worry about carbs or anything else, and everything's going to be good. I mean it's going to be great. Amen. And when we give out tracts, you know what we're doing? We're inviting people to the marriage supper of the Lamb. It's a wedding invitation. Because unless you know Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, guess what? You're not part of the bride of Christ. So I hope anyone in here that doesn't know Jesus Christ, now I'm not talking about that he is the Savior, but have accepted him as your Savior. If anyone has never accepted Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, I hope you do before you leave. Because I don't want you to miss that wedding. Suffer the Lamb. Amen. That's going to be good. And so we want to continue to evangelize. So awake American ministries, why why is it? So we can get educated, we can get engaged, we can entreat God's mercy. We can encourage others so we can continue to evangelize the lost. Bring people into the family of God so we can see our country go forward, churches go forward, and that's what we need. And in order to do that Number one, we need to get educated. So very quickly, I'm going to just tell you what's available for you back there. I'm very excited about what the Lord has allowed us to do, and this is just God. I mean, I never realized that uh I would be an author. But but I've I've authored three books now and I'm my fourth. This is the prayers that shaped America. That's a unique, very amazing compilation of the prayers that basically were garnered to start this country. And it's a it's a leather-bound book. I love the smell of good leather, don't you? Gilded edge and it's ribbed and it's backing, a beautiful fly leaf, and it's just filled with all kinds of wonderful Etchings from yesteryear about the patriarch's prayers of the Bible and the preachers' prayers of the Great Awakening, the pilgrims' prayers when they came here to America, the presidential prayers, political prayers. Yeah, the first time the Congress met, they prayed for three hours through Psalm 35. Would to God we had a Congress like that again. They'd actually get down on their knees and start praying. And the reason why is because they were in major dress. And so uh we gave this to senators and congressmen and and one senator said, You know what, uh I have two things now on my desk when I do my devotions in the morning, because there are some born-again believing Senators and congressmen. You will see those on the news, but they're there. You say, how do you know? Because I know them. And I pray with them. And I've had them come and speak to our group, and your pastor can testify to this as well And so he said, I got two things on my desk in the morning when I do my devotions, my Bible and your book, The Prayers That Shaped America, Brother Harding. I said, you know, that's one of the greatest compliments I've never received I I've ever received, but it's not for me, it's for God because he's the one he's really the the co-author. Amen. Foundations that sustained America. This is the one we just gave to the people there in Washington, D. C. Every senator and every congressman received one of these. It's who we are, the fabric of our nation, and the faith of our nation, and the family unit. You know the reason why it's so very dangerous for the traditional family to be attacked as it's being attacked today with alternate lifestyles is because uh look the family has been the very thing that God has established civilizations from for years. And so we need to understand the fabric of our country. And by the way, our motto is not e plurbis unum, that's just our approach to bringing people into this country And uh I mentioned that in Sunday school. And then this one, the sacrifice that defines America, and it's all about those people that have made the ultimate sacrifice. In our our country it does actually come out of the sleeve there. And uh and but all these are leather bound and and this is amazing because it even talks about the Medal of Honor recipients like Gary Bikirk, the Independent Baptist from New York uh that was in Vietnam and and Herschel Woodrow Williams, the man that uh the last Medal of Honor recipient, a born-again believer uh from the Battle of Iwo Jima, that uh 92 years old today, and there he is getting his Medal of Honor from Harry Truman I was interviewing him, uh it's actually in one of the videos back there in front of the Iwo Jima Memorial uh years ago and and after the interview was over and we had recorded it, he said People were starting to come up to him and and shake his hand and and people had gathered around the Irojima Memorial and and uh he said, Brother Chuck, go get my Medal of Honor uh and and let me uh put it on so these people can take a photograph of me with the middle bar. I said, sure, sure would he so I went and and went to a suitcase and and opened a suitcase and there it was just flip flop flopping around in there. I went I brought it out, you know. Medal of Honor, the highest thing that we give in valor uh to someone that has uh gone far beyond and above their call of duty. And he said, Would you put it on me? I said, You want me to put it around you? He says, Yeah. I said, Me and Harry Truman. So but in any case those those three books are back there. I had two publishers that said, you know what, I'll I'll publish those books for you. One of them said If you want it leather bound and and you want it gilded edged and all the different fancy things and slip into that he said, I can do each book for you for a very good price of $198. I went, Oh And then I had another publisher who said, you know what, I'm going to do it at my cost because I believe in what you're doing for $40. Guess which one I went with? And so if you want them, uh they're back there for forty dollars apiece as long as they last, and I'll be glad to sign them for you. If you want a little bit of history, uh there you go. And then I have four DVDs the Barbary Powers War. And you know, it's amazing to me that we forget that our enemy is the ideology of Islam You understand that? And for 32 years we fought against the people uh that had Muslim nations surrounded in the Mediterranean Sea. The Marines, any former Marines in here? Let me raise your hand. Marines? Amy Maurice, no Maurice in here today? Okay. But the Marines sink from the Halls of Montezuma to the shores of Tripoli. It's talking about the Barbary Powers War And the fact is we fought them for 32 years. They kidnapped 1. 25 million of our people and enslaved them? And we forget that we even fought a war like this? I mean we were giving twenty percent of our gross national product as tribute money to the Muslim nations surrounded in the Mediterranean Seas so they wouldn't attack our merchant ships Because we had no Navy, our Navy had been Great Britain and we and of course it separated from Great Britain and so they were just defenseless and and so Thomas Trevison when he became the third president of the United States, I kinda like his spirit. He said that's it, not one more penny for tribute, but millions for defense. They took the twenty percent, invested into the Navy and the Marine Corps, sent them over, and they took care of business. Amen? And uh so we need to understand, and some very interesting things, the first Muslim congressman elected to the United States was John Randolph Back in the 1700s. There is a man by the name of Ellison that was elected just recently from Minnesota. He said, I'm the first Muslim ever elected to the Congress. And I don't know if you remember this in the news or not, but he put his hand on the Quran to say he was going to uphold the Constitution. You can't do that. Because the Quran is diametrically opposed to the Constitution. And everyone was up in arms. But he has to know his history. The first Muslim congressman, John Randolph in the seventeen hundreds was just that man, the first Muslim ever elected to the United States Congress, but he was led to a saving knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. Guessed by who? The man who wrote our national anthem. Francis Gotkey, a soul winner. All documented right there. And then this one, our Biblical Constitution, and uh boy, I'm telling you, we have a the greatest governmental document in the history of the world because it's it's based upon the greatest document in the world, the Bible. And uh then our nation's capital, uh and it's an eighty minute virtual tour through Washington DC. Come tonight and you'll get a preview of the foundations that sustain America. This is the latest one that we just handed out who we are, why we are so unique, and how miraculous of a nation we are. And uh this is a 52 minute most sophisticated documentary we've put out to date. You won't find anything more interesting and more you might say quality and it's presentation and production than these on the History Channel or anywhere else. And you definitely won't find the content because we are bringing back America's forgotten history. Amen. And so these represent Years of study, thousands of dollars of uh you might say production costs, and I offer them to you for a gift of ten dollars apiece, so that's a real meal deal. Amen? And so there you go. I got a few uh Music TDs back there and some constitutions. If you're a veteran, pick one up with my thanks. If not, uh you can uh pick one up for a dollar. Commercial's over. Okay? Everyone okay? How many are glad to be here? How many rather be here in the best jail in the area? Raise your hand, let me see. Most everybody. Okay, well uh take your Bibles. Let's look to uh Psalm 118. Psalm 118 today Psalm 118 today, and I just think it's interesting that that some young pastors, you know, uh they think they have it all figured out, and and they don't come to those of us that are a little more mature Okay? Because the fact is, you know, you can learn something from the old geezers. Okay? And I am more and more entering into that geezer category. Okay? And uh Uh yeah, peop people say, uh, you know, it's it's the maturity of the thing. I said, yes, I resemble that statement. Um but in any case, um the wisdom of of the elder statesman, so to speak, or the Christian that's been down the road a little bit further, is something that needs to be listened to, not just dismissed, you know, without basically uh consideration. But there was an old geezer that had been a retired farmer for a long time. He became very bored and decided to open up a medic clinic and and he put a sign up Outside of his medic clinic. Now he's a farmer. He's going to open a medic clinic. And it said this: get your treatment for $500. If not cured, get back $1,000. So there was a young doctor there would call him Dr. Young. Dr. Young looked at this and said, Oh, you you've got to be kidding me. He was positive that old geezer knew nothing uh about medicine, and so he thought he would uh be a great opportunity to get a thousand dollars. So he went in and this is what transpired. Dr. Young went in and said, Dr. Geezer, I have lost all the taste in my mouth. So Dr. Geezer said, Nurse Betty, uh go and bring the medicine from box twenty-two and put three drops on Dr. Young's mouth. In in his tongue. So she did, and she put three drops in his tongue and and Dr. Young went, Oh, that's gasoline. He said, Congratulations, you're uh you're cured. That'll be five hundred dollars Well Dr. Young he hated that. So he said, Okay, well I'm gonna really get get back at him. I'm annoyed and so I'm gonna figure out uh something to recover my money. So he said, Ah, I got it So we went in and uh Dr. Young said, um, Dr. Geether, um I I I've lost my memory. I I can't think uh of anything. And he said, nurse, bring me medicine from box twenty-two, put three drops on uh Dr. Young's mouth. He said, Hey, you can't fool me. That's that's gasoline. He said, Congratulations. You've been cured of your memory. That'll be five hundred dollars He's incensed now. I mean Dr. Young is this, I mean, very, very upset. He's got to get that thousand dollars back. He's out of thousand dollars now. And so after a little while being angry, he thinks, okay. I got it. Foolproof, foolproof. He went in, feeling around with with with the cane, and Dr. Keys said, What's wrong, Dr. Young? He said, I've lost my eyesight. I can't See anything. And Dr. Gieser looks at his eyes. He said, Well, I can't do anything for you. Here's your thousand dollars back yet. He said, This is only ten dollars. He said, Congratulations, you've been cured I'll be five hundred dollars. And so the moral of the story is just because you're an old geezer doesn't mean that you shouldn't be listened to. And we need to understand something. And I've been down the road for a little while Uh I'm 62 now I don't feel like I'm 62. I still feel like I'm 18 and my wife says, and you act like it. So how should I take that? She said, positively? So, okay. But in Psalm 118, I want you to see something here because what this is in Psalm 118, it is the middle verse of the Bible. So it's it's very interesting. The m the very middle verse of the Bible Psalm 118 in verse 8, we're going to not just read verse 8, we're going to go on and read verse 8 through verse 10. But it says here, it is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in man. It is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in princes. All nations compass me about, but in the name of the Lord will I Heavenly Father, we thank you so much now for loving us. And dear God, we pray now that for these next few minutes that you would enter into this service. And Lord, we welcome your presence. We want to sense the fact that you are here. And Lord, we welcome your provision. We want to follow you. And Lord, we do ask that you would give us that holy unction from on high And through and by your blessed Holy Spirit, as I step back that you would step forward, that your words and thoughts might be my words and thoughts that you would enlarge all of our understanding and enlighten us as to what is to come, lead us into all truth. Father, we ask for his protection around this assembly. Bind off the wicked and the evil one and help the tears and burns of this life just to dissipate for a while and help us, Lord, to focus on the eternal. We live in a very dark time in the world's history, in our nation's history, but we know that thou makest the brightest lights for the darkest nights So thank you for allowing us to live for such a time as this. And dear God, help us to shine with the truth and to be the salt of the earth. And dear God, might you truly meet with us, and we'll be very careful To give you all the praise and glory for what you are about to do in the hearts of we, your people. For we ask this in the precious name of your Son and our Savior, and by the power and the merit and the authority that is in the name of Jesus Christ we ask it. Amen. And so we hear, we see, I think, something very interesting. And it really kind of reflects on what is our national motto. Now, the ideology of America is e pleurbis unum, and this administration would have us to believe that that's our motto. In fact, they even changed some things that went to the Library of Congress and National Archives and they changed something to try to pull the wool over our eyes and say that E. Florbus Unum out of many one is our model. But it's not That's our approach to bringing people here from other countries and it being the melting pot. And by the way, when you come here, this is the only nation in the in the world that you can come to and become an American Now you can't go to France and be a Frenchman. Even if you expatriate, you'll always be an American living in France. You can't go to Britain and be a Brit, you'll always be a Yank. Can't go to Spain and be a Spaniard. You'll always be looked at as an outsider. But you can come to America and you can become an American. That's an amazing thing. There's no hyphenation needed. Amen? Why? Because we do have that philosophy, e plebis unum death, but that's not our motto. Our motto is in God we trust And it is amazing that when you look at the whole world, millions of people in our country still honestly believe that there's something special, something exceptional about being in the United States. And yes, we have troubles. And yes, we have problems, but still we are the greatest nation on earth. And we need to realize that. Amen. There's no other nation that people are trying to break their necks to get to But they're trying to come here to this country. And that ideal of American exceptionalism is not even confined to our borders, multiplied Millions of people throughout the world still believe the same thing. They wish for the same thing. They want the same thing for themselves and for their families. They look to us for an example. They look to us for hope. They look to we Americans for liberty, not realizing What makes America so very different? They want the byproduct of liberty, which is peace and prosperity, without really understanding from where that originates Belief in American exceptionalism seems to be almost entirely an American trait. For example, a documented recent survey, nearly three-fourths of U. S. citizens still are proud to be an American. Now, you don't have to like what's going on to be proud to be an American. Amen? And you don't um you are not Unfaithful by speaking against an administration and still realizing that we have the greatest government on earth We need to just get back to what that government is. But when you go over to Europe, fewer than one third of the people in France, Italy, Germany, or Japan feel the same thing about their country Two-thirds of Americans still believe that they can achieve a success or degree of success in our country through individual efforts. Only one-third of Europeans have that same faith in that concept And while this world is in a drift in hopelessness and despair, Americans still possess an optimism and a confidence Not found anywhere else in the world. Where does that come from? I'll tell you where it comes from. In God we trust. That's where it comes from. Not from our nation's capital, which is in a constant state of flux You say, Brother Harding, do you think that government is uh the answer? No, government's not the answer. The Lord Jesus Christ and his gospel is the answer, you see What we need to do is to see more people saved and let some people realize that being called into public service is actually a call from God Amen. So well I I think that the only thing that you can be called to as a Christian is uh preaching or the mission field or Christian education or something along those lines. That's not what Romans thirteen says Romans thirteen three times says people in public service are ministers of God. But we forgot that somewhere. And we thought, now, I'm never going to dissuade anyone from a call to the missions, or call to preach, or call to Christian education. But may I say this? There are some young people that are called into public service, called into law And practicing law or in law enforcement. Amen? And our poor law enforcement today. And what's going on there. I mean that's a whole nother story. I won't get into that maybe later on this week But when we realize when we look at some things here in our country, I think we need to understand that, look, all Americans don't even know where this spirit comes from But Christians, we must realize that it comes from this old black book right here. Amen? And that because this nation is the only nation in the history of mankind that started from the entirety of the Word of God. The only nation, there's one other nation that started from the truth But they didn't have the entirety of the Word of God, the nation of Israel, but all other nations, if they do it all, they come to the truth. They don't start with the truth Even Great Britain in their great missionary efforts of yesteryear, you see, they didn't start from the truth. At one time, the Britons, and I'm British, I mean I'm Irish, Scottish, Welsh, English At one time they painted their bodies blue and ran around in tribes like a bunch of banshees. You see. They came to the truth. I stood October two years ago, where the separatists, the people that left the Church of England, got on a boat called the Speedwell and opened up the Bible and said, Lord, if you get us across this winter Atlantic, we promise that we will establish a nation for the gospel of Jesus Christ to send out his message throughout the world. And here we are as Americans. The reason why is because we started from God's word. See that's how unique we are. And I think the reason why So many people aren't doing really much of anything for our government because we've forgotten how unique we are. So we need to get back to the concept, our motto, that God, in God we trust When we look at our signers, our signers justify their break with England by citing the laws of nature and nature's law. As it says in Job. As it says in Psalm 19 and verse 1, the heavens declared the glory of God. A lot of people say, well, look, they called it nature's God and the God of nature. They were deists. They weren't deists God was talking to Job and saying, Job, do you see me in universe? Do you see me in my creation? That's what they were citing, and that's what they basically looked to, and they applied to the judge of this world, and they appealed unto him for the rectitude of their intentions They said their secret, you might say, was the relationship with the Creator, not the race, not the resources, but who they were as people that walked with God. They trusted God. And as George Washington said, the eternal rules of right, just living right. That's being righteous. They realized that success starts from the source of life. Jehovah God. These men We're created, they said, as all men were equal endowed by the Creator with certain rights that the government would never ever give them. And we today as Christians, we must work to be the salt and the light, to be educated, intelligent. To be living testimonies of these attributes of where these liberties come from. Look, I don't care if the world thinks we're stupid. They shouldn't think we're crazy. I don't know if I gave this illustration last night. I mean last time I was here. But I mean, I remember a story of this businessman, a very successful businessman on his way to a business trip and his tires were a little shimmy in the front and so he stopped and got his tires rotated, but the guy didn't put all the lug nuts correctly on the back of his passenger tire, and they were just finger tight and as he drove down the road, the vibration from the tires wore every single one of those lug nuts off. Until finally the tire was about to fall off his car. He stopped just in the nick of time and his tire was cocked without any Ludnuts around to be found. He's supposed to get to a business meeting and He didn't know what to do and he looked over and by chance he had stopped in front of an insane asylum and there was an inmate looking at him through the gate. And out of exasperation looked at the inmate and went And the MA very calmly said, well, uh you can take one lug nut off the last three remaining tires and put that uh fourth tire on and drive safely and get some more lug nuts. He said, yeah, that's a great idea. What are you doing in there? He said, well, I I may be crazy, but I'm not stupid And I don't care if the world thinks we're crazy, they shouldn't think we're stupid. And that's what's going on Because we have forgotten about our owner's manual, the Constitution of the United States, the most perfect miraculous governmental document in the history of mankind. Now it's not perfect, but it's the most perfect. You see what I'm saying? It is the closest to being perfect. Hey, this is perfect. But this does have some amendments. But it's the most powerful constitution in the world. And you know what I wonder why More people aren't suffering from rotator cuff muscle problems. You know why? Because everyone's doing this. Oh I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do. And even the guys in Washington DC, I don't know what we should do. I don't know what we Well why don't we go back to the Constitution? By the way, Constitution of the United States has just about every solution for every governmental problem. And it's already been solved once before, right here in America, it might be good to go back to the owner's manual Huh? And realize some things. We're going to be going through some things here. You know, I mean, we're not even referring to this country as what it should be referred to. Even the conservatives saying it was constantly constitutional democracy. They say it with such you know authority, constitutional democracy. Wrong. Well, yes, we're looking at the constitutional democracy. No It's to the Republic for which it stands. One nation under God. Democracy is never found in this document. Never. Nowhere. Now what is found is the fact that this document guarantees us a republican form of government. Most people don't even know the difference between a democracy and a republic. One reason why we need to get back to the owner's manual, huh? And start teaching those people that know don't know these things. Ezra 7 and verse 25, and we're going to be going there probably Monday night. It says this, Ezra, the wisdom that is in thine hand That's the Bible. Set up magistrates and judges which shall judge all the people. And this is what it says. And teach ye them that know them not. See, by the way, it's up to us to teach the senators and congressmen the things that don't they don't know. You know why? Because they are our representatives. First time I went to Washington DC, I was asked to go and address The conservative majority in the House of Representatives someone said, Well, Harding, were you were you nerve how nervous were you? I said, I wasn't nervous at all. They said, You weren't nervous? No. I mean you're going into the Capitol and you're gonna repres you're gonna represent Independent Baptists and you're gonna talk to these People that are, I mean, sort of legislative leaders. And why weren't you nervous? Well, that's in the back of my mind I realized that that I pay their salary. They work for me. See, they're public servants. Huh? And so because of that I said I'm not I'm not nervous now. I was very polite and I had the right decorum and these people are in leadership but we pay them for what they're doing. We elect them and they're supposed to be representing us Problem is, I just told some folks just a minute ago, problem is this, okay, look now. At one time, anyone that represented us, they looked to God first. Because our nation's motto is in God we trust. God first, then secondly, the law of the land. Okay? Based on the law of the universe, the Constitution of the United States. Because we're a land of laws Third, their constituents. Okay? They listen to them. And then last, they put themselves and their political career last place. Now it's flipped. Now they think about their career first. Most of them, not all of them, but a lot of them. Their career first, they think of their constituents second and how they can use them to keep in office. Okay? And then third, they sometimes look at the Constitution, but they don't really have a grasp on it the way they should. They're trying to skirt it every time that they have a chance to, many of them. And then the very last thing. They think about God or don't think about God at all. There's the problem. That's why we need to get back, we first of all, to An idealism and the truth and the thought that our motto is in God we trust. We're supposed to be the salt and the light We're supposed to be educated and intelligent. Look with me, if you would, please, over to Philippians chapter 2. Are you with me today? Say amen. Everybody having a good time? We haven't a good time yet? Okay? Philippians chapter 2 and verse 15. See, we are called to a lot of different areas in life To be living epistles of the truth. We're supposed to be examples. People are supposed to look at us, and we are the standard, or supposed to be the standard, of what God is. Living our lives before others wise. So they can look and see the hope that lies within us. And hopefully they'll ask us, and we can tell them that we know Jesus as Savior. But it says in Philippians chapter 2, or in verse 15, that she, us Ye may be blameless and harmless. Look at this, the sons of God, without rebuke, in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation. Isn't that where we are today? In many phrases, in many ways, among whom he shine as lights in the world, holding forth the word of life, that I may rejoice in the day of Christ that I have not run in vain, neither labored in vain. And so we are the people that need to be the personification of our motto in God we trust and bring other people to where we are. But you need to know the truth. You can't bring someone to somewhere that you're not already. Amen. We know and then we go. Right? When you get saved, And you know Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, you know for sure you're when you die you're going to heaven. What do you want to do? I want to tell someone else so they can go. And give someone else what I was what I received. Just like a little kid that gets something good, uh uh you know, a good piece of candy. Well, you need to try this. Or or a pastor that says, hey, man, we've got a good steakhouse See, I I've I gained I gained over fifty pounds when I started traveling. Because pastors are just that way, Baptists, we fellowship around food. Amen. I mean I'm twice the man I used to be. Okay? I mean when I was growing up uh be in in my twenties, my early twenties, I was trying to break 200 and I was 198, 197, 198, 197. I ate like a horse, I worked out with the weights. I could never break two hundred. I turned twenty-nine, I flew past two hundred so fast. I've never looked back, amen. And been gaining ground ever since. But the reason one reason why on the road is because pastors say, Oh man, Brother Hart, I've got this great place once you to come because we fellowship around food. No, I want you to get this and this and this. I lost, I just lost fifty five pounds. I mean this coat at one time. See that? Before, after. Before, after. Before? After. Amen. I mean, I I almost killed someone a couple times with that button right there when I exhaled. Okay? Phew! It's like you know 25 caliber, amen. But uh what what I'm what I'm saying is when when we get something that is good, we want to share it with others Hey, we need to know how good we have it here in America. And how unique we are based upon God's Word. That is illustrated and emblazoned in our Constitution. 28 biblical principles in the Constitution of the United States I'll just show you one very quickly right now. We doing o we doing okay? Everyone okay? I I I love this. I I love this because Again, we're Republican. I'll tell you a little bit more the difference between Republican and democracy in the coming next. Don't don't miss. Don't don't miss, because I'm going to be showing you things what we can do to actually hold on to our country. Amen. I mean literally. And it's not because I'm telling you, it's because the Bible. Who you know, our founding fathers look to to begin our our country is an amazing thing. Now how many of you guys out here like a guarantee? Like a warranty? You like you like that? Because if something breaks, you don't have to fix it. Amen. I mean if you buy your wife is this is this your wife? Okay. I wonder if it's your wife or your daughter, okay. But in any case You understand I I'm with politicians a lot. Okay, can you can you can you read that now? Okay. But uh in any case if you wi if you buy your wife a washer and it's under warranty, dishwasher, you don't have to You don't have to fix it, right? Just like Andy of Mayberry. Remember Andy of Mayberry? And Aunt B said, Andy, something wrong with the w with the washing machine. She said, he would say, Aunt B, call the man. Call the man, Aunty. Call the man. It's under warranty. I mean, I like that, right? Well look at this. It says, and this is the Constitution of the United States. Nowhere does it say about a democracy. But this is what it says. The United States shall guarantee Is that what that says? Ken? Guarantee. Guarantee to every state in this union a Republican form of government Wait a minute now. They're guaranteeing us a Republican form of government? You know what that means? Republic, that means the public is basically in charge, tempered by the rule of law. And it's not just everyone saying everything. Not mobocracy. That's what democracy is. But is re a public is is the will of the people tempered by the rule of law. This is the rule of law. And we're guaranteed that. So you want to do something right off the bat next week? You want to call in your senators and congressmen? Well, I don't know what I'd say. Say, um, I would just like to tell the senator congressman to stop referring to this as a constitutional democracy. We have a constitution and it says this is a republic, Article 4, Section 4. And I want my representative that I have elected, that I'll be voting for against again. to start referring to this in what it is, a constitutional republic that we're guaranteed. That's one thing right there. It's amazing to me when you read the Constitution. The problem is you say, how can we know it? You might want to read it. Most people have never even read the Constitution of the United States. And yet it is paid with by blood of men that have gone before us. It says it's better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in man. I'm not putting confidence in man. I'll vote for the right men or women, but I don't put confidence in them. I put confidence in God. And I try to vote you say are you Republican? Are you Democrat? I'm a Christopher I vote the Bible. Amen? Or someone closer to the Bible than this person. But it sees seems like Brother Harding that we don't have a real good choice this year. Oh look in the mirror, and that's the reason why we don't have a real good choice this year. And I'll be getting into that later too. But the verse in Psalm one eighteen and verse eight, it sums up something about living out the truth. It demonstrates the middle verse of the Bible. It's a balance, you see. It's a faith-based action We have faith. We pray and ask God, please, Lord, help our country. Have mercy on our nation. And then we stand up and we put feet to our prayers We call, make some calls. We read a little something here or there, and look, ten phone calls is all that it takes to Washington, D. C. for them to start listening to you. Ten phone calls Every United States Senator, one call from you equals 10,000 calls to them. Say, where'd you learn that from? Um the Speaker of the House, majority whip, and uh all and on I can go. Every single Senator Congressman I ask. I said, well, how many phone calls do you have? Not many. See, our founding fathers personified the fact that they trusted in God when they pledged with a firm reliance upon the protection of divine providence. We pledged to each other our lives and our fortunes and our sacred honor. You understand, right? That when they signed the Declaration of Independence, it was high treason. You understand, right? That when they signed the Declaration of Independence, they were basically putting their mortgage of their house All of their livelihood, the safety of their families, on the line. Now, I'm not going to ask you this morning to come up and to put yourself in jeopardy. I'm not going to ask you this morning, I want you to come up and and your little ones, I mean these little guys over here, these little blonde-haired fellas, and this is the little blonde-haired girl over here, I'm not going to ask you to come up and put them in jeopardy on this altar. That's what our founding fathers did though for us. You understand this? They put their homes, many of them with thousands of acres, I mean palatial mansions, and they put those in jeopardy Why? For people that they would never know. Many of them were ruined. Some of them never saw their families again once the war started. And I'm not going to ask you to do that But I would ask you to think about that and to realize that the reason why we can sit here today and enjoy one another and listen to, you know, a preacher rant and rave a little bit up here Without any fear of someone breaking into this church and breaking up this assembly is because, folks, there were others that paid the price. for a unique document among men. And you know, Ben Franklin, he was always, you know, never at loss for something to say, okay? After it was signed. And the declaration was made to all the world that they no longer wanted a king over them, that the only king that they wanted over them was King Jesus. Ben said this, Dr. Franklin. We better all hang together, or we will assuredly all hang separately. And he meant exactly what they they knew he meant, because that was the price of what they had just done Now folks, that all comes from the fact that they were trusting in God, with firm reliance, with the trust upon the protection of the divine providence We pledge to each other our lives, our fortunes, and our sacred honor. Are you with me today? Now. Trust you in the Lord, Isaiah. 26 and verse 4 says, Forever, for in the Lord Jehovah is everlasting strength. On March the 3rd, 1931, by congressional Resolu excuse me, resolution, we adopted the Star Spangled Banner as our national anthem, written by Francis Scott Key during the war for eighteen twelve. Part of that stanza of the Star Spangled Banner that Francis Scott Key wrote was basically in God is our trust. You know, we, my wife and I, we lived just a few miles away from Dr. William Beans's graveyard He was the doctor that the British had captured that Francis Scott Key had gone out to secure his release. And then of course watched throughout the night as they bombed Fort McHenry. And you understand, right, if they had conquered Fort McHenry, our nation would have been over. You understand that? Most people don't get that. That if that flag had fallen, if they had taken that flag down, our nation would have been back under British rule. You realize that? Crazy to me. You understand that our nation has been invaded? You know, people say, well, our nation's never. Yes, it was. It was invaded by Great Britain. And our White House was burned. Do you realize that when the British commander was coming in, that Dolly Madison was going out the back door? With uh the painting of George Washington, a few other artifacts from the White House? Did you realize that she had already cooked a meal for the congressmen and they were going to come and eat and the meal was out on the table and the British marched into the White House as she was basically being scurried away. uh under a carriage of uh a cloak of darkness out the back door and they came and sat down for a warm meal. That's how close it was. And then got up and burned the White House. And then they went over to the Capitol and they burned the Capitol. They burned the Census Building. They burned the Library of Congress. But something happened. I love it. See, because in God we trusted. And we couldn't really put up a very much of an opposition there because there wasn't a lot of people, men that were ready to fight there in the Capitol, but something happened. Two very neat fa things happened. It was miraculous. The weather allowed two things. A typhoon That came in from the sea and turned into a tornado. My wife and I, we lived in Oklahoma City for a long time, where the wind comes sweeping across the plains. Like like this. Okay? And we've had to run one time from a tornado out there, so we know what those are like. And then a hurricane at the same time. Very few times in the history of mankind has a Tornado and hurricane happened simultaneously. But it did in Washington, D. C. You know what it did? The rain and the wind from the rain put the fire out. The tornado literally blew the British down and knocked buildings over on top of them, ruined two of their ships. literally blew them out of our nation's capital and kept our nation's capital from s simply being burned down completely. But Francis Cocky, as he's looking at Fort McHenry, and he sees that flag up there flying, he pens those great words, thus be it ever. When free men shall stand between their loved homes and the war's desolation, blessed with victory and peace, may this heaven rescued land See, he knew what had happened already in Washington, D. C. Praise the power that hath made and preserved us a nation. Then conquer, we must, when God When our cause is just, and this fiarmato in God is our trust She was born out of darkness and danger, but in the morning our flag was still there. And the reason why is because we trusted in God Psalm 22, 4 and 5 says, Our fathers trusted in thee. They trusted, and thou didst deliver them. They cried out to thee. They cried unto thee and were delivered. They trusted in thee and were not confounded. This motto, in God we trust, is inscribed behind the Speaker's Rostrum in the House of Representatives on the south door of the Senate, on the tribute block of the Washington Monument, on the east wall of the Longworth Building, on the southwest entrance of the wall of the Dirksen Building On the stained glass in the United States Capitol. It is our motto. In God we trust. And we must once again trust in God. America's greatness, as Eisenhower once said, is based upon a spiritual quality symbolized by those words in God we trust. He was talking about a commemoration of a stamp that said in God We Trust. And every time we affix that stamp to an envelope, once again we must understand that God is the one that brought this country to success. and to prosperity. Atheism, secular humanism substitutes men for the supreme being that supreme creator and leads inevitably to domination and dictatorship. We must jealously guard the foundation of our faith. For on it rests the ability of the American individual to live and thrive in a blessed land, to be able to help others less fortunate than themselves, spiritually and civically So trust in God, in God we trust, is etched in our history. It's etched in our money. But you know why it's etched in our money And God we trust is etching our money, not to basically proclaim that that's a motto, to remind us that's where our trust is. See, we live in a very prosperous land, don't we? And I know I'm looking at people, you have a good job? I'm so I'm sure you some of you have 401ks. I'm sure some of you have bank accounts. But in God we trust was put on our money around the time the Civil War, the war between the States was occurring. Okay? And it was a reminder, as a preacher said, that we don't trust in money, because we had become very affluent at this time. time. No, our trust isn't in money. Our trust needs to be in God. I want to ask you this morning, where's your trust this morning? Are you trusted in that bank account? Are you trusted in that 401k? There's nothing wrong with 401ks. There's nothing wrong with bank accounts. There's nothing wrong with good retirements. We rejoice in all those things, but don't put your trust there. Don't put your trust there. Because too many times what happens to Christians in our mentality, well, you know what? I I got this and I got that. No, we need to start saying, you know what? We have God And that's where our trust is. And if everything you know, it could be that our economy crashes I'm sorry to say that's a very real possibility in the day that we live. Because the the American dollar bill is no longer the American dollar bill It's a reserve note and the United States reserve that is not part of the United States government It's owned by world bankers. And if they call in our debt any time whatsoever, do you understand that we are right now trillions of dollars in debt? Nineteen trillions, you know that the rubber band is being pulled further and further and further. And and I'm listening to these senates and congressmen that I mean face to face, they're telling me face-to-face. The rubber band's gonna snap and everyone's gonna be shocked So well I'm you know gonna hedge and I'm gonna prepare and well there's nothing wrong with preparedness and I'm not saying that either. But don't trust in your preparedness plan either We need to be trusting in God. We need to be understanding that the Lord is where our trust should always be. And every once in a while, it's good in church service like this to bring ourselves back and Lord, you know, I want to thank you for all these things that you've given me. I want to thank you for my health and thank you for my job. Thank you for my family. Thank you for my retirement plan, my 401k, my health insurance. But Lord, I just want to rededicate the fact that I'm trusting in you. I'm going to trust in you. And if it all goes away, I'm going to still trust in you. Now I hope it doesn't. I mean, I'm traveling in the United States trying to bring people to a point where they can do something so it doesn't all go away But if we don't do something very soon, it is all going away. But let's let's work to keep that from happening. Say, can can we do that? Is there hope for America? Yes, there's hope for America Because we serve the God who sits on the throne of eternity. And I'm going to show you tonight, you know how many times the war for independence was over? And then God showed up? Oh, I hope you come back tonight because I tell you something, I have some things that I need to share with you this evening that'll help us. Do you want to understand the devil hates America? You understand that? He hates this nation more than any nation on earth aside from the nation of Israel. He hates Israel and America. And I think it's very interesting, those ideologies that excuse themselves as a religion, they hate us too. Ha ha you know, call us the great Satan. Iran when we were negotiating with them for this nuclear deal and Do you we're giving them a pathway to the nuclear bomb and gave them over a hundred billion dollars? While we were doing that? They were texting out America is still the great Satan You know, look, a man, a nation is known by their friends, and we're also known by our enemies. I mean I have enemies. You have enemies? Anybody in here have enemies? I have some enemies. And I and I'm glad for my enemies as much as I'm glad for my friends, because that shows you where where we are or should be. Amen. We shouldn't be friends with the world. When we walk in, there should be just a little bit of, you know, who who are they? Huh? Right? Amen. Like like the folks that came in last night. We were sitting in in the restaurant, amen. And they were over there. They were over there. making paper airplanes and throwing them out at people. And I was talking to your pastor on a very spiritual level You know, and I kept on seeing these airplanes. You know, and they were No, no, but what I'm saying, they were having a good time. Wholesome Conversation aside from the airplanes. But that's a good tribute, that that who we are a as Christians. Look, folks, we need to be the personification of trusting in God and understanding that the devil hates the country and wants to do away with our heritage. If we don't take heed to the warnings in the Bible, our heritage will be taken away from us and that shouldn't happen. It should never happen. not on our watch. Jeremiah 17 and verse 4 says, And even thou, even thyself shall discontinue from thy in but from thy heritage. that I gave thee. I will cause thee to serve thine enemies in a land which thou knowest not. Hey, God told Israel, because you forgotten, because you forsaken me, because you started following false gods He said, I'm going to take your heritage away from you. We have a Christian heritage. Most people don't even know it. Most people don't know our heritage. We've forgotten so much. We don't even know our simple history. Who's first president of the United States? George Washington. George Washington. No, he was the ninth president. There were eight presidents before George Washington. He was and and I'm not picking on you. That's what everyone says. I could ask anyone in this room, they would have said that same thing There were eight presidents that were our president under the Continental Congress. So, folks, what I'm trying to get across to you is this: these men trusted in God because they were presidents during the War for Independence. Leading up to the war for independence. You understand? The first president of the United States was John Hansen. John Hanson Highway. How many have you heard of that? I bet you didn't know John Hanson was the first president of the United States. We don't know the true story of Paul Revere. We don't know a lot of the facts of our country because They have been robbed from us because revisionist historians who were godless didn't want God involved in our history, so we took God out. I'm going to be sharing some of those stories that we have forgotten and understanding that we have a great heritage. Our heritage is this, that we trust in God. It's etched in our history, in God we trust. It's etched in our money. And a lot of times she will say, Well, Brother Harney, it seems like our nation is beginning to dwindle in its wealth We are the wealthiest of all the nations on earth, but our wealth is only a reflection of God's blessings. And when we start diminishing our trust in God, guess what? God starts decreasing us. Isaiah 26, 15 says, Thou hast increased the nation, O Lord. Thou hast increased the nation. Thou art glorified. Thou hast removed it far. unto all the ends of the earth. Job 12 in verse 23 says, hear me now, he increaseth the nations and destroyeth them. He enlargeth the nations and straighteneth them again. And I would submit to you, our nation is being diminished in its peace and prosperity, and the reason why is because our trust in God is diminishing. So we as Christians need to start once again bringing that guiding principle back to our nation again in God we trust. Alright, so with me today, say amen. I'm almost done. It's only 10 after 12. Okay? Are we okay? I'm almost done. Alright? Everyone okay? Shake your little heads up and down. Okay. Reagan said our nation's motto and God we trust was not chosen lightly. It reflects a basic recognition that there is a divine authority in the universe which this nation owes homage to. So lastly, and I close, we must have God and the trust of God, and the motto, in God we trust. Not only remembered in our history, not only looked upon in our money to remind us our trust is not there, but also in God we trust needs to be etched in our hearts. If we are to continue to be a great nation. Individually, it was etched in the hearts of people in the Bible, as it says in Hebrews 11. Proverbs 3, 5, and 6 says, Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, and lean not to thine own understanding in all thy ways. Acknowledge him and he shall direct thy path. I don't know about you, but I want God to direct my path, don't you? The paths of and the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord. I see, I I'm glad that my home's not in hell. I gl I'm glad I have a home in heaven. And and uh I I'm glad that that uh I married my wife. Now my wife I I didn't know at the time, but when I married my wife, she wasn't saved. I didn't know that. I just got saved. So I didn't realize that she wasn't saved. And so uh I went to, first time I went to church, it was an independent, Bible-believing, fundamental Baptist church. Talk about the providence of God. Amen. I was invited to go there. And my wife came with me, of course. We were newlyweds. I was 21, she was 18. And this is what my wife said. My young blonde-haired, blue-eyed wife said to me, I'm not going back to that church anymore. I said, what? She said, I'm not going back to that church anymore. See, she was under conviction. Because that pastor had preached about salvation by grace through faith plus nothing. That's the only way you're going to get to heaven. Amen. No other way The Lord said, I am the way, the truth, the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. The world says there's a bunch of different ways. God says only one way. And my wife, she opened up those baby blues She said, I'm not going back to church anymore. I said, I'll give you a choice. She said, okay. I said, either you can go with me as my wife on my arm. Or if I decide we're going back to that church and you say no, I I'll pick you up, throw you over my shoulder. And carry you in fireman style and put you down the pew next to me. Because now you're my wife and I'm your husband and you're gonna do what I tell you to do Now guys, I don't recommend this. I had no social graces at all at that time, okay? So the Lord let me get away with that, okay? But my wife said, What'd you say, honey? She said, I think I'll go with you as your wife on your arm. I said, Good choice. A couple months later she got saved. I'm glad about that. You know why? Because what we did and what anyone else does when they accept Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior. They get out of a sentence of death. But we had a sentence of sentence of death in ourselves that we should not trust in ourselves. But in God, which raiseth the dead, who delivereth us from so great a death, and doth deliver, and whom we trust that we that He will yet deliver us. My parents did a great job at Christmas. They really did. They bought us kids what we wanted. As much as they could. And we my sister and I lived on the second floor and we had stairs. And my sister should low she would lower me down by my ankles at Christmas time to see if the gifts were there yet And if they weren't, she'd pull me back up. Well, one particular Christmas morning she lowered me down by my ankles. And I said They're there! And she let go. You know, all the way down, got a head start on her. Okay. But I can remember by the time I was five years old, I knew what a gift was I I I I knew if it had my name on it. My mom and dad had worked and paid for it, picked it out, wrapped it up, it was mine. Now one time, as far as I can remember, even five-year-old kids, did I ever not have enough sense to say, mine? And unwrap it in the cornucopia paper, you know. And sometimes even help my sister unwrap hers. Yeah. She didn't appreciate that. I don't know why, but in any case But you understand that God's given us the greatest gift in time and eternity. It's wrapped up in His love and His blood of sacrifice. And he's given it to us. And there are people, and there may be in the size of this congregation this morning, someone that hasn't accepted that gift yet But it's so easy to do so. The greatest gift was paid for when Jesus Christ died on the cross for us. And he basically gave us, offered us the gift of eternal life. And all we need to do is, you can't accept a gift unless you go towards the gift giver, right? You turn from your way, you go to God's way. That's repentance. Hey, conviction is when the Lord says, I got a gift for you, and you go, see, you stop and you go, oh. Right? So conviction, you stop. Repentance, you turn from your way, you go to God's way, willing to live a life through Him, not cleaning up yourself, just coming to Him exactly the way you are, take that gift, unwrap it And it's the greatest gift. It's the gift of eternal life. That one time forever you accept it and you're on your way to heaven. Now I don't know about you, but there there probably is one person in here you've never accepted the gift. Well don't walk out of here today without doing that. Amen. And and then here's the other part of the invitation. What are you trusting in today? Our nation's motto is, in God we trust. What are you trusting in today? So you know what? I'm going to reaffirm a trust in God. And I'm going to start again reevaluating really where I and if it all went away, if it all went away. Would I still trust in him? And maybe putting a little more trust in him would keep it from all going away. So two invitations today. Our motto is in God we trust. May it be etched in our history, on our money. All eyes closed, all heads bowed. Let me ask this one question first of all. How many would say, Bill Harding, you know You're right. I've never, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Savior, but I've never actually trusted him and asked him for that gift of eternal life. I've never actually accepted Jesus Christ as my Lord and Savior, although I know he is the Lord and Savior. Brother Hein, would you pray for me? Would you slip your hand up? Let me pray for you. Who's like that today? Pray for me, Brother Harding. I don't know for sure that I'm going to heaven. Here's my hand. Take some courage to do this Say, I'm not sure, Brother Harding, that I'm on my way to heaven, but I want to make sure. And no one's going to come to you, no one's going to embarrass you. But you say, just pray for me, Brother Harding. And the pastor and I are the only two people there looking around. Slip your hand up and pray for me, Brother Hardy. Anyone like that? I am not positive that I'm going to heaven, but I am positive I don't want to go to hell. Here's my hand. Anyone like that? Okay. Good. All right, if you would look right up here at me. Just for a second. A little different of an invitation this morning. Okay And you say, Brother Hardy, you know what? I I I'm I'm maybe trusting too much in this thing or that thing, and and maybe I just need to reaffirm that I have a trust in in God, that I'm trusting in Him And so if you would please stand to your feet and you say, you know, that's me, and I'm going to come down this morning an old-fashioned altar, and I'm just going to get down before God, and I want to in all of my ways acknowledge Him. And so, Brother Harding, uh I'm I'm going to come and I'm going to pray about that this morning. Just kind of reaffirm my trust and and uh and I'm going to be in my place tonight again to see what we can do for my country. for what God has given to me, my family here as a citizen, not only of heaven, but a a citizen of this great nation. And so as the piano plays and God's touched your heart