Thank you so much, brother. Amen. I was gonna say the very same thing. I enjoyed so much our fellowship today. In fact, uh we went in this little Mexican restaurant restaurant up here and I had one of my coffin attacks, so that cleared out about half the people. The lady behind me kept she wanted to say something to me, she just didn't have the guts And uh I couldn't help but I was my wife could go going to the bathroom, go in the bathroom, go in the bathroom. I'm not going to the bathroom trying to trying to keep a coughing a lung up, you know. And then uh then we got to talking about the Lord and we got louder and louder and there's one more couple and finally they cleared out. They couldn't take it either, so but we did really enjoy the fellowship and I enjoyed getting to know your pastor better and And you you listen, if you're with Jason and me both, you have to compete for words. Uh we my wife just sets an awe sometimes that we can go for days without shutting up. And it can't have all been righteous because we say so much. I always have to go back and repent of things that I've said Because I know there's things that I shouldn't have said, but that's what wives are for, you know that don't ya? Yeah, I I keep bruises on on either one leg or the other under the table when I'm with other preachers Because my wife is constantly kicking me. She's either kicking me telling me I maybe shut up. It's time to leave. I'm being rude, or I'm saying something I shouldn't say. I need her to start with one kick, double kicks, or three kicks to let me know which one they are. But all I'm had to do was shutting up. So Amen. Take your Bibles this evening. The John chapter 3. We're going to start there, then we'll be going over the book of Romans. John chapter 3. It's good to see a good group out tonight. Good crowd here. We appreciate so much your faithfulness. We had all that fog today, but it could have been snow. And it wasn't. So we'll take that. And we'll take whatever the God gives, amen. He's good no matter what, isn't he? He's good no matter what. I like that. John chapter 3, we're going to read just two verses down there, verse 35 and 36. The Father loveth the Son. And hath given all things into his hand. He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life, and he that believeth not the Son shall not see life. But the wrath of God abideth on him. Well, God in heaven this evening, cleanse my heart. Lord, the greatest thing that I fear when I get before people is that I will have to give an account one day. Of what I said, what I did, and the condition of my heart when I did it. So, Lord, this evening, do a work in me even now. Father, may my heart and mind be saturated with your word. Lord, these people have come out tonight willing to do so, being faithful and obedient to the word. And Lord, we want life change to take place tonight. We want people to grow. Lord, they're not here to judge this preacher. They're not here to judge the word. They're here to be judged of the word. And Lord, may they open their hearts and allow the convention of the Spirit of God to work in their lives. May we understand and realize tonight that we are an open book to the world. And we're definitely an open book to you. That we cannot hide our sin and there's there's a penalty to pay for our sin. And just like We cannot hide our sin. We cannot hide the light that is in us as we're born again. We're compelled to tell others and to be a light. And most of all tonight, Father, may we remember and realize that you're in control of all things. And no matter how it may seem dark at times to us, like the message last night with Job, there's a purpose. It's a rotation of the world that revolves because you made it so. And as the world revolves, so our lives revolve, and you allow the circumstances of life to glorify yourself, because it's not about me, it's about you. Glorify your name now. And all that's said and done, and we'll give you the praise and honor for it in Jesus' name. Amen. We started Sunday morning in Sunday school. Talking about discernment. How that you're either carnal or you're spiritual. Or you're either spiritual or you're carnal. There's no in-between. Uh you're either right or you're wrong. You're either disobedient or you're obedient. Uh listen Uh, you're either in the right hand of God or you're in the left hand of God. What are you saying, preacher? Well, you're either a believer or you're an unbeliever. A believer, listen to me now, a believer is a person who has the righteousness of God in and on his life. An unbeliever has the wrath of God on his life. There is no middle ground My God, the Father, loved his son so much that he put all things in his hand. And you've got to remember and you've got to realize whether you're a healer out in the streets, you're in the nightclubs or in the bars, or you're sitting in this church. You either have the righteousness of God on you or the wrath of God on you. There is no in-between I am either reaping the consequences of my sin, or I'm reaping the consequences of his righteousness. There is no in-between. Jason and I had a discussion even today talking about the circumstances of life and the sins of the Father and the sin that we were born with. And the sins that I commit. We don't get away from any of it. Whatever you sow, you reap. And that's the law that laid down by God. You know, back when uh Katrina happened, you I heard preachers getting up and say, Well, you know, it's a judgment of God on New Orleans. Now listen to me a minute. God doesn't have to put his judgment on New Orleans. Listen, God judges a nation according to their doing. God judges a man according to his doings. If you live righteously, God rewards you according to your righteousness. That he's given you. If you live a sinful life, then you're going to pay for that sin. If a city is given to the devil, then it pays the consequences of that. That's the law that God set down his word. This is the legislation of God. It cannot be changed. I cannot rewrite this book. What he says is what we preach. I have nothing else to preach. I don't want to preach anything about this. Now tonight we have a visual. Take your Bibles with me and turn to the book of Romans, chapter 1. The book of Romans, chapter 1. I like using things that people deal with all the time. People go around because that way, every time that you look at that object, I want you to think about this message I liked I like doing it that way. I preached a message about seven years ago on the penny. And uh I've got a church I go to and every time I walk in this guy will go to reaching and digging in his pocket and he pulls out a penny And he'll give me the points of that message because he says every time I look down at a penny, I think about that message. That's the way I like it. I like it when you've got something visual that you're looking at. Now those are unique things when you think about a mailbox I don't know if you ever see him. You see him on Facebook because you're on Facebook. But every once in a while you get some redneck, you know, that's got their mailbox on on Facebook. Uh uh well, at least I do because I got a bunch of redneck friends, you know We're all gun toters, so you know. And I don't know if you saw the mailbox of the uh gun. You see that one? I'd be honest, but I love that. I'd love to have it. It's just a lot of work. I mean it looks like a big revolver and the barrels where you're your mail goes in. You know. Doesn't that identify you? Well there's no doubt about what that guy believes in. Amen. That guy believes in God. The truth of the matter is, your mailbox identifies you The outside of it identifies you, everybody puts their name on their mailbox. Or their address on their mailbox. Address is where you dwell. It's where you live. Your name identifies who you are. And I don't know if you ever think about it, but the mailman knows all about you too. He knows how many bills you get. And he knows what the bills are, doesn't he? He knows how many checks you get in the mail. Hey, he knows when the IRS is trying to get hold of you. He delivers the foreclosure notice. Right? So it's not just what's on the outside, it's what goes on in the inside, right? So a mailbox is kind of a good picture of you. And it identifies you outside and inside. Now looking there in Romans chapter 1, and y'all just gonna have to put up with me this evening, Jackie made me a toddy. Where's Jackie at? She wouldn't try it. She just got it for me. So if I go to kind of looping around up here, she filled up with mic oil or something. Really it smells it's apple cider vinegar and honey and a little bit of tea and And I'll hopefully keep this stuff cut. I've got one more antibiotic cake tonight and then I'm gonna probably die tomorrow. That's the way it's going. In Romans chapter 1, when most people think of Romans chapter 1, they think that man was without no excuse. And then they think about the second half of the chapter. Don't you most of you think that way? You think of the second half of the chapter where we deal with the depravity of man. I mean that's what I think of when I think of Romans chapter 1. But I'm not going to start there because there's a better story to tell first. Starting there in verse 1, the Bible says, Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, called to be an apostle, separated unto the gospel of God which he had promised before by the prophets in this holy scriptures, in the Holy Scriptures, concerning his Son Jesus Christ, our Lord, which was made of the seed of David according to the flesh, and declared to be the Son of God with power, according to the Spirit of Holiness, by the resurrection from the dead. By whom we have received grace and apostleship for obedience to the faith among all nations for his name. Among whom are ye also the called of Jesus Christ To all to be in Rome, beloved of God, called to be saints, grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for you all. That your faith is spoken of throughout the whole world. Don't you appreciate that? For God is my witness whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel of His Son, that without ceasing I made mention of you always in my prayers. Making request, if by any means now at length I might have a prosperous journey by the will of God to come unto you. For I long to see that I may impart unto you uh use some spiritual gift to the end ye may be established. That is, that I may be conf uh confront comforted together with you by the mutual faith, both of you and me. Now I would not have you ignorant, brethren, that oft times I purpose to come unto you, but was let hitherto, that I might have some fruit among you also, even as among the Gentiles. Now I want you to concentrate now on 14 Through 16, I am a debtor, both to the Greeks and to the barbarians, both to the wise and to the unwise. So as much as in me, I am ready to preach the gospel to you. That are Rome also. For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth, to the Jew first, and to also the Greek. So if you notice there in 14 says, I am A debtor. Verse 15 says, I am ready to preach. And verse 16 says, I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. This is the three IMs of the Apostle Paul of Romans chapter one. But then it starts there in verse 17, for therein. In other words, because of this For therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith, as it is written: the just shall live by faith. In other words, because of the righteousness of God, I am a debtor. Because of the righteousness of God, I am ready to preach Because of the righteousness of God, I am not ashamed of the gospel. That's what the Apostle Paul is talking about. See, we have a dividing line between 17 and 18. The one is the righteous of God, the right hand of God. The next verse, verse 18, deals with the wrath of God. We want to get the wrath of God. I want to deal with the righteousness of God first. In Romans chapter 3, look over there at Romans chapter 3, and I want quite a bit of scripture because I'm gonna lay a foundation for myself. But now the righteousness of God Verse twenty one. But now the righteousness of God without the law is manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets, even the righteous of God which is by faith of Jesus Christ unto all and upon all them that believe, for there is no difference. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God, being justified free by the grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. Do you know what metal stands for redemption? Silver. Silver is a picture of redemption. You're not going to see any silver in heaven, folks. Because the redemption is always done. We're going to see the deity of God when we get to heaven. Hey, we need the silver now. Now, ladies, what do you have to do with silver if it's real silver? Keep it nice. What do you have to do to it? You have to polish it, don't you? See, that's why I die daily, preacher. I die daily because God's constantly having to polish me. Amen. He's wanting me to stay shiny so the world might see that he has the ability to not only redeem me, but to redeem you also. It's a good picture of redemption. Now, in the Old Testament, if we go back and take the time, there in Proverbs chapter 25, the Bible says, Take away the dross from the silver, and there shall come forth a vessel for the finer In other words, listen, you have to purify silver. So when God saved me, he gave me the righteousness of God, he removed the drops. That's the impurities, that's the waste, that's the dirt. Okay? And God then removed that, he refined me, and that's why we go through the fire of suffering like Job did last night We deal with that suffering because as we go through suffering, God refines us. That he might be able to shine us. That we might be the pictures of the righteousness of God. Now, we can define righteousness of God in a lot of different ways, but I like to let the Word of God do it. Isaiah chapter 61, verse 10. Let me just read it to you. I will greatly rejoice in the Lord. My soul shall be joyful in my God, for he hath clothed me with the garments of salvation. He hath covered me with a robe of righteousness, as a bridegroom decketh himself with ornaments, and as a bride adorneth herself with her jewels. The acceptance of God. That's what righteousness is. Righteousness is. What is my righteousness? Most of you people say born-again people. What is the righteousness, man? It's filthy rags, isn't it? So is my righteousness acceptable in God? Shake your head or something. Is it? Of course not. No, no, the righteousness of God makes me acceptable unto God. That's what it makes me. But God has to get rid of the cross. He has to listen, he has to give me a new mind after giving me a new heart that I may be acceptable on a daily basis to Him That I might, listen, I might stay in the right hand of God, I might stay in the righteousness of God. He wants me to be righteous before him. Listen, folks, this isn't done This isn't done until I go home home to me with the Lord or he comes and takes us out of here. I was sitting I was I was one of the last in fact I believe we were the last pastor to have Harold Seitler in our church I had a young man in my church that went down to South Carolina and he went to school there and so he spent two years driving Harold Seitler around. And just he just wanted to be with him. He said, you don't know how many times he's written a sermon on a McDonald's napkin right before he preached. He said I'd be sitting, he said he loved French fries and he'd stick them down to ketchup, take a big bite, and write another note on his McDonald's napkin. He said, I've seen him preach to 250 preachers, and it was a message of McDonald's napkin And he sat with me and my dad that day, and he was telling us the woes of being a pastor at 87 years of age. He said, don't expect it ever getting easier. He said it never gets any easier. He said, I've got headaches and heartaches right now, just like I did when I was a 20-year-old kid. He said it never gets. He said, in fact, if it ain't gets worse. Hey, listen, that's what I'm talking about this evening. So the acceptance of God through the sacrifice and substitution of the Son The forbearance of the Father, and I wish I had time to deal with that, and the sustaining power of the Spirit of God, that's what redemption is. That's what that mailbox is. That is me in the righteousness of God. Now, let's back up and let's look at it. What did it say? I am a debtor, both to the Greeks and to the barbarians, both to the wise and to the unwise. God's a male man. See, there's nothing good that comes from me. He delivers the righteousness to me. But remember something, absolute and just everything. I know for by grace are you saved through faith. But you do understand that absolutely everything that you do for God, everything, everything is through the grace of God. You do know it's through the favor of God that you're able to do anything. You know that your very breath comes through the grace of God. That's the favor of God. And did you know that you can't have any grace except by faith? It's not just through salvation, it's through everyday walk of life. My ability to understand the Word of God, my ability to witness, my ability to preach. My ability to do right, my ability to be a father, a husband, a son, a citizen, all of it is through the grace of God. Okay, when he says I'm a debtor, what's the apostle Paul talking about? He says I'm a debtor. Well, the thing he's talking about is that a bill to pay because it's a sinner You do understand you've got a bill to pay. You don't understand, preacher. I'm saved, I'm born again, I'm on my way to heaven this evening. He paid for all my sin. Yeah, so therefore you have a debt to him. You owe him. Well, don't look like a Catholic and at a gate. You owe him. You do owe him. The Apostle Paul understood that he owes the Lord Jesus Christ for the righteousness he's been given. Hey, listen, God punishes us to glorify himself. I owe a debt because my debt has been paid. Because my debt has been paid in full. Therefore I owe it to everybody I come in contact to. Listen, my life is not my own. And so therefore the Apostle Paul says, I am a debtor. I owe God the responsibility of telling others and being what I'm supposed to be through the righteousness of God in other people's lives. I owe it. I owe it to live holy and to live righteousness before righteous before man. Mark 10, 45 says, For even the Son of Man came to be ministered unto, but to minister and to give his life a ransom for many. That's what redemption is all about. So do I win any last to the world? Do you owe any less? I mean we got a good crowd here tonight. I appreciate you being here. But you're the crowd getting preached to. I can't preach if people didn't come. It's you that gets the preaching. And I don't care what age you are, and I love it that I've got older now, preacher, because I can say it to everybody. I when I was a younger man I couldn't harp to the older folks, but I'm older now, so I can get everybody We have a responsibility. I don't care what age. I've got an elderly lady, she's almost 90 now, she's in a nursing home, and she called Jason recently and she said, Jason, I just don't understand why the Lord just don't go ahead and take me to the home to be at the Lord. And Jason asked her a question, said, Well, Sister Jerry, are you still handing out tracts? Well yeah. Were you still witnessing for the Lord? Yeah. Have you got to leave by the Lord yester lately? She goes, well yelled just recently. I got to believe the Roman Catholic priest of the Lord She goes, Well, Jerry, you may you may live to be 150. Because you're still leading people to Jesus Christ. You're still been a servant of the Lord. She's the one we st I we tell you about. Her and her husband give tracks out in the place. Well she's in nursing home now and she hey listen, she's still giving them out. And she gets you on the phone and she's going to pray at least three or four times. She's one of my prayer warriors. I want Jerry praying for me. You know what? She understands she owes a debt. She never got over getting saved. She never got over it. How do you get over getting saved? I on debt. Amen. Aren't you glad tonight he paid it all for you? I don't know about you, but this deals with the righteousness of God. This is my favorite one. I love this one. Don't you love credit cards? Twenty-eight percent interest Yeah. Got bad credit, 55% interest. You're really getting a deal if you got 18% interest, you know. That way you're only paying on $1,000 for 55 years Well, that's the way the world pays. Amen. That's the way the world pays. But see, did it not only say there, he says, I am a debtor both to the Greeks and to the barbarians, both to the wise and unwise, but he says, so As much as in me, I am ready to preach. Wow. I am ready to preach the gospel. You get a roam also. What gave them the ability to be ready? You ever think about it? How did he know he was prepared? I mean, I love hearing sermons about the Apostle Paul going to Rome knowing he's going to get killed over it. And the guy was tickled about the thing. You just couldn't scare Paul because he was always ready to preach. I'll never forget I was called to preach at Asian 17. And I love telling it because the man that led my dad to the Lord was an evangelist by the name of Larry Clayton. Larry's still in evangelism, he's in his 80s. And he led my dad to the Lord, and then uh we became real close friends as a family. And my dad had a good job and my dad would drive Larry around and Larry come back from a meeting and uh he found out that I was I I surrendered my life to preach. And he said, you're going to be out on bus visitation on Saturday. I said, yeah, I'll be here. He said, why won't you go out with me? I said, well man, I was excited. I get to go out with the evangelist of the church now. I got there on Saturday morning and I jumped in the car with Larry and he drove straight downtown Cleveland. Took us about 30 minutes right downtown Cleveland. We got right downtown And we get out at the bus station, and he pulls out an old milk crate, sets it down, and he gets up and starts just preaching, man, right there in the bus stop. Preaches for about four or five minutes and man he just ho and I'm standing there attracts my hand I'm doing he just preaching and people walking by and all of a sudden he stepped down and he said your turn I said, what? He said, your turn. I said, now I said, I don't have anything ready. He said, well, you called a preach or aren't you called to preach? He said, you saved? I said, yeah, I'm saved. He said, you got a testimony of salvation? I said, yeah. He said, well tell, give me your testimony, son. Get up there. If you're called a preach, let's preach I from that day on I had a sermon ready. From that on. And he did it to me three or four times. He did it to me in a foreign country where I didn't know the language with an interpreter. That was the way Larry is. Hey, listen What am I saying? Well I'm saying that they listen, God gave me a credit card when I got saved that prepared me. It's called imputed righteousness. See, when I was born, I had sin imputed to me. It was charged to my account. I couldn't pay the debt off. Kind of like most credit cards today. That's the way the world is. You never pay the world off. You understand that, don't you? You never can pay the world off. But see, when Jesus died for me, he paid the sin for yesterday, today, and tomorrow He paid it all off. And when he did that, here's the good part, then he turned around and he delivered to me a credit card. And it's called Imputed Righteousness. And here's what he said. He said, Howard, you can never outspend my goodness. You can't ever outspend my righteousness. That's what imputation means. He imputed to me his righteousness and he said, Howard, listen, listen, no matter where you go in life, I will always enable you with the power and the words to do what I want you to do. I will always, I will always enable you. See, as long as I'm obedient to God I've accepted the Lord Jesus Christ as my Savior. And I don't allow dross to come back into my life. To where he can keep me shined up, God will always be delivering and working through me that others that drive by me might see the righteousness of Jesus Christ. Isn't that good? I mean I listen, you can't outspend God. There's listen, like this one, no credit line. Isn't that good? I think that's good. I think that's exciting to know that there's no credit line on the righteousness of God. I can't face any circumstance in this life that he will not meet for me. Sister Jackie's going to be going to see her mom in the morning before she has surgery. Praying for her daddy to get saved. God's there. His grace is efficient. You know what I've learned? It never works out the way I expect it to. Ever. But he's always there. He's always good. He's always meeting the need. He's just like with Job. He's going to give a double portion back. I've just got to be faithful. depending upon the righteousness of God, knowing at all times I'm in the hand of God. Hey, listen, when he saved me, he put me in his hand. And he didn't put me there to rest. He put me there to serve and to identify to the world. And for me to, hey, listen, everybody that drives it down my street to see the righteousness of God in and through me. I mean even the intimate people Even the people that don't like me, even the people that want to cast stones, they're always going to see his goodness. He's going to keep me shined up. Amen? Isn't that good? I think that's good, folks. Then he comes over and does something else for me. Wow. I like this one. The power of God. The preservation of God. You do know who you belong to tonight, don't you? See, what does he say right there in that next verse? He says, For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. For it is the power of God into salvation to everyone that believeth, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. See, God revealed from faith to faith the righteousness of God in us for what purpose? For what purpose? That I might be a debtor to him, that I might be ready to preach, and he'll prepare me. That I might be, listen, with all confidence, be empowered by him, because I belong to him. Hey, listen, I don't know how you are, but I'm like Mefitoshev. I'm the little crippled guy. I'm the useless guy. I don't deserve to be at the king's table. Hey listen, I got there through the back streets. But I'm there. And I'm I'm King's clothes. Why don't we have that mindset today? Hey, listen, I say it all the time, why are we chickens scratching in the mud when we could be eagles flying? I love the picture in my mind. I like those pictures in my mind. I belong to the Son of God. Therefore, I am not ashamed. I listen, I'm in a world of blind people. I'm in a world of people that are groping along the walls That listen, they have no direction in life. They're pleasure seekers. They don't see the need for God. They have no use for God. Hey, listen, I want them to see that I belong to the Son of God. There's something different about me. I wanted to spend a little time with me. Like what you just said a little bit ago? Hey, like-mindedness, single focus. That's why we can listen, we can go from acquaintance to brothers to friends. We can go to loving each other. Hey, I prayed for him. Now I can really pray for him because he's a friend. How does that happen? Because we spend time with each other. How much time do you spend with him, folks? It's not works. It's the grace of God. Romans 5, 2 says, by whom also we have access, don't you like that, by faith into this grace wherein we stand and rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. I have access to Him. Isn't it great that we went downstairs this evening and all of us those men sitting down at the table had access to God at the same time? Isn't that good? You know, I was just talking to a preacher while we were downstairs. My dad has Alzheimer's, and I've not been able to talk to my dad now for about three, three and a half years. And my dad lays in a bed and my dad's mind no longer works that we are aware of But my dad lays and cries and prays. And you know, I've just got this hope that my dad still has access to the Father through the Spirit of God I just gotta believe that the Spirit of God dwelling in him and his spirit are communing, even though the flesh is not aware of it. I think my dad is just ready to shed that old body off Don't you think that's where we should be all the time? Just ready to shed this old body off, and I'll stand in this body, and I'll serve in this body, and I'll represent him in this body, and I'll display the rare the redemption power of his And I will display all the things he can do until he takes me out of this body. But don't you think we should be communing with him all the time? Don't you think we should display the ownership of God all the time? I belong to him to see him. I listen, I have my deed of ownership. It's right here. It's the blood of Jesus. Jesus Christ to the cross where he sacrificed himself rose again and sets on the right hand of the Father now. Isn't that good? That's good, man. That's good. Now look at verse 18. And just draw you a big line in your Bible across there. Because you go from the righteousness of God to 18 for the wrath of God. It's the same revelation, the same revealing. But we go from righteousness to wrath You're either in one hand, listen to me, or you you're in the other. I've got to live long enough now, and I pastored in the same church long enough to be twenty-seven years in one church. I actually got to watch generations of kids grow up that I told them so. You know what I'm talking about. And then watch those kids that actually grew up in the church come back to me at the ages of 23, five twenty-three, twenty-five, twenty-seven, and all of a sudden all that cockiness and all that rebellion is squashed. All that's left is that skeleton of disobedience. That's all that's left. And they're broken down by the world. See, you're no match for the devil in the world. It'll kick you in the stomach and it'll leave you out. See, you're either under the righteousness of God, where his righteousness is revealed in you, or you're under the wrath of God. You do understand that. You do understand in the book of Hebrews, it makes it very clear that God's a consuming fire. That's not settled with you, is it? You do understand that when you march over the body of Jesus Christ, That you've offended God. See, you offended him in your sin. He couldn't dwell with you, he couldn't be around you. But when you reject his son, You have the wrath of God abiding on you. That's what the scripture said, wasn't it? Because are not all things in his hand? Is that not sobering to you? That sobers me. Verse 19 says, Because that which may be known of God is manifest in them, for God has showed it unto them. For the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power in Godhead, so that they are without excuse. Because of that, when they knew God, they glorified him not as God. Look at that minute. Understand something. Man will always, listen, always worship. Always. Man will always worship. We are created in the image of God, and God instilled in man the desire to worship. It's just what are you going to worship? Or who you're going to worship? Man is always going to worship. For the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are pleased to him being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power in Godhead, so that they are without excuse, because that when they knew God They glorified him not as God, neither were thankful, but became vain in their imaginations. A man that knows God is God and then turns his back on God gives himself over to vain imaginations. You understand where I'm coming from? Uh listen, when you were ever a kid and you watched a John Wayne movie and the next thing you knew, you were out in the yard pulling your six guns, riding your horse? Yeah. You're shooting them up. Or you're out playing Army after watching Army. I can I can sit down and watch an Army movie with Jason's boy Ben, and as soon as that movie's over with, that boy's up shooting Ben He's mowing down his sisters. He's mowing down mom. I mean he's karate chopping something. He's acting something. You know, what's he doing? Well, he's using his imagination And you know what? We always, in our imagination, elevate ourselves. Do we not? That's what it's talking about here. Because when they knew God, they glorified him not as God. Neither were they thankful, but became vain of their imagination, and their foolish heart was darkened. Foolish heart, unbelieving in God. Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools and changed the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image made like the corruptible beast, and to birds and the four-footed beast and creeping things. So when we have under rest right off the bat. You ever get this stuff in the mail? Don't you just love junk mail? I mean I'm telling you, I there for a while, I it's not as bad as it used to be. Used to be uh at our church you couldn't you couldn't open a mailbox with a junk mail. I mean and and uh and uh what is it, the c clearinghouse sweepstakes I mean you fill out one man of cheese, man, and you're you're getting forty pieces of mail a day for the next four months. I you know that that's foolish to fool that stuff. I that's where I hate going into a convenience store. I despise it. Because I get behind somebody that's on welfare, that's getting four hundred dollars a month and they're spending five hundred on lottery tickets. That says the most foolish thing in the world. Isn't that vain imaginations? Yes. I mean that's a maybe a poor example, but that's what that is And they're so excited they spent four hundred dollars and they won twenty bucks and they're jumping all over the place. Did not they take school go in school and take math at all? Understand they just lost three hundred and eighty bucks Sitting there scratching at the table for the next 45 minutes? Oh, what are you saying? Well, listen, uh that's what the world's going to deliver to you. Worthless chunk. And what's that junk do? It promotes you. You're going to be the one in a million that wins the million dollars. You're going to be that one individual that can buy that tool that costs $9. 99 and you're going to get three of them that's going to change and make your life so much easier. You're going to buy that one little tool and you won't ever have to cook again. It's going to do all your cooking for you. Until it breaks and you have to use a second one and then the third one by the fourth day you've got to buy three more. You say you're just being cynical. No, I'm just telling you the truth. See, the worship of any other thing or person rather than God is called what? It's called idolatry. And that's what man does. He promotes man. Now, if I promote man, that means I demote God. But did not Job, in all the story last night, come to the realization that God was everything and that he was nothing? So under redemption, I'm nothing. In the wrath of God, I promote myself And I demote God. And I don't just demote God all at once. That's what the scripture is talking about here. It says, and change the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image like unto the corruptible man and to birds. So it starts at man. Then the birds. Then what does it say? Four-footed beast, and then creeping things. Who in the world wants to worship a tree that I can go out there and cut down with a chainsaw? But that's what we do. And you say, well, we don't do that. I was just telling a preacher today about a book I just finished called The Green Dragon on Environmentalism. Do you know the goal of environmentalists? In fact, let me clue this one on to you. I'll say it for preacher. This book out on Noah, this movie out on Noah, you know what the whole premise of that book is? Here's the premise of that book. That the reason that God destroyed man in the flood is so that they could perfect the world because the cancer on this earth is manned. And the only way to get the world right is to get rid of the cancer of man. That's why environmentalists hate children That's why the majority of people that control PETA in places like this have the women sterilize themselves. Because they know that the only way to get the planet right. Do you do understand something here? You do understand that you demoting God doesn't demote God And we cannot destroy this earth that's reserved for him. He's the one that's going to burn it up. You do understand that? I mean, I listen, I'm not I'm not for going out and cutting all the trees and pouring oil into the sea. I'm not for that, but you're not going to hurt this earth That's for him. Okay? We're not changing the climate. Uh we I don't believe in global warming. Amen, amen. I can say it, I'm preaching, you know, but we get to say it to the crowds that don't believe us at all all the time. That's junk mail. It promotes man and demotes God. That's what this point is talking about right here. Let's move on. I've got to get through here. Credit report. Don't you love credit reports? I've never seen so many commercials online and emails. And everybody's wanting you to check your credit card. Get your credit report up Everybody direct their credit report. Hmm. Romans 1. 24 there, look at it. Wherefore God also gave them up to uncleanness through the lust of their own hearts to dishonor their own bodies. Between themselves. I got news for you. Under the wrath of God, you don't match up. You get nothing but a bad credit report. I'm sorry. Romans chapter 6 and verse 19, the Bible says, I speak after the manner of men because of the infirmity of your flesh. For as ye have yielded, listen, yielded your members servants to uncleanness, and to iniquity unto iniquity, even so now yield your members servants to righteousness unto holiness What did he say there? He dishonored or shame on the divine purpose. Hmm. You know what he said? He dishonored himself. Wherefore God also gave them up to uncleanness to the lust of their own hearts to dishonor their own bodies? You can't get a loan. You can't buy a car because your credit report's too low. You do understand that that's where you're headed. Look at what's happening. You're not getting me on this one. I want you to get this. Verse 24, wherefore God also gave them up to uncleanness to the lust of their own hearts to dishonor their own bodies between themselves, who changed the truth of God into a lie and worshiped and served the creature more than the creator who is blessed forever Amen. What does it say? Wherefore God also gave them up. Folks, that's not passive, that's active. God gave them up. That means God delivered them up That means God drives right on by and leaves them to their own devices. God can't use them. God, listen, God can only deliver wrath unto them. He can only give them a bad credit report because they've dishonored their own bodies through their vileness. It says there I speak after the manner of men because of the infirmity of the flesh. That's a weakness of the body. You understand this, you promote yourself. And you're demote God, as you idolize other things in your life, you cannot be used of God. If you're here and you're not saved tonight, if you died, you're on uh listen and you went to the devil's hell, it's because the wrath of God abides on you Because you've not accepted the Lord Jesus Christ. You've walked over the body of Jesus Christ. And therefore God says, hey, listen, your righteousness is filthy rags. You don't meet the standard. This is a degeneration that we see here, okay? That's what's taking place. Look there verse 26. For this cause, God gave them up to vile affections. For even their women did change the natural use into that which is against nature. I want you to notice something there. In fact I just looked at it. It says for this cause God gave him up unto vile affections For even their women. You know, God gave a woman to us as a pure thing, as a holy thing. And when he says, For even the women, that's that's because of the vile affections of man That's what I want to bring up. I used bankruptcy a few minutes ago. When we become listen, we go past a credit report and bad credit score. We go right down to total poverty Bankruptcy. I always wondered why it was that when people finally came to the preacher, they were always in a state of total poverty. People don't come to the church to see the preacher. They don't seek out the things of God until they have no place else to turn. I'm not just this cynical here. That's the nature of man because he's so used to promoting himself, to lifting himself up and lying to himself. And he's got to where he believes them lying. Lies in the consciousness that's in him has been told so many times by the lies of the flesh that he believes that trash and that garbage For this cause God given up to vile affections for even the women to change the natural use into that which is against nature. Vile affections is extreme wicked passions and attachments. It's a It's an unnatural appetite. I've been dealing with people like that my entire ministry. When you're under the wrath of God, there's an unnatural appetite for the things of this world. And you you do you're constantly going downhill. Because listen, this world never satisfies, so listen, they just keep trying new and different things. And I know there's a perversion here, but don't you understand that to get to this point in life, there's a bankruptcy of souls? The sins that God says destroys your soul. The sins that we're talking about, the sins of Sodom and Gomorrah, the sins of America will destroy the soul of America. And we're impoverished. You do understand that whatever morality that is in the world today or in America today is not due to human nature. But to the restraining power of God. It's only, listen, it's only the hands of God that's holding it all back and holding it all together right now. I use this chat this these scriptures often in Mark chapter 7. The Bible says, and he said, That which cometh out of the man that defileth a man. For from within one of the heart proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders, thefts, covetousness, wickedness, deceit, mischievousness, an evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness. All these evil things come from within and defile the man. Proverbs 23 says, for the drunkard and the glutton shall come to Poverty and drowsiness shall clothe a man with rags. Now I know that's talking of the flesh, but the truth of the matter is we're we're a a world today that's got a an appetite. That leaves us drunk on the sin of the world. We have an appetite that's unnatural for pleasure. We can't get enough of it. Folks, we're we're you we're just a couple steps away from putting people in the arena and and and and killing each other and us applied it while we eat our hot dog and our popcorn. You do understand it, don't you It's because we're bankrupt spiritually. Because we're under the wrath of God. Because you're either under the righteousness of God or the wrath of God. Now this last one may throw you just a little bit. Let's read it first. And likewise also the men, leaving the natural use of the woman, burned in their lust one toward another man with men working that which is unseeming, receiving in themselves the recompense of their error which was to meet. And then verse 28 And even as they did not likewise to retain God in their knowledge, God gave them over to a reprobate mind To do those things which are not convenient. Being filled with all unrighteousness, fornication, wickedness, covetousness, and maliciousness, full of envy, murder, debate, deceit, malignity Whisperers, bagbiters, haters of God, despiteful proud bolsters, inventors of evil things, disobedient parents, without understanding, covenant breakers, without natural affection, implausible, unmerciful. Who knowing the judgment of God that they which commit such things are worthy of death, not only to do the same, but have pleasure in them that do them. Now we're dealing with those that become reprobate. Now, folks, this is only the second time I've preached this message. The first time I preached it, I had three different Christians walk up to me. And want to ask me, now listen, stay with me a minute. They wanted to ask me the question, can a reprobate person be saved? You're missing the whole picture here. See, under the wrath of God, once you reach the point of reprobate, she's a done deal, guys. But the point is, I don't know when someone is to that point. And it's not my job to know. I just know that there's two extremes. There's the extreme of the righteousness of God and the wrath of God. There's the Christian that's obedient and serving God and loves God and adores God and sets God up. And then there's the individual who exalts himself Worships other things, turns himself over to those vile affections, and he dulls his conscience to the point of place he does no longer know the difference between right and wrong. And we come down to a point in place where we need to do something. See, under the righteousness of God, I received all power, did I not? Okay, an individual that each reaches the end, who becomes reprobate, do you understand that he's powerless? He's the other extreme. Okay? I want you to turn to a passage. I want you to look at it. It's found in 2 Corinthians chapter 13, and I'm done. This is the Apostle Paul, and he's he's he's getting down to the end of the matter in 2 Corinthians. And I don't have time, I won't take the time. I should already be done. But 2 Corinthians chapter 13, the Bible says, for though he was crucified through weakness, Yet he lived by the power of God. For we also are weak in him, but we shall live with him by the power of God. Toward you. And then it says, I'm holding it up, examine yourselves. See, when I read Romans chapter one and I come down to where I'm turned over. To the reprobate mind. They're asking Paul a question here. And I absolutely love the way the Apostle Paul brings it back on him. Also, Paul had a way of just boomerang things. And he said, he said, examine yourselves, whether ye be in the faith, prove your own selves. Know ye not your own selves? How that Jesus Christ is in you, except ye be reprobate? Wow, I got to thinking about that. He says, listen, have you trusted in Christ? Are you in the righteousness of God? Is Jesus your Savior? Or are you reprobate? Under the wrath of God. He didn't leave any room in between, did he? He took us from one extreme all the way over to the other extreme. You're either under the righteousness of God, revealed as everybody goes by, they see Christ in you, or you're under the wrath of God. Examine yourself. But I trust that ye shall know that we are not reprobates. Now I pray to God that ye do no evil, not that we should appear approved, but that ye should do that which is honest Though we be as reprobate. I thought, what's he saying? What he's saying is this. He's saying, you watch me, and you watch the way I live. And then you determine, am I living in Christ or am I reprobate? That's what he's saying to them. He's saying, because I'm a debtor. I am ready to preach, and I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. How about you? Are you in the right hand of God? Are you in the left hand of God? Because all things are in his hand. Are you under the righteousness of God? are under the wrath of God. When the world drives by your house, when they pass you in Walmart, What do they say? Let's bow our heads together. It's bowed and eyes closed. You've been very patient with me this evening. But we then have patience. I've got to ask the question tonight. Now listen to me. Are you a Christian? Are you born again? Are you saved? Are you on your way to heaven? Are you without a shadow of a doubt in the hand of righteousness? Are you acceptable to God because you've accepted the finished work of Jesus Christ on the cross? Do you believe that Jesus died, was buried, and rose again for you? Have you confessed him as Savior? Have you repented of your sin and condition and thrown yourself at the mercy of God? And now are you adopted into his family? Are you a debtor to God tonight? Are you ready to preach? Do you have that imputed righteousness available in your life You know who you belong to tonight? Ask yourself those questions. How many would say, preacher, if I died tonight, I'm not sure that I'd go to heaven, but I'm concerned about my soul. Nobody's looking around. It's between you and me. Preacher, pray for me. If I died, I'm not sure I'd go to heaven. I'm concerned about myself. There's someone like that this evening. Just raise your hand up and back down. I want to pray for you. My prayer won't save you, but I want to be able to pray for you tonight that the conviction of the Spirit of God will draw you to repentance and you might be saved. Anyone at all? Now I know we have faithful people on a Monday night. But let me tell you something. We talked about it today. In fact I hardly get with the preachers and we don't talk about it I've never seen sin so readily available to the world today. If a man was going to sin 20 years ago, he had to go looking for it. Now he carries it on his belt. He can pick it up when he gets to the house. He can hit his remote and look at it. It's all available. He can have it delivered to his home. Sin has never been more available than it is today. And let me say something to you. We have people that are born again and saved, and and without even thinking about it. They have they've walked the path of ungodliness and stepped into unrighteousness. See, ungodliness is an offense to God, and unrighteousness is an offense to the brethren and to the world. And godliness deals with your relationship with God, but the unrighteousness that we see in this world today is an offense to everyone around us. And that's what it says right there in verse 18. That when the wrath of God is revealed, it's revealed because of the ungodliness and unrighteousness. And we have men and women today. I have I've seen more women walking off and leaving their kids than I've ever seen before. I've never seen the like of it. Well, that's unrighteous. That's ungodly. That's an offense. Well, see, more men and women did they get entrapped into the vices of pornography and And sin and laschievousness and wickedness. Folks, it just didn't start with that. It starts with moving from one hand to the other. We move ourselves into an idolatry. We think that the world owes us something and that we can worship ourselves and we can get away with our sin. Don't you understand that promotes you and it demotes God? Do we have someone here tonight who say, preacher? Right now, God's not polishing on me. Right now when the world drives by my house, when God delivers things into my mailbox, they're not things that I want other people to see. There's things in my life that's not right. It may just be a closet or it may be a whole floor, but there's things that are not right. You may be fooling everybody else around you, but you're not fooling God. And listen, you may not want to admit it, but if you're not into the hand of righteousness, you're in the hand of wrath. And let me tell you something. I don't know when it is, but once you get down to that last point, you better examine yourself And see where you stand. How many say, preacher, pray with me this evening? Pray with me this evening. There's things in my life. I'll admit it. And I need to get it right. I need to get it right. God bless you. God bless you. Listen, things are my. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you too. Let's stand to our feet.