I want to begin reading in verse eleven. We actually began this last week. We had the snowstorm and everything last week and affected us, so I'm going to come back to it and try and um uh touch on what we said and then finish up these thoughts here on this passage. I'm gonna begin in verse number 11 and I'm gonna read down through verse number 14. The Bible says wisdom is good with an inheritance, and by it there is profit to them that see the sun. For wisdom is a defense, and money is a defense. But the excellency of knowledge is that wisdom giveth life to them that have it. Consider the work of God. For who can make that straight which He hath made crooked? In the day of prosperity be joyful, but in the day of adversity, consider. God hath also set the one over against the other to the end that man should find nothing after him. I've entitled this passage, our thoughts along here, on uh in praise of wisdom. I'll be honest with you, in studying this portion of scripture here, it's not real clear, at least in my mind, as I look at it, what exactly he's getting at. And so I've tried to break it down into three thoughts, three um uh four key areas where is wisdom is vitally important. And I believe that's what he's dressing. So let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, we bow before you this evening, and it's been a good day. My heart is full uh the service this morning and the fellowship with my family today and and uh the rest we got now this evening. Lord was we finish out your day Together as the church, I pray that you would speak to our hearts. In a few moments, Lord, we're going to pause and we're going to search our own hearts and examine ourselves. Humble ourselves before you as we remember the tremendous price you paid for our salvation. I pray that you would use your word and a few thoughts that I have here as to prepare us for that and help us grow in our faith and be strong. So Lord, I ask you with all my heart this hour that you fill me With your Holy Spirit, I present my body to you and yield my will. And please teach us and help us in this matter. In Jesus' name, amen. We've been pointing out that chapter 7 is a turning point in the book of Ecclesiastes. Up to this point, Solomon has been given his testimony of what his life has been like, trying to live it simply under the sun, the exclusion of the Lord. He's trying to find meaning, he's trying to find fulfillment, he's trying to find purpose in only that which the world offers. He went to wealth. work, wickedness, he lived uh he went into tremendous debauchery, and all these things and human wisdom, and none of them brought fulfillment. All of it, what's his term? He said was Vanity and vexation of spirit under the sun. Then we get to chapter 7, as we pointed out, and there's a transition It's kind of like, in my mind anyway, he's reverting back a little bit to the proverb mentality. And he's beginning to share his observations As I see it, he's sharing his observations that he's made during this period of time where he has pushed God out of his life I am glad that no matter how far a person gets from God, the Lord can bring them back. The Lord can bring them back. As pastor, been here now working on 25 years in the ministry all these 30-some years, I've seen a lot of folks maybe get saved, they'll grow, they'll go in the Lord. And then something happens or whatever, the devil gets in there, the flesh gets in, and they fade away and they drop out. And I tell you, it's always encouraging to know that no matter how far a child of God may get God can always bring them back. God can always bring them back. Of course the prodigal son. So I believe perhaps Solomon is on the rebound. And he's beginning to share some of his wisdom, some of his observations, particularly about wisdom here. And if you'll remember, we pointed out last week, number one, wisdom and perspective. And that I took from the first ten verses that we already preached on. But the idea was this, is that a wise person, when we have wisdom, we are able to see ahead We are able to anticipate, to some extent anyway, the consequences of our decisions and our actions. If we remember, we pointed out a foolish person never gives any thought to what the consequences of my actions are going to be They never give any thought to what the consequences of the decisions I'm making are going to be. All they are concerned about is that the here and now, do I get something out of it now? What does it profit me here What does it profit me now? And they never think beyond that. Now I know for those that were here last week who already looked at it, but if you would turn with me to Proverbs chapter number 22. And this is such a significant verse. Every time I read this, I try to read one chapter of Proverbs every day throughout the month. and uh do that over and over through the year. Proverbs 22 and verse number 3 and then Proverbs 2712 says verbatim, the exact same thing. And notice what he says here, verse 3, a prudent man, or you could say a wise man, foreseeth the evil. He sees it coming. He looks ahead. Say, hey, you know, if I go down this road, this is where it leads to. If I make this decision, this is what's going to happen. He foreseeth the evil and hideth himself. He takes action. He modifies his behavior. He alters his decisions. Because he sees what the consequences are going to be. But those simple do what? They just pass on. And they suffer the consequences. They're punished And so I believe Solomon is telling us, getting back to Ecclesiastes here, he's telling us that as a as a uh uh uh wisdom uh I need to have correct perspective. A wise person has a perspe correct perspective on life. They're able to see beyond the present. So wisdom is having a clear perspective. Number Number two, we looked at this last week again, is wisdom and prosperity. Now we pick up our text. Wisdom is good with an inheritance, and by it there is profit to them that see the sun. Wisdom is a defense, he says, and money is a defense. But the excellency of knowledge is that wisdom giveth life to them that have it. And one thing is clear, again, for those that were here, this is a little repetitious, but one thing is clear, God's values are not our values. Even when we do our little survey, and I haven't mentioned this survey in a long time, but we developed a survey years ago. That thing is phenomenal. It's like the greatest survey that's ever come up uh in history of time, uh this survey. And I'll be glad to tell you how I came up with this tremendous survey. But it is pretty good, isn't it Ed That's a good survey. And what we do is we knock on doors and we go down and we ask these series of questions that leads into the gospel. It's tremendous. And we actually have seen a number of folks profess faith in Christ. But one of the questions, what I'm getting at, is one of the questions is this. Now we're out in the community These are not Christian people for the most part. These are just folks out there, many times unbelievers. And one of the questions we asked is this: Do you believe God's standards are the same as man's standards? And without exception, what do you think the answer is? No. Not one person I've ever interviewed of the hundreds we've used that with. Not one person has ever said, oh yeah, God's standards are the same as the world's. Everyone, even the unsaved, agree with us, God's standards, God's values Are higher than man's values. And so man values money. You go to the average unsaved person, and the most important thing in the world is accuring wealth. Getting money to do the things I want to do. And God doesn't deny, God doesn't deny the fact that money is important. The Bible speaks a lot about money The Bible speaks very pointedly, detailed about finances and our role as Christians and the role that money plays in our lives as Christians. So money in and of itself is not evil, that state that statement from Timothy that money is the root of all evil Did I quote that correctly? No, money is not the root of all evil. What is it? The love of money is the root of all evil. And so wisdom and prosperity, and Solomon is touching on this, and he dealt with it in detail earlier, but he's touching on this fact that wisdom handles finances correctly. I put this down. I mentioned this last week. Wisdom and prosperity make good companions. When God prospers someone, God blesses someone with finances, and that person is wise. They can have a powerful, powerful impact on the world. I think Brian and I were talking after the service last week about different examples in the Old Testament of men that were very, very wise And God blessed them with great prosperity and the impact they had upon their world and even on us today. Can you think of any from the Old Testament? Wise men that were very prosperous One Job is the one Brian uh mentioned. And how bro Job was perhaps one of the wealthiest men of his day, but he was incredibly wise. And what a powerful companion that is. What a powerful team that is, wisdom and wealth. I thought of Abraham Tremendously wealthy man, yet he was wise. And we pointed out, I believe it was last week, we pointed out that Solomon's investment, though he was tremendously wealthy His investment was not in this world, but he sought a city whose builder and foundations, whose builder and maker was God. And so he did not invest in great houses and great mansions. Rather, he left behind altars to the true and living God. And so wisdom and prosperity, we said, are tremendous companions. He says, for wisdom, verse 11, he says, wisdom is good with an inheritance. However, wealth, prosperity without wisdom can be devastating. Can be devastating How many times have we read in the news of different people who inherited a tremendous amount of wealth and they squandered away and destroyed their lives? Uh how many times have we read somebody who's really not that wise in financial things, but they play the they play the lottery and lo and behold they win millions of dollars And inevitably, more often than not, what happens to them? Their lives are destroyed. Their lives are destroyed. And some of us know personal examples of that. And so wisdom and prosperity. Wisdom is a, they make good companions. We said wisdom is a protection in prosperity. If God blesses us and God provides for us, and by the way, every one of us as Americans, we are prosperous. We are prosperous. It's amazing. We were talking, my family and I today were talking at lunch how folks sometimes, wealthy folks, we always see somebody else wealthier than us, you know I was talking with a a family one time, a couple one time, who are extremely wealthy, uh perhaps uh a millionaire, maybe multi millionaires. And we were talking about something, and uh she made the statement, we were talking about finance and stuff, and she made the statement, the missus did, she said, oh, those rich people, they do this. And I thought, those rich people, huh? Here I'm talking to someone that perhaps is a millionaire themselves. And so those rich people. Nevertheless, I got to get back, try and catch, remember what I was talking about here. But a wise man is someone who is able to handle their finances, and God blesses us and to be able to use that for God's glory. A poor man who is wise has the advantage over a rich man who is foolish. A poor man who is wise has the ad has a greater fulfillment in life than the poor a rich man who does not. And so now I want to get to the new area. I was trying to rush through that. Number three, here's my third observation here: is wisdom and providence. Look with me at verse number 13. Consider the work of God Now you can put in the margin of your Bible beside that the providence of God. The work of God, what God does. Consider the work of God, for who can make that straight, which he hath made crooked? A wise man, when we are wise, we understand ultimately God is in control. It is the fool who thinks that he is in control of this world. Man is foolish. Mankind is foolish. Man thinks that we're running the show, that we've got this thing under control. I'm telling you, there's a God in heaven who is ultimately in control. And a wise man recognized that. An old country preacher once said this, learn to cooperate with the inevitable. There are some things that no matter what you and I do, no matter how we prepare, no matter how we plan, there are some things that are inevitable that God in His providence is going to allow to happen And we've got to learn to cooperate with that. Learn to cooperate with the inevitable. We cannot fight God's providence. There are things God brings into our life, and we try to fight it and fight it and fight it. You know who learned that the hard way? Pharaoh. He fought the will of God, he fought the call of God, and he destroyed himself, and he destroyed his nation. Wisdom says there are some things in life I have no control over. There are some things in life I cannot change. And I must see God's hand in that, and I must accept that. God has given to us a free will. And we are responsible for the decisions we make. However We have no control over the consequences of our decisions. We must never confuse That fact that God is in control, never confuse and think that we do not have a free will. We do have a free will. God has allowed us to make choices. But we do not have the liberty to choose the consequences of those choices. Follow what I'm trying to say? I think that's a big reason why people lie. They try to manipulate the consequences. They try and alter the consequences. I was talking so it's been years ago, and they were lying about stuff, and they were lying about stuff. And I said, why are you lying about this? And they said, well, if I told the truth, then this would happen. And I said, what you need to do is let the truth determine the consequences. Don't try and manipulate the consequences. And a wise person says recognizes God is in control I can make my free will decisions. I can make whatever decision I want. I can choose to obey God or disobey God. I can choose to go this route or that route. But I cannot choose the consequences of those decisions That's why it's so heartbreaking working with young people. And you see them sometimes make irreparable decisions, decisions that cannot be changed. And know that down the road they're going to face consequences for that. What a heartbreak that is And so Solomon is saying here, wisdom and the providence of God. If you would, take your Bibles, come back to Proverbs chapter number 16 with me, if you would. And I want us to notice verse number nine. Proverbs 16 and verse number nine. A man's heart deviseth his way. All right, there's my free will. There's the decisions I make. But the what? Lord directeth his steps. I wrote in the margin of my Bible there, God is in control. God is in control. Wisdom is living a life of submission to the will of God. Um I got a poem. I came across a poem. That uh really spoke to my heart. It's about a week ago or so. I read a little devotional, uh try to each day. I don't always get it every day. It's called Streams in the Desert I highly recommend that. Now there's not everything in there. You might use some other versions and stuff. But it's written many, many, many years ago by a missionary to Israel. Mrs. Charles Cowan is her name. Her husband died. And she wrote things that God had taught her on the mission field to tremendous, tremendous. I've read it for many, many years. In fact, Dr. Lee Robertson recommended, I was talking to him one time, and he said, And he recommended read Streams in the Desert. And I got that and been reading it for decades. Came across a poem the other day that really spoke to my heart. I think applies to this. Listen carefully to it. You've got to pay attention on this one. It says this: Blessed is he whose faith is not offended when all around his way the power of God is working out deliverance for others. Day by day. Though in some prison drear his own soul his own soul languish Till his life itself be spent, yet can trust his father's love and purpose and rest therein content. Blessed is he who, through long years of suffering, cut off from active toil, still shares by faith and praise the work of others, and thus divides the spoil. Blessed art thou, O child of God, who sufferest and canst not understand the reason for thy pain, yet gladly leavest thy life in his blessed hand. Yea, blessed art thou whose faith is not offended by trials unexplained, by mysteries unsolved, past understanding, until the goal is gained Now I don't know if I was able to communicate what I'm trying to say through that poem or not. But what he's saying here is, is listen, sometimes God makes our way crooked Sometimes God chooses to restrict our lives, and yet we look at others and we see God blessing and using them in a great way. And wise person says God is in control and God is good. And I can still rejoice, even though it's the other one enjoying that blessing, and I may be restricted. You follow what I'm trying to say here And he says that. And there's a fella, a poem, it's pretty familiar. You see it around different places. But I think it expresses what Solomon is saying here. It says this: Lord, grant me The serenity to accept what I cannot change, courage to change what should be changed, and the wisdom to know the difference. It's a good statement. There are some things in life that God brings into our lives that are inevitable. We cannot change them. God, in his providence, has said this is the case. And we can fight against that and fight against that and fight against that. Or we can say God is good and God is in control. And I'm going to be wise and I'm going to submit to him and I'm going to rejoice in what he's allowed to come into my line. We were talking just I forget recently, and I had mentioned this lady a number of times over the years, Mrs. Anna Nixon Tate. If I remember me talking about Ms. Tate, I wish so badly I could bring her back And have her here, you meet her. She's about that tall, little black lady down in Chattanooga, Tennessee, lived in the inner city projects. I mean as rough as you can get. Drugs, gangs, prostitution, just everything. She lived in this little government housing, no grass, it's all burned up, beer cans, we found needles all over there. I mean, just as horrific as you can imagine We would go in there and we'd visit with her, and that dear lady just loved the Lord. She's about that tall, widowed three times, grew up in southern Alabama, working cotton fields. Hair just as white as can be. We'd knock on the door and she'd have to be real careful because of the terrible area and knock on the door and she I'd say, Miss Kate, Brother Danny They call she called me Danny. Um Brother Danny! Oh brother Danny! She'd invite me in. She hated television. Her neighbor one time was going away and asked her to keep her television Because so nobody break in and steal it. So she had it and she put it in a corner. She didn't like the screen. She faced the screen to the wall because it was evil and she covered it up with a blanket. And uh she just hated that thing And she'd say, she'd say, Brother Denny, you got your Bible? I'd say, yeah, I got my Bible. She goes, turn to Psalm, she'd say some chapter from Psalms. I'd turn there. She goes, let me see if I can still do this. And she would quote down through that psalm just verbatim, word by word, perfect. And she must have done scores of chapters from the Bible over the years that we visited her. Oh, Mrs. Tate, she's one of the happiest Christians I ever met in my life. She had literally nothing. Sofa, bed, little kitchen, whatever money guess the government gave her. And she was the happiest Christian in the world. You know, she's probably one of the wisest people I've ever met in my life. What a testimony she had to the love and grace of God. I could just talk for hours about her. One time we came by, she said, Brother Denny, God protected me last night I said, how's that? She goes, somebody tried breaking in my window by my bedroom. I said, how do you know? She goes, oh I could hear them. They were trying to get in there. She goes, I slipped out of the bed, got my knees, and said, Dear Lord, please protect me. He says a little bit they went away and I went out and looked and sure enough here you could see at the window where they had been trying to pry that window open. I think she was wise in the fact she said, you know, this is my lot in life. This isn't God in his providence has put me into this situation and this thing. And she didn't fight it and she wasn't bitter. She wasn't blaming the white man or the black man or anybody else for anything She simply said, I trust God. I trust God and I rejoice in him. Wouldn't that be good for all of us? A wise man says, God is in control. God is good. I trust him. If I can change something, then hey, if I'll change it. But there's some things we just have to accept. And then let me give you the last one, and this one is interesting. Wisdom and perplexities. Look again at verse number 13 with me. Consider the work of God, for who can make that straight which he hath made crooked? Now look at verse 14. In the day of prosperity, be joyful, but in the day of adversity, consider God hath also set the one over against the other to the end that man should find nothing after him. What is he saying here? I think he's saying to us, a wise man understands that there are things going to come up in life that we did not anticipate. There are things that are going to hit us we never saw it coming. How many people know what I'm talking about? Man, we had it all planned out, we had it all figured out, and we finally, when it's all said and done, we say it was not supposed to turn out this way. Perplexities. The word perplexity means this: a state of confusion or a state of uncertainty. Solomon learned the hard way that life has a way of throwing us curveballs. Did not expect that. I never anticipated this to be true in my life. Somebody said this, one thing is certain in life, and that is this: very little in life is certain. A lot of things we cannot uh expect. My mom's here and I don't know if she remembers this. For some reason it's burned into my mind When I was a little boy at home, uh, and she's wondering what in the world, hey, I got some stories on her too, so you know, this goes two ways But I don't know if you remember this, but they had in the house somewhere, there was a box of what were of chocolates. Do you remember this story? No, good. There's a box of chocolates and I was a little kid and you know how little kids are they get into everything I know none of you all did but when I was little I did And they looked exactly just like Whitman chocolates in the little box and they're all in their little categories You know, and are all in there and nobody was home or something. Do you remember now? A little bit. And nobody was home and I thought, hmm, chocolates. And so I get in and I open it up and um I got one out, you know, and there's all different kinds there and I'm looking at them. I'm still real I mean I'm pretty young, I remember this. I got it out and nobody's around and I bit into that thing And it was fake. They were like rubber or plastic. And it just it was a joke. They weren't really chocolates And they look and I'd been into those things and I what in the world? Eat this or whatever. And um they came home and found the chaktas with little teeth marks all in all of them. That's a silly little story, but a lot of ways that's the way life is sometimes. And I thought it was this, and when I got it, it wasn't that way at all. And I expected that my life was going to turn out this way, and I was looking at this, and we get in our minds, we anticipate all of this and we picture how it's going to be One thing's very true in life. Most of the time it doesn't turn out the way we anticipated. God in his wisdom and God in his plan Sometimes does things ways that we never ever anticipated. And wisdom understands that. Wisdom says it is impossible to anticipate all the possibilities of life. It is impossible to anticipate all the possibilities of life. And wisdom understands that we are limited. Wisdom understands it is impossible to understand the ways of God. And so we trust God, trust God, trust God. Why did this happen? Why did God allow this? Why was I diagnosed with cancer? Why did that car wreck have to happen? Why did the company I work for go out of business? And we can get bitter, and we can go down into a valley of depression and darkness, or we can be wise. And say, you know, God sometimes makes the way crooked. We never expected that, but I'm going to trust God and I'm going to lead Him and direct me. every step of the way. I know this is an overused illustration, but it is so powerful. When you have ladies making a quilt, you know where I'm going with this. And there we are working away, and you crawl down underneath that quilt and you look at it from the bottom and it makes no sense. It's just a chaos of threads, different colors, going all different directions. And nothing makes any sense at all. When you say this whole thing is crooked. It's a mess. They made a terrible mistake. This is not the way I expected the quilt to be But you get up on top and you look down and you see a beautiful pattern. You see it all laid out. They know exactly what they were doing. And that's the way life is a lot of times. What in the world are you doing, God? Why are you allowing this? Why is this happening? Why is this happening? And Solomon says the wise person understands that God is the one that makes that way crooked. God is the one that brings these things about. If we'll just trust Him. Just lead them day by day. And if we can change something, then great, let's change it. But if we can't, we say God is good. I don't know if these thoughts made much sense to you, but Solomon has learned some things. The hard way. One thing he learned, a wise man understands God is ultimately in control. We need to trust them. If somebody told you, if you were going down or traveling in a strange area this Friday, uh I'm gonna have to go down Thursday, but I go to Southern Virginia to a funeral. I've never been there before. I've got my GPS. But suppose I'm heading down there, and somebody stops me along the road and they say Listen, if you go down that road, you're going to have trouble. The bridge is out and it's going to be rough and you're not going to get to your destination. You need to go this way And I say to that person, well, how do you know? Well, I live here. I travel these all the time. I know exactly how these roads play out. I know exactly where they go. Would you agree with me? I would be foolish. I know nothing about it. I've never been this way before. I would be foolish to say, well, that guy's an idiot. He doesn't know what he's talking about. I'm going to go the way I want to go. If you agree with me, that would be foolish. The guy knows what he's talking about. He's been there. He knows all about it. I ought to listen to him. I ought to trust him. And that is exactly the way it is with God. None of us have been beyond today before. None of us have been beyond this moment of time before. Everything ahead of us is an unknown road We anticipate and we think and we imagine where it's going to be, but God knows he's already there. And the wise man says, I'm going to listen to God. I'm going to trust him. Make sense? Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask maybe you'd take these thoughts tonight. Maybe you could help us and challenge us to learn to live by faith, to trust you and follow your leadership and understand that you are in control. We pray for wisdom. I ask for it. I wonder with our heads bowed and with our eyes closed if there'd be someone this evening say, preacher, pray for me. Things in my life are happening. I really didn't anticipate it to be this way, and I'm a little perplexed. Not really sure what God is doing, but you'd say, pray for me that I'd be able to trust God and just have faith in Him and let Him lead me on a daily basis. Any like that by the uplifted hand, preacher, that's me. Pray that God would help me trust Him. And wait on him. God bless you. A bunch of hands around. I wonder how many like me, and we prayed this last week, but like me say, preacher, I need wisdom. I need God to give me wisdom. And I can learn to trust him and let him lead me. Any like that, my great need in life is wisdom. Of course, that's the way I feel. So, Father in heaven, I ask you to bless us now as we go into invitation, as we go to prepare our hearts for the Lord's Supper. Please have your way and help us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Let's stand together.