And um we're getting back to our little series on Ecclesiastes Ecclesiastes chapter 7. And I want to read verses 11 through 14. Ecclesiastes chapter 7. Verse eleven through fourteen. Let me find my place here quickly. All right, everybody got it there. Ecclesiastes 7, verse number 11. The Bible says wisdom is good with an inheritance. And by it there is profit to them that see the sun. For wisdom is a defense, and money is a defense. But the excellency of knowledge is that wisdom giveth life to them that have it. Consider the work of God, for who can make that straight, which he hath made crooked? In the day of prosperity, be joyful, but in the day of adversity, consider. God also hath set the one over against the other, to the end that man should find nothing after him. I want to speak tonight, and I'm trying to bring these thoughts here together, and I've just just put, this is the title I've given it, In Praise of Wisdom. in praise of wisdom. So let's pray and ask the Lord to help us this evening. Father, I thank you, Lord, again, for the opportunity to assemble together in your name. And I thank you for every person that's here tonight. And we thank you for safety in light of some of the events that took place that we heard of. We're just glad that everyone's safe. And now I pray that it would be uh that you would just honor each one that made effort to be here. And Lord, I need you to speak to our hearts. God, in myself, I readily acknowledge that I have nothing of eternal or spiritual value. In my flesh there dwells no good thing. So, Lord, I ask that you would speak through me. With that in mind, I present my body anew. I yield my will to you and ask that you would apply your word and these thoughts here to our hearts and lives as you know that we have need. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Two young engineers applied for a position. There's one position open. Both these two guys applied for that position at a computer company. They both had identical qualifications. And so the personnel officer that was responsible for hiring them, he saw these two fellows, he looked at their resumes, identical qualifications, identical background, identical education So he decided to make the decision who was going to get the position. He asked them to take a test. He had the department manager put this test together, and they took the test. When the test was finished, both men missed only one of the questions, and they both missed the same question. The manager called in the first applicant and he said this. He says, thank you for your interest. We've decided to give the job to the other applicant, but we thank you for coming in. And uh the fellow got thinking, he thought, why would you do that? Uh we have identical um uh uh background, we have identical qualifications, we took the test, we both got the same uh answer wrong Why would you give it to them? And he asked them, why would you give it to him and not to me? We both got nine questions right. And they said they answered him and they said, we have based our decision not on the correct answers. but on the question you missed. And they said and he said uh he said, how would one incorrect answer be better than the other one? We both had it wrong. Why would his incorrect answer be better than mine? And they said it's very simple. The other applicant put down on question number five, I don't know the answer You, however, on number five put this. Neither do I. So we have to be very, very careful who we want to learn from and who we're going to look on the answers for. I want to suggest to you Well let me back up. How many folks here say, Pastor, I could use some more wisdom? I mean people feel that way. Goodness. I feel like I'm starving, dry, thirsting for wisdom. I would suggest to you, those of us that would desire to have more wisdom, a good source to go to next to the Lord Jesus Christ would be King Solomon. He was given divine, supernatural wisdom from God And though, as we noticed here in the book of Ecclesiastes, he got away from God and he he really, really messed up bad. And it's the more I study Solomon, the more I've studied his life the more I realize how horrendous he messed up and how far from God he got. We tend to not realize that I think sometimes. But he was about as far from God as a person can get. But I'm suggesting you that even in spite of that, he still had divine wisdom from God, and he was able to glean From the condition he ended up in, he was able to glean from that and to be able to impart to us lessons. From that horrendous experience. And that's where we find ourselves in chapter 7, and I believe pretty much through the end of the book. Is Solomon sharing with us what he learned, the wisdom that was given to him, in spite of his neglect of that? Now what he is able to share with us, he learned through that. And we get down to our text here. Solomon is praising wisdom to some extent and the importance of wisdom. So I just want to give a few statements here that I've kind of gleaned from this. Has anyone noticed some of the some of the teaching in Ecclesiastes is hard to understand. Anyone find that to be true? I'm finding that to be true And so I look at this, and I just want to share some things, what I see here, perhaps, that may be helpful in praise of wisdom. Number one, this is my first thought I put down wisdom and life's perspective. Wisdom and a perspective on life. Now I'm taking that from a section that we already preached through, verses one through ten. And I think we see there, Solomon is sharing with us the importance of being wise and having a clear perspective of life. Now I got looking up the word perspective. What does that mean? When you hear the word perspective, having a clear perspective, uh what how do you how would you define that? Somebody help me. Alright, you see clearly how you look at something, alright, these are all involved in it in the definition that I come up with. Anybody else? Somebody has a good, clear perspective. on something. Kathy? A correct understanding of the situation. Maybe we got some builders here. We were talking about working area. A builder comes in, he looks at the at the situation and he has a clear perspective of what needs to be done. He has a clear perspective of what he's dealing with and all that's going to be involved. I looked it up um uh in uh uh Webster's that old Webster's 18 Uh dictionary, 1800 dictionary. And it says this. I like this one. The ability to see far into the distance. A perspective. He suggested there the idea of a mountaintop perspective. Picture with me, a fella is uh stranded uh on an island. He's a castaway on an island for whatever reason. And he finds them washed up on shore, and he has no idea how big this island is. He has no idea whether there's other inhabitants on this island. He knows nothing about it His perspective of what he's living on, of what he's dealing with, is is incomplete, is unclear. In the middle of the island or someplace on the island, there's a very, very high mountain. If he is wise, what's he going to do? He's going to climb to the top of that mountain, and he is going to have a very clear perspective. of what he's dealing with. He's going to have a very clear perspective. You see how large the island is, see if there's smoke coming up for some village off in the distance, whether there's any indications of life there, human life, and uh he has a he gets a perspective of what his situation is And a wise person is a person that has perspective on life. He clearly understands what life is about. Do you remember when we went through the first ten verses here, he kept saying, this is better than that. And this is better than that. And this is better than that. And much of what he suggested is very opposite of what the world would say. And the Bible teaches us that the world is in darkness. The world does not have a clear perspective of what life is about. The world does not have a clear perspective of of who we are and why we're here and what our purposes and and uh uh and uh and life in general. And so wisdom and having a perspective on life. I want to suggest to you a sure indicator of a wise person is someone who clearly Clearly sees what life is all about. Somebody that has a clear perspective, a good indicator of maturity If somebody has a clear perspective of what life is. How many would agree with me a 10-year-old child probably doesn't have a real clear perspective on what life is all about? Anyone agree with me on that You ask a eight or ten-year-old child, what is life all about? It'd be it, well, my bike, you know, or something like that, their little world they live in. And I'm not being critical, that's characteristic of a child But at some point, as we mature and as we grow, we begin to see that life is bigger than the bicycle or the toy or the game or the sport. And we get a clear perspective. The idea behind that word perspective was this also, I found, is the ability to see beyond the present. Be able to look down the road a little ways. And it's this idea, if I make this decision here and now, if I make this decision, If I'm wise and I have a perspective on life, I'm able to see all right what will be the consequences of that decision a month down the road, a year down the road. I believe most people, if not all, most people that mess their lives up do not have a clear perspective of the consequences of the decisions they make. What they see is the here and now. If I make this decision, it's going to be gratification for the moment. It's going to be benefit me maybe for the moment. But they fail to consider what the consequences are, what the long-term results of that decision are going to be, and then down the road they look back and say, how stupid was I? Why didn't I see this? Anybody ever say this? What was I thinking? Anybody know what I'm talking about? What was I thinking? You know what we're saying? We didn't have a clear perspective. When I made that decision, I didn't see how this was going to play out. I didn't look at it. Take your Bible, if you would. Proverbs addresses this. Come back, if you would, to Proverbs chapter 22. In fact, there's two passages in Proverbs that are almost identical, and he touches on this very thought. Now again, Proverbs is Solomon pre- Wandering days, pre-Ecclesiastes. Ecclesiastes days. Proverbs 22, look with me at verse number three, and this is a verse that just always stands out to me. And it always challenges me to pray and ask the Lord to help me in this area. Every time I read this. Verse 3, Proverbs 22. A prudent man, what would be another term you could use for a prudent man, or you could say, a what? A wise man, a prudent man, a wise man, look at this, foreseeth the evil and hideth himself. But the simple, and what's another term you could use for a simple would be foolish man. Foolish man, the simple, they pass on and what? They're punished, they suffer the consequences. I think I've touched on this previously in our study of Ecclesiastic, but the idea here is this. Oh, and by the way, come over to chapter 27. And verse number 12, and I think God put it in here just in case we missed it in chapter 22. He puts it back in again in chapter 27. And verse number twelve, he says, the identical same statement. He says, A prudent man foreseeth the evil and hideth himself, but The simple pass on and are and are punished. I wrote in a margin of my Bible the importance of foresight. Of being able to look ahead. If I make this decision, am I able to anticipate? Am I able to look ahead and see what are the consequences going to be What are the consequences going to be? A prudent man, a wise man, foreseeth the evil and hideth himself. He sees what that's going to be I tell you what we need the Lord to do, that we need the Lord to teach us to be wise and be able to discern what the consequences are going to be of this action. How is this going to affect me a year from now, five years from now, ten years from now? How is this decision, this action, going to affect people that I care about? How is this action going to affect my church, my testimony, my Lord? How will this action affect when I stand before the judgment seat of Christ? What impact will me making this decision be? And a foolish man doesn't see any of that. He just, oh, this is what I want to do. Boom, I'm doing it. But a wise man, he anticipates, he has perspective, he has foresight, and he goes, wait a minute, I need to be very, very careful. What are the consequences? I read about a fellow, a fellow by the name of Dan Jensen. Anybody recognize the name Dan Jensen? He was an Olympian skater, champion Olympian skater, now you remember. Speed skater, correct? And um uh he suffered a series of devastating defeats and setbacks in his career. He's very, very good, but he kept having these defeats until 1994 The Olympics were in Norway, uh I guess it was the Winter Olympics, and he took the gold in the 1,000-meter race in Lillehammer, Norway. However, as a young child, he gave this testimony, as a young skater, he learned to keep defeat in perspective. Competing in the Youth National Skating Championship in Minnesota at the age of nine, he was positioned to capture the title when he tripped on one of the line markers coming around a turn. He wiped out, it cost him the victory. He said that he was so distraught that he cried through the entire award ceremony. He cried the entire six-hour drive home with his father. He said that his father didn't say a word to him about the loss until they bulled in the driveway of his house And he said, what my dad said to me then has impacted me and helped me through the rest of my skating career. How many people are curious what his dad said? Come back next week and I'll tell you. No. It's so simple. His dad said this. You know, Dan? I can hear it, I can hear me saying this. His dad said this, you know, Dan, there's more to life than skating around in a circle It's pretty profound for a young boy that's whole life has been revolving around skating around a circle. And he said, you know, that perspective, that understanding about life, that there are things more important than winning a race. Has helped me deal with defeat through all of this. And he attributed that ultimately to the fact that he was able to win that race, in that he had a clear perspective. I like Betty's testimony when she was sharing that. I thought of this. Fact is, we get worried because we see the here and now, and we forget to have the perspective that there's a God in heaven. That is overall. And God is in control. And God, here's the great thing. God is able to see the end from the beginning. And as you and I seek wisdom, and as we grow in our maturity, and Lord willing grow in our wisdom, we're able to see a clear perspective beyond what's just happening here and now. So wisdom and perspective. I spent a long time on that. Oh, by the way, let me I have another illustration. This is great because I don't want to leave it out because I really like this one. But um when we lived in Colorado, that was the early 90s. We were living in Colorado, and the big thing back then, maybe you remember seeing them, they would have these big posters. And when you looked at the poster, it was kind of an optical illusion, and it would kind of look like it was swirling around a little bit And it was just lines and stuff. But if you stared right in the middle and kind of crossed your eyes a little bit and stared in the middle, and then backed up a little bit. A picture would come out. Often it was a 3D image would appear there. Sometimes a portrait or something. Anybody remember seeing those things back in the day? I mean they were groovy But the whole idea there was looking at it at a very specific way from a distance And I want to suggest to you, that is one of the things Solomon, God, through Solomon is trying to teach us to look at life, look at the issues of life, look at skidding off a road. From a very specific perspective, and we have a whole different way of viewing it. Look at the loss of an ice skating race from the grand scheme of things, and we see it completely different. Am I making sense? And so wisdom and perspective. Ask God. God help me to see. Lord, help me to see life and the decisions I make and the events that come in my Help me to see this beyond just how it affects me here and now, but how is it down the road? What are you doing? Let me give you a second one real quick. I don't think I'm going to get through all of these Wisdom is having a clear perspective. Number two, I put this down. I get this from verse 11 and 12. Wisdom and prosperity. Wisdom on prosperity. Look here, come back here with me if you would. And look at verse 11. He says, Wisdom is good with an inheritance, and by it there is profit to them that see the sun. In other words, they're alive. They see the sun. For wisdom is a defense, and money is a defense. But the excellency of knowledge is that wisdom giveth life to them that have it. Wisdom and prosperity. One thing's clear, God's values do not equal man's values. Right? I thought of this often. We're preaching on prophecy and uh we think about heaven and stuff like that, getting to heaven and all that Uh what are the streets of gold paved with in heaven? What are we told? Streets of heaven are paved with what did I say? The streets of gold paved with The streets of gold are not paved with asphalt. The streets of heaven are paved with gold. So what does that tell us about gold? That tells me that tells me that God does not value gold the way man does. Right? If I understand that correctly, God's value of gold is the same as your value and my value of asphalt or gravel. And my point I'm trying to make is this. We value money so much. And how many people have sacrificed their testimony so that they can get more money? How many people have sacrificed their integrity to get more money? People have done some of the most shameful things known to man. In order to get money, God's values are not man's values And he says here that money, wisdom, is good with an inheritance, and by it there is profit of them. Then you come down to the last part of verse 11. He says that but the excellency of knowledge is Wisdom is a defense, money is a defense. But here's if you're excellent in your knowledge, if you understand things, wisdom can do something for you and I that money can't. Wisdom can give us life. I put these thoughts down under this, and I put this down. Wisdom and prosperity make good companions. Did you catch that? Wisdom is good with an inheritance. I tell you, if you've got a person that is wise I mean biblical definition of the word wise, and they are wealthy, that's a pretty good combination. Would you agree with me? That wealth can be used in a wise way, wise from God's perspective. So wisdom and wealth make pretty good companions, however Wisdom is superior to prosperity. What happens to a wealthy fool A fool and his money are soon parted. How many times have we seen in the news and in society where a very wealthy man passes away and he passes on his wealth to a son or a child that is very, very foolish. And they squander it and they lose it all. I want to suggest to you, it's better to be a wise poor person than it is to be a wealthy fool. Now, if I can be wealthy and wise, that's a wonderful companionship. However, it's better to be wise. A wise poor person can someday Become wealthy. Right? They're wise, and Proverbs talks about that. And so wisdom and prosperity, wisdom and prosperity make good companions, however, wisdom is superior to prosperity. And then in verse 12, I notice that wisdom is a protection in prosperity. Look, he says there, wisdom is a defense. I underlined that. A wise person is safer than a foolish person I mean that that applies in so many areas. Um we have hunting is big now and and West Virginia comes in tomorrow, Maryland's later on. I tell you, you get some fools out there with their guns and their ammo's, they're in more danger than a wise person in handling their weapons, right or wrong? We used to hunt as a teenager. We'd go up to north central Pennsylvania, hunt up in the mountains, Tioga County and up in that area. And there was a camp, a hunting camp down the road. Those guys are drinking and carrying on and partying the whole time. And then they go out and they're hunting drunk. I'll tell you one thing we did. We stayed far away from those guys. Wisdom is a defense. Wisdom is safe. It uh provides safety. The word defense there is a place of refuge or relief. Wealth without wisdom can produce pride. Wealth without wisdom can impoverish. When I was reading this and studying this, I got thinking about the prodigal son. Daddy apparently, if you read that, it seems to me anyway, the implication here is Daddy was pretty wealthy. How many people kind of see that? Daddy was pretty wealthy. He had two boys. Now, the one boy was unrighteous. He took his inheritance, wasted on his righteous living, lived in sin. He was unrighteous. The other boy was self-righteous. And really, that whole proverb is rebuking the self-righteous. One he's rebuking the Pharisees for not accepting the repentant sinners coming back in. But I got thinking about that, and the prodigal son was foolish, and he squandered all his wealth. We're thinking about wisdom and prosperity. However, the other son, though he was self-righteous, he was wise in handling his money. And guess who ended up with two, guess who of the two, now I'm taking it out of context, so don't rebuke me. Don't judge me. So, but I'm taking it out of context, but who ended up enjoying his inheritance over the long term? The self-righteous son, right? He didn't squander it. He had it. And as far as my impression there is, he inherited the farm. Now the Lord was using him as an example of self-righteousness. He should have forgave his brother, but as far as hand with money, he is very, very wise. A poor man who is wise has the advantage over a rich man who is foolish. Poor man who is wise has greater fulfillment in life than does the rich man who is foolish. And so he's given us here, and I've got a lot more here. I'm going to shut it down here at this point, but here's my challenge to us tonight. We need God to give us wisdom. We are very, very wealthy in America We are. I was talking to somebody recently. I say this often, the poorest person in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, the poorest person is richer than a huge majority of the world. And here I'm afraid that we're very, very foolish. And God has given us so many resources and we squander them because we don't have perspective. We have prosperity, but we've lost that perspective. God says that we are stewards. Of what he has entrusted us with. There's a difference between a steward and a consumer. What does a consumer do? He consumes, burns it up on myself. Consume it, consume it, consume it, consume it. A steward, on the other hand, what does a steward do? He manages the prop property or the the object, he manages it at the direction of the one who owns it. He doesn't consume it. He uses it for the purpose it was entrusted to him. I would suggest to you a wise person that has perspective. and has a share in some prosperity. The wise one says, hey, God has entrusted this to me. To be used for his glory, for his cause. And that's where wisdom and perspective come in. I hope this made sense tonight. And let's ask the Lord to give us wisdom. Lord, you've entrusted me with time. You've entrusted me with some abilities, some gifts. You've entrusted me with some possessions. And Lord, I want to be wise. And I want to see the long term, I want to see the distance in how I use these gifts and the abilities and these resources you've entrusted me with. So I need your wisdom. The Bible says wisdom is a defense. It protects us from getting outside of the will of God. I think Solomon learned that the hard way. And he shares that with us. Let's pray. Father, I pray that you take these thoughts somehow and stir our hearts, that we look at our lives in a long term view and look at the things you've entrusted us with with a long-term view and and uh and follow your leadership and be submissive to you. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed I wonder how many would say with me. When I was done studying this, this was my prayer, Lord, give me wisdom. God, help me to grow in wisdom. And I wonder how many would say, preacher, that's my desire. I want to be a wise Christian. And my use of time and gifts and abilities, my interaction, the decisions I make, I want to be wise. God bless you, hands all around. Now there's a tremendous promise given us in James chapter 1 verse 5. If any of you lack wisdom, let him what? Ask of God, to give it to all men liberally and abrade it not, but let him ask in faith. Nothing wavering. Father, we do ask you tonight, as a church and as individuals, we ask for that wisdom. In Jesus' name I pray.