And there's nothing lighthearted about prison talk. How many of y'all have ever done a jail ministry? Any of y'all ever been to a jail? Uh no no uh I don't mean permanent, I mean visiting. I was with a pastor one time and he said uh uh I got a jail ministry going on here, state prison, and I went in there and I'd never get used to that door slamming behind me. I don't want to stay here all night long. Um we did a juvenile detention center one time up in Northern Virginia. I had to empty my change pockets, go through the magnum traumeter, leave my cell phone, all that stuff And I said, well what about Rocky because my wife was with me in this case. I'll just bring him on around. Well, I could have had anything in there, you know Um prison is not a place I want to be. I was in Togo, West Africa, and we got arrested. The way it works in Togo, the arresting officer sets the fine and collects it. I think there might be some corruption involved there. And uh I thought, sure man, we're going to jail. I'm the only white guy in miles. And uh so I'm thinking I got a couple hundred dollars on me. I hope he gets me out of here And uh I said, should I go back there? He said, no, don't you go because they want more money from you. We got out without paying a thing. And he said, don't bother me and don't come by my corner again. And we were looking for an address and we couldn't find it. And if we didn't circle back by that guy again, I said, he's surely going to arrest us this time. I don't want to deduct and get away Prison is not fun, is it? Does anybody really want to go to prison? How would you like to go to prison? How many of you men are married and don't think that's prison? But a lot of us are in prison. Joseph was thrown in prison. Take your Bible and turn to the book of Genesis again. Remember in chapter 39, we left off in Potiphar's house, and last night we majored a lot on the making of a godly man. And it was in Potiphar's house that he had to overcome prosperity, had already overcome adversity with his brothers. He had to learn how to deal with temptation. And then Potiphar's wife lied about him False accusations. And uh I forgot to say something last night. Verse 12 of that chapter, and she caught him by his garment, saying, Lie with me, and he left his garment in her hand. This is the second time that Joseph is going to lose his coat. But he never lost his character once. And we live in a society in a day and age where character does not matter like it once did in our country. Of all people, Christians, born-again believers, ought to have some character about them. Now we're not perfect people I'm definitely not perfect. And I would like to say that I'm the best, most upstanding, I have the best character you've ever met. And you'll never meet anybody better than me, character-wise. My wife would say to you, you don't have character, you are character. That's not what we're talking about. But Christians ought to have character. And young men, I'd encourage you. Never lose your character. You might lose your coat. Don't lose your character. There's not anything in this life worth losing your character over. Whether you're lost or saved, people appreciate people of honest character and integrity and moral turpitude. And I'm from Arkansas and I do know big words But she lies on him. Verse 20, and Joseph's master took him and put him into the prison, a place where the king's prisoners were bound, and he was there in the prison. But notice the next verse. But the Lord was with Joseph. Even in the prison, the Lord was with Joseph and showed him mercy and gave him favor in the sight of the keeper of the prison. And the keeper of the prison committed to Joseph's hand all the prisoners that were in the prison. And whatsoever they did there, he was the doer of it. The keeper of the prison looked not to anything that was under his hand, because the Lord was with him, and that which he did the Lord made it to prosper. He was prosperous, and the Lord was with him even in the prison. I'm going to say some things about the prison, but I want you to look at some other scriptures. Let's turn to the book of Isaiah. Are you with me? Oh there you go, Isaiah chapter sixty one Isaiah 61, verse 1. Isaiah 61, 1. Is anybody there? The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me, because the Lord hath anointed me to preach good tidings unto the meek. He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prisons to them that are bound You find that reference to Jesus reading that very scripture in Luke chapter 4 and verse 18. Turn back to the book of Psalms. Little Bible drew on here. Psalms chapter 105. This is what the Bible says of him in Psalms of Joseph. Talking about God, verse 16, moreover, he called for a famine upon the land, he broke the whole staff of bread. He sent a man before them, even Joseph, who was sold for a servant. Look at this verse, whose feet they hurt with the fetters. He was laid in iron. It wasn't in prison like some Disney movie would have you believe. It was a dungeon. It was a bad place. It was a place that you don't want to be. My wife and I are privileged to have a trip to go to Rome. I was telling Pastor about it back in a former life when I was in business, and I won half a trip to Rome. And I thought at best that if I want half a trip to Rome, I ought to spring for the other half and take my wife. Or there might be a killing. And we go to Rome. And the first day they dropped us off by Nero's palaces, the Imperial Palaces, which are not open to tourists yet. And we had a tour guide with us and she's telling us all this stuff and we're passing by and we're walking through and I see that and I started telling my wife because I I love history especially anything to do with the Bible And I said, you know, Paul was in this pr in in the palace right here. Nero, this is where he lived. And I'm telling this, you know, to my wife. And we got a bunch of people from affiliated foods there. It's a corporate trip. And I said, you know, this garden is where Nero would take Christians and soak them in oil and stake them up and light them so he could look at his gardens I started noticing they're leaving the tour guide and they're listening to me. We passed by the amphitheater, which is really now just a depression in the ground. That's where they did chariot races for real See the quarter of a million people. That's where most of the Christians who were persecuted were put to death. Then we walk and we see Arch of Triumph of Constantine. who in 320 A. D. saw the sign of the Lord, converted to Christianity, really Catholicism, and built the first church. Before that, they met in homes and other places and public places. But before that, there was no church. And I've been in the first church that was ever built. That's the Cathedral of Rome. And they built it over the spot where they think Paul's head was cut off. I'm going to tell you, I saw all that. I looked up to the left. And there's Titus in the Arch of Triumph. All the stuff carved into it that he took from Jerusalem when he raised it to the ground in 70 A. D. , the ark is not included on that. He captured slaves, and I'm looking right at the Colosseum now, and those slaves were the ones that built that Colosseum. Magnificent structure. Did you know that it was a dome stadium? It was. Unbelievable. Unbelievable what was going on there. That was in the morning. We switched guides that afternoon, and we had another one who was our permanent guide from then on out. His name was Tony, Anthony. He said, Call me Tony So we went, we traveled all the way he said, We're going to go to the Forum of Rome. That's where the seat of government was I loved it because I'm eating this eat it up. He brought us out to this place. He said, this is the synod of Rome. We walk further. He said, this is the temple for the Vestal Virgins. This is the Temple of Jupiter. These are the steps to the front of the Senate where Julius Caesar was stabbed to death. Even by his friend Brutus, where he said, Et tu, Brutai, you too, Brutus? I'm looking at all that stuff and there's a lot of history going on. And here's the back of the Senate building. And we walk up this place and it's about as wide as this church building is right now. and about the same distance from that wall to this wall right here. We turned to walk off, and Tony said, Oh yes, and that's the prison where Paul was. I stopped. So forget all this This is where a man was thrown into the dungeon. This is the man where the Holy Spirit of God touched him. breathed scripture through him, and it wrote out on a page, and that's why you have the books of Ephesians, of Colossians, and Philemon. Because three men hazard their lives to carry those books out. And I stood on the Appian Way and I saw where they left it and where Paul came in on Rome. I stood right there. And that flew all over me. And I looked and I saw the back of the Senator from I thought they were writing the the laws that would govern the known world empire at the time But if they would have known what that man down in that dungeon was writing, they would have moved everything in the empire to keep it there and kill it. God's word cannot be stopped. Those men hazard their lives and carried those books out. What a benefit that we have because of what a man did when he was in prison. I could go on and talk about some other things, but I've got to get busy here. People today, born-again children of God, are in prisons. Because we are bound by things. I want you to know this that God is not bound by what you think you are bound by. Now the prison is different from the pit. Some people are bound by their emotions. They're bound by their work Well I can serve God, but Ted, I just got all this you know, my work that this consumes me. I can serve God, but you know mostly I'm just like a yo-yo. I'm up and down all the time. I'm not even I'm talking about born-again people, Pastor. They're bound because of their relationships. I'd serve God, but my husband doesn't want to. I'd serve God, but my parents don't want to put me in church. Whatever it is, some people are bound by money. Brother Mock, I'm so bound if God called me right now, my finances are in such a shape I couldn't serve him if he asked me to. Some people are now bound by depression. If you knew the number of people right here in this congregation right now That might be on certain mind-altering psychotic drugs for their depression, you might be surprised And you'd be very surprised at how many believers, born-again believers, their answer to their depression is a good glass of wine every night I'm not talking about the Methodists and the Presbyterians. I'm talking about us. And it should not be in the house of God that the child of God is bound by these things. We're even bound by our own addictions. The biggest drug, you know what's the most used, widely used drug in this country? Someone give me an answer. What's the most widely used drug in this country? Caffeine from coffee. Surprised him a little, didn't it? That hurts me to the soul. Amen, Brother dead. You big sinner. Praise God, I'm delivered to two cups of death. I want to talk about how different the prison is from the pit. The prison is painful. It says that his he was hurt in the fetters and he was bound in iron. You know when you're in that painful position of being in prison. It eliminates all the distractions. How many of y'all have ever been in pain? You can't think of anything else but the pain that you're in. I'm going to tell you, when you get like that And if you want to know what that is, uh we got some people working in construction here. Who we got? Who works in construct? You don't and you don't think about anything else, do you Because that pain will get to you. Prison is always painful, but the pain is for a purpose. And remember that Joseph is in there for a purpose. He doesn't know what it is. I enjoyed that song so much. We don't see what the end is, but God's got a purpose in it. And that pain eliminates all the distractions. And so, whatever pain that you might be going through, if you're bound by something and you feel like you're in a prison, notice that God has a purpose in that pain. And that purpose is to eliminate the distractions so you can concentrate on the lesson that He's trying to teach you. Notice this too, the pit was quick. He was in and out. Near about the same day. But something else It's agonizing because it's never quit. And you think, when in the world are we going to get out of this? My wife's mother was very sick and ill the last five years of her life and lived with us I'm talking wound vax, if anybody know what that is, fistulas through your abdomen. I'm talking terrible stuff. It was horrible. I hated to see her suffer. And she suffered so Sometimes I'd pass her room and I'd hear her whimpering in that room. It hurt. And it was hard on us And I did fifty weeks that year without my uh in five years I did fifty weeks without my wife. I had to be on the road. And I'm gonna tell you that was hard and that was difficult We had to remind ourselves that that was just a season of life that we were going through, but we had no idea how long that was going to last, and it was not a quick thing. And sometimes you may get inbound by something and you feel like you're in the prison and it's agonizing and you don't know when it's going to end. You think, Lord, how much longer can I be like this? I'm telling you right now, it is never quick, it's agonizing. And thirdly, it's always personal. I hear about all kinds of people thrown in jail. But it's personal if I get thrown in jail. I mean, I hate it. This kid gets a life sentence. Well, if I got one, I'd really hate it. Prison is personal. You know what? Prison changes everyone who goes there. I don't know if you've ever heard any stories about this, but Recetivism, is that the correct way to say the word? Repeat offenders. Who said that? English heat recidivism, say it real fast roads, recidives be people that go back to prison It's tragic. They get in that cycle. They keep going back to prison, back to prison, out, back to prison, out, back to prison. Prison changes people And I'm going to tell you what it really does is it brings a distinction. Because what do they call you once you come out of prison? Someone give it to me. You are ex-con. Let me tell you something, my friends. If you're a born-again believer, God puts you in a prison. You need to come out different than what you went in. And you ought to come out distinct from what you were when you went in. And we're not talking about going back and repeating the offense. You'll carry a tag on you the rest of your life. I love it in the Old Testament when it talks about willing bondservants. They serve for seven years and they say, I love my master. I will not go out free. They would take him to the doorpost and take an awl, a leather punch, and bore an ear, and put an earring in it. And it signified that he was going to be a lifelong slave, a willing bond servant. It'd be us good, doing us some good if some of us had that earring in us. And guys, if you want to know the reason why we don't traditionally wear earrings, unless you're one of them latte, froff drinking, skinny jean wearing guys. Because that shows somebody else owns you. Ladies, I hate to break this to you, but the tradition of you wearing earrings shows that you belong to your husband. Did you know that necklaces are the same thing? Joseph, later in the story, when he's elevated prime minister second only to Pharaoh, he puts a gold chain around his neck. You're still my slave. You just got a gold chain. You better be careful about what symbols you have in your life, but I want to tell you something that God wants to make you different. And sometimes he makes us different by taking us through the prison. After the prison experience, Joseph never complained that he was unfairly treated. That's where he learned that he was sent, not sold. He was alone. If the Lord is with you, you may be by yourself in a prison, but you are never alone. Ravenhill said once that the early church was characterized by poverty, persecution, and prison. He said today's church is characterized by prosperity, pleasure, and personality. The stories of Christians throughout history have been written on the walls of prisons. In your hymnal on page number 29 is the story of the love of God. It was written, I think, by a guy named Lehman in 1917, if my memory is correct. And he was a businessman in California. He had lost everything and was working manual labor crating oranges in California. Not knowing what he was going to do next, and while he was working, the words to this hymn came to his mind, and he took a plank off of one of those wooden orange crates and wrote the words down Went home that night and worked out the melody. And back then songs had to have three verses at least, or they weren't considered a good song. And he came up with the first two verses And he could not figure out a third verse till he heard the story about some people that went into a prison to repaint the walls in an asylum where they had kept a man. And the third verse was written on the walls of the prison. Could we the ink with ocean fill? And were the skies a parchment made, were every stalk on earth a quill, and every man a scribe by trade To write the love of God above would drain the ocean dry, nor could the scroll contain the whole, though stretched from sky to sky. If you know anything about John Bunyan, who wrote Pilgrim's Progress, he did it when he was in prison. How about a little illustration? We're okay on time? I've not hollered and screamed yet, have I? Uh y'all are in coal country. I actually got this coal from an old house in Michigan and they still had where they had put the coal in there, went in the basement to check on some ductwork for a lady, and and I found this coal. And uh Coal. It's carbon. And uh if you're an environmentalist and you're worried about solar energy, This is solar energy according to them, because the vegetation dies turned to peat and then to coal. It's sunlight stored up. Now, do you know what it takes to make a diamond? Did you know a diamond is a crystalline form of coal. How many knows that? How many of y'all like you ladies have a big diamond on you You ought to see my wife's diamond. If you got good vision, you can see it. But I'm going to tell you what happens to produce a diamond. When coal is way down deep in the earth. And it's put under pressure for a long period of time, and one other thing is happening to it. Okay. Heat is applied. Watch your fingers, Ted. Heat is applied. Three things have to happen. Pressure, heat, and time. Pressure, heat, and time will change coal. It will change coal into a diamond. In prison, think of it as pressure, heat, and time. Joseph is in that prison, and like in the pit, God is not concerned about how Joseph feels. God is concerned about how Joseph is going to turn out. So that he can use Joseph. And when we get into this situation here, I want you to know that God is working in your life because what he wants to do is he wants to change you from a lump of coal. And he wants to make a diamond out of you. I gotta close, I got five points. We're gonna go through them quick. What are you doing when you're in the prison and nothing seems to make sense? Now get the picture here. Joseph is falsely accused. He's thrown into the prison, but he remembers back in his parents' house he had a dream that God was one day going to cause all these things to happen in his life And he's probably thinking, Lord, what in the world's going on here? My brothers, they rejected me, threw me in the pit. They sold me into slavery. I go down to Potiphar's house. I take his fortune and I make it a great fortune. His wife lies on me, throws me into this prison. And by the way, in the prison, we don't have time to cover everything. He comes across two men that tried to assassinate Pharaoh. One was a baker, one was a butler. And when the butler says, I'm going to get out of here, he says, Remember me. And yet he was forgotten In the prison. He's sitting there saying, why has all this happened to me? Let me ask you a question. Is there anyone here that's saying, Brother Ted, why is all this stuff happening to me? I don't understand it. Why is it happening to me? God, why is it happening to me? Now I know that you might find this hard to believe, but by nature, I'm a whiner and complainer. I got COVID bad. Went to the hospital. I mean, I thought I was dying. I was in there where they wouldn't let anybody come visit me. The women came in there, the nurses came in there, and doctors came in there, not only a mask on, they had surgical stuff on that they stripped off and threw away when they walked out of my room. I was in bad shape. I got there in the emergency room. Within one hour, they had read my blood work, read my x-rays. I'm talking to a woman, she's a doctor, she said, Mr. Mock. Most doctors don't do this. This is not protocol. But if you want to, I can do something I think will help you. I'll give you this thing called Remdesivir, same thing we gave President Trump. I said, ma'am, I'll go to the projects and buy it if necessary. I'll take anything at this stage. She said, I've also found that there's a certain steroid That if I give it to you, this stuff will not set up in your lungs. If they put you on a ventilator, it's going to set up like concrete and you will die. That's what the doctor told me. I said, I'm going to take your advice I was out in three days. But I thought I was going to die. But I said, Lord, I'm not going to whine. I said to myself, I've got the best room, better than anything that's in where I was in India. I was in Togo, West Africa. They don't have any treatment, any room this good. I got a button, I can push it, and the curtain comes up and I can see the smoky mountains I can push another button, the lady answers on the phone. I promise you, Lord, I'm not going to whine and complain this time. The next morning they brought me my heart-healthy diet of eggs. It was something else before it was eggs. And no salt, and no coffee. I said, Lord, I'm going to eat it and I'm not going to complain. I punched that button. I said, is there any way I could have some coffee? We'll bring somebody in, Mr. Mobb. They brought me a styrofoam cup, six ounce star foam cup, half full Of coffee that was made last week. Lord, I'm not gonna whine and complain. And I held that coffee out, and I was taking a picture of it to send to my wife, and I spilt some on the sheets, and I was licking it up off the sheets. I'm not gonna ask for show of hands. Is there anybody here that's like me? You're just a whiner and a complainer sometimes. My wife picked up two sayings from two different pastors' wives that she uses me on me all the time. One is, suck it up, buttercup. And the other one comes from Celeste Martin, Daniel Jessup's mother-in-law. Quit your whining. It's the ministry. What do you do when you don't understand what's happening to you and you feel like you're in a prison? Five things. Number one, do not demand to understand why. Because you can't see the future. Don't demand. You can try to understand why. You might understand why. But remember Proverbs chapter 3, verses 5 says, what? Lean not to thine own understanding If you're in that situation, you don't know why it's happening to you. If you're a child of God, understand this, that you can stand on the promises that He's given you, that He will always be with you, He will never forsake you and that you are his child, and nothing is going to bad happen to you that's not in his will, for his purpose, for something positive in your life. Don't demand to understand. Number two, don't fail to be faithful. If you're in the prison like that, what's going to happen is you're going to have two choices. You can sit there and sit and sulk and stew about it. Oh, you know what you can do? You can continue to serve God and share Christ with others. I'm telling you there's plenty of people that when they get into one of those prison experiences, they don't understand why it's happening to them. The first thing they do is they quit church and quit on God. They get their feelings hurt. And they're not going to serve God anymore. And I'm telling you that is not the right thing to do. If you get into that situation where you don't understand why these things are happening to you Why did that person turn their back on me? Why, Lord, is my finances not right? Lord, why did I get that cancer notice from the doctor? Lord, why did my mama die? Lord, why is it that I'm having problems in my relationship? Lord, what's wrong with my kids? I'm faithful, I'm serving you. I remember one time in Beard and Arkansas, I had my grocery store on this corner, the competitor was on this side My father had called, he was in the hospital, he was about to die. I threw a bunch of stuff into the car. I'm gonna rush down to Alabama from Arkansas and I mean I'm trying my best to get out of town And Brian will tell you what, I was tired of it because I helped start that church. I've been faithful to God and my wife's been working hard. And I've looked over there and I saw where that guy had that store and his He didn't borrow the money. His dad gave him that store. And he was snorting that store up his nose. And I'm working hard. And Lord, why in the world is all this stuff happening to me? And I remember I was going out of town, pounding on the desk. God, why is that happening to me? Why? He doesn't go to church. He don't tithe. He don't serve you. Why is this happening to me? Beard in Arkansas one square mile I got out of city limits. And there was the church. The one that we helped start. And I looked at that. And I thought about the souls that had been saved in that place. Folks, I had to pull over on the side of the road before I got on the highway. And beg God to forgive me. Lord, why are you doing that to my daddy? He served you as a pastor. I had to get right with God. And folks, I'm going to tell you, some of you, if you're not in a prison experience or had one before, you're headed to it. If you're a child of God. And you had to be ready for that. Don't quit serving God because of what's going on in your life that are circumstances you don't understand. The third thing is this don't bow down to bitterness when you're in the prison. Anger unresolved turns to bitterness. And fix the preachers and preachers. You two listen up. If you focus on people, they'll let you down. If you focus on people, they'll let you down. You pour your life into it. We got Sunday school teachers here. You pour your life into those students. And they'll leave you, turn their back on you. Church members walk out. Especially in a church where things aren't going right, people quit serving God, quit on God, and turn their back on people in the ministry. And I preached in many a church where a pastor has been hurt so deeply. It's turned bitter. You're old like me. Not old as me. You're getting there. I figured out that I'm gonna have to be living to be a hundred and forty-two if I'm middle aged. I don't think it's gonna happen. You're young, relatively speaking. We're not serving people. We do. That's not who we're serving. We're serving one master. We're serving the Lord. And your battle, and your battle, especially with his teens, just focus on him for a while. You're too old, you can't change. Your struggle is going to be, are you going to give these kids what they want, or will you give these kids what they need? And if you give them what they need, there's going to be times they're not going to like it Is listen to me. When they give you what you need and they're telling you the truth, it's because they love you and they don't want bad things to happen to you. Don't get bitter when you're in the prison. I've seen women bitter because their husbands are sorry I've seen men bitter because women have left them. I've seen parents bitter because their children don't do what they want them to do. We are slaves and we serve one master. And whatever he's saying is what we're looking for. The only approval we need is from the Lord Jesus Christ. When you're in the prison, get your head down, be faithful, keep serving, and don't get bitter. In the prison, do not be unwilling to wait. Don't have time to run the scriptures down, but it talks about that in Psalms chapter 37. I'm going to confess to you, I've already told you, that I'm a whiner and a complainer. I am also by nature. Impatient control freak Someone here one night was saying that they're praying for patience. Who was that in prayer request? Yeah. I know what's coming your way. Our problem a lot of times is we don't wait on the Lord. And we have traded activity for spirituality. And we think that just because we're busy, we're spiritual. When there's times we need to stop, wait, and listen to the Lord. Most importantly. Don't let your dreams dissolve when you're in the prison. Never doubt in the darkness what God has shown you in the light. I'm gonna narrow this down. My goodness, 756. We're gonna have to quit here. Understand what I'm about to say. We've talked about a lot of things since we've been here. We have. You know what we need most in our lives, and this can happen in a prison, is we need desperately faith-building moments. I said last night, I wasn't trying to be ugly, but God does not need your money. Honestly, God does not need you. And He doesn't need me. But we desperately need Him. And we need the presence of God in our lives if we are to prosper. I'm not smiling to you like Joel Oldstein with his wavy hair and all of his full teeth Telling you something good is going to happen to you. But if you serve God and you listen to God, wait on God, The presence of God will be manifest in your life. People will see it. You won't have to tell them. And you will be prosperous. We know the end result and purpose for Joseph's life was for him to save other people alive. Every believer in this room has the same purpose. Ultimately, you are to take the Word of God, the bread of life, to a lost, dying world in whatever way, shape, fashion that God would use you to do, to see much people saved alive. To get there, you're going to have to have faith-building moments. Joseph had the dream thrown into the pit, but God was there with him, delivered him, sold into slavery Bad. He runs the household. Good. Tempted, lied on, thrown into prison. Bad. But we know the end of the story. He's going to get out, and he's going to rule Egypt, and it's going to cause millions of people, perhaps, to be saved from starvation, including his own family. And protect the lineage from Genesis 3. 15, the godly line, all the way to the cross We don't know the future. We don't know what God's going to do. But you need to be willing to have faith-building moments now because God wants to do something with you. And I want to get real personal right now, and I preach this all over the country. God is wanting to use you. And he doesn't want normal Christians, he wants abnormal Christians. And there's people in this room right now, there's young men, there's young ladies. There's some of you that if you got honest with us right now, you know God is speaking to you specifically. about getting in the fight. And perhaps I'm not the Holy Spirit. I can't tell you what God's will for your life is, but I can tell you this. It is God's will that you serve Him and some of you. One of you, two of you, I don't know. I believe God wants to put a holy higher calling on your life We talked about that so much today. Someone was supposed to sing me a song this week All want their lives to count for something, to leave their mark when life is through. But vain pursuits Will count for nothing. Time will erase all we do. I want my life to count for Jesus. No name for earthly game. Do you want to live your life for this world? Or do you want to live your life for the next world? I'm old, I'm struggling, I want to finish well. I don't want to ever have my grandkids. I told Pastor Day say, look at Papa, what happened to him, and he was a Baptist preacher. I have a job to do that God's given me. I'm clear in my assignment I believe he wants me to reach children, just like our prayer card says. He wants us to restore families. But I believe God wants to use me in these last years to raise up other people to serve Him. Everywhere I go, I make the same plea. I'm not trying to holler and scream and yell at you. I'm not wanting to drive anybody with my preaching. But with God's help, I want to draw. And I hope you understand from my heart. What I see in Scripture is the only way to draw, Jesus said, if I be lifted up, I'll draw all men to me. I'd like for you to bow your heads. Pastor, it's just going to come in a moment. Let's have a word of prayer together, but even before we stand. Father, I thank you for our time together. Lord, I am under such conviction. Lord, in these last years, I want to preach with purpose, and you know my heart. Dear Jesus, may we lift you up in this lost, dying world, in perilous times in our own country And draw men and women to you, boys and girls. Now I'm getting serious now in the quietness of the hour. As the Holy Spirit walks up and down this aisle, in and out of these pews, I want you to be honest with God. I want you to be honest with me before I finish this prayer. Is there anyone here that say, Brother Ted, I believe the Lord? I'm not saying you've got to go to Zambia, but is there anyone here with the uplifted hand, pray for me? I believe the Lord is dealing with me about that higher calling. If there's no one, there's no one. But I want to know, is there anyone I could pray for? Anyone else? Anyone else? Anyone else? Is God wanting you? Young people, I'm going to ask you a different question. That was from some of the older ones that know God wants to use them. I don't know how, and I'm not telling them. What about y'all? How many of you would say, Brother Ted, I will at least be willing to listen? If God were to call me, I would at least be willing to listen. Anyone like that? Young people? Anyway, I see a few hands going up. If God would call me, I'd just at least be willing to listen. I'm not want anybody right now to come forward and say, Brother Mike, I'm going to go to Zambia and be a missionary. That's not what I'm talking about, that you should at least listen to God. Thank you You can put your hands down. Father, you know folks' hearts, you know mine. I pray now, God, that you will do that which we cannot do. Draw people. Draw them to you. Lord, if there's anyone here that's in a prison, feels like they're in today, God help them to understand there's purpose in the prison. We're going to give you all the honor and glory and praise tonight. In Jesus' name we pray. Ask her, why don't you finish for me?