Chapter 13. By the way, I'm holding in my hand something that's precious to me. We're going to talk about more of this tonight. Um and church, I thank you. Right now there's 650,000 of these on the way down to Panama. By the way, 650,000 and 60,000 of those we did right here in the church. You touched them and you handled them and they're going down there. And God promised He wouldn't He would He would bless His Word. So I I praise the Lord for that. That excites me. We're going to talk more about that tonight. Proverbs chapter 13. Our text is going to be verse 23. Says, much food is in the tillage of the poor, but there is that is destroyed for want of judgment Let's pray. Father, I thank you for the privilege of being here. This wonderful Sunday, this Mission's Emphasis Sunday. The time when we just um take a look at what you're doing and maybe increase our goal a little bit a little bit, maybe some who haven't started start getting involved in this thing of missions. Father, you know that I am not capable of doing anything of eternal value here. Unless your Holy Spirit anoints your word and your servant. Father, I do ask you to move on our hearts and help us to understand so that that much food won't be lacked, won't won't be lost for our lack of judgment. Father, this I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. You know, if you and I had been writing this, we would have written it differently. Because we think differently. Now the way you and I think is this. Much food is in the tillage of the rich. That's the way we think. That's the way we look at things. And yet God has made a declaration here that even to this day is true. Do you know if all the rich, uh, the big huge conglomerates stopped planting, that there would be a famine in the earth. But if all the poor people stopped planting that little garden out behind their house, there would be a famine like the world has never seen because even to this day It's the tillage of the poor that produces the majority of what we eat. The word poor is a relative word. If I were to ask here, there are people in the auditorium this morning that would say, yes, Brother Dan, I'm poor. And yet I could take you to places that I have been recently where a family of eight has never owned a pair of shoes in their whole life. Most of us have more than one pair of shoes. I could take you to that mother right now who's hearing her child cry because the child has not eaten in two days. The child's crying for food, and that mother, you understand, she'd look at us and she'd say, you're not poor Because right now in this auditorium, I don't think there's anybody here that won't eat if they want to today. But on the other hand, I could take you to some of The rich people in this world. There was a time when Bill Gates was making $23 million a day. Can you imagine that coming home and your wife says how to go use? It's terrible. Today only made three million. Okay. This month when the owner of Amazon made over uh uh uh uh a hundred million million dollars in one month You know? The reality is that we we could all look at somebody and say, compared to him, I'm poor. And somebody can look at us and say, Well, compared to you, uh I'm poor, you're rich. So it's a relative word. But I want to give it a Bible definition of the word poor. The word poor in the Bible means somebody who doesn't have enough to meet the need. By the way, by that definition, the richest person in this room is poor. None of us have enough to meet the need. And by the way, to me, this is a miracle that the Spirit and the bride say, come. Because God didn't have to do it that way, but that's how He chose to do it. As a matter of fact, it's not just the spirit by itself, it's the spirit and the bride. It's not just the bride by herself, it's the spirit and the bride say come. Okay? Because God has chosen that everything he does on the earth today, he does through people. God has chosen you you and I. I'm reminded of the story of Ethiopian E Ethiopian eunuch who came to Jerusalem. And he's going home, a very moral man, a man with a good reputation. The queen entrusted her money to him, a man who was educated, he could read, a religious man he came to He came to worship, a man who was rich, he had a copy of the of the role of Isaiah, and he had a a a chariot that he's going home in. A man of influence, a man of prestige, a man you and I would say, look at what man can become But I want to remind you this man with all of his good qualities was going home on the way to hell. And then the first degree that you have to have a sinner, second degree that you have to have the word of God. He had the word of God Open the right passage. The third ingredient, the Holy Spirit has to be there. And the Spirit was there. And the Spirit said to Philip, go catch up with him. Talk to him. Hmm? You remember that? And Philip said, Do you understand what you're reading? And he answered and said, How can I accept some man? Huh? And Romans uh says uh how so they call without a preacher. God's chosen those people. By the way, if you don't tell your mom how to be saved, who's going to tell her? If you don't tell your brother how to be saved, who's going to tell him? By the way, thank God for this church. Right here in Oakland, there's a church that's interested in telling everybody how to be saved. I I like a church that's on a mission. I like a church that's about something. And so God uses people. God is capable of raining down gold like he rained down manna in the Old Testament. And we could go out and we could scoop it up and then we'd have for the business program. God's not going to do that because in the tillage of the poor is much food. And God is capable, but God allows us to participate with Him in something bigger than us because He loves us and He's made us co-heirs with Christ. And because he's made us co-heirs with Christ, he wants us to participate in what Christ came, because Christ came to seek and to save that which was lost. So he allows us to participate with him in the ministry of reconciliation. I'm going to give you a couple Bible illustrations, then we'll begin to apply this verse. Because you go through throughout the scripture. It's interesting how God always uses the weak. to to to conquer the mighty and the and the uneducated to to conquer the educated and and and and to the fools to to convince the wise. God is made perfect in weakness and God has determined See that in the tillage of of the poor there's much food. That's what God's determined. You'll excuse me if you would. And if somebody has a glass of water. There you go. Oh, that's perfect. Thank you very much. We're talking about prayers. Five six weeks ago, I almost died because I drove um 18 hours to get to a meeting. And I used to do that all the time. Nothing. But I think I'm getting a little older and I got a blood clot in my leg. Didn't know what it was. I got up and preached and it broke up and it went all into my lungs And so uh doctor said he said, with that many blood clots you should have died. But God said, nope, I got some more for you to do, God. So right now I'm on medicine, no new clots are going to form. But it takes about four, six months for the ones that are already there to get the for the body get rid of them So uh be patient with me. I I'm not sick, I don't have flu, you don't have to worry about shaking my hand, okay? I'm just battling those old lungs and I have good news. One day we got a new body coming. So so uh so we're gonna get we're gonna get right on that But uh in the tillage of the poor there's much fruit. Remember the story of uh of the prophet Elijah who went to the brook Cherith? And I and by the way, if there's a video in heaven, I want to see that those those uh those ravens uh uh delivering That food, that bread and meat, every that that that that's a pretty sight how God provides and a a as as the prophets there, the Bible says that the brook dried up and the way that phrase is is that it's not that it went dry from one day to the other. It meant it began to dry up like this. Okay, one day there's no more water. Okay? By the way, some Christians would have missed the blessing because they'd say, God, I don't know if you've noticed the brook's dried up. He said, uh uh uh I'm gonna go to that other brook. Would you send the ravens over there? But remember the provision of God's only found in the will of God. By the way, that's so important, okay? And so then the word of the Lord came to the prophet and said, I want you to move. And notice he didn't send him to a rich person's house. Said, I want you to go to the widow lady. Because in the tillage of the poor there is much food. And the prophet got there And that lady was getting a few sticks together. She has just a handful of flour and a few drops of olive oil and she's gonna make some some uh uh little biscuits, some little bread, and then that's the last food she has. One for her, one for her son And the prophet said, uh, would you get me something to drink? And so she she she's going to get something to drink. And as she as she's going, he says, and would you give me something to eat? And she stopped and she said, wait a minute, wait a minute. You don't know this, but I'm poor. I don't have. As a matter of fact, I was just getting the very, the very last little bit that I could here, and then I'm gonna just die. We're just gonna starve to death. And if you if you think about it, what the prophet said on its face seems to be very selfish. But it wasn't. What he said, he said in love to her. He said, go ahead and do what you say. But he said, I want you to feed me first. And you'd say, why would the prophet take the little widow lady's last food to save her life? Because see God had told him she's gonna feed you. So he knew as long as she was feeding him, she couldn't run out. That's why he did it. And that's why God sent him there. Because when God asks for something, it's never because he wants to receive, it's because he wants to give. When he asked the Samaritan lady, he asked her for water. But if you read the passage, I don't find any record that he drank any water. What he really wanted was to give her the water of life. God doesn't need you and I except that He's chosen to need you and I He doesn't need us. If he wanted more gold, he's the creator of all the gold in the universe. He could speak, and another moon of gold would appear in the sky right now as I speak. God doesn't need us, but he allows us to participate with us See, i he sent him to the widow lady because he wanted to be a blessing to the widow lady. By the way, that widow lady, she was the most popular ant in the whole town. Bible says not only did she get to eat But everybody that's in her house and I'm imagining some of the family might have come over for lunch from time or time or two. You know, where are we going? Just be quiet and come on, let's go. By the way God wants to bless you too. And by the way, if you're not if you're not blessed, it's not God's fault. It's because you're not blessable. I don't even know if that word's in the dictionary, but we'll put it in We've got to be blessable. Got to be in a position to receive, gotta get under the spout, they used to say back in the old days. You know. The reality is this: God chose the widow lady to provide Because God wanted to provide for the widow lady. By the way, another story, another Bible illustration. Remember the little boy with the five loaves and two fishes? Uh uh there's five thousand men there. You ladies tell me this. You think there's five thousand men together in any place and none of them's thinking about their stomach? You know, and and and the disciples came up and they said, um um uh Christ said to them, said, How are we going to feed all these people? And uh the disciples said uh well they hadn't thought about that. By the way, God already knew how he's gonna feed them. When Christ asks a question, it's not because he needs information, because he wants us to focus on something. It's the same for reason. Remember when Judas came in the garden and Christ spake these words, he said, friend. Interesting that he still considered him a friend. And he'd already at the Last Supper told everybody what he was going to do. He knew what he was doing. But he asked them, have you considered what you're doing? And the same Christ that stood on the seashore, I used to remember Lester Oloff talking about bread and fish by the fire, you know, the same Christ that stood on the seashore. After Peter had gone back to fishing, after Peter had denied him, after Peter thought, I can't do anything for Christ, that same Christ sitting on the seashore, he said, Children, have you any meat? Did you catch anything And and and and by the way, he knew the answer to that question. Who do you think was under the water making the fishes run away from the net all night? He didn't need information when he asked the question it's not because he wants information, because he wanted the disciples to focus on. There's nothing there for you now. Come on. You know. And so when he said, How are we going to feed all these people? He already knew how he's going to do it. Okay? But he wanted them to start focusing on the need. And they they answered back. They said, uh, we don't have enough. Couldn't do it. One of them said, I couldn't even do it with uh 200 denarius. Okay? By the way, I don't know what that was. Might have been what he thought was in the bag, but it was probably less because Judas was a thief and so what there was supposed to be and there was gone, you know Uh said, we don't have enough to feed so many. Five thousand men, not counting the women and the children. You know, I don't know. Some people have estimated maybe twenty, thirty thousand people there Christ said, well, what do you have? What do you have? And that's the important question. Many times in scripture you see it coming back. You remember old Moses back in the Old Testament when In his youth, he said, I'm able. I'm able. I know I'm able. He's going to go do it in his strength. And he made a mess of things like we all do in our flesh. Then for 40 years he's on the backside of the desert taking care of his father-in-law's sheep and and herd. And after 40 years, he's finally singing, I'm not able, I'm not able. 'Cause when the Lord appeared in the burning bush, you remember the story, okay? Then uh the Lord said, Uh uh I want you to go back and I want you to finish the purpose that I gave you uh uh uh the purpose which I created. He said, I can't do it. Who am I? God said, it doesn't matter who you are, what matters is I'm going to be with you. So then he said, well, who are you? What's your name? And he says, I'm the I am. And then remember what Moses asked? He said, How how how will I convince them? How will they believe me? And and Christ says, Well what do you have? What do you have in your hand? He says, just this old stick, this run, that'll be enough. We'll get it done with that. The reality is, is that all that you have is enough. Because in the tillage of poor, there's much food. I want you to listen with me real quick here. Eh. Um the scripture, time and time and time and time again has taken a little. There's no song we used to sing. Little is much When God is in it, labor not for wealth or fame. There's a crown, and you can win it if you'll go in Jesus' name Now with 5,000 men there, when the disciples went around and said, the master wants to know what do you have. There's a great possibility, I'm gonna go further, great probability that more people in that group had food than that little boy. Yeah. But some of them had lack of judgment. Because what they said is, what is my little among so many? Even if I gave it, it wouldn't be enough I better just keep what I have. Because what I have wouldn't make a difference. I'm poor Well, thank God there was a little boy who said, Well, if the master wants it, what I have is five loaves and two fishes. He can have it. I have a question for you. Do you think that it would have been easier for Christ if the boy had had ten loaves and four fishes? Or do you think it would have been more difficult if all he had was three loaves and one fish What I'm trying to say this day is that it doesn't matter the size of the tillage. It just matters that we make it available to God. Because in his hands, it's enough. By the way, I have another question for you. Do you think the little boy ate more or ate less? After he gave his five loaves and two fishes to Christ. He ate more. He got an all-you-can-eat buffet. Yep. Yep. If there's a video in heaven I want to see this, you ushers will appreciate this because uh uh the Christ wanted he likes things done decently in order. So he wanted to organize. He wanted to sit in groups of fifty, groups of a hundred Can you imagine organizing that many people? You know, the the pastor thinks he's pastoring sheep, but the ushers know sometimes there's some goats, you know. No, 'cause the usher says, Come on down to the goat's tape. They got everybody organized. No, no, no, not 51. No, you no, you your friend have to stay here. You go gotta sit down and get it right. Got everybody organized. And then by the way, can you imagine the little boy's face When he saw all those people eating from his five loaves and two fishes. His face, it must have looked like what some of your faces are going to look like. When you get to heaven. And then you see what God did with your tillage. Because in the hands of the master, what we have is enough. Now there's a joke they tell in in in Spanish. It may not be funny in English, but would you laugh anyway? Okay. They say they say there's two friends talking there, and one of them said, If you had two cows, would you give me one? And he said, Of course we've been friends since we were since we were child children together. You know if I had two cows, I'd give you one He said, Oh, that's wonderful. He said, Well if you had two goats, would you give me one? He said, Why are you asking? I already told you. We've been friends for life. If I had two goats, I'd give you one. He said, Well, I got one more question. I'll be quiet. If you had two chickens, would you give me one And his friend answers back, says, You stop right there, you already know I have two chickens. That's funny in Spanish, huh? Don't talk to me about what you're going to do with the cows when you get them one day. Don't talk to me about what you're going to do with the goats. Today we won't talk about what we're going to do with the chickens. that we have. Because in the tillage of the poor there is much food. But that food is sometimes lost or destroyed and not provided for want of judgment. Because somebody says, I'm not going to give it. I'm going to keep it. Uh-huh. Because what would my little little dollar, what would my little two dollars, what would my little five dollars a week make a difference I like what Pastor said. Pastor, I really appreciate your goal. Because we really don't put number goals. What we want is we want everybody to get involved. Everybody get involved. What I'm talking about is not something that just the family does. What I'm talking about is not something that that that your husband does or your father does. I'm talking about everybody understanding that in the tillage of the poor there's much food, and I'm going to do something. I'm going to do a little bit with what I can. I'm going to do my little part We were in a little town called Danielsville, Georgia, at Bruce Stone Baptist Church, and the pastor said, hey, Brother Garlic, this is the 1960s. We were visiting churches raising support. I was just a little toddler going along with Daddy. And he said, Brother Garlic, he said, let's go visit Mrs. Bingham. And uh and so they went over to Mrs. Bingham. She was an invalid, she couldn't come to church. And so the pastor went there to uh Mrs. Bingham and she said, You want to sing for me today? And he said, Sure. He got his guitar out and sang and said, Hey, why don't you listen to a missionary? Told her about my dad. And see, she looked at it and all of a sudden she said, you know, I want to do something. She said, hand me my handkerchief. And over there she had her handkerchief. And and and and some of those old timers back then they used to tie little coins in the corner of the handkerchief. You know? So she had she started opening that up and she said, uh uh missionary, I want to give you something. She took out 19 dimes, okay? And she she took those 19 dimes and she said, it's not a lot, but it's what I can do. I'm going to give that to you, Brother Garlic. And she gave that to my dad. My dad said that was uh was a very moving experience for him. That that that Mrs. Bingham would would trust him with those 19 dimes She said, I use these dines to give the neighbor boy something to get the firewood in in the winter. She said, But I'll get the wood in somehow. You take this. You know, you go on down. My dad, I I remember going to the office many times Dad's there on his knees weeping and praying to God. I remember hearing him say, had those 19 dimes there. He says, God, you know back in Danielsville, Georgia, Mrs. Bingham, she trusted me. She gave me these 19 dimes. And he said, uh, he said, um, uh, Brother Gar God please help me here. My dad never spent those dimes, by the way After he died, I found him. I'm now the owner of those 19 dives. Amen. We went back to Danielsville, Georgia. After several years in the field, God had blessed. Dad had started uh uh five churches there in El Salvador. Uh one uh and those churches are still going to this day, by the way. That was back in the 60s, okay And we went back to the little church to do what uh what we're doing today, giving a report and saying thank you to the churches. I really enjoyed Sunday school this morning, Brother Phillip. That was fantastic. And and and fa and and that's what we're here. We're coming back to say thank you and kinda let you know a little bit of what you're gonna see in heaven. Because there's people in gonna there's people in heaven through your dying. There's people in heaven. And we thank you. One day they're going to thank you in person because your participation. We went back there, and then Pastor said, Dad said, I want to go see Mrs. Bingham He said, Well, she's moved now. She's in a she's in a uh uh one of the homes, one of the old folks' homes there. So they went over there and uh when they knocked on the door to her room, she said, Hey Pastor, are you gonna sing for me today And he had his guitar. And so he he sang it, hang there for a little bit. And then she he said, Oh, he said, remember that missionary came back? She said, Yeah, rolling garlic. She said, I've been praying for him. He said, Well he's here and he wanted to see you see. Oh, that's wonderful. Come on in. So he came on into the room. And uh She began to say, well tell me, how'd it go? What happened? Dad began to tell her about the churches and the people that got saved and everything that had happened. And then she was just rejoicing there. And then all of a sudden, she started crying. And uh Pastor said, are you okay? She said, yeah, I'm okay. She started crying. And uh and and and she was a heavy lady when and she started crying so hard that the bed started shaking And Pastor said, Mrs. Bingham, Mrs. Bingham, what's wrong? She said, no, no, no. It just occurred to me. I don't have any dimes to give you today. Now, I want to tell you something, okay? I want to tell you something. Mrs. Bingham's in heaven now, but God's still breaking that bread Because I just told the story. God's still multiplying that. She's up there saying to my dad, hey, did you see my bank account? It just grew a little bit. Amen The reality of the thing is that God multiplies what we do. And you you you won't even you won't e there is it's impossible to see How much food is produced in the tillage of the poor through faith promise mission? It's impossible to see it until we get to heaven. Until we get to heaven. Okay? As we go, it's impossible. You won't be able to see it. You can't see it, okay? By the way, there's a lost and dying world out there. And that's what it's all about. You know, it's about these missionaries. As Brother Phillip said. this morning, standing in our place, being deputized and us sending them out. And right now as I as I stand here and preach, there are people that money from this church put gas in their tank th this morning to drive them to where they're going to preach. Money from this church paid the light bill and and printed the tracks. Money from this church. And just like that little boy. See, that what I'm saying is you're that little boy when you get to heaven. And you're going to stand there like he did and say, wow. Look what God did with my little faith promise. Look what God did with my little faith promise. I'll tell you about the first time I saw my daddy cry. I'd never seen Dad cry before. We were in Guadalajara, Mexico. He was learning Spanish. He went to school all day and I went out and played soccer with my buddies. And I learned faster than him. He said, I'm gonna quit paying that teacher. I'm just gonna go play soccer with you, Danny. And get out there and do it. So uh uh uh uh we were down there in Guadalajara, Mexico. We were walking by church And uh in a little town called Sepulpin. And uh we were curious because there's a big crowd, I mean a big crowd, packed out, in a standing room only. And and we were curious we didn't that we didn't speak Spanish that well But um um we poked our heads in the back and we could see a big group there and uh then they saw me, I don't know why it is, maybe this blonde hair or something They always see me as a green girl. I don't know. Something happens. But they grabbed me by the collar and they pushed me out and they closed the doors and dad was stuck inside And a few minutes later, I just standing on the I was eight years old, just standing on the sidewalk outside the church, just waiting on daddy. And pretty soon the door opened, out comes dad, and he's crying. And I'd never seen Daddy cry before. And I said, Dad, what do they do to you? He said, no, I'm not crying. They didn't do anything. I'm crying because of what I saw. That said a little group of children came in, they got on their knees and they began to crawl to the front. I have seen people crawl. For miles. I have seen people crawl so much that the bone was exposed on their knees as they're crawling. These little children were crawling up to the front of the church as their religion had taught them, and as they crawled they sang a song. I didn't hear the song. My dad's telling me this story. He said it was kind of like a funeral burge, a real sad, melancholic song. And they sang, to heaven, to heaven, we want to go to heaven. And then the religious leader was in the corner. He had a microphone. And he said, Well, if you want to go to heaven Be good and mind your mommy and daddy and you'll go to heaven. Now what that that religious leader said was a lie. The Bible does say we're to honor our father and mother, but a good work today won't erase our sin from yesterday. You know, if a fellow robs the bank, even if he stops robbing banks, the police are still looking for him. Okay? If he gives all the money away to the orphans, they're still looking for him. A good work won't erase it. This religious leader was telling them, if you want to go to heaven, just do be honor, obey your mom and dad. And they then they sang the second verse. It was kind of a verse where they sang back forth. The children sang, to heaven, to heaven, we want to go to heaven. And the religious leader said, if you want to go to heaven, be faithful to your church and you'll go to heaven. By the way, church can't save you. No church, this church can't save you. Church didn't die for you. Church didn't pay for your sin Only Christ, that only the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all unrighteousness. But these children didn't hear that. They just heard the religious leaders saying to be faithful to the church. And then they said the third time, to heaven, to heaven, we want to go to heaven. And the religious leader said, if you want to go to heaven, come up and pray to the Virgin of Seppulpin for forgiveness of sin, and you'll go to heaven. Now the version of Sopopin is a doll. It's about 19 inches tall, 18 to 19 inches tall. We can look it up on the internet. The body of that doll is made out of a corn cob And the the the priests say they were eating corn one day and one of them dropped his corn cob. And when he went to pick it up, the the priests say it had transformed itself into this dog. And then an angel appeared and said, this doll has the power to heal and to forgive sin. So they built the whole church around that doll. It's interesting the people live in poverty around that church, and that doll has a jeweled dress that they change once a year. I have a question for you. Do you understand why my daddy was crying? Because in the voice of those children he heard a lost and dying world saying, you know, we'd like to sing the songs of Zion. We'd like to know. We'd like to be reconciled with God. We'd like to have eternal life. And all they can hear is their religion saying, do this or do that, and it'll be okay. And today we get to vote. Today we get to say, yeah, I want to do a little more. Yeah, I'm going to trust God for a little more. Or or maybe some of you say, you know what, I'm gonna get started, I'm gonna get involved, I'm gonna do something about that. Okay? And and and and some but the there's some people that might think, uh maybe a child here or or or an adult or somebody say, Well what would my little bit be among so many? And I have good news for you. In the tillage of the poor, there's much food. And so here's all I'm going to ask you to do. It's just do whatever God tells you to do. That's all I'm going to ask you to do. Just do whatever God tells you to do. But whatever He tells you to do, do it. There may there may be some children here that say, you know what? I didn't give a dime. That's a precious dime. It's a precious dime. God take that dime and multiply it. Some of us can do a little more. But all of us can do something. All of us can do something. Every teenager, every child, all of us can do something. And today, I'm asking you to vote yes. I'm asking you to say to Christ, you know what? I want to do a little something. So that they can hear the message of salvation. I want to do a little something. So they can enjoy a relationship with Christ like I do. I want to do a little something. Because in the tillage of the poor there's much food. Father, I have given the message you gave me this morning. Now you're going to have to apply it to every heart, every person. Father, I ask you to do a work among us. Nobody's looking. I have a question. Has God spoken to your heart in the Sunday school hour and this hour? You say, Brother Dan, God's spoken to me, and I'm not going to say no. Whatever he's asking of me, I'm going to do it. If God's spoken to you, could you raise your hand up high? God bless you. Wow, wow, wow. There's a lot of us here. There's a lot of us here. Let's all stand, if you would, please. Let's all stand. Every head bowed, every eye closed. I have have another question. How many can say, Brother Dan, I know for sure, 100% for sure, if I die, I know I'm going to heaven. No doubt about it, I've already received Christ my Savior. Would you raise your hand in testimony? Raise it up high. And testimony, yeah, that I got that settled. You can put your hand down, nobody's looking. I wanted to be private, please respect the privacy of those around you Is there anybody here who would say, Brother Dan, I couldn't raise my hand? I don't know that for sure. But I want Christ to save me. I do want him to save me. And you say, would you pray for me? I want him to save me. I want him to change me. I want him to be my my redeemer. Is there anybody here? Could you just raise your hand? Maybe everybody's saved. I didn't see any hands that weren't raised, but I never want to presume that. Is there anybody saved I I I I I I couldn't raise my hand before, but I need to get that settled. Would you just slip it up and down? I sure would like to pray for you if there's anybody. I'll wait just a minute. Now, Christians, now, I know we can make decisions in that in that uh in that bench right there. How many say, Brother Dan, I have a lost relative My mom, my dad, a friend, a uncle, a cousin, a grandchild. There's somebody I'm thinking of in my family, and to my knowledge, they're not saved. Say, would you please pray for them? Could you raise your hand up high? Make it in my family. Think if somebody in my family is not saved, would you please pray for them? Remember, it's not just praying, it's not just giving. It's also going and telling. Amen. Do it in person. Amen. Uh uh Father, uh by the way, those of you who raised your hand, if you come back tonight, I'm gonna do something we do in the conferences and and and I'm gonna be talking more about your family tonight. And so uh the devil's gonna fight for you for you not to be here. You make sure you're here. We're gonna be talking about that. We've seen thousands of family members saved this year. This year. Thousands of family members saved this year. And we're going to be talking more about that tonight. Now listen, I don't know what God spoke in your heart. All I'm asking you to do is just say yes and do whatever he's asking you, okay And by the way, you know what God's God's talking to you about. You know what he's talking to you about. The pianist is going to play here in just a minute. And I know we can make decisions in the band. There's something about coming down the old-fashioned altar. But if you can't get out and it's too crowded, just go ahead and sit down and pray right there on your bench. Make a make a little altar there on the bench if you can't get out. But let's do some business with God, if God spoken to your heart. I'm gonna ask the pianist to begin to play. And if