First book of your Bible, very first chapter, very first verse, Genesis chapter 1 and verse number 1. We thank the Lord for our children's ministries. And all the workers that make it a part make it a success, Brother Dave Heath does a tremendous job and the whole team down there. And uh only time will tell, only eternity will tell the impact that this children's church ministry has on the lives of these little children. We have so many people uh over the years that um we meet them, we'll talk to them, they'll start coming out the church and Uh maybe they'll trust the Lord as Savior. And we'll get talking to them. We find out that at some point early on they were in a children's church uh ministry or they rode a Sunday school bus And those seeds were planted, and though it didn't bear fruit sometimes till later in life, nevertheless, as a child, the word of God was planted in their heart. And uh uh and as we said it bore fruit much, much later. And so we thank God for this ministry. A lot of times, the workers, it's not a real rewarding as far as visual right there. Uh sometimes they I'll be in the back shaking hands and the uh kids will come running up and they'll head out and the workers come dragging up the steps. I said, how'd it go? And they said, Oh And said, well you hang in there. You're doing great. And God's blessing. And uh what a blessing. Thank God for these little children. Alright, Genesis chapter 1 and verse number 1. The Bible says, in the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth. We try to teach these children about God. And so I want to speak this morning and Lord willing I I my plan at this point is maybe over the next month or so on Sunday mornings, we're just going to talk about God and learn about God, who He is. what he's like, how he expects us to live, how we can expect him to respond to how we live our lives. I'm coming to the conclusion we live in a world that is woefully ignorant as to who God is and what God is like. And so I just entitled the message this morning, In the Beginning, God. So let's pray. And you pray with me and for me. That we'll be able to um uh that this will help us. Father in heaven, we bow before you this morning. Lord, my heart has been blessed by these little children Lord, some of them are naughty, probably all of them. Lord, uh some of them uh uh we see you already working in their hearts and lives, and we give you glory for that. But we pray for every child We know you love them dearly. We do too. And I pray that the things they've learned this year in children's church and Sunday school, that that would bear fruit. And God, that they would be able to live their lives in the center of your will. Now, Lord, as we look into your word, we want to learn more about you. God, we want to know you We want to understand as much as we can who you are and what you're like, how you interact with us. God, I can't do that in and of myself, and so I yield myself to you. I present my body anew, and I ask you with all my heart That you fill me with your spirit and that you speak through me and teach us about yourself. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. The very first words in God's Word, the very first words in the Bible are, in the beginning, God. I believe that statement right there, Genesis 1:1. I believe that statement is the key to the entire Bible. If we don't have that first statement down, if we don't grasp what's being said, when Genesis 1:1 says, In the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth. If we don't grasp that In the rest of the Bible, we're going to have a hard time comprehending. We're going to have time understanding what he's talking about. Now just a little background of this passage, Genesis through Deuteronomy was penned by Moses. Moses is the penman. We always try and point this out. Moses is not the author of Genesis. It's not the author of Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy. It's not the author. He's the penman. God is the author of the Bible. The Bible is God's Word. Holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Spirit. So Moses was the penman of this passage in the first five chapters of the Bible, God inspiring it, God moving on him, what to write down and and to record here for us. And of course, when Moses re penned these passages, he was penning them in the language of Hebrew, in the Hebrew language, as it was first given. In the Hebrew, the word and I am not a Hebrew scholar. I don't know Hebrew. Well, I knew a Hebrew back home had a little shot, but I don't know the language Hebrew But I'm told that the word in the beginning is one word in the Hebrew, berish, bereset. And it means in the beginning. It's one statement. The Old Testament, as it was given in Hebrew, was translated many thousand, 2,000 years ago, was translated into the Greek. It's the Septuagint. That's what it's referred to. In the Septuagint, in the Greek language, those first three words in the beginning. Is the word one word Genesis? Genesis. It means origins, the beginnings Of course, in our English Bible, in our King James Bible, we retain that title: the Book of Genesis. The Book of Origins The Book of Beginnings, where and how it all started The first three words in the beginning became the title of the book. Now, I'm going to take a little side note here, and I want to make this statement, and I don't for No doubt for the majority of us and perhaps for all of us, I don't need to make this statement, but I need to. The book of Genesis, there is no reason in the world not to take the book of Genesis literally. The first eleven chapters of the book of Genesis in certain circles of society are highly ridiculed and are totally rejected as myth As fanciful stories as simply made up. Some even what would claim to be Christians would refer to it as Allegorical, it's not a literal event, Adam and Eve and the creation of the world and and uh Noah's Ark and uh and uh the flood and all that. No reason to take it literally as what certain elements of society says, I'm going to suggest to you there's no reason not to take it literally. We had a fella years ago, oh, he's with the Lord now. Oh, Jesse Harsh. I miss Jesse Horse. When Jesse first started coming here, Charlie can attest to this, and if he doesn't, I'll kick him. But uh Charlie can attest to when Jesse first started coming here he was just excited about uh what the Lord was doing and he was so thrilled and uh he was attending another church at the time and Uh he was there and then he'd come here on Sunday nights. And um he came to me one shortly after they started attending and he made the statement. He says, uh Pastor, I got a question. We're in the back. And um He goes, what would you say if someone said the book of Revelation was not to be taken literally, that it was just figurative and just teaching uh just general spiritual lessons? I said, well, there's no reason to take it that way. I mean, obviously there's some symbolic language, but I think for the most part God means what he says and says what he means And he said, y if you know Jesse you can see him. That's what I thought. Good And a little time went by and he come one Sunday night he came and he said, What would you say if someone said that Jonah and the whale was not a literal actual event, but it's just a story teaching the importance of obedience and trusting God. I said, well Jesse, there's no reason not to take that literally. God means what he says and God says what he means. I think it's exactly the way the Bible preaches it. I said, Jesus considered Jonah to be a literal person in the actual Jesus referenced it. I said, there's no reason not to take it that way. And he looked at me and he said, That's what I thought I said, Good. A little time went by and Sunday night I'm back there shaking hands and he comes by and he says, Pastor, I got a question. I thought, here we go He said, what would you say if somebody said that the first chapter 11 chapters of Genesis aren't to be taken literally They're just teaching moral right and wrong and allegorical lessons and not necessarily we take literally. By this time, I've realized what was going on He said, what would you say to that? I said, Jesse, what I would say to that, it's time for you to get out of that church and find a church that believes the Bible. He said, That's what I thought. And he began attending faithfully. I baptized Jesse into the membership and what a blessing he was. He's with the Lord now. He would go out that back door. I was I'm just reminiscing now a little bit, but he'd go out that back door many, many times, tears streaming down his cheeks. And say, preacher, I wished I'd have heard of this long time ago. I wished I'd have heard preaching and teaching in this atmosphere 50 years ago. And I said, Jesse, I'm so glad you're part of our church. There's no reason. There's no reason to cast doubt on God's Word. There's no reason to question whether God means what he says and says what he means. And so when we come to Genesis chapter 1, 2, all the way through 11, actually the whole book, we take it for what it is, the Word of God. We take this as a literal, actual event. The book of Genesis is in many ways the foundation book of the entire Bible. An understanding. If we can get an understanding of the teaching and the information given to us in the book of Genesis, that becomes the basis of our understanding of the entire Bible. We can better understand who Jesus is and why he came if we understand the teaching and information given to us in the book of Genesis. What I'm trying to say is this, that every book of the Bible is important. All scripture is given by inspiration of God. All scripture is profitable for doctrine, reproof, for correction, instruction, righteousness. All the Bible is important. But the book of Genesis is a foundation. Is a basis for the rest of the truth presented to us in the Bible. For instance, in the book of Genesis, we learn who God is. We learn some foundational truths about God. Now, as I said, Lord willing, if God continues to direct the way I think He is, we're going to be speaking about God. What is God like? Who is He? Is the God of the Muslims the same as the God of the Christians? Who is God? We're going to look at that. And Genesis gives us the foundational truths about who God is, what he's like. Where did God come from? Did he come from somewhere? Genesis helps us with that. Genesis gives us basis truths, foundational truths about mankind. Where did man come from? France teaching them to say Amen early on. That was baby for Amen. That's what I thought also. Genesis teaches us where mankind came from. Tells us w where we came from, but Genesis tells us why we're here. Genesis tells us, very clear, and this is not the m necessarily the message this morning, but Genesis tells us that we did not come from monkeys. Evolution is, without a doubt, the biggest lie that's ever been perpetrated on mankind in the history of mankind. That there is no God, that we evolved from lower life forms. Genesis Refutes that clearly and strongly. Bible, uh, Genesis tells us where we came from, why we are here, tells us what we are I I'm just dumbfounded and I try not to go off on this, but I'm just dumbfounded that we live in a day and age and people don't even know what they are. The darkness, the spiritual darkness has fallen upon this land to such a degree that people don't even know what they are. How blinded have we become to obvious reality? Genesis makes it clear. God created them, male and female. So I'm trying to emphasize the importance of this book and how it lays the basis For our understanding of who God is and what he is and what he's like. It lays the foundation or the basis for what man is. Where we came from, what we are, why we're here. Is life just 80 years, give or take a few, of meaningless, purposeless existence? Or is there a purpose to our life? Is there meaning? Does my life matter? And the answer in the book of Genesis, absolutely it matters. We have been created in the image of God, designed by God. To glorify him and serve him and exalt him. So Genesis is a foundational book. It lays the basis For who God is and what he's like, lays the foundations for mankind and where we came from, what we are, why we're here. Genesis gives us the basis of our understanding of our universe. I'm just fascinated by the images and what we are learning. About this universe we live in, the immensity of this place we live in is staggering And these pictures that are coming back from the Hubble telescope up there, it's just it's hard to comprehend. And I always and I can't ever see one of those pictures or or read about what we're learning about our universe Without thinking of the passage when Solomon is praying for the temple and he says, he's speaking to God, he says, God, how in the world can you dwell in a building made by hand when the entire universe cannot contain you? How immense is our God that this universe cannot contain him Bow the knee. Bow the knee. We learn about our universe and it has purpose and design. Yeah. I'm sorry. There is no way, no way, that this universe just is chaos and happens standing. You can set your clock to the second by the rotation of the moon around the this planet They can plan 15, 20, 25 years out, exactly where a planet's going to be to send a projectile out to that because it has organization, it has design, it has order Genesis lays the foundation for our understanding of the universe. You say, You say, surely all these scientists cannot be wrong. With all the information they have, surely they can't be that wrong. I'm reading a book right now. It's fascinating. It's called The Kingdom of Ice. It's a record of a failed attempt to get to the North Pole by ship back in the late 1800s. And this fellow, a newspaper um publisher out of New York And a skilled sailor are working together. It's a true story. It's it's an actual event. And uh they're work going to go up through the Bering Strait and they're going to find the North Pole Do you know what the overriding theory was about the North Pole at that time? All the most educated scientists and archaeolog uh geology uh the um Smart people. Um you know what the overriding understanding was that at the North Pole? There was two The most popular acceptance was that everybody was convinced of this. All the maps back at that time, the P were designed them, believed that the North Pole consisted of open water Tropical like atmosphere. And they believed it was circled by a ring of ice that ships could not get through. But if they can get over that or Or through that, they would find still water like the Caribbean Sea, uh perhaps tropical plants, maybe even inhabitants living there, humans living there for thousands of years have been living there. They were convinced of that The other theory was, wasn't as popular, was, there was a gigantic whirlpool at the top of the world, sucked all the water down and pushed it back out through the springs throughout the rest of the world. That's what the scientists were convinced the North Pole had. They were very, very wrong. There ain't nothing up there but ice. Now I read that, and you say, Why are you telling us that? I'm telling you that because science generally gets it wrong when it contradicts the Bible. Not generally, every time. So you say, well, they all teach we evolve, they all teach the Big Bang, they all teach that. Yeah, and they all taught the North Pole was a giant vacuum cleaner for the water of the earth. And they were wrong. I don't know about you, I'm sticking with God. Uh so uh anyway, I got off track there with that, but Genesis gives us the basis, the foundation for this universe, this place we live in. We understand where it came from. and uh and uh uh uh the basis of an understanding. In the book of Genesis, in the beginning, God in the book of Genesis gives us the basis of our understanding of society The family structure is the key structure of society. When the family breaks down, society breaks down. Genesis very clearly teaches that the family unit is what brings stability to society. And when the family unit breaks down, society breaks down, and we're wondering why is there so much violence? Why is there so much abuse? Why is there so much chaos going on in our world? And all you look at is the foundation of the family unit breaking down and the rest of it is crumbling on top of it. And Genesis tells us that. The family unit, Genesis makes very clear to us, is husband and wife. Which parent is not necessary for a child to be raised? Which one can we do without? The Bible says God created male and female, husband and wife, mother and father. Now there are circumstances and things happen and sometimes the one parent has to raise a child and God is very gracious, but the structure is given to us there The f the the the art the the blueprint is given to us there. Husband and wife and the child. The husband and wife leave the father and mother and become an individual unit and raise their children. The Bible, the book of Genesis lays the foundation, gives us the basis for our understanding of what faith is. What does it mean to have faith in God? Well, we find very early on in the book of Genesis that faith is simply trusting God and following his instructions. God had told Adam and Eve very clearly what their responsibilities were, why they were created, what their role was in this world, what their relationship with Him, their creator, their God was to be. They just simply had to trust him and follow his instructions. That's what faith is. Simply trusting God, following His instructions, depending on Him. In the book of Genesis, we find the basis of our understanding of what sin is. Sin is not trusting God. Sin is leaning on my own understanding and replacing God's authority in my life with my own authority. And of course, Adam and Eve took it upon themselves to disregard God's instruction concerning the forbidden fruit, and they ate. And introduced sin into the world. And as a result of that, sin, death entered the world. Romans 14:23 says, For whatsoever is not of faith, Is sin. Question. When Eve was there at the tree, and Adam was right there with her, by the way, if you read it carefully. And the serpent approaches her and he begins enticing her to eat what God said not to eat. When she took that fruit and bit into it, was she trusting God? No. She was disregarding what God had said. And in her own mind, she said it's good to look at. It's good to eat. She leaned on her own understanding. And sinned. Adam along with her. Failure to obey God's instruction. Acting under my own authority, rebelling against what God has clearly said. Genesis gives us the basis of our understanding of what sin is. And the rest of the Bible expands on that, and we learn more about it in more specific areas. The law is given. But back in Genesis We get the first picture of what sin is, not trusting God. Saying this is the way I think it should be. I think this is how I should respond. Rather than saying, you know, I'm going to trust God. Follow his instructions. Here's the tragic thing about it. When Adam and Eve bit into that fruit that God said no, the consequences were irreversible. That's the tragic thing about sin is you can never go back and undo it. Ah, what have we done? Oh, is there some way we can go back and do this? No. No Dr. Bill Barons, one of my dearest friends in the world, he's with the Lord now, and our church loved him dearly, evangelists. Told the story, and I know the church, and I have a school, and he told the story one time of a young lady that was in that Christian school. There's pretty worldly kids and not very spiritual and this young lady in this Christian school Dedicated her life to the Lord. God stirred her heart and she says, I'm going to live for God. And I'm going to be a lady that God intends for me. I'm going to trust Him and I'm going to obey Him and I'm going to be what God. I'm going to follow God's instructions as a Christian young lady. Dr. Barron said the other girls in that class are very worldly and didn't care about what God said or what God concerned, though they profess to be Christians. And they got all over this girl. And they're out loose with the men. His words, about every one of them, had lost their purity, living in fornication and immorality. And they were all over this girl and giving her such a hard time because she was trusting God and following his instructions. I want to do what God says. I want to be what God wants me to be. And finally they pressed her and pressed her and pressed her and pressed her. She said enough. She says, I can in one night become what you are But you can never, ever, ever be again what I am. That shut it up. Now, there's no room for pride in that type of thinking. It's by God's grace. Amen. But the point I'm trying to make is this. Genesis tells us very, very clearly That when we decide to act on ourselves and we decide not to trust God and we decide to do it our way, and sin enters the picture, that cannot be undone. I cannot come back. And the consequences of Adam and Eve sinning against God have been overwhelmingly horrendous Think about the multiplied millions, can I say billions of people who have died in sin. And in hell. Because one couple decided, I'm gonna do it my way. You see, there is no such thing as a small sin. There is no such thing as a minor infraction as far as God's holiness and God's law is concerned The repercussions are horrendous. We learn all this in Genesis, we see what happens Romans expands on what takes place in Genesis. By one man sin entered the world, and death by sin, and death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. Are you seeing the importance of the book of Genesis? The basis that is laid for our understanding of who we are and who God is and what this place is that we live in? And our relationship with God, our responsibilities before God. And I like this one And Genesis gives us the basis of our understanding of salvation. Though we can never go back and undo What took place in the Garden of Eden when Adam and Eve disobeyed God. We cannot undo that, but we get this. We can be saved from the consequences. The wages of sin is death. God told them, the day you eat thereof, thou shalt surely die. Now they didn't die physically till years later, but they died spiritually. Their relationship with God died. Their spiritual life died. And God made it very, very clear that that Salvation is available. We can be born again. That what was lost in that act of sin Can be restored in the sense that our relationship with God is restored, our eternal life, we receive eternal life. Am I making sense? And God assured Adam and Eve, I think in two ways. One, when he said to them that the woman's seed Shall bruise the head of the serpent. I think that was a veiled reference to the coming Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who someday defeat Satan through dying on that cross and rising again. But I think there's another reference. When Jesus took, get this, Adam and Eve, after they sinned, they realized they were naked, the Bible says, and they were ashamed. Lord says, Who told you you were naked? Have you eaten that fruit? Old Adam, typical man. That woman! Can I get a witness, ladies? They do that all the time. I I I was missing something before the service and my first reaction was Kathy hid it. That woman. But um that woman thou gave us she says, This the serpent tricked me And so they took leaves. They were realized because of their sin their eyes were open and now they've got a tainted view of what God had created was good and pure. Now it's stained. And they're shamed. And so they immediately they took what? Fig leaves. They took leaves and they made them coverings to cover their nakedness. God shows up. And the Bible says God made them coats. Now this is just a little aside. I'll throw this in for free. It's interesting to me what man thought was adequate to cover his naked body wasn't even close to what God said was necessary to cover the naked body. Coats cover a whole lot more than aprons And God took a lamb, I believe, that had never done anything wrong, that lived in a perfect environment. And he killed that lamb. And he took the skins, and he made garments to cover the nakedness of Adam and Eve. And that lamb, I believe, gave its life because Adam and Eve sinned. And I believe that that is a picture that God gave us in the early chapters of the book of Genesis of a coming lamb, the Lamb of God. That would someday come and give himself to die because you and I have sinned against God, because all of mankind has sinned against God. And that Lamb took the judgment of your sin and my sin upon himself. And die. It's buried and rose again. And God promises us that whosoever will believe on Jesus Christ shall be saved. Whosoever shall turn to him in repentance and faith, understanding that he was judged for my sin It's buried and rose again. I'm going to put my hope and my faith and my confidence in him, trusting him as my own personal Savior. And the Bible says we can be forgiven and have new life, eternal life, here and now and then in heaven. God in the beginning, God And he lays us out, lays it out who we are, what we are, why we're here, what we need to do, what has happened. I want to learn more about God. I believe the greatest subject a person can study is the subject of God. I mean, if you think about it, that's what it all boils down to. He's the one that made us. He gave us purpose. Someday we stand before Him. It's all about God. So whether we eat, drink, or whatsoever we do, we ought to do all to what? Glory of God. So I hope you'll pray with me, and I hope in the coming weeks and months God can teach us a little bit more and understand who this creator of God is. By the way, we are in his presence now. The God that created He is here now. He he he our mind's an open book. And we need him. We need to know him. We need to understand him. So, let me ask you this. The beginning point on understanding God is trusting his Son, Jesus Christ, as our personal Savior. Jesus that he that seen me has seen the Father. He said, this is to know the Father, have eternal life, trust me So it all begins with trusting Jesus Christ the Savior. And I'm saying this, if you're here this morning and you don't know for sure that your sins are forgiven, you've never come to the point in your life Where you recognize how desperately you need the Lord Jesus Christ. If you've never accepted Him as your own personal Savior, that is your most depressing need in your life now, the most pressing issue in your life is to know Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. Whether it's a young person or whether it's a senior citizen, it's the most important thing. I come to that point in my life where I accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. Now once I've done that, for me it was May 7, 1979, 1030 on a Monday night. Did I ever tell you about that? I don't know. Is there a point in time that you know you trusted Christ? If not, settle that. Make that right. Then once we do that, then it's important for us To begin to develop our Christian life. We're born into God's family. Baptism is such an important step for a new believer. Trusting God. God says, after you're saved, I want you to follow me in baptism. Identify yourself as a follower of Jesus Christ, a disciple of Jesus Christ. And I trust God and I follow his instructions. I am establishing a new Christian life of trusting God. and following his instructions. Baptism is so important. God has given to us the church to help us grow. It's the body of Christ. It's the bride of Christ. This is what God has designed for us to fellowship with each other and help each other, encourage each other, pray for each other, exhort and build up one another in our faith. The church is so vitally important. And so being faithful and a part of the church. Reading our Bibles every day, we are blessed to live in an age where the Bible is so abundant. And reading our Bible, praying, being a witness, giving out gospel tracts, soul winning, all this is part of my Christian growth and development. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless. That's a little challenge from your word this morning. Lord, we think of who you are in this world that you've created just by speaking it. And we're humbled. God, your immensity and your power is almost fearful. And I pray that we as a church and as individuals would deliberately on purpose humble ourselves before you and bow our knees. Before the God of creation, and you would reveal yourself to us. We would know you and know your Son, Jesus Christ. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many this morning would say, Preacher, I know I'm saved? There's no doubt about it. I know I've trusted Christ. That is a settled fact, scriptural basis for the fact that Christ is saved. I know that it's settled, but There's areas in my life as a Christian that need attention. My walk with God, now that I'm saved, is not everything it ought to be. There's some things I really need God to help me with. Some decisions, maybe they're tough decisions. That needs to be made concerning my relationship with God. And you'd say, preacher, I appreciate if you would pray with me that God would help me address the areas of my Christian life that need addressing. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I'd like for you to pray with me. God bless you. A bunch of hands around. That's part of Christian growth. That's part of our development. It's trusting God, follow his instructions, stepping forward. God bless you. How about it? Any others? Pray try to include me in that prayer. There are some areas in my life. The Spirit of God has spoken to my heart about How about it? Any others? Yes, preacher. God has spoken to my heart. God bless you. Are there some here this morning say, preacher, I've been saved, but I've not been baptized. And I never, maybe you never really gave it thought. Maybe it's something you've been contemplating. Say, preacher, I need to be baptized. I'd like for you to pray with me that God will help me in that decision. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I've been saved, but I've not been baptized. I'm concerned about that. God bless you, and God bless you How about it? Any others? That is something I need to give attention to. Church attendance, Bible reading, we could go down the list. One last question, then we give our invitation. So someone here this morning said, Preacher, I'm not sure I'm going to heaven when I die. So I'm concerned about that. I don't want to go to hell. Nobody in the right mind wants to go to hell. When you say, preacher, pray for me that God will help me get that matter settled. That I can know that all my sins are forgiven, that God has accepted me in Christ. I have eternal life I go to heaven when I die. Is there any like that? Say, preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about that. I need God to help me settle that. God bless you. How about it? Any others? How about it? Any others? Now, Father in heaven, folks, have listened so attentively now, and I pray that the truths from your word would bear fruit in our lives. Now you'd open our minds and we would see and understand what you're doing in our life and how you're leading and working and send revival. Is my prayer. Now, as we give the invitation, help the folks raise their hand, find a place, old-fashioned alder. We'll bow the knee before you and we'll seek you and we'll trust you and follow your instructions. In Jesus' name I pray Amen. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's going to play