Verse number one. We're all familiar with this passage, no doubt. Will you read it together with me? Verse 1, Genesis chapter 1, first book of the first chapter, first verse of the Bible. All together. Ready? In the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth. I want to speak this morning. I'm entitled The Message In the Beginning. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven. We come to you again on this first day of a new week, the Lord's Day. We've assembled together in your name and in your house with your people. And I'm asking, Father, that your presence would be here with us in a very real way now in the next few moments as we look into your word in this very important passage of Scripture. I pray that our hearts and minds would be open to your will and the truths that you have for us today and in our lives. I pray your Holy Spirit would make application as each of us have need. And Lord, I yield myself to you. I know that in and of myself I have nothing of any eternal or spiritual value. It has to come from you, Lord. So I yield my will to you. I present my body anew this hour, and I ask that for the filling of your Holy Spirit, and dear Lord, that you would speak through me and challenge us and help us And do for us what we need done in our hearts and souls. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. There's no doubt about it. The Bible is the most important book in all of history. There is no other book in all the history of mankind. There is no other book that has impacted mankind like the Word of God. Nations have been altered. Because of this book right here. Homes have been transformed because of the truths presented in this book Uh lives have been changed. All across this auditorium. Folks could stand and give testimony. My life was changed because of the truths of that book right there. Can I get a witness or none? I can testify to the fact it's a 19-year-old boy reading this book right here absolutely not only changed my life, but changed my destiny. From hell to heaven. We can never ever overstate the importance of the Word of God. The impact that this Bible has had. upon our world, upon humanity. And by the way, the position of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is this book is our sole authority. We have no other authority than the Word of God. We do not answer to a denominational organization. We do not answer to a bishop or a pope or any man. Our authority is the Word of God, and we answer to the Lord Jesus Christ. So the Bible is without a doubt the most important book in history and the most influential book in all of history. Now, having said that The book of Genesis is unquestionably, at least in my mind, unquestionably the most important book in the Bible. The Bible's made up of sixty-six different books, Old and New Testament, and of those books, the book of Genesis, and as I said, in my mind is without a doubt the most important book in the Bible. If we don't have Genesis, the rest of the Bible makes no sense. If we reject the book of Genesis, and particularly the first eleven chapters of the book of Genesis, if we reject the book of Genesis, we're going to have to reject most of the rest of the Bible. The book of Genesis is a foundational book in Scripture. All through the Old and New Testament, the book of Genesis is referenced over and over and over again, particularly the first three chapters. Jesus Christ made reference. To the first three chapters of the book of Genesis, over and over and over. Genesis is a foundational book for the rest of Scripture. And if the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do? So I'm suggesting to you the book of Genesis as the foundational book of the Bible is the most important book in all the Bible. In the book of Genesis, we find the institution of marriage is established. Would you turn with me quickly over to chapter 2 and notice with me. Verse number twenty-one. Genesis chapter two, verse number twenty-one. The institution of marriage is established in the book of Genesis. Verse 21. And the Lord caused the deep sleep to fall upon Adam and he slept. And he took one of his, he, the Lord, took one of his Adam's ribs, and closed up the flesh thereof instead thereof. And the rib, which the Lord God had taken from man, made he a woman, and brought her unto the man. And Adam said, This is now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman because she was taken out of man. Therefore shall a man leave his father and mother, and shall cleave unto his wife, and they shall be one flesh. Here we have the introduction, the establishment of marriage. And marriage is what God says it is, not what man wants it to be. Jesus the Word of God establishes very clearly, very distinctly, that marriage is one man with one woman for one life. And that's God's institution for marriage. And the Bible, Genesis, establishes that. And the rest of the Bible, any reference to marriage, any reference to the home, is based and built upon this foundational truth given to us here in Genesis chapter 2. Listen, man can come up with his imaginations and he can pervert what God has established But God makes it very, very clear what exactly marriage is. So the book of Genesis is vitally important. It's a foundational book of the Bible In Genesis, we have the institution of the marriage, of marriages given to us. By the way, and it seems strange that you even have to say this But the Bible makes a di- Genesis makes the distinction between the two genders. Now, can I just be frank with you? This is the stupidest thing in the world in my mind. But the Bible, and come over here if you would. Look with me if you would at chapter 1 and verse 27 And it's almost it's almost like God was anticipating the confusion that is in our world today. Notice what he says in verse 27. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God created he him. Male and female created he them. Now, I look at that and I think, well, it's pretty obvious there is male and female. Why would God make such an emphasis? And it's repeated throughout Scripture. It's almost like God was anticipating a day in human history when there would be such total confusion Where they do not even know what a male and female is anymore. And Genesis establishes right up front a foundational statement that it is male and female, period. Somebody help me out here a little bit on that. Amen. Amen. Now we don't want to be hateful about it. We don't want to be rude or unkind about it. I want to remind you we live in a world that is in spiritual darkness. We live in a world that is in spiritual confusion. And when we plant our feet on the Word of God, when we plant our convictions and our confidence, And what God's Word says, we do not have to be shaken by the ideas and the winds of fantasy that this world comes up with. We're grounded in the Word of God. We're grounded in the truth. And Genesis establishes the foundation of who we are and what we are and how we are to function. My argument is this. Genesis is the most important book in the Bible. Now don't misunderstand, all the Bible is important. All scripture is given by inspiration of God. But Genesis plays a role in the book of God's Word as a foundational basis for the rest of the Bible. And so the institution of marriage is given to us in Genesis, in the first chapters of Genesis. The distinction of the two genders is given to us Male and female exclusively established here in the book of Genesis. The origin of sin is given to us very clearly right here in the book of Genesis. The origin of sin, the consequences of sin. How to deal with sin, all foundational truths given to us right up front as we begin the Bible. Genesis is vitally important as a foundational book in the Bible. The institution of government. Is given to us in the book of Genesis. We get ac anybody here ever get aggravated with your government Yeah, I don't mean just this morning. I mean at some point in time. Yeah, anybody now let's let's be honest. We're at church now. Don't lie. Anybody here ever complain about your government? Yeah. We do, we do. But I want to remind you, government's God's idea. Now man abuses it. Man, it can overstep its bounds. There's no doubt about that. We see that on every hand. But Genesis tells us very clearly God established government. Government, the home is God's idea. Marriage is God's idea. Government is God's idea. And it has a place, it has a role, as established in the Bible. So Genesis is a vitally important book. It's a foundational book for the rest of the Bible We throw Genesis out, we have to throw most of the book of the Bible out. Because it is based and built upon the truths given to us in Genesis. The social, moral and a cultural confusion and collapse that we see in our society today is directly related to our society's rejection of the Word of God. The farther you get from the Bible, the more confusion there's going to be. The farther we get from these foundational truths given to us in Genesis, The more confusion there's going to be, the more violence there's going to be, the more frustration there's going to be, the more despair is going to be. The darkness of this world is a result of the rejection of the Word of God. And so Genesis is important. The Bible is important. Most important book in all of history. Most influential book in all of history is this book I'm holding my hand right here: The Word of God. The most important book in my mind in all the Bible is the book of Genesis because it's foundational to the rest of the truths given to us in the Bible Genesis tells us why Jesus had to die on the cross for us to be saved from our sins. The book of Genesis, the book of Genesis. Now, Genesis chapter 1, come there with me. I want to suggest to you that perhaps Genesis chapter 1 and verse 1 may possibly be the most important verse in all the Bible It is undoubtedly a foundational verse. I've been using that term, foundational a lot, because that's exactly what Genesis is, and that's exactly what Genesis chapter 1, verse 1 is. In the beginning, God created heaven and earth. Foundational verse of the Bible If you reject Genesis chapter 1 and verse 1, you might as well reject the rest of the Bible. In the beginning, God. If you accept Genesis chapter 1, verse 1. If you accept it for what it says, then you'll have no problem accepting the rest of the teaching of Scripture. In the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth. By the way, I find it interesting, the Bible makes no defense for the existence of God. It just begins with the assumption that God is. The Bible doesn't start out saying, well, here's all the proof of God. No, no. It just says, in the beginning, God In the beginning, God. God's existence is assumed and is obvious in a reasoning man's mind. In the beginning, God. That's the reason I think Satan hates Genesis so much. That's the reason why I believe evolutionists mock and work so hard. To get us not believed those first several chapters of Genesis because it points us to God There is a worldwide concerted effort to undermine the truth of creation as it's given to us in the Word of God. And by the way, the position of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church always has been, is now, and always will be, at least under my administration that Genesis chapter 1 is to be taken literally exactly how it's given to us. We do not mytha mytha. Mythologize it. You guys don't know what that I don't even know what that means, but um whatever it is, that's not what we do. Well, in other words, what I'm trying to say is it's not just a myth. It's not just a story. It's not just an allegory. I believe God says what he means and means what he says. And I was taught early on in my Christian life that you take the Word of God, you take it in the literal sense, and if the literal sense makes sense, don't add no other sense So God means what he says and says what he means, and we simply take it at face value. And I'm convinced with all my heart and mind that God, in the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth. Just like it says. That's the position of our church has been from day one and will be by God's grace till the rapture of the church. I have a few observations I want to make. We were flying down a week ago last Monday on the 7th of November and I was reading meditating in 35,000 feet in the air And God, I just kind of noticed some things here in this, and I jot them down. I wanted to share them with you this morning. Some things about the beginning. Number one, first observation I have, and I think I find this interesting The very first thing that God wants us to understand about Himself is that He's our Creator So very first, right off the bat, he wants us to get it in our heads and in our hearts that he is the creator and we are the created beings. In the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth. I think it's interesting. Let me ask you this. How many people understand that God is holy? Yes, our God is a holy God, blindingly holy, absolutely morally pure in every sense. In fact, the holiness of God is difficult for a sinful man to comprehend how pure and holy our God is. But the Bible doesn't start out saying, in the beginning, God was holy. Doesn't say that. Now, throughout Scripture, we're taught that our God is a holy God. And by the way, that's a truth that modern-day Christianity needs to be reminded of. Our God is a holy God But the Bible doesn't start out. The first statement God makes about Himself is not that He's holy. How many people here understand that God is a loving God? For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son. What a loving God we have God commendeth his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. No greater love hath man than this a man lay down his life for his friends. The fact that God would die for my sins. What love is this? That God would love me. But when God introduces Himself in Genesis chapter number one, it doesn't say in the beginning, God loves sinful man. Now he does. Ephesians, Paul prayed for the Ephesians that they would understand the love of God which passeth understanding. It's hard to comprehend the God's love for you and for me. All these young people here, all around. God loves uh their young people. Aren't you glad? God loves the little children. We were down there in public schools giving the gospel out. And see those little children learn of the love of God that Jesus died for them. I am so glad God loves us. Aren't you glad God loves old people? There's a heap of them around, I'll tell you that. Some are nice and some are uh but anyway um I'm glad aren't you glad God loves old sinners? I'm glad God loves I'm glad God loves nice people, and I'm glad He loves grouchy people. And sometimes I wake up grouchy Sometimes I let her sleep, but um I'm glad God loves me. But the Bible doesn't start out in the beginning. God loves sinners. You know what the very first thing is? God wants us to understand about Himself? He's the Creator. He made us. He made everything. In the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth. Our God is a wise God The wisdom of God, the intelligence of our God, the wisdom of God. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. When I can get the mind of God, can I get a hold of God? Then I begin to get some wisdom. But the Bible doesn't start off saying in the beginning, God was perfectly wise. Now later on in Scripture we're taught that. Later on in Scripture we're taught all kinds of things about our God, His power, His infinite power, and His goodness and His justice. But he starts off saying, let me introduce myself. I am your creator. I made you. You didn't make yourself. I made you. And everything you have and everything you see. And this entire universe, I made that. I am the Creator. All through Scripture, it's reiterated over and over and over and over. God is our creator. That's what he wants us to know right off the bat. That's how he first introduces himself to us. I'm your creator. Twenty-seven of the 66 books in the Bible declare over and over that God is our creator. God is our Creator. I can't count this for sure, but I assure you over 100 references in Scripture to God as our Creator. I have ten pages, ten pages here of references from Scripture declaring God To be our Creator. Let me share a few of them with you. Genesis one one, in the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth. I just I just highlighted a few. Exodus chapter 20, verse 11. For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is And rested the seventh day. Deuteronomy chapter 4 and verse 32. God created man on the earth 1 Chronicles 1626. But the Lord made the heavens. Nehemiah chapter 9 and verse 6. Thou, even thou art Lord alone. Thou hast made heaven, the heaven of heavens, with all their hosts. The earth and all the things that are therein, the seas and all that is therein, God is our creator. Job chapter 38 and verse 4. I laid the foundations of the earth Listen to Psalm 33, verse 6 and 7. By the word of the Lord were the heavens made, and all the hosts of them by the breath of his mouth. Psalm ninety-six verse five, the Lord made the heavens. Psalm one hundred verse three, know ye that the Lord He is God. It is He that hath made us, and not we ourselves We are his people and the sheep of his pasture. Psalms 115, verse 15. Ye are blessed of the Lord, which made heaven and earth. Psalm 121, verse 2. My help cometh from the Lord. which made heaven and earth. 124 verse 8. Our help is in the name of the Lord, which made heaven and earth. Psalm 134 verse 3 The Lord hath made heaven and earth. Psalm 146, verse 5. Happy is he that hath the Lord God of Jacob for his help. whose hope is in the Lord, which made heaven and earth the sea, and all that is therein is, which keepeth truth forever Isaiah 37, 16, Isaiah 40, verse 25 to 30, Isaiah 42, verse 5, Isaiah 44, verse 5. I am the Lord that maketh all things. Isaiah 45, 11. I made the earth and created man upon it. Isaiah 45, 18 Mark 10 6, John 1 10, John 1 3, Acts 4 11. I could go on and on and on. The Bible wants us to know that God is our Creator We don't know anything else about God. We need to know this first of all, that He is our Creator. It's the very first thing He wants us to know. And I'm telling you, we live in a world that is absolutely attacking the truth that God is our Creator And God wants us to know we did not, we are not some uh we are not some result of random chance over millions of years. We are the direct creation of Almighty God. In the beginning, God what? Created the heaven and the earth. It's the first thing he wants us to know. We are not the result of random, miraculous evolutionary chaos. We are in the direct creation of God Himself. Now here's the question as I'm looking at this and I'm thinking, why is it so important to God That we understand He is our Creator and that we are created. We are His created beings. Why is that so important? I jot three reasons down. I think God wants us to know right off the bat that we are created. The first one, he wants to establish the fact, get this, he wants to establish the fact that he is the authority, not us. The created being does not dictate to the Creator how things are, amen or none. Now, I'll tell you, our sinful nature resists that. We have this idea, the world has this idea, and I say we, we're guilty of this more often than maybe we care to admit We want to say, what right do you have God to tell me what to do? Huh? Isn't that the attitude of the world? What right do you have? I'll decide what's right and wrong. I'll decide what's best for me I'll decide how I'll live my life. That's man's attitude. God says, woo, woo, woo, woo, woo. As the creator, I have the authority. And that's the problem with mankind's relationship with God all down through the ages. Is we want to be God. We want to call the shots. We want to decide what is what. And God says, nope, in the beginning, I created. You need to understand that. As creator, he determines what's right and wrong. I tell you, we live in a world, I say it so often anymore We live in a world that has perfected the ability to make that which is wrong seem so right, and that which is right seem so wrong. Listen, that which is right and wrong is not determined by Washington, D. C. That which is right and wrong is not determined by Hollywood And by the music industry, by the way, right and wrong is not determined by the preacher that stands behind the pulpit. Right and wrong is determined by the one that created everything. He is the one with the authority, not us. Not us. As creator, he owns us, not vice versa. Some of these yard bird preachers on TV, they make God sound like some sort of cosmic vending machine. And you want this, and you go push these buttons on God, and k-ching, you'll get what you want. Listen, it don't work that way. I'm glad God loves us, amen. And I'm glad God tells us to pray. Amen. Don't make reason resort to that. And I'm glad God answers prayer. But if he know as creator, if he decides in his authority as creator and in his wisdom to withhold something from me, he has every right to do that. Anybody here ever pray for something and you didn't get it and years later you look back and said, Phew, praise the Lord, God didn't answer that prayer. Yeah, He has that authority. He has that authority. He's the creator. He can tell us what's right and wrong. The author, I like this statement. The author of life is the authority of life He makes the rules. Just like a potter has authority over the clay. He can mold and form that however he decides. And so God as creator that establishes his authority. Now let me put a little a little qualification on that. It's not just, God's authority isn't just a cold iron fist uh insensitive authority. That authority is also saturated with an unconditional love. Amen? I'm glad God is in control, and I'm glad God is wise and loving also. He's in control. So why does God, first thing he wants us to know, he introduced himself. Here I am. Let me introduce myself. I'm your creator. In the beginning, God created the heavenly earth. And that establishes the fact that He has authority in our lives. He has authority in our homes. He is the authority in our church. And by the way, he's the authority over the whole world. Over the whole world So number one, he tells us that he wants us to understand he's a creator. That establishes authority. But number two, I put this down. That establishes our value God created us with worth. God created us with value and with purpose. We're not just, you know, we have this evolutionary theory is taught as fact throughout our schools and throughout our society worldwide And then we wonder why people are in despair and have no purpose in life and their lives are empty. Listen, if we convince people that they're nothing more than just a blob of cells That happened by chance over millions of years. What value is in that? What purpose is in that? You get that in your head, and then there's no problem murdering little children in the wombs of their mothers You have no problem euthanizing elderly folks if they get in the way. Life loses its value. Life loses its purpose. But when we are the direct creation of Almighty God, that gives my life purpose. That gives my life value. I am here for a reason. There's a purpose for my life. God establishes that. So why does he introduce himself right off the bat as our creator? Well, he's establishing his authority over creation. He's establishing our value as created in his image. We are not the product of evolutionary chance. We are designed deliberately for a purpose. As youth pastor, we had in the inner city there, and it's true everywhere, but kids would come in and just horrendous homes, and you know, they'd say, uh, you know, my family doesn't love me, and there's really no purpose for me in life. And I'd say, oh no. You have a heavenly father that loves you dearly, and he created you for a purpose. It doesn't matter what the circumstances are that brought you into this life God has a plan and purpose for every single one. God is creator. He gives a it establishes authority. It gives us value. As created beings, our lives have meaning. Created beings, our lives have purpose, our lives have value. Number three, I put this down: God is our creator, He establishes our responsibility to our Creator. As the objects of God's creation, we are accountable to God and to God alone. As creator, he has ultimate authority, and all of mankind is accountable to him. There's no question about it. God is the judge of all the earth. And I believe it does us good. I believe we're wise. If we will keep not too far from the forefront of our mind the fact that there's coming a day. When we will give an account of ourselves to the Almighty God, the creator of all there is, he is the judge of all the earth. And I tell you what, would you agree with me? When I know I'm going to be held accountable for my actions, I'm a little bit more careful about my actions. Amen or not? Sometimes, and we joke around about it here, but it's it happens. There'll be a group of people talking, you know, they'll just be grouped together talking, and I'll walk up, I'm just the pastor, and I'll walk up and say, hey everybody, and all of a sudden, hmm. Oh hi Pastor. Uh I thought that was funny, but anyway. In fact I enjoy it. I look for people talking and I'll walk up to them. But that accountability factor affects us. Affects us. And I tell you, do our world a heap of good. We remind them there's a day coming. Jesus coming back, judge this world. For those of us that know Christ as Savior, hey, it's a judgment seat of Christ. Not for our sins, but for how we lived our lives as Christians. For this old unsaved world, great white throne judgment is out there. One day, just like today, eventually showed up in our lives. One day that great white throne judgment is going to come That date will arrive. The unsaved world have to give an account to their Creator for how we lived our lives, what we did with Jesus Christ. And so the importance of the first thing God wants us to understand, He's creator. And that establishes authority. It gives our lives value on creating the image of God for a reason. Establishes our responsibility to God. Man hates accountability, but all of us must answer to God Romans chapter 14, verse 12 says this: So then every one of us shall give an account of himself to God. Let me ask you a question. Are you ready for that? I tell you, the time to deal with the issues in our lives isn't when we stand before God. The time to deal with it is now. Now. Jesus said, Paul wrote to the church at Corinth concerning their Lord's Supper, and they were just making a mess of it. It was just a drunken brawl almost. The Lord's Supper. And he made this statement. He said, We should judge ourselves that we be not judged. The time to deal with our sin, the time to deal with the issues in our life is now. Don't wait. Don't wait until it's too late. God is our creator, and we are accountable to our creator, whether we like it or not. God makes the rules and we answer to Him. Now I thank God if we know Jesus Christ as Savior, that judgment was poured, the judgment for my sin was poured out on Jesus Christ. He was judged for us in our place. I quoted Romans 5. 8 here a few moments ago, but I want to quote it again. But God commended his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, what's the rest of it say? Christ died for us. In our place, he took that judgment for us. As a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, I stand before God, complete in Christ. Sins forgiven. All the righteousness of Jesus Christ put to my account. Now that's my standing. How I live my life Then I need to adjust that. So the very first thing God wants us to know is this: that He is our creator. And we are the created beings. He makes the rules. He He calls the shots. He is the creator, not us. And I'll be and and maybe there's some saying, well, that's awfully cold and hard. I tell you, once you get to know your creator, it's not hard at all. Once I get to know my Lord and Savior, it's not hard to submit. Listen to what Jesus Christ said to God the Father. Listen to this. Jesus Christ Said this to God the Father, nevertheless, not my will, but thy will be done. What a statement of submission. What a statement of submission. I tell you that, I study that and I think of that statement of part of the Lord Jesus Christ. I look at my life. How good it would be for us to say, Lord, not my will, but thy will be done. You're the creator, I am not. You're the giver of life, I am not. Thy will be done. Thy will be done. The second thing I notice here in this opening part of Genesis, in the beginning, God created the heaven and earth. And then he goes on for the next 31 chapters, and he lays out the six days of creation, then the seventh day of rest. And it dawned on me. I was setting in that plane, 35,000 feet, somewhere over, I don't know where we were, somewhere, but uh uh probably probably over Georgia. But it dawned on me, God doesn't do everything in one day Could God have just made the whole earth and all the animals and all that? Could he have just done that in one moment? Sure. But he didn't. He stretched it out over six days. Made the heaven and earth, the light and darkness, made the sun and moon, the earth, waters, separated the waters. He uh made the uh w uh the water fowl and the the air, the birds in the air Uh he he made the uh the hippos, the mr. Hippoponymus and Mrs. Hippoponymus, and then all the little hippies and um But he didn't do it all in one day. Stretch it out. And and and he could have created everything in a moment, but he didn't. And we're not told why. But I noticed throughout Scripture, and I noticed in my own life, that God operates on his own timetable Anybody here ever think, boy, I wish God would do that quicker than what he's doing it? Anybody here? Anybody here say, boy, I wish the Lord would come back quicker than what he Yeah. Lord, come on now. Hurry up. But God operates on his own timetable. You know, a person gets saved. This is important for us to understand. Please hear me out. Person comes and maybe they're outliving in sin. Maybe they don't have much of a Christian influence before they get saved. And they get saved. They don't become a mature Christian just like that. Takes time to grow. Takes God God has it designed and for his own reasons, purposes. Takes time to grow And we learn lessons. And sometimes, would you agree with me? It seems like three steps forward and two steps back in my Christian life. Anybody here, anybody here ever say this? Well, I wish I was a better Christian than I am And I feel like that so often. But you know, it takes time to grow. It takes time to develop our faith, for our faith to strengthen and grow and be what God wants us to be. It doesn't happen overnight. I remember I got saved there on that Monday night, May 7, 1979, and man, God just took all that garbage out just instantly. But you know there were some other areas of my life. It took a little while I had a bad habit of saying bad words. I mean really bad stuff. And you know that I got saved that Monday night and Tuesday I'm working on all the drugs and liquor, all that. And for whatever reason, doesn't do this the same for everybody, for whatever reason for me, that just fell off right away. That old habit Saying bad words. That held on a bit. I remember that that Tuesday, I was at the meat packing plant. We're cutting meat, we're working away. I don't remember what it was, but I said something. And now I'm saved. Twenty-four hours ago, I said that never bothered me one bit. Twenty-four hours later, now I'm saved. I said that. Took God's name in vain. I tell you, pierced my heart convicted. I had to step off the, we called it the floor there. I had to step off, went to the restroom. I said, God, please forgive me I'm sorry for talking like that. I remember your dad your daddy, Rusty, he got saved, and he had a little rough He's a little rough around the edges there. He gets saved. But the old boy got saved. And he'd say something, say, oh God, please forgive me God gives us time. God works with us. It doesn't all happen overnight. You say, preacher, I might as well just quit. I'm such a sorry Christian. I should be better than this by now. Don't you quit? You give God time. You let Him work in your life. You fall down, get back up again. God's working. God's working. God's working. I found God doesn't always answer prayer the moment I pray it. Tell you if he did that, we'd be a mess, I think. Sometimes he waits, so we'll pray. Pray. Sometimes it's days, sometimes it's weeks, sometimes it's months, sometimes it's decades. I read about an old preacher years ago over in London. He had a fellow, was unsaved. He prayed for twenty years for that boy to get saved. He died and went out into heaven and never saw that boy that that man get saved. But at his funeral, His prayers for that man's salvation were answered. And God saved that man's soul. How many people here are praying for someone to be saved? You got someone? Don't you quit praying God doesn't do everything in a day. He didn't even create the He could have just snapped in this whole world, boom, right? But He didn't. He stretched it out over six days for His reasoning God doesn't do everything in our life. It takes time. Did you know the Bible teaches you should not put someone in a position as pastor, as a new Christian? They're a novice, you need to give them time to grow. You need to give them time to develop. And all of us need that. None of us have a right. Paul said, not that I have obtained, but I press toward that mark. Paul knew it took time. Paul knew it took time. God doesn't do everything in a day. Prayers are not answered the moment I pray. Sometimes they take decades. I don't become a mature Christian the moment I'm saved. And by the way, here's something else. The consequences of our sin do not fall on us right at that moment. Sometimes the consequences of our foolish sinful decisions and actions may be weeks, months, and even years later. Now, I'm not going to ask you to respond, but I venture to say there's a heap of us here that are dealing with consequences today of sins we did years ago. So God doesn't do everything in a day. We're such a microwave mentality. We put it in, mash that button, one minute. Oh, it's the longest minute of my life We put the anybody here anybody here reheat coffee? It's been on the thing. You put it in a cup, put it in the microwave. I mean two, three days later, you stick it in there. Scrape the mold off the top, put it in there. I want it right now. God doesn't do everything right now. Now I'll say this: you call on the Lord, He'll save you right away. But you don't grow right away. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away. Be old, all things are become new. The idea behind that word become means our becoming, ongoing, ongoing, ongoing. So, number one, God wants us to understand first and foremost, He is the creator, we are not. He is God, we are not. Number two, he wants us to understand he doesn't do everything in a moment. He takes time. We must learn to wait on God. God is never, very seldom is he early, but he's never late. And I have never, ever, ever regretted waiting on God. Anybody here ever take things into your own hands and jump on that? And then later on you say, boy, I wish that'd have waited on that a little bit. Anybody here? Boy, I wish that'd have waited before I said that Well I wish I'd have waited before I made that decision. I tell you we need to learn to wait on God. He doesn't work on our time frame. Number three, I notice this. I'm flying away up Heading down there and I dawned on this. What God begins, he finishes. What God begins, he finishes. He started out here and uh look there at uh Verse 31, and God saw everything that he had made. He started creating. Aren't you glad God didn't quit right after uh uh before he made the cattle? We wouldn't have any steak. We wouldn't have any chicken. Aren't you glad he finished the job? Aren't you glad he separated the waters from the land? We'd all be living in boats. God finishes what he starts. He started creation, he finished it. Look at look at this. This is another idea, but let me just throw this out. Verse number two. Sometimes Bible students and some of these theologians have a hard time with Genesis 1, 2. Look what it says. In the beginning, God created heaven and earth. Verse 1. Look at verse 2. And the earth was without form and void. And darkness was upon the face of the deep. Some of these theologians that know more than God, they'll say, ah, well see, something happened. God would never create something that was out form and void and darkness, so there must be something happened that God didn't tell us about. Hello, God's not finished yet. He's just, he's not finished developing it. Give him some time God works there. When God created the man, he formed man from the dust of the earth, but all it was was a pile of dust until he breathed in the nostrils the breath of life. So God doesn't do everything any day. Sometimes you might be a new Christian, look in the mirror, say, man, I see these other Christians, and they have all this, and man, they've got this together, they've got their act together, and I look at myself. Hello, give God time. Let him work. Doesn't do everything in that moment. God finishes, uh he he finishes what he begins. God wasn't finished yet. Before you come to a conclusion about something, remember God's not done yet. Before you give up, remember God's not finished yet. Before you quit, you remember God's not finished yet. These little bus kids, I love bus kids. They got down in Dominican Brother Steve Siddler's Church, huge, Mount Calvary Baptist Church. They have what they call walk-in bus routes. They can't run buses there as much. They got a couple And it's so tight and so compact there in the city. So they take bus captains and they don't have a bus, but they'll walk out into the neighborhoods and round up the kids and walk them into church. And those little kids are rough Those little kids and they'll get saved. I tell you, you look at that little kid, he got saved. Look at it, look at him. I tell you, God will finish what he starts. God saves a soul. He'll see it through. I like what Hebrews says. He saves us to the uttermost. Aren't you glad when God saved you, you didn't get halfway through, you messed up and say, forget him. Anyone glad for that? Dad says, nope. When I moved out of the house in 1981, I was twenty-one years old. I moved out of the house, I moved to Tennessee, went off to Bible college. It's just my dad and I living together And from that first week, he drove me down, dropped me off, came back. That next week I got a letter in the mail from my daddy. And every week, up until when he moved down here, A few years ago. Every single week since 1981, Daddy wrote me a letter every week. Sometimes there's not much going on here, son. Just want you to know I'm thinking about you. Every week. And every letter for how many years is that? 30-40 years. 30 some years. Every letter he'd sign his name and underneath he'd put Philippians chapter 1, verse 6. Listen to what it says. Being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. You know my daddy was saying, he's saying, son, don't you quit. God will see you through. God will see you through. God finishes what he starts. What God begins, he finishes. And last of all, I end with this. If you would look at verse 31. I'm flying along up there. I'm looking at this. I noticed something. God saw everything that he had made, and behold, it was what? I put it down, I put it this way: what God does, he does right. What God does, he does right seven times in Genesis 1-1, it says, it was good. It was good. It was good. Our fathers, my my daddy is good to me. I heard my daddy say so many times, and he had a rough road. And his life died eighty-two years old here two and a half years ago. And he won, I guess. He said to me so many times when he came down, when he moved down here, I spent more time with my daddy in that year and a half than I did in the previous thirty years. He said to me over and over, he said, son, God's been good to me. God's been good to me. He had a broken heart. He had a rough road. Over and over he said, son, God's been good to me. A mother I've enjoyed in fellowship with my mother the last several years. Her husband passed away this past Thursday night. My mom's husband. You know, I heard my mom so many times these last few years, I heard her say this, son, God's sure been good to me. God sure been good to me. Wasn't that song a blessing? God's been good. God's been good. We're down in Dominican, we saw poverty like you can't even imagine here. You talk to those Christians and they just sing. They're happy. God's good. I'm telling you, what God does, He does right. If you're here and you're not saved, you're listening to me and you're not saved. I'm telling you, when God saves a soul, He does it right. Makes you a new person, gives you eternal life, gives peace and assurance in the heart Those of us here that are saved, you know what? We dedicate our life to Christ. You give your life to Christ, I tell you, God will treat you right Say, oh, make me rich, give me everything I want. No, that ain't treating you right. I tell you, some of us, if we get a lot of money, it would destroy us. God does it right. God does it right. He saw everything he made, and it was very good. It was very good. When we trust Christ as Savior, God begins a process of transformation. And we might not understand his timing, we might not understand all of the processes, but if we will trust him, we'll find that God is good to us. Read about a fellow, a missionary, Alan Gardiner. Had a rough time. A lot of physical uh problems in his body, hardships in his service. He was a missionary in South America on the Picton Island, the southern tip of South America. He died in 1851 at the age of 57. He had disease and starvation. He was. It was awful. When they found his body, There's a little diary laying beside it. In that diary, he recorded down his hunger, his thirst, his wounds, his loneliness. They said the very last entry in Alan Gardiner's diary was this: I am overwhelmed with a sense of the goodness of God. Died alone, starving on a mission field. But he said, I'm overwhelmed with a sense of the goodness of God. When we get to the point where we know and love the Lord supremely, even in the darkness of this world, we can experience the goodness of God. What God does, He does right. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to recognize you as our Creator. Help us, Lord, to trust you as our Savior. Help us, Lord, to be confident that you're working in our lives. You'll see us through and you'll do what's right. I wonder with our heads bound, eyes closed this morning, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I really needed to be reminded that God has a plan and purpose for my life. That my life does mean something. I do have value. There any like that, preacher, I thank God for that. I thank God for that. Bless you. Hands all around. We need that. God is our creator. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I need to be a little patient and wait on God's timing. I get a little impatient. I get ahead of God sometimes. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. I learned to be patient. And just trust the Lord in his time. Any like that? I think if the truth were known, we'd all ought to raise our hand probably on that one. Learn to trust and wait on God. And then maybe there's some who say, preacher, there's some areas of my life. As a created being, I need to get in line with the plan and purpose of my Creator. There are some areas of my life need adjustment. There are some areas of my life need to put back in place where they ought to be. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. God bless you. Hands all around. One last question. There's someone here this morning. You don't have assurance in your heart and soul that your sins have forgiven on your way to heaven? You'd say, preacher, I don't want to go to hell. I want to know that God has forgiven me and saved me. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. I need this settled. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand, preacher, I need this settled? Father in heaven, bless our invitation. We trust you've spoken to our hearts. Help us to respond in faith in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.