If you take your Bibles, turn to Zechariah, the book of the Old Testament, chapter twelve. We are flying through this book, and getting towards the end is approaching very rapidly of Zechariah. Chapter twelve. While you're turning, there's a number of things I need to mention. Um one is we have a bunch of mail outs that need to be done and uh um Paula is working diligently in the office, getting the names and whatnot from the different outreaches we've had recently. We got these all in. We want to send a letter To everybody that came by our booth and signed up to win anything, anybody we got a name and address from, we want to send a letter to them, thank them for coming by, introduce the ministries of our church to them, and also uh uh invite them out to old fashioned Sunday and put a gospel track in just trying to have one uh one uh another shot at sharing the gospel and being an influence Now we've got those all ready to go. All we need is somebody, if you'd be available tomorrow, now if you're going on the train ride, go on the train ride, but if you're available tomorrow We'd like to get them in the mail if at all possible. So if you could give maybe an hour or so tomorrow to help stuff envelopes, put labels on, address them, that would be fantastic if uh you could help out with that And then also we need to stuff the Act 1630 projects. We had to reorder another batch of them. We got 5,000 of the booklets. What must I do to be saved? They're imprinted on the back with our church logo and information. And we need to put them in plastic bags. We are just about out. We've been hitting this each week and we need to stuff a bunch of those again so we can keep on going into the fall And so if you're able to help with either of those two, stuffing omats, putting labels on, or stuffing the door hangers with that, please let me know before you leave this evening. And we'd appreciate all the help you can do. And also the other thing I want to mention, we're actually setting the Act 1630 project on the shelf just for a week or two While we've got to get these DVDs out from Brother Dave and the Corvette, they are very time-sensitive. We've need to get these into people's hands as quick as we can. The ladies were out this morning. They got a number of them delivered. It goes very well, very positive. And it's a very it's probably the easiest visit you'll make from our church going to someone's home and uh visiting with them. So if you would are interested Uh please let me know. Now what we did was we broke them down into the branches of the of uh the military and we have a bunch that are in the army, the marines, um we've got uh uh the Navy, Air Force, Coast Guard, a few, one or two of the Coast Guard. If you served in any of those divisions, that would be ideal If you could take one of these two go by, and that would just open up the conversation a little bit easier. And then there's a whole stack that have no military background at all, but nevertheless they were interested. So there's men and women in here, all ages. So if you're interested, maybe you're not normally involved in our knocking on doors and the more aggressive part of our soul-winning outreach, this is something it's not quite as aggressive. It's very easy to do. It would be great for a husband and wife team. Just to take a make a visit, say, here's your DVD you ordered from the Corvette at the fair. Along with that, we'd like to leave an invitation with you to come and consider our church You know, we have various ministries available and just take it the next step. Leave some literature with them. Now what we would like is if you could come of a Thursday evening, and I'll explain why We get in at 7 o'clock, we get these in your hands, go out and deliver them, and that way if no one's home or there's a problem, you can bring it back and we can make sure we don't miss anybody that they actually get delivered out Well I think we can keep a little tighter tab on making sure what's happening keep uh better records. If you know Way in the World you can make it at one of our regular visitation times, but you would like to help deliver these What we'll do is we'll get your name, put down the name and address of the folks you're delivering, take it with you, and then on your time, maybe between tonight and Sunday, you could deliver that if no one's home, bring it back and we'll make an attempt at a later time. We feel like it's best not to leave them hanging on the doors. It's just a little risky and that they don't get it or whatever. We want to do everything we can to get it in their hands. So we're going to make several efforts to every home. If we can't catch them at home, get it to them, then we have other steps we can take. So I hope you'll get in this. This is I believe it will be a lot of fun. We were out this week over the weekend making some of these visits and it's well received. Brother Dave was right. People are excited when you get there Generally they'll invite you in and uh great opportunity to uh share our church's ministries and possibly share the gospel with folks and see people come to the Lord. So A lot going on, a lot of opportunities, so keep these in mind. Stuffing envelopes and delivering these things, along with train rides, teen banquets, uh old-fashioned Sundays, sword conferences, and everything else. If you're bored in this church, that's your problem. All right, Zechariah chapter 12, verse 1 through 9. Notice what the Bible says, the burden of the word of the Lord for Israel, saith the Lord. which stretcheth forth the heavens, and layeth the foundation of the earth, and formeth the spirit of man within him. Behold, I will make Jerusalem a cup of trembling unto all the people roundabout, when they shall be in the siege, both against Judah and against Jerusalem. And in that day will I make Jerusalem a burdensome stone for all people. All that burden themselves with it shall be cut in pieces. Though all the people of the earth be gathered together against it. In that day, saith the Lord, I will smite every horse with astonishment. And his rider with madness, and I will open mine eyes upon the house of Judah, and will smite every horse of the people with blindness And the governors of Judah shall say in their heart, The inhabitants of Jerusalem shall be my strength in the Lord of hosts their God In that day will I make the governors of Judah like a hearth of fire among the wood, and like a torch of fire in a sheath. And they shall devour all the people round about, on the right hand and on the left, and Jerusalem shall be inhabited again in her own place, even in Jerusalem. And the Lord shall save the tents of Judah first, that the glory of the house of David and the glory of the inhabitants of Jerusalem do not magnify themselves against Judah In that day shall the Lord defend the inhabitants of Jerusalem. And he that is feeble among them at that day shall be as David And the house of David shall be as God, as the angel of the Lord before them, and shall come to pass in that day that I will seek to destroy all the nations that come against Jerusalem There's one phrase repeated six times in these nine verses, and it is in that day. Verse 3, verse 4, verse 6, twice in verse 8 and verse 9. God makes reference to something that is going to happen in that day. And that's what I'm going to speak about. In that day. Let's pray. Father, please bless our study of this portion of your word. Father, we believe with our hearts that you are the author of this. You moved, your Holy Spirit moved upon Zechariah to record this passage, even as we have it here. And God, we ask now that you would apply it to our hearts and lives as you know we have need. You've promised in your word, Father, that all scripture is profitable for us to help us grow and be right with you. and uh have your blessings and be able to effectively serve you. You said your word would not return void, that we could have victory over sin as we take your word in our hearts. So Lord, I ask that these would be true in our lives. I yield myself to you, I present my body anew. Fill me, I pray, with all my heart, I ask that you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit and speak through me. In Jesus' name we pray Amen. In that day, in that day, in that day, six times in nine verses, God makes reference, as I said, to a day coming when he's going to do some uh uh amazing, great, and mighty things. Um a day when God is going to defend his people Now, we've been studying Zechariah. We notice that these last chapters are referencing future events in the life of Israel Some past events may be referred to in passing, but for the most part, these verses are talking about the last events. Does anybody remember who was the last who was the individual we referred to in our last message Two weeks ago from here, we referred to an individual in chapter 11 known as the Foolish Shepherd. Who was that individual we were referencing? Anybody remember? That was two weeks ago. The foolish shepherd that is going to feed off of Israel and destroy them. Just say it out. The Antichrist. Very good. And so knowing that, chapter 11, leaving the uh as we looked at the prophecy concerning the Antichrist, that gives us a little bit Of the context of where we're at, the time frame we're dealing with in this passage of Scripture here. Verses 1 through 9, what I just read, reference God's miraculous deliverance of Israel from the armies of the world under the leadership of Antichrist. And we looked at him. And if you remember, we pointed out that The Antichrist is referred to in verse chapter 11 at the last part as a shepherd. And in other words, the Antichrist is really Satan's counterpart. To the Savior, to God's Son, the man of God. The Antichrist, Jesus is the Son of God. The Antichrist, you could say, though not literally, is a son of Satan in a sense. He's the ant he's the the um antithesis. I tried saying that last time, I could never say that word. Uh he's the counterpart to God's The Antichrist is the best that Satan has to offer man. He is the ultimate man without God. Now, the Antichrist, of course, we understand comes to power during the seven-year tribulation. What do we know about the seven-year tribulation? Good or bad? Bad, obviously, very bad. The seven-year tribulation is a period of unspeakable sorrow, unspeakable despair. You know, Hollywood can come up with some horrendous scenarios and boy there's special effects and they can just make the whole world fall apart or asteroids crash in and demolish the whole world. But I'm telling you, what the Bible is talking about here is not some scientific special effects. These are actual literal events that the world faces. And it is beyond, I believe it is beyond our ability to comprehend the horrors that are to take place during the seven-year tribulation. Now, the tribulation, as I said, is a time of unspeakable sorrow, a time of unspeakable despair for the world in general. But here's the thing: a lot of times we miss: the tribulation is primarily for the nation of Israel. The nation of Israel, in all the motives of God and pouring out his wrath, and all that God is trying to accomplish through the seven-year period of great tribulation, Israel is right in the middle of all of it. And the world suffers, of course, but it seems like Israel is the target of God's judgment. Now, just when it appears that it is the end of God's people. And I'm getting a little ahead of myself here, but Israel, at the end of the tribulation period, and some of you Bible students are very familiar with this, but at the end of the tribulation period, Israel is, so to speak, holed up in Jerusalem. The entire world is anti-Semitic. Not only are they intolerant of the Israelites, of God's people, the Jews, they are absolutely out to annihilate them. And not just one country, not just one form of government, Nazism, or something like that. It is the entire world against Israel. They are surrounded by the armies of the world under the leader of the Antichrist And they are absolutely at the end of their rope. There is nothing they can do. They are basically hunkering down in Jerusalem, just awaiting their ultimate destruction. When it appears there is no way that Israel has any chance of survival this world war coming upon them, God steps in. And he miraculously delivers his people from the literal claws of the devil. The Bible refers to this to Israel's experience as God intervenes on their behalf when they're about to be completely annihilated. It refers to this event in the Bible several times as Illustrating it by like a mother giving birth to a child. And God describes the tribulation period in several places like the woman going through the birth pains. Horrendous pain, sorrow, tears, crying out in anguish. And then God shows up, delivers his people, Israel, from this horrendous destruction. And the joy of the Lord floods Israel just like a mother as she goes through all of that. Then the baby is laid in her arms And she forgets all that sorrow, she forgets all that pain, she forgets all that uh uh tribulation, and she rejoices in the birth of a child, even so Israel When Christ comes back, they will rejoice in the deliverance of their God and their new relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. So all of this is being put in place here in Zechariah chapter 12. He is making reference to this. I want us to notice first of all, and I want to try and go down through this pretty quickly, I want us to notice first of all the basis of God's authority as he begins this message in chapter 12 through Zechariah God lays down his authority that uh that uh he has in declaring what the future holds. Look at verse 1 with me if you would again. The burden of the word of the Lord for Israel, saith the Lord. Now look what he bases his authority on. Saith the Lord, which stretcheth forth the heavens, And layeth the foundation of the earth, and formeth the spirit of man within him. What is God claiming as his authority to declare this that they can have confidence in his message? His position as creator. He says, I'm the one that laid the foundations of the earth. I'm the one that stretched forth the heavens. I'm the one that placed the Spirit into man. And God appeals to man as recognizing his authority over man and his confidence man can have in his word in the fact that God is the creator. All through Scripture, God repeatedly appeals to his role as creator as having authority over man. And I'll be very honest with you, I'm tempted to stop there and to go off on evolution and say that evolution is really at its core an attempt to strip God of his authority as God But we won't do that, alright? Nevertheless, God is creator. And as creator, he has authority over the us. And as creator, we can be confident that what he says is so, we can be sure it's so Now a couple things here he says here. God is creator. Because he is creator, he stretched forth the heavens, he laid the foundations of the earth. He formed the Spirit of Man within him. Because of that, we can be very confident that God is omnipotent He is all powerful. You say, oh, these things that he's prophesying are going to come true. That could never happen. Hey, don't ever say with God, that could never happen. God is all powerful. If he can put the does anybody look out did anybody look outside last night? Did anybody see the stars before the clouds moved in? What a beautiful evening it was last night. That moon I was in our backyard on the deck and I was looking up there and it was like he could reach up and touch the moon. And the God that stretched all those things, put all those stars, that moon and the planets, all in place, listen, that God is all powerful. Don't underestimate the ability of God. He stretched forth the heavens. He is all omnipotent. And not only that, as we look at creation and God the creator, we come to the conclusion as not only is our God all powerful, Our God is all wise. Did you notice? Creation works, it functions The planets. You can uh the the moon's revolution around the earth. Now I'm not a a moonologist. But um the moon's revolution around the earth is so precise, I'm told, that when they they can predict the where the moon's going to be at within, I think, centimeters 10, 15, 50, 100 years from now. It is so exact. Isn't that an amazing thing? Our God is a wise God. He put this thing together and it works beautifully. Of course, sin came in and threw a wrench in a lot of things, but God is all-wise, he's all-powerful, we can trust him. So he says, at the very beginning of this message, he's talking to Israel. Remember, they've just come out of captivity. They're rebuilding the land. There's a bit of a revival going on. God says you're going to go through a horrendous time. There's going to be this foolish shepherd, this ungodly man that's going to rule over the world. He's going to bring the nations of the world against you, but I'm going to take care of you. And Israel says, That's fantastic. That's unbelievable. That's fit science fiction. And God says, Hey, wait a minute. I created everything there is. You can believe what I'm saying. I'm your creator. Now there's an interesting word here that caught my attention in verse 1. It says, Thus saith the Lord, which stretch forth the heavens and layeth the foundation of the earth. And then it says, And formeth the spirit of man within him. Now that's making reference to creation. God, you know the story. God took dirt of the ground and formed the body of man. It was just dirt, it was just the body. But God breathed in him what? God breathed in him the breath of life. I just want to make sure we're awake out there. God breathed in him the breath of life. Man became a living soul. God formed in him the spirit of life. God gave man life. But that word formed there, I got looking it up, and it's an interesting word. It is given in the tense of a continual thing happening. The word there is not a once-for-all event. It is something that is continually happening. And I got thinking of that and reading about that and what others had to say about it, and I come to this conclusion What he's saying here is God is saying, I created man in the beginning, I gave mankind life, but I am also the one that maintains that life. Every child now listen, I don't believe God is still creating. The Bible says he rested on the seventh day, not because he was tired, but because he was done. So he's not continually creating things, but God is maintaining his creation. And every little child that is conceived in the womb is God Forming the spirit of man, God keeping man alive, God keeping life to reproduce itself and reproduce itself and reproduce itself. I had a professor in Bible college, my first year of Bible college up in Philadelphia, a little school I went to, and he said, God is no longer performing miracles. I didn't believe it then, I don't believe it now Every birth of a child is a miraculous act of God forming the spirit of life into that little child and bringing it into the world. And so I thought that was an interesting phrase there. I am continually forming the spirit formeth the spirit of man within him. And so we have the basis of God's authority. He is creator. He's made everything it was. We can be absolutely certain that that which our creator declares will happen will happen. And he assures Israel of that. The second thing I notice here in verse 2 and 3 is the burden of God's announcement. The basis of his authority, then the burden of his announcement. Look with me again at verse 2 Behold! And by the way, that word behold is a very emphatic word. It means this. It means that God is commanding our attention. Behold, listen up. It has the idea of God commanding us to understand what he's talking about. He is saying here, I don't want you to just hear my words, I want you to know what I'm saying. Behold, you get a hold of this. It has it to me it implies that God expects us to consider what he says here very seriously. Behold. Then he goes on, behold, I will make Jerusalem a cup of trembling unto all the people round about. When they shall be in the siege, both against Judah and against Jerusalem. Interesting phrase. When they shall be in the siege against both against both against Judah and Jerusalem, there is a siege coming. The nations of the world, again I'm getting a little ahead of myself here, are going to come and surround Israel for the purpose of annihilating God's people. Verse 3. And in that day, there's that phrase, will I make Jerusalem a burdensome stone for all people? All that burden themselves with it, this burdensome burdensome stone, shall be cut in pieces through all the pe though all the people of the earth be gathered together against it The burden of God's announcements. Behold, you better pay attention. Jerusalem is going to be made into two things. Verse number two, he's going to be Jerusalem, God's people, is going to be made into a cup of trembling. What in the world is a cup of trembling? Well, I got looking at up, and the word cup there means basically cup, but it is used, as I understand, to refer to not just a little cup like we take at Lord's Supper, you know. Or not even a little teacup. It's not even referring to something like a coffee cup. It is talking to a very large cup. When we went down to the Dominican Republic years ago We sat in the mo in the motel we stayed in and they had breakfast. We sat down and said, I like a cup of coffee. They said, okay. They brought a thing, cup. I was like that huge. It was unbelievable. And they put about that much coffee in it. And they said, Would you like cream? I said, No, I'm a man. And um They looked at me and and uh they said, You don't want cream? I said, No, thanks, I like it black. I drank a little bit of that coffee in Dominican Republic black and my hair fell out. I said, I'll take some cream, please. And uh but they put in this huge cup, and that's the idea of when God says that Jerusalem It's going to be a cup of trembling. It's not a little sippy cup. It is a large cup. In fact, one place I was reading of describing it as a goblet Does that give you a little picture, a very large type of drinking utensil? And so he says they're going to be a truck a cup a trop of Kembling, a cup of trembling. A large cup. And one commentator put it this way, large enough for all nations to drink from. Large enough so that all the nations of the world can drink from this cup either altogether at one time or enough for everyone to drink one at a time Now that gives us a little picture of what God is leading up to. He says, Jerusalem will be a cup of trembling. Now, what is a cup? He says, Jerusalem's going to be a cup. It's going to carry trembling. It's going to have within it trembling. It's going to dispense trembling. So what is a cup? If you're going to define what a cup is, not what it's shaped like, what's its function Okay, to hold things, but more than just hold things. It's an instrument of delivery. Right? I have a cup and I want to get that coffee into my gut. And so I the cup transports the coffee into my mouth. Right? It's an instrument of delivery. He is saying this, I believe. That Jerusalem, God is going to use Jerusalem, His people, to deliver, to pour onto the nations of Israel, to deliver them this trembling. Remember when Jesus was in the Garden of Gethsemane, he said, Father Fid Cosible, let this cup pass from me This thing that's about to pour the sorrow, this thing that's going to deliver, Lord, I would like for this to pass from me. God says Jerusalem is going to be a cup And they're going to provide to the nations of the world a large cup. Every nation of the world is going to drink from this cup of Jerusalem, trembling. Now the word trembling there is interesting Throughout the Bible, it's used symbolically of God's judgment, a cup of trembling, a cup of trembling, a cup of trembling God pouring out his judgment. The word itself means intense misery that causes one to stagger. In other words, a person who has this cup of trembling that is trembling is someone who has been so shaken They are so overwhelmed with misery and sorrow and pain, they literally stagger under it. It is referred to several times as someone who is intoxicated. They are trembling. They are staggering. Someone who is unable to stand or walk on their own. Now get the picture here. Israel is surrounded by the nations of the world. Under the authority and leadership of the Antichrist, they are about to be crushed. Slaughtered. Just think of all the weapons, modern weapons of warfare that are at the disposal of the Antichrist. Every nation of the world has come together, most likely under the United Nations And coming together against Israel. By the way, nearly every nation in the United Nations hates Israel. You read what they say about Israel, they despise them. And so they're coming down on Israel. They're about to wipe out this little nation of God's people. They are out their navy, their air force, their uh army, all of this is coming down on them. And God says, hey. Just when they're about to wipe you out, you are going to become a cup and you're going to pour out trembling on them. They are going to be shaken and staggered by what I'm going to do through you. Now, this is the God of creation saying this. Jerusalem will be a cup in God's hand to pour out this staggering judgment on the nations of the world. Now you Hollywood can come up with the most far-fetched science fiction stuff they want to. This is absolute fact. This is coming history. Now, not only does God say there are going to be a cup of trembling, but you come down to verse 2: in that day, it's a very specific day coming, I will make Jerusalem a burdensome stone for all people. All that burden themselves with this stone shall be cut in pieces. God says to Israel through Zechariah, not only are you going to be a cup of trembling to these nations out after you. You're going to become a burdensome stone. Now the question is, what in the world is a burdensome stone? Oh, it means a stone that's a great heavy burden. That's true, but there's more to it That word burdensome implies a very heavy stone, but more than that, that causes damage to those who try to deal with it or move it And the definition is found in the verse itself to some degree. It says, all that burden themselves with it shall be what? Cut in pieces. In other words, this Jerusalem is going to become a stone, and anybody that tries to deal with that stone, anybody tries to mess with that stone, Anybody that tries to move that stone and destroy it, they are going to be cut in pieces. It's going to cause damage to them. Again, Jerusalem will be used of God to inflict severe damage on the enemies of God. Cup of trembling, a burdensome stone. The nations of the world are going to fetch. Now look at the last phrase of verse number three, and very interesting. Let me go to the middle of the verse. All that burden themselves with it, this burdensome stone, shall be cut in pieces. Look at this next phrase. Though all the people of the earth be gathered together against it This is being what's being described here is a universal opposition to Israel's existence. Every nation of the world. It's going to be lined up, not just in opposition to Israel, but in aggressive assault on Israel. England, France, Germany, Russia, Saudi Arabia, the nations of Africa, United States of America, Canada, Mexico, Brazil. Every nation of the world, Australia, Japan, will be uh aligned, will be in an alliance under the leadership of the Antichrist in opposition to Israel. You say, oh, well, that would never happen How in the world could every nation of the world end up somebody would be their ally? Oh yeah, you know I was watching the news this evening a little bit I heard John Bolton, former UN uh ambassador to the UN, saying that if Israel has until Saturday to attack Iran, or Iran's going to have nuclear weapons, and Israel is in big trouble Now, I don't know when the Lord's coming back. Alright, follow you are you with me? I'm not prophesying or saying anything. But I tell you what, you let Israel bomb Iran. And you've got 80% of the world's nations are going to be furious at Israel for stirring the nest. and everything will come down on Israel. Now wait a minute, you said, oh yeah, but the United States of America will stand with Israel. I say under our current administration that is not a given. In fact, as we go by the last 18 months, the implication to me is if Israel stirs things up, we're not necessarily going to be standing with Israel. So don't tell me, don't tell me that there's no way in the world that all the nations of the world are not going to turn against Israel. They're halfway there already And under the influence of a charismatic leader, a man that seems to have all the answers to every problem man faces, rises to a world a position of world authority And under his demonic influence, don't tell me he can't stir the nations of the world against God's people. God is the creator. He says this is going to happen. If God says it's going to happen, we can be confident It's going to happen. The magnitude of Israel's unpopularity in the world is given in verse 3. All the people of the earth shall be gathered against Jerusalem Third thing I notice in verse 4 is then we see the bewilderment of God's adversaries. Look at verse 4 with me. In that day, there it is again, this coming day, saith the Lord, I will smite every horse with astonishment. And his rider with madness. And I will open mine eyes upon the house of Judah, and will smite every horse of the people with blindness. Come down to verse nine. And it shall come to pass in that day, the same day referred to in verse four. That I will seek to destroy all the nations that come against Jerusalem. The bewilderment of God's adversaries. In verse number four, we have three nouns used. Notice it says, I will smite every horse with what? Astonishment, and his rider with Madness, and I will open my eyes upon the house of Judah and will smite every horse of the people with what? Blindness. Astonishment. Um that's translated other places, the same as bewilderment, total confusion. Madness has the idea of anger to the brink of insanity. Blindness means just that, can't see. In that day, when God intervenes on behalf of His people, all the people of the world are aligned against Israel. The magnitude of this opposition is beyond our ability to comprehend. Yet God intervenes. And he smites the horses with bewilderment. They go crazy. You say, What are horses doing in this battlefield? I don't know They may be using literal horses. Some suggest it's making reference to modern instruments of warfare. I don't know the answer. The Bible says horses, but the Bi uh but the whole uh con the whole uh Idea in this whole verse is this total confusion on the part of the enemies of God They absolutely lose control. Nothing is working the way they said. Nothing is coming together. They had Israel in the hat. It was just a matter of mashing the button when suddenly everything goes wrong. Their horses are are bewildered. The riders, the men in charge and leading this attack get so frustrated, they get angry on the border of insanity Total loss of control. The idea here is total chaos on the part of the enemies attacking Israel. Now here's the thing: the world's forces were under the false impression they had everything in control. We've got every nation in the world together, we've got the latest weaponry, we have everything, there is no way this can go wrong. Israel has no chance, will wipe them off for wipes, and we will have the earth, and God's people will be gone. And everything falls apart. The world thinks it has everything in control, but in reality, God is the one in control. Now listen, you and I can line our lives up. We can put all our nice little ducks in a row, and we've got it all planned out for the rest of our lives, and we can explain Exclude God and exclude His word and push all of that out and say, I'm gonna do what I'm gonna do. I've got it all together, I've got my act together, I'm in control. I am the captain of my destiny. Brother, you better put a helmet on or something because your world's about to come crashing down. God is the one in control. God is, you take the Antichrist, the nations of the world, and God in one day. Steps in, and it's total chaos. Total chaos. Now notice in the middle of verse 4. He says, and I will open mine eyes upon the house of Judah. Now he's talking about the enemies and smiting them with blindness and madness and astonishment and all this. And the middle of it, he says, I'll open my eyes on Judah. Judah being God's people. Now I don't know how you see this, but as I studied this out, I got this picture in my mind. Of course we know from Revelation this is Jesus Christ coming back. This is the Battle of Armageddon Just as Israel is about to be wiped out, Jesus slits the sky open, comes in a white stallion. The word of God comes out of his mouth, brings chaos and confusion and devastation to the enemies of God's people. But I see this little phrase in the middle of verse 4. I will open my eyes upon the house of Judah in the midst of all this taking place on this one day. And I got pictured this in my mind. Jesus is coming back. Now, I'm just picturing this in my mind. It's a bit of speculation here, but I think I have scriptural support for it. In the middle of all this devastation of the enemies of the world, Jesus Christ looks to his people and they see them in the eye. The one they rejected for years. The one they despised. We have no king but Caesar. And now they see Jesus as the king And Jesus Christ, in the midst of his judgment on their enemies, he says, rescue of them, he looks them in the eye. And I think that look is a devastating look. And I believe, in studying this, I believe that is the moment when Israel realizes that Jesus Christ is really their Messiah. We're told in other portions of Scripture, they'll look on him whom they pierced, and they'll believe and be saved, as a nation. And I believe you say, what makes you think, because he looks on Judah with his eye, that that's their salvation. Remember when Peter denied the Lord? Remember that? He says, I don't know him. I never knew him. He cursed and swore. He was doing exactly as an individual what the Israel as a nation was doing to Jesus Christ. And what did Jesus do when he denied him the third time? What does the Bible say Jesus did? He looked on Peter, and what did Peter do? He wept. That look of Jesus Christ on him, his raw sin and rebellion and unbelief, self-will, when Jesus Christ looked at me and saw him in his eye, it broke Peter. And I think when Jesus looks on Jerusalem, the nation of Israel with compassion, and there's got to be some rebuke in it. Israel's a nation is going to see whom they pierced and realize this is our Savior. This is the Messiah. This is who he claimed to be, and we rejected him. And I believe at that point they'll be saved. I believe. So we have the bewilderment of God's enemies. And last of all, the verse 5 through 8, and we're not going to work down through every verse, but we see the boldness of God's assurance. And you can take some time and read very carefully, and we find that in the middle of this miraculous victory, it suddenly dawns on Israel, God is giving us victory. And you can read down through there, the governors of Judah shall say in their heart, the inhabitants of Jerusalem shall be my strength in the Lord of hosts their God. They're saying, God's doing this, God's doing something. And down through here that day will I make the governors of Judah like a hearth of fire among the wood, and like a torch of fire and a sheep, and they shall devour the people round about on the right hand, on the left, and Jerusalem shall be inhabiting it And when Jesus Christ comes back, Israel's going to see him and realize he's who he claimed to be, and they're going to rise up, and God will empower them, and they'll defeat their enemies. The boldness of God's assurance. When Israel learns that it is the Lord all along that gives victory, they're suddenly going to have great confidence. You know, when we realize as Christians That it's not your and I've character or our intelligence or our personality that makes us a Christian. It's God giving us the victory. If you've ever struggled, sometimes people struggle with tobacco, trying to quit smoking or chewing or whatever. And they can't beat it, and they can't beat it, and they try and try and try and try, and the harder they try, the more they fail. And finally, they come to the point where I give up. I can't do this. God, more than anything, I want to be delivered. I can't do it. You know what they find out? That God is the one that gives the victory. That's what Israel found out. The Christian life is not the result of me being a good Christian. The Christian life is me living in submission to Jesus Christ and him giving me victory. You follow what I'm saying? Israel found that out. It's God doing it. We're not defeating our enemies. It's God. Jesus is doing this. And we get to the point in our Christian life where we realize it's not me but him. We get the point in our Christian life where I must decrease, and he what? Increase. Paul said it this way: for it is no longer I that liveth, but Christ that liveth in me. I was fascinated years ago by a fellow by the name of John Payton. Anybody recognize that name? John Payton. John Payton was a great missionary to the New Hebrides Islands He was called of God, and I think if I remember correctly, I said I read several of his books back in Bible college days just on my own, but uh if I remember correctly, he started out as a congregationalist And as he was sailing over to Papua New Guinea, is where the New Hebride Islands are, of course it took several months back in the 1800s. As he was sailing, he was studying the scriptures, and you know what he realized? He realized if I want to be biblical, I've got to be a Baptist. And he became a Baptist on the way over, had another Baptist on the boat baptized him. Isn't that something? That's not the purpose of my story of John Payton, though. He got over there and there was his story is his life is fascinating as he worked with cannibals and and uh various things. I was telling this story to kids one time and they said uh why was he afraid of cannonballs? It wasn't cannonballs, it was cannibals. But anyway. Um he's going through and uh he had been there for a number of years. They had reached this one uh uh tribe, I guess you'd call it village for Christ, and most of them had gotten saved, but there was another village, the other side of this island, and They were at war and this other village came over and and the village where John Payton was was just being devastated. And they could hear, they could see the fires at night and see the the the warriors coming and swooping and hollering, people screaming and people being killed and and just slaughtering him and his wife, they said, We have no hope. We have no weapons, we have no way to defend ourselves, we're dead. And so they cut out the lights, put out the candles in their home, they made the door as secure as they can could, and him and his wife got on their knees in the middle of their little hut, grass hut, no defense And they began to pray. God, you've called us here. And they began reading scriptures back to God: of God is our defense, our shore tower, God is my high rock. And they put themselves in the hands of God. And as the night went on, the cries of the warfare died out in the morning light. They opened their front door and their house was untouched. Nobody ever came in. There was devastation and death all around them in the village. They didn't really understand it. They praised God for it. Years went by. They continued witnessing and preaching and reaching out, and lo and behold. The king who attacked the village where John, uh not king, the chief that attacked the village where John Payton and his wife were living, got saved. And that village, the gospel spread through the village, and many of them became believers. And John Payton was discipling them and getting a church established, and it always bugged him why they killed everyone in that village and did all that and never touched his place. And one day John Payton went to the chief of that now Christian chief of the village that was killing them all before And he said, I have a question. Back yonder, when you guys attacked our village, for some reason you left my house untouched. Why didn't you come in and kill us? He said, John Payton, are you joking? He says, no, I'm not joking. He said, how could we have possibly attacked your hut? He says, what are you talking about? He said, you had armed, great, large armed men in bright shining armor all around your house. How could we have possibly gotten to you? He said, we didn't have any bright, shining armor men. It was just my wife and I. And he laughed and he said, John Payton, we saw the guards. We could not attack your house. Now you can say what you want about it, but I'm here to tell you this: God takes care of his people. When it looks like everything is hopeless, when it looks like every nation of the world is against me If I'll look Christ in the eye and if I'll trust him and submit to him and let his will be done in my life, I'm telling you, he'll take care of us. He'll take care of us. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you, Lord, for showing us what the future holds concerning Israel. And Lord, the heartaches they have to go through, and the heartaches we face in life, and the devastation, and the hurt But God, when it all comes down to it, you promised that you would never leave us nor forsake us. Lord, you said any stone formed against us would not prevail. And Lord, we look to you God, we ask you to help us to trust you, to yield ourselves to you, and that your will be accomplished in our lives Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. I wonder how many tonight would say, Preacher, I've got some situation in my life. I really need the Lord to step in. I feel like Israel. I feel like the whole world's coming down on me. And I have no defense, I'm nothing. I just look to the Lord. Preacher, pray with me that I'll have faith to just submit myself to him, let him have his way. Is there any like that by the uplift hand? Preacher.