Matthew chapter one and uh verse number eighteen, the Bible says the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise, when as his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph Before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Ghost. Now, I got I was studying this and studying this. I can't figure out how Joseph found out that Mary was expecting. I can't find anywhere in Scripture where she came and told him. It says there the word found out. The word found, I looked that up, studied that, and it means to discover. uh to by coincidence come across, find out. So I wonder if maybe Joseph saw m Mary was starting to show. And he said, what's this about? I don't know. I'm speculating here. But I can't find anywhere where Mary told him And I can't find anywhere where the angels showed up. They showed up after he found out about it. So keep that thought in mind just for a moment. And a little bit of speculation here tonight, but bear with me. I want to try and get a thought across Before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Ghost. Then Joseph, her husband, now they're not actually married at this point, they're his spouse, which is the next step to marriage. Very, very binding Engagement. Then Joseph, her husband, being a just man, not willing to make her a public example, was minded to put her away privily. Would you agree with me? Joseph didn't know what was going on At that point. How many people, and I touched on this Sunday morning a little bit, but how many people would agree with me, Joseph's probably devastated at this point? I mean his dreams, his love of his life, his dreams for the future are completely shattered. Now, I don't know. There's a lot we're not told. So again, a lot of speculation. But I'd venture to say he's he wept himself to sleep He cried himself to sleep numerous nights till he finally, till God told him what's going on This is a tough, tough time for Joseph at this brief period when he finds out his espoused wife is to be, is with child Until he finds out what it's all about, the angel explains to him in that brief period of time. Boy, you talk about heart-wrenching. You talk about a low point in life. Now come over to Luke chapter number one. Or chapter two, I'm sorry. Now, Xander read this just a few minutes ago. But look with me at verse number one, chapter two. It came to pass in those days that there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be what? Tax. That tells you what political party's in charge right then, probably. And this taxing was made when Cyrenius was governor of Syria, and all went out to be taxed. Now what's the last part of verse 3 say? They went out to be taxed, but not only are they being taxed, but they're what? They got to go back to their own city, where they're born, their home city. So Joseph, verse 4, went up also from Galilee out of the city of Nazareth unto Judea, unto the city of David, which is called Betlam because of his, because he was of the house and lineage of David. Now you talk about government intrusion Not only is Joseph find out that his wife to be is with child, he assumes for a period of time, he assumes from another man he's devastated. I mean, you just can't even imagine the heartbreak and the wrenching, heart-wrenching sorrow and disappointment. No doubt there's anger. Then that gets explained to him, and he goes from this incredible low to an angel shows up and says, basically says this, oh no, no, no, no, no. You're going to be the stepdad of the Son of God. Whoa! You talk about a roller coaster of emotions. Man, you're down, then all of a sudden, when the the how many people agree with me? That would be a little overwhelming I tell you, just having a child is overwhelming. When our boys were born, Sam and then when Dan was born, I tell you, I held them and I just wept and wept. I was overwhelmed By the responsibility and the privilege of fathering a child. And here it's the Son of God. And then they get word, they're married by this point in Luke. Then they get word that the government says, hey, we're going to tax everybody. And you all need to pack up and go back to the city you were born in, your home city, whatever tribe you were from, you've got to go back to that city, and there you have to do this taxing, and there was a census involved with it. So what does that mean? That means Joseph and Mary, they're about to have a child. They know it's not it's due any day now, really. is to leave his job, is to pack things up. They have to have some sort of finances to travel. This is not just going downtown Oakland. They're traveling a ways. It's expensive to travel. Anybody ever find that out? Proverbs talks about that. Traveling is expensive. So he has to put aside his job. So I'm guessing, I'm speculating here, his income is stops, can't work because he has to go to Bethlehem and for this taxation. He has to pack up, they have to buy food, they have to get a motel when they get there, hotel and inn when they get there. Uh government intrusion. And then they get there. I mean, just think about this. They're not in a car, they're not taking a train, they're not taking a bus. They're walking and on a donkey, on a horse or a donkey. And she's with child. I don't know about you, but I I'm putting myself in Joseph's shoes and I'm thinking, are you kidding me? The government is telling me I've got to do all this. My wife's about to have a baby, and we've got to do all this. There's no choice. I I was talking to Kathy about this a little bit, and I'm again I'm putting myself in Joseph's shoes, so I don't know if he thought this way, but this is the way I think This is a I would think if I was in his shoes. I would think fur I would go uh I I'd find out my wife to be is uh is gonna ha is having a baby. What? Are you kidding? Then I find out I'm going to be the stepfather of the Son of God. Are you kidding me? Now this would be my thinking. This is what I was bouncing off of her. My thinking is, well, if God is trusting Mary and I to raise his son, Mary gave birth to him, and I'm the stepfather to take care of and raise him, God's going to take care of us pretty good. Huh? And I I don't know about you, but my thinking was was as I put myself in his shoes at that moment, my thinking was, we've got it made This is God's son. There ain't no way he's going to let anything bad happen to this. We have got it made. And man, I'd be looking at new carriages and, you know, looking at new houses. Man, I'm the stepfather of the Son of God. And then he gets a notice from the government he's got to travel all this way and go pay these taxes and do this this census and uh gotta go all that. Wow, his wife is Is expecting. And my thinking is that's not the way he envisioned this birth of the Son of God to take place. This is God's son for crying out loud. And so he goes. Not really what he had in mind, not the way he envisioned it. So they get there, they finally get to Bethlehem. Mary's like, ooh. And Joseph's worried, I'm sure. Oh, here's a nice end. This is one of the nicest ends In Bethlehem. The Son of God's going to be born. He might be born here. We better have somewhere nice. Go in there. Ding, ding, ding. Guy comes out, sorry, no vacancy. No room in this end. Know of any others? What about what about uh red roof in? They always have the light on Oh, they no room there either. And they end up where? In a cattle stall. Really? Little shed, a little maybe a little cave in the side, somewhere where they keep the horses the horses and the cows and the sheep and the goats And the in the innkeeper said, that's all I got, man. All I got. And I'm Joseph now, and I'm thinking, this is the son of God. What in the world? Finally, that's all there is, says Mary. I'm sorry, that's all there is They get out there and he gets her down. They try and get some straw together. She says, Joseph, Joseph, not here, not now I thought of this, I have a friend of mine, good friend of mine, Randy Miller, he's out in Illinois, dear friend, faithful pastor, and uh one of their kids, they have a whole slew of them. One of 'em, uh, uh Mildred was expecting and they were on the way to the hospital and she's in the back seat, laying across the back seat, and he's flying, and she kept saying, he was telling me, he said she kept saying, Randy, hurry up. So he gun it a little more. She go, Randy, go faster. He'd gun it a little more. He's flying to the hospital. Finally she said, Randy, pull over And he delivered his child along the road in the back seat of his car. Now, I I'd be uncomfortable doing that personally. But think of Joseph. Middle of the night, it's cold, in a b in a shed. I mean where cows are, just all of this. And he's trying to keep her comfortable and finally she goes, Randy Randy, she says, uh Joseph. Joseph, I I think it's time. He says, No, it can't be time. And her water breaks There's no doctor. There's no family. There's no one to help. It's him and Mary. And he's helping her give birth to the Son of God in a shed, in a in a a cattle shed. Not the way he pictured the Son of God being born. Think of these roller coasters, think of all that. Jamie asked me, what's the title of your little message tonight? The only title I could come up with is song that Mark's favorite Christmas hymn, In the Bleak Midwinter. I would think Joseph was thinking this is the bleak midwinter I think now I think Joseph might have been thinking, God has failed me. I find out my wife's expecting. My heart is shattered. Now I'm not saying Joseph did think this, but I'm wondering. My heart is shattered. Then God says that I'm going to be the Son of God, that the Holy Spirit of God miraculously put the body of the little baby, the embryotic body of the Lord Jesus in the womb of my wife to be, and I'm going to be this stepfather of the son of God. And the the the ecstatic how ecstatic that would be and the the hot the thrill of that and the overwhelming of that And then the government steps in and he finds himself in the middle of this bleak mid-winter night, alone giving helping his wife give birth to this child and nobody there to help him and not even a decent bed to be in. God, where are you? I thought this was the Son of God. But while Mary is giving birth and Joseph is there and the whatever thoughts were going through their minds, not far away, there's a host of angels. And they began to and they began to declare the glory of God. And what took place that night in that bleak midwinter night when no doubt in my mind Joseph is at perhaps the lowest point of his life God is doing something that he can't even imagine what is going to be the result of. You follow my thinking? What took place that night w that was to me is such a tragic thing that a child would be born in a shed, an animal shed in the middle of the night while they're being taxed away from home, away from family, no help, alone God is doing the greatest thing that this world has ever experienced. God becoming man. While Courtney and Matt were singing, I wrote a thought that came to my mind while they were singing. The greatest thing that ever happened to mankind was when Jesus was born in Bethlehem. God became man. And in the midst of that difficulty, in the midst of that dark, dark night God was about to do something that was incredible. Now here's my thought. Here's my thought. Don't ever come to a conclusion. About what God is doing when you're in the valley. Don't ever come to a conclusion about what God is doing when you're in the middle of a dark night. In fact, it wasn't until Jesus started doing miracles and probably the resurrection of Christ where Mary fully comprehended what God was really doing. But that night, that dark, bleak midwinter night, God was doing something that Joseph and Mary, I no doubt, had no idea what God was about to do. Now, for whatever reason, I thought of Genesis chapter 1. I think God set a precedent. In Genesis 1 it says, in the beginning, God did what? Create the heaven and earth. Does anybody know what Genesis chapter 1 verse 2 says? And the earth was Without form and void. Now, I don't know about you. When I think of God creating the world, I don't think of a world without form and void. That sounds like chaos. That sounds like a mess. That sounds like Failure. What? But God's not done yet. If we'd have judged God's creative abilities by Genesis chapter 1, verse 2, we'd have said God doesn't know what he's doing. Right? But you get to the end of chapter one, you find out, and everything God made was what? Good. You wasn't done yet. You wasn't done yet. Chapter 2. Don't judge God's creative abilities by Genesis chapter 1, verse 2. Get to the end of the chapter before you make that judgment. And there's what I'm trying to say. This year has been tough. There's going to be a lot of empty seats at Christmas this year. There's going to be a lot of tears shed. But don't judge what God is doing in the valley and in the dark night and in the moment that my heart is broken and I don't understand and Maybe I'm fearful and alone. Don't judge what God is doing in there. Wait on the Lord. Be of good courage. Because I guarantee you God's up to something. God's up to something. Probably the darkest day in all of history was the day that Jesus hung on that cross. In fact, the Bible says darkness settled down upon the earth. And in that darkness, Jesus cried out, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Darkest moment in all of eternity. When the Son of God is separated from God the Father, I don't even know how that happens. I don't understand that. But he's separated from God and he suffers the wrath and judgment of God for every sin ever committed by mankind. If we'd have judged God at that moment, we'd have said the devil won. Three short days later, came up out of that grave. God wasn't done yet. God wasn't done yet. Say, preacher, man, I don't understand what's going on. I'm so discouraged. I'm so afraid. I feel I'm so alone. My heart is so broken. Uh don't Don't God's not done yet. God's not done yet. This Christmas Eve, let's go back in our minds to where Joseph may have been thinking. What may have been going on in his heart and mind? And then remember what God brought out of that. Am I making sense? Am I making sense? This has been a dark year. This has been a tough year. It's been scary. It's been confusing. I tell you what, God does his best work in the darkest nights. God does his deepest work in our hearts and lives in the lowest valleys. That night was just the beginning, the life of miracles and power and ultimately the salvation available for all mankind. Isn't that wonderful? Father in heaven, I ask that you would help us to see beyond our circumstances of our moment. To see beyond the darkness around us. And Lord, help us to look past that and see a tremendous plan that you have. Lord, we have no idea we come out of all this, Lord, what you're going to accomplish, what you are doing. I pray you'd help us have faith in you This Christmas help us to keep our eyes on Christ and on the promises of God. To trust you and wait on you. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Amen.