Luke chapter 17, I'd like to, Pastor Matt read uh about ten verses there. I'd like to highlight verse five and six. In this passage we're looking at this morning, Luke 17. Notice with me verse number 5. The Bible says, And the apostles said unto the Lord, increase our faith. They made this request. They came to the Lord, made this request. Increase our faith. And then the Lord responded to their request. And the Lord said, if ye had faith as a grain of mustard seed, and we're not going to talk a lot about this, but the mustard seed is one of the smallest seeds there is. It's very, very tiny. He said, if ye had faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye might say unto the sycamine tree, Be thou plucked up by the root, and be thou planted in the seed, and it should obey you. Lord, increase our faith. Let's pray together and we'll look at that statement there. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless our time and your word this morning. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to stop and evaluate our faith, what it is, and what we're doing with it. I pray, Lord, you'd challenge us to go forward in our faith. I yield my will to you, Lord. I know that in and of myself I have nothing of any spiritual, eternal value to give anybody. Lord, it has to come from you And so with that in mind, I yield my will to you. Please don't let me preach my thoughts, my word, but help me be faithful to your word, your thoughts. Lord, I yield my body, present my body, and pray that your Holy Spirit would fill me and that you would speak your word through me And apply to each of our hearts and lives the circumstances, situations we face. Help us, Lord. And so have your way and bless this message, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. If you would come up to verse number one, I want you to notice who the Lord is addressing in this whole passage here. I think it's important to understand to know who the Lord's talking to. And in this case, we notice in verse number one, he's addressing who? Who does it say there, verse 1? The disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ. He's not talking to unsaved people. He's talking to people that know who he is. They understand he's the Son of God. They understand his claims, and they've trusted him. But as a disciple, a disciple is more than just a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. A disciple is someone who's not only trusted Him as their personal Savior, but they have committed their lives to live. According to the teachings of the Lord Jesus Christ. They've committed their lives to live for Him as a disciple, a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm just curious this morning how many folks would say you're saved and you know it. Say Amen. Amen. How many of us that have trusted Christ as Savior? I'm wondering how many of us would consider ourselves To be a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, not just a believer. I didn't just get saved, but I really, sincerely, earnestly have committed my life To be a follower of Jesus Christ, to live as he instructs me in his word. Anything like that, how many people would say, preacher, I'd like to think that I'm a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ? All right, probably more than what are responding We like to think of ourselves that way. Well, that's who he's addressing. If I would consider myself a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, then this passage here would apply to me, because that's who he's talking to The Lord has been training twelve disciples. Now, there were many more disciples. He had thousands of disciples. But there were twelve particularly that he had called out that are referred to here as apostles. And these apostles are going to have a role in the future when the Lord is off the scene, he ascends back to heaven. They are going to have a key role in the leadership of that early New Testament church. They are the apostles. They are the kind of like part, the Lord, of course, being the foundation, but they're part of that foundation of that early church. And so he's training them for three and a half years. He's been working with these twelve guys. He's been teaching them and training them and mentoring them. You could use that term maybe. He's been discipling them. On how a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ behaves, how a disciple thinks. If I'm a follower of Christ, if I've committed myself to the Lord Jesus Christ. For me it was August 25th, 1985, at an altar in Chattanooga, Tennessee. I'd been saved for a number of years, six years I think at that point I got my knees and I said, Lord, I don't want to just be a believer. I want to be totally dedicated to you. I want you to have all of me. I want to be a disciple. I want to be a disciple He's been training them and teaching them what a disciple, how a disciple thinks. Matthew chapter 5, 6, and 7, the Sermon on Amount is a tremendous passage for disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ to study He tells how we are to think, the attitudes we're to have, how we interact with one another, regardless of our age, whether we're a young disciple or a senior citizen disciple, how we deal with opposition. How we uh uh deal with our own sinful tendencies, our own sinful temptations. And so the Lord has been taking this three and a half years, and he's been training them how they should behave, how they act, how they think. He's developing these men to be future leaders, key leaders in the early part, the early development of the New Testament church. In just a short time, the Lord's going to be gone. From here, they're going to go into Jerusalem. Judas is going to betray the Lord Jesus Christ. He's going to be taken before Pilate and before Herod. He's going to be falsely accused, unjustly condemned to the cross. I'm going to take him and beat him with the catanine tails and crown him with thorns and strip him of his garments. I'm going to spit on him and smite him. And then I'm going to nail him to that old cross. And hanging on that cross, it was much more than just a man being crucified unjustly. Hanging on that cross was the perfect, sinless, holy Son of God. Dying and suffering not just the unjustice of man, but suffering the wrath and judgment of God Upon himself. Why? For what sins he did? No, for your sins and my sins. He was our substitute. He was our sacrifice. He is our Savior. He's going to be crucified. Going to pierce his side with the spear, blood, and water. It's dead. They'll take him down, put him in a tomb. The disciples, the apostles here, of course Judas takes his life, and the other eleven, they're scattered. And Jesus is buried in a borrowed tomb. Three days later, we know the gospel. Three days later, that stone rolls away, and Jesus comes back out of there alive, resurrected. Spends some time with the disciples and makes some promises, gives some last instructions to his disciples, and he ascends back to heaven And now, these apostles, they're going to be the ones providing leadership They're going to be the ones speaking in Christ's stead on his behalf as churches are established. Souls are saved. The gospel is preached. Churches are established. Leadership under their leadership is appointed. And the New Testament church begins. So he's training them for this period of time, for their role they're going to play. He's training them to be leaders in that early New Testament church. The leadership will be up to them. And so this training is crucial, but it's winding down. As I said, in just a short period of time, a few short days, the Lord's going to be gone. And here in chapter 17, he's given them Some lessons that are crucial for these disciples to understand. He's given them some instructions here that they have to get a hold of. If they're going to be able to be the apostles, the leaders that God intends for them to be, that God has called them to be. And he touches on a number of issues, and this is all through the Gospels, by the way, as this isn't The training isn't limited to these ten verses we're looking at here. I'm just pulling a segment out. There's all sorts of issues and subjects the Lord addresses. But here we have uh several the Lord touches on in verses. 1 through 4, he's addressing how to deal with offenses. In other words, how to deal with things when somebody says or does something that is offensive to me. The word offenses there has the idea of something that causes me to stumble. I may get up, as Mark sang, and have a song in my heart. I sing because I'm happy. I sing because and I'm going, I get up in the morning, I've got the joy, Lord, I'm happy, I go to work, and somebody says or does something that offends me, and I stumble and I lose that song. Anyway, can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? He's saying to them, listen, you've got to be able to deal with, as a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, you've got to be able to deal with things that people say and do that may be offensive and not stumble over it. He said it's inevitable offenses are going to come. We live in a fallen world. We live in an offensive world. And you get out around it all. Everybody's offended by something. Anybody notice that? It's like some people get up and say, all right, I've got to find something to be offended about today. And he's saying, as a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, you're not that way. We don't think that way. We don't respond to offensive things that people do. We don't respond that way. We don't let it offend us. When people are offensive. And then he says, listen, you make sure you're not the one that's being offensive. You make sure you're not the one that's messing people up and dragging them down and hurting people and throwing them off track. One of the roles the church has in the life of believers is to encourage one another, exhort one another, lift one another up. And he's saying, as a disciple, it's inevitable offenses are going to come, but don't you let them offend you. Don't you let them throw you and stumble you and trip you up. And you make sure you're not the one. So he deals with this issue of offenses as from a disciple. And then he touches on the attitude of a servant, verses 7 through 10. And he talks about a disciple being the servant and the role of a servant. And I'll just say this, we don't have time to expound on all of this, but a disciple is first and foremost a servant of the Lord Jesus Christ. Paul and Peter and all the New Testament writers referred to themselves as servants of the Lord servants of the Lord Jesus Christ. It is not a shame to be a servant of Jesus Christ. Nothing to be ashamed of it. In fact, it's an honor. Be able to serve the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. So a disciple is uh a servant of the Lord. And he addresses that and the attitude to have as a servant. Our approach to that then, in verse eleven through nineteen, we didn't read that passage, but he addresses the subject of gratitude And how as disciples, he illustrates through this healing of a ten lepers, he illustrates the importance of gratitude in the life of a disciple. Let me say this. I believe one of the first and foremost characteristics of a genuine disciple of Jesus Christ is gratitude. It's not the only one. But if anybody in this world ought to be grateful, it ought to be the believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, it ought to be the disciples of Jesus Christ. And so gratitude. So he talks about this idea of being offended and how the disciple responds. We don't respond the way the world does, get all worked up, get offended about this, that. No, no, no. We make sure we don't be offensive We talk about talks about this matter of being a servant, this matter of gratitude, and being grateful. And then I noticed verse 5. I was reading this in my devotions a couple weeks ago, and that little statement stuck out to me in verse 5. The apostle said unto the Lord, increase our faith. Increase our faith. I have it underscored in my Bible, and I circled that little phrase, increase our faith. Apparently, these disciples felt inadequate. Apparently, as the Lord's instructing them and discipling them and training them, and they're being introduced to a whole nother uh worldview, a whole nother frame of mind than what the world they may have been raised in the world. They're seeing things from a whole different perspective And they, I get the sense that they feel inadequate for what God is training them to do. For what they're being mentored to do, the duty, the role they're going to have, they feel inadequate. And they come to the Lord and they say, Lord, increase our faith. Increase our faith. At least they felt inadequate in the area of faith. Has anyone ever felt like, boy, my faith isn't what it ought to be? Anyone ever been there? Sure. That's where they're at. Lord, increase my faith. Increase our faith. Now, my look at that statement, my thought is, that sounds like something Peter Would have done. In fact, I have no idea this is total speculation, but I wonder if Peter wasn't behind initiating this. But if you look at the verse, all of them came to him. Every one of them, they came as a group, they came as his twelve disciples, and they all approached them, and they all, whoever the spokesman was, we're not told But the request was the same for every last one of them. Lord, increase our faith. I notice a few things they didn't did not ask. I noticed they didn't ask the Lord to define what faith is. They didn't come and say, Lord, tell us what is faith. They understood what faith was They're not asking the Lord to explain faith. They fully grasped what faith was. They understood that faith is believing that something is true. They understood that. It's more than simply believing something is true, but faith is a firm confidence that something is true. In fact, it's more than that. It's possible to believe that something is true, but not trust it. And you come up to a little did you ever uh go out hiking on a state park somewhere and you come up to one of those little rope bridges And there's little wood uh um planks there and you walk across and you look at it and you say, you know, I believe we could probably get across that thing. It's like a five hundred foot canyon under it, you know I think we could I'm I'm pretty sure I'm confident we could get across there, but I ain't walking across it, I'll tell you that right now. Anyone know what I'm talking about? It's possible to believe it's true, but not necessarily Trust it, not necessarily commit myself to it. The disciples understood that believing in the Lord, having faith in the Lord, was more than just, oh yeah, what he's saying is true. It was saying, what he says is true, and I'm willing to commit to it. I'm willing to trust that what he says is so. It's more than just mentally acknowledging a fact it is trusting, relying on, committing to it, not just lip service. So they don't come to the Lord and say, Lord, what is faith? What in the world? Explain this to us. They knew what it was. James chapter 2 and verse 18. Well, it won't take time to turn there, but he says, uh he says, You say you have faith. He says, I'll show you my faith by my works. Now he's not teaching we're saved by doing good works. We're not. We're saved by grace alone through faith. Period. But faith, genuine biblical faith, commits to what I know is true about the Lord, and it affects how I live my life Somebody can say they have faith all day long, but I watch their attitude, I watch their actions, I watch how they live, how they respond, do all that, and that testifies to me whether their faith is just lips or whether it's something genuine. You follow what I'm saying? This world, as disciples in the Lord Jesus Christ, this world ought to not just hear our faith from our lips. They ought to see it in our lives That we live our lives confident that what the Bible says is so, that what Jesus taught is so And so they don't come to the Lord. I thought this was interesting. They don't come to the Lord as uh as the twelve apostles come and say, Lord, listen, we got a question for you. Man, you're teaching this stuff. And again, I'm ver um at living here. But uh uh Lord, we're concerned. We we don't feel adequate. We need you to increase our faith. They don't come and say, Lord, we don't know what you're talking about, faith. We don't know what that is. We don't understand that. They didn't say that at all. They fully understood it. The trust him. And by the way, this faith that they're referencing here is not blind faith I don't know about you, but I've had numerous times over the last forty-five, coming up on 45 years as a Christian. I've had numerous times where people say, Let uh there was one guy at the meat pack and playing us so always say, Ah, Letterman, you just have blind faith The faith they're talking about, the faith that we have as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, is not blind faith. Blind faith has no basis for what it believes. You and I have a very sure basis for what we believe. It's the Word of God We don't have just a blind faith. We believe the Bible. We have a foundation for our faith. Our faith rests squarely on the Word of God. And what God has said, and what He said is so. And that's where our faith is. Amen or not? It's the basis of our faith. It's not just something out there. When I was uh lived in Boulder, we were in a youth ministry and Uh we had an old it was an old church building we were using for neighborhood bible time ministry for training and offices, storage, all that And one day I was walking out, I was walking back to the house, it was several blocks, and as I was walking across the parking lot, this guy was on a skateboard, probably twenties, early twenties. He's on a skateboard and um he's going across there and I said, hey And uh I had a gospel track. I said, Here, I want to just want to leave one of my little gospel tracts with you. It tells you how you can know for sure when you how you're going to heaven. And he said, Oh, well he's nice. He said, Thank you. I said, Do you ever give that any thought He goes, yeah, actually I do. I said, do you know for sure? When you die, you're going to heaven, not to hell? He goes, ha ha he laughed. He goes, uh, he goes, uh, nah, I'm not going to either of them. I said, what do you think? He says, uh, I'm going to planet Zotar. And uh there's uh things there he started describing planet Zotar and all this stuff. And at first I thought this guy's messing with me. So I joked around a little bit and went on, and lo and behold, he convinced me he was serious. He was convinced he's going to planet Zotar. Finally, I asked him, I said, Well how do you know? What do you base this on? You seem very confident about this, but what what do you base that on? He goes, Oh, I just think that's the way it is. You know what that is? That's blind faith. There's nothing to base what he's believing. There's no substance to it. There's nothing to base it on it. It's just something that came up in his mind. Our faith is not blind faith. Our faith has a sure foundation, a firm foundation on the Word of God And so the disciples, the apostles come to the Lord and say, Lord, they don't say, explain to us what faith is. They had that. They had the Word of God. They saw. What he did. That wasn't the issue. Not knowing what fate was. That wasn't their concern. I noticed he doesn't, they come, it says, um uh uh Verse 5. And the apostles said unto the Lord, they don't say, give us faith. They're not saying, Lord, we don't have faith. We need you to give it to us. We want faith. They had faith in the Lord. It may have not been perfect faith. It may have struggled sometimes. But nevertheless, it was genuine. It was there. They stated numerous times, the gospel stated numerous times, that they had left all and followed the Lord. They had gotten to the point in their hearts and minds, they were convinced that Jesus was who he claimed to be, and the scriptures supported the fact that he was who he claimed to be, and they made a conscious decision that we are going to trust him. We're going to commit ourselves to live for him. We're going to leave it all. Oh, they had faith. It wasn't a problem. They didn't have any faith They believed the Lord. They were convinced that what he said was so. In fact, I want to suggest to you that everyone has faith. Faith is part of our makeup. You and I cannot function without faith. We have to trust people in things, or we cannot function. In fact, we if uh we don't say, I don't trust, I don't have faith in anybody. Well, you've got faith in yourself to come to that conclusion. You're trusting your reasoning. We all have faith. I'm not going to ask you, I venture to say most, if not all of us, have a bank account. Every time you put money in that bank account, you're exercising faith in that bank that they will do with that money what they say they will do with that money And that it will be available for you whenever you come to withdraw it, right or wrong. That's faith. I'm trusting that institution to do what we agreed we would do If you have an employer, if you're an employee, you have an employer, you have faith in that employer. Might not be perfect. But you trust that if I put in X number of dollars, I'm going to receive X size paycheck. I'm trusting them. I have faith that they're going to do. That's why I'm committing myself. To work X number of hours so that I can receive X number of dollars for what I've done. That's a faith transaction Trusting. And if you're an employer, you have faith the employees are going to work for what you hire them to work. And if they don't, you fire them So we have faith. The issue isn't whether we have faith or not. We all have faith. You have faith in the doctor. A number of our people recently have had surgery of varying seriousness. And to go into a doctor and allow them to put you under anesthesia and cut on you and do these things, inject stuff into your body. That is an act of what? Faith. We all have faith. We all have faith. So the issue for the apostles was not they didn't understand what faith was. The issue for the apostles wasn't that they didn't have any faith. They were uh faith was absent. That wasn't their concern. Their concern was, I don't have enough faith. Increase my faith, the faith that I have, that I've put in you, Lord Jesus, the faith that I've exercised in you. as uh who you claim to be and and uh the faith that I put in you uh i uh it's inadequate. I need more Now the problem with that question is this, as I see it. The problem with that question is their focus was on who? Themselves. They're looking at how much faith I have. I need more faith. My faith isn't enough. And they're looking at their faith and the amount of their faith. And the Lord addresses that and says, it's not the amount of faith you have. It's the object that you place that faith in. Look at verse number six. And the Lord said, If ye had faith as a grain of mustard seed, That's as I said earlier, that's the small one of the smallest seeds in existence, tiny. The Lord isn't saying, oh, we need to measure how big your faith is. He's saying the amount of faith is insignificant. He doesn't say you have to have faith the size of a coconut, faith the size of a watermelon seed. He gets the smallest that they would have been aware of and said, even if your faith is that minute and you put it in the Lord, God can and will do great things. So the issue this morning, this is what I want to say. Every one of us here this morning, every one of us have faith. I watched people come in, you sat in the pews. None of you checked that pew out first to see if it would hold you You just flopped down on it. That's an act of faith. You trusted it. I doubt anybody, there may be some did. I doubt anybody before you drove here, got out, opened the hood, checked the blake fluid. Walk around, check all this different stuff out. You trusted your gauges and everything. You had faith, and that machine is going to do what it's designed to do It's not the amount of faith I have concerning my spiritual well-being, it's the object of my faith. Putting in the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's what the Lord is trying to emphasize. I have three thoughts I want to give you real quick in a little bit of time we have. Number one I want us to consider the decision of faith. The decision of faith. And as I just said, it was not the amount of their faith that was the need that they needed. They didn't need more faith They need to decide it. They had to decide to take the faith they had and place it either in themselves And their own abilities, their own understandings, or take the faith that is inherent in all of us and place it in the Lord Jesus Christ. Place it in the Word of God. And that's what it boils down to in the Christian life. I decide either I'm going to believe and trust and have faith in what God says or I'm not. It's a decision. Faith in God does not just happen. I have to decide. May 7, 1979, you've heard it a thousand times, 10:30 at night, kneeling by my bed. As a wasted teenage uh knucklehead, I made a decision I had read of Christ. I saw what the Bible claimed. I'd seen what it did in my daddy's life. I heard what my daddy said. I saw what God had done for my daddy. I made a decision. Jesus Christ, I'm putting my faith and trust in you. And I'm telling you, God changed me. My heart and soul was altered. I made that decision and put my faith and trust in Christ. Never been the same. Never been the same. Faith is a conscious decision I make It's not the amount of faith I have that saves my soul. It's the object of my faith, the Lord Jesus Christ, that saves my soul. Some people decide to put, some people decide to trust their membership, to forgive their sins, cleanse their sins, make them acceptable to God, and have a home in heaven. Listen, that is not biblical faith. It's faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. That's what Paul told the Philippian jailer. Make a conscious decision. Put your faith in Jesus Christ. And you'll be saved and your household. Decision. It's not the amount I faith I have that enables me to live for the Lord, it's the object of my faith We see someone that's living a victorious Christian life. They have the joy of the Lord. And man, it seems like they've conquered sin in their life. And they just got it all. You say that Christian has her act together. He's got his act together. Man, they must have a lot of faith. It's not the amount of faith. They might have less faith than you do. But they put it solely in the Lord Jesus Christ. And the Lord enables them in response to that. Are you with me, everybody? Follow with me It's not a great uh and by the way, this to me brings great hope and encouragement when I feel like my faith is small. And I'm reminded, wait a minute, it's not the amount of my faith, it's the object of my faith, the Lord Jesus that does it It's not the amount of faith that saves my soul. It's not the amount of my faith that enables me to live for the Lord. It's not the amount of my faith that overcomes temptation. It's not the amount of my faith. that brings joy in the midst of trials. It's not the amount of my faith that brings peace of mind and comforts me in sorrow. It's the object of my faith. And I must decide to place my faith, the Word of God, and the Son of God. Again, Philippians asked Paul, he said, What must I do to be saved? He said, You've got to make a decision. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. I want to say, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church cannot save a soul. We enjoy baptizing. My goal someday before this is all over, I'd like to baptize, uh average one baptism a Sunday for a whole year. Wouldn't that be great? But it's not baptism doesn't save a soul. Putting money in the offering plate, and I'm all for putting money in the offering plate That never saved one soul. You can't buy your way out of hell and you can't buy your way into heaven. It's faith, regardless of the amount, faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Proverbs 3, 5, and 6. Solomon is telling his son, under the inspiration of God, he says, trust in the Lord. with all thine heart and lean not unto thine own understanding. Make a decision. And all thy ways acknowledge him. You follow him. You follow his directions. You acknowledge uh his his purpose instructions and he'll direct you uh uh um trust the Lord with all your heart lead not into anything and all thy ways and object and he shall direct thy paths To lead you and direct you. It's a decision. I decide. I can wallow in my self-pity. I can wallow in my self-trust. I can wallow. Or I can say, you know, I believe God has something better for life than this. I'm going to trust him. He said, I've come, you might have life, and you might have it more abundantly. Trust in the Lord with all. Mark 11, 22, Jesus very directly and very succinctly said to his disciples, have faith in God. I claimed that verse all my years in Bible college. I mean I didn't have any money. One time I had one dollar. And I decided I'm going to try and make this dollar last a month And I did. I didn't do any wash. I didn't wash my clothes at all the whole month. But let me take that back. I didn't wash them in the washing machine. I washed them in the bathtub For a whole month. And uh I smelled pretty good. My roommate let me borrow his cologne, so you just pour it on, you know. But what I'm trying to say is this have faith in God. It's a decision. I don't know what you're going through, I don't know what you're dealing with, I don't know what you're facing. But as pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church For many, most of y'all, as your pastor, I'm saying to you, just decide to trust the Lord. Put your faith in them. You say, but preacher, I don't have much faith. That doesn't matter. It's the object of our faith, not the amount. So it's a decision I make. It's a decision I made. I choose to place my faith. Number two, I got a couple minutes, the development of my faith. Matthew 15, 28, again, we won't take time to turn there, but there's a woman that comes and pleads for the Lord's healing. And she trusts him. And the Lord, what I want to pull out of that, is he makes this statement to her. He says, he commends this woman for her great faith. He says, such great faith. Now, what he was not saying was that she has a large amount of faith. Boy, this woman, she has truckloads of faith. She's got tons of faith. That's not what he's saying. The word great there has the idea of excellence. Purity, quality, strength. She we don't know how much faith she had, may have been just a little bit, but the faith she had, she put it all in the Lord. It was quality faith, excellent faith. I cannot increase the amount of faith I have. I tend to believe from Romans, I think it's chapter 13, 12, or 13, we're told that God gives every man a measure of faith. I have a tendency that in our makeup is we're designed by God with our unique characteristics. our unique physical characteristics, our unique emotional characteristics. He designs us. Part of that design is the faith that we have. And it may it varies obviously from person to person, the measure of faith that he gives us. But I take that faith and I want it to be excellent. I want it to be strong. Um I cannot increase the amount of faith I have, but I can develop the quality of my faith, the strength of my faith. They say, how do I do that? How do I get a faith that's strong? Say, preacher, I just feel inadequate in my faith. How do I get it strong? Well, there's various ways, and again, this would be a great series. I can't elaborate on all these, but one is get in the Word of God consistently Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. And I have heard, I have from day one at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, I have urged this church to spend some time every day. Meditating in the Word of God, letting God speak to me, taking in what God's Word says. And probably, Lord willing if I have my right head The last time, the last message I preach from this pulpit, I'm going to determine to say, you better spend some time every day in the Word of God. That's how our faith is developed. That's how our faith gets stronger. That's how our faith becomes more excellent by reading and claiming the promises of God and letting God speak to my heart and affect my mind and transform my thinking. Number two, I develop my faith by getting around God's people, the people of God, faithfully. That's why we emphasize the importance of church attendance, faithful church attendance. Hebrews 10. 25, forsake not the assembling of yourselves together, as the matter of some is, but so much the more as you see the day approaching. Part of the purpose of the church congregation is to encourage each other in our faith Through the singing and the preaching and the interaction of God's people, we exhort. That means to lift up, to strengthen, to build up one another's faith. Come in all discouraged. I don't know. I don't know. Come in, I get around God's people, I get around some of you, and it's like, praise the Lord, God's still on the throne. I'm ready to attack heaven I'm ready to attack hell with a water pistol. It strengthens my faith in these songs like Mark sang and the choir. Get around God's people. Man, it strengthens So, get in the Word of God consistently, get around the people of God faithfully. I put this down. Get in the work of God diligently. Be ye doers of the Word. Get out and get involved. Give yourself to others. Seek to be a blessing to others. Try and build other people's faith. Get your eyes off yourself. See the needs of people around. Serve the Lord. And then the last one I put down was stay in the will of God persistently. Count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. It means trials, difficulties. Count it all joy. You fall into diverse temptations, knowing this, that the trying of your faith Worketh patience. But let patience have its perfect work, that ye may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. You know what he's saying? He's saying in the will of God, trials come, heartaches come, disappointments come. But stay faithful. You trust God. And that'll strengthen your faith, and you'll grow your walk with God, and you'll become a mature believer. So stay in the will of God persistently. I say step out of your comfort zone. Step out of the convenience zone. I think it's the reason some of our faith is so weak, we're not willing to step out in faith and get do something that we feel inadequate for, but trust God. So many times we've seen folks get involved in the bus ministry or something, whatever, get some sort of ministry, I don't feel adequate for this. I don't know if I could do that I tell you that I'd rather have somebody like that take a position than somebody says, oh yeah, I can do this. I want that. You follow what I'm saying? I want somebody whose faith is in the Lord, who's trusting what God can do. Listen, I don't want Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church to have what Pastor Dennis Leatherman can produce I want our church to experience what God can do for us. And that's by faith. That's stepping out, believing them, trusting them. So number one, the decision of faith. I've got to decide. Take that faith I have, however much it is, put it in put in the Lord, put it in his word. Number two, development. Get in that word. Get around people who believe it and are living it. Get working for God. Find somebody. Be a help to, be a witness to. Stay in God's will when troubles come and detours hit. You just stay faithful. That faith will grow. And then number three, I end with this: the dynamite of faith. Look at verse 6. The Lord said, If ye had faith as a grain of mustard seed, you might say to this sycamine tree, Be thou plucked up by the root, and be thou planted in the sea, and it should obey you. Now the Lord's not telling them to go out and find some tree and say that to it. We read the Bible. I don't see anywhere in the Bible they're sycamore trees flying through the air into the ocean. He was making a point. He was illustrating a truth. That faith in God is a powerful thing Faith in God can change a person. Faith in God can bring revival to a home and to a marriage Faith in God can transform a drunkard, a prostitute, a liar, a thief, and make them good and pure and right in the eyes of God. The power of faith in God. Faith in God. Jesus told Mary, she found out she was going to carry the in her womb the Body of the Lord Jesus Christ, the baby. She says, how can this be? Jesus gave a profound answer, he said, or the angel gave a profound answer of Gabriel. He said, with man, this is impossible. But with God, all things are possible. Faith in never underestimate the power of faith in God. Of faith in God. Faith in God will put a song in my heart, as Mark sang a little bit ago. In the darkest of nights. Faith in God can put a song in my heart. Faith in God can soften my sorrow. Times of grief and bereavement. Faith in God can bring comfort. 1 Thessalonians 4:13, speaking to believers, he said, We sorrow not as others who have no hope. Our faith is in God. Faith in God will supply our needs. Say, preacher, I don't know how I can get by. My needs are so great. I'm here to tell you if you seek first the kingdom of God, his righteousness Lord promised all these things will be added unto you. Faith in God can supply our needs. Now let me back let me just say a footnote on that. Faith in God does not promise he'll provide everything we want. A heap of stuff we want, we certainly don't need. In fact, I'd venture to say, looking at this crowd here, probably 75% of the things in our home we really don't need. I didn't get many amens on that. Our garages are so full you can't put the car in it. Then we go to w then we go to Cabela's and see all this stuff we need But I'll tell you what, take that little bit of mustard seed faith that I might have And put that in the Lord, and you just trust Him. I'm here to tell you, and I can tell you by t not just what the Word says, but what I've experienced. God will take care of you. God will take care of you. He'll see you through. He'll see you through. You might have to be eat uh beans and wieners for a while, but God will get you through Faith in God can subdue my fears. David said in Psalm 56, 3, What time I am afraid, I will trust in thee. My wife's been saying all week. She came to me the other day, she says, do you know what God has promised 365 times in the Bible? I said, actually I do. There's one phrase repeated 365 times, one for each day in the Bible. Be not afraid. Or some variation of it. Fear not. Be not afraid. Faith in God can help subdue my fears. And faith in God can strengthen my witness. Strength and my witness. Psalm 116, verse 10, the psalmist said, I believe, therefore have I spoken. We believe the gospel. We believe that what this book says about the Lord Jesus Christ is so, and we speak it with confidence because we have faith. And the gospel. That it can save souls. It can change lives. It can transform homes. The gospel of Jesus Christ. Paul said, I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. It is the power of God unto salvation. Faith empowers my witness to share with others. Any man, woman, young person in school can decide to trust God completely. We do all we can. Every ministry of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we do everything we possibly can to urge people, encourage people, put their faith in God. From the little children down in children's suits up through senior citizens. Have faith in God. Trust Him. Decide. What God says is so, and I'm going to hold to that. Hold to that. And you'll see a difference in your life. You've not trusted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. I urge you this morning. Come and put that faith that you have, that you exercise in so many other areas of life, take that faith and put it in the Lord Jesus. He died for you, was buried, rose again, he paid the price for our sin. I'll trust him, have faith in him that he will forgive me, that he will cleanse my life, he'll give me a new life, he'll give me eternal life, accept me into heaven. He's the one doing it, and I'm putting my confidence in him I urge you to make that decision. Years ago, I was with the hospice program here in Garrett County, under Brenda Butcher, who was the director at the time, years ago And we had a good setup that worked for me. Thoroughly enjoyed that as Or whatever that sounds, I enjoyed that ministry having a part. My responsibility was if somebody was uh uh diagnosed with terminal cancer They had s I believe six months or less to live. They would come into hospice. And if they didn't have a pastor, if they didn't have any spiritual uh leadership or there, and they wanted some The organization would contact me and they'd give me the information. I'd go and introduce myself and I would simply introduce myself. I'm Pastor Lethem here. If I can help in any way, I'm available Sometimes, most of the time, they'd say, yes, we would very much appreciate anything you can do to help us spiritually. Occasionally somebody would say, no, I'm not interested, and that was fine, I'd I let them go. One time I had a information, a lady's name was given to me, the address, and I went and introduced myself. She was very eager. She had little or no spiritual input, no church background that I remember. There must have been something, but not much. So we kind of hit it off, and she didn't live far from the church here. We got to know each other, established a little rapport there with her, or a visit or two. And then I Approached her about her relationship with God and where her destiny was after physical death And she goes, I know very little about God. Never given it a lot of thought. But I'm very concerned. She goes, I don't know where I when I die, I don't know where I'm going. I asked her, can I show you from the Bible God's Word? She goes, yeah. I said, do you believe the Bible? She goes, yes, I know the Bible's God's Word. I know that. So I took her, the same we do with little six-year-old downstairs, anybody, I went through the Romans Road we call it. We're all sinners, Jesus died first, buried, rose again, and they went through all that. And I said, Would you be willing Jesus died on the cross for your sins. Would you be willing to bow your head and call him, trust him, put your faith in Jesus, forgive your sins, take you to heaven? And literally with tears streaming, she goes, yes, that's what I want. She prayed with me to trust Jesus Christ as her Savior. She was so grateful. She was pretty limited physically at this point. It deteriorated. And I'd go by just about every day. She'd call me up. Pastor Lemon, can you come by and pray with me? Yes. We read Scripture for the next month or two. I'd go by and read Scripture, and she was so excited. She was growing in her faith and her understanding of what Christ did for her. She came and got baptized. And um and uh she says, I want to be baptized So we got her here. I don't know if some of you remember we had somebody in the in the water with us and she was very weak. We baptized her. She was so happy. One day I went by, like I said, just not far from here, and she was real down. And she goes, Pastor Leather, and I'm scared. She said this. She says, Pastor, I don't think I have enough faith. I don't think I have enough I took my Bible and I showed her Luke 17, 5, where the disciples said, Lord, increase our faith. I said, they said the same thing you did. Jesus pointed out it's not the object of your faith. It might just be as tiny as a little mustard seed. But if you put it in the Lord Jesus Christ, He takes over. And He's the one doing the saving. He's the one doing the forgiving He's the one doing the uh giving the eternal life and getting you acceptable to God in heaven. It's not how much faith you have, it's putting it in him, then he takes over And she got it. And she goes, I see. It's Jesus. It's Jesus. I think it was three days later I got a phone call. So and so. Right on her deathbed. She's unconscious. We don't think she'll live. Family would like me to come in. I went in there. I sat beside her as she crossed over into heaven. It wasn't the amount of faith, it was the object of her faith. And what's true in saving a soul is true in changing a life and meeting needs. And making a difference in the world. Are you with me? Father, I pray you'd help us to get our eyes off of our own faith. And take what we have and put it in you. Just trust you to do what needs to be done, to lead us and direct us, enable us. Lord, we want to make that conscious decision. Lord, I trust you. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, preacher, I've got a situation, a circumstance in my life? And it's I need to just decide I'm gonna trust God, put my faith in God. I was gonna trust Him for this. She's going to trust them. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand, preacher? I'll trust them. God bless you, hands all around. It's a decision we make. Yes, Lord, I'll trust you. I'll trust you. Is there some here this morning say, Preacher, I've got a friend or a family member, they're unsaved. They've not put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. I'm concerned for them. Not being judgmental, but they need the Lord. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I don't trust God that He could use me to have an influence there. Through prayer, through witness, through my life. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. I just need to trust God that He can and will use me. Sure, God bless you. Hands all around. Is there some this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die? I hope so. I don't want to go to hell Preacher, I'd like to have that settled. Know that the Lord has forgiven me and saved me. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. But God will help me get that settled. Is there any like that? The uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I need to get that settled. I don't want to die and go to hell. I know I need to be saved. Any at all? Any at all? Father, bless our invitation now. Have your way. In Jesus' name. Amen.