Psalm chapter 78. I'd like for us to read together. Read with me if you would, verse number 41, Psalm 78 And verse number 41, a short little verse there. And I want you to pay close attention to what is stated, particularly in the second part of the verse. Psalm 78, verse 41. Read it with me, would you? Here we go. Yea, they turned back and tempted God and limited the Holy One of Israel. They limited the Holy One of Israel. I was reading that, oh, a week, a couple weeks ago, and that phrase caught my attention. Israel limited their God, the Holy One of Israel. Now I'm going to change the title a little bit than what I had in the The bulletin says, Can we limit God? Well, we know we can because it says it right there. So here's my message this morning. Here's the title. Is Indicators That you and I are limiting God in our lives. Limiting God in our lives. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to help us this morning. Father in heaven I thank you for the Word of God and just tremendous truths that are given to us here, that have helped us, so many of us Have been helped by your word. Lord, we found eternal life through the pages of your scripture. Lord, we found purpose and direction in our life. You've given us wisdom in your word. And now I pray this morning, as we've assembled together here in the building, some online, Lord, that you would speak to our hearts and teach us Give us direction and help from your word that we can be the people you intend for us to be, that we can have your blessing. On our lives and our homes and our church. And so, Lord, I yield myself to you. I yield my will. And God, I just put my body into your hands and pray that you would speak through me, my lips. That you would speak to each of our hearts and lives. Open our minds, that we would be receptive to what you say. And God, fill me with your spirit. I pray with all my heart. In Jesus' name, amen. Psalm 78 is a tremendous Psalm. If you'll go back to right the beginning of the chapter, and right above verse number one, there's a little information given to us about Psalm 78 Now, as you know, I like to kind of get a background, particularly of a psalm, some kind of background about it or something to help us get context as to what it's about. And if you look there above verse number one of 78, there's a little information given, and it says this. See if your Bible has this The mascule of ASAP. How many people have that right there above verse 1? Probably every Bible would have that A little bit of information given to us here. Now, my first question is I noticed that and got studying looking at this. I would wonder who is this fella, ASAP? This is a mascole of Asaph. Well, I got looking and I found that Asaph is actually a tremendous musician. He was a great singer under the reign of King David, then again under the reign of Solomon. So he was a high-level musician in Israel's worship of God. No doubt he had a part eventually when Solomon built the temple. He had a role in the uh dedication of that temple when they sang uh to the Lord, and then in their uh weekly worship on the Sabbath Asaph no doubt had a great part in that. So he was a great, great musician, a great, great singer there uh during the reign of Solomon and David, David and Solomon. I found, as I looked here, and if you'll notice, you look at the Psalms a little bit, he actually penned 12 of the 150 Psalms we have in the Bible. Psalm chapter 50 was penned by ASAP. And Psalm chapter 73, all the way through 83. If you look at them, it has his name at the top. Those psalms are attributed to him. And these psalms are tremendous psalms that he penned. That tells me something about this musician, this great singer. It tells me he was a very godly man. He knew the Lord. He knew some things about God. He had some spiritual insights. Of course, the Psalms that are recorded in Scripture Given by inspiration of God. God stirred him. God moved on his heart and mind to have him write that down. But nevertheless, it's very clear that That Solomon had great insight in the things of God. He had great insight and understanding what it means to live by faith. He wrote this powerful Psalm 78 here, and it's a historical psalm about Israel and their failures in particular, and yet how God was so gracious and God so merciful. And so here we have Asaph, a musician, a singer, very gifted, very spiritual. And the point I kind of got or took from that was this. Musicians in the church or in the worship of God, in the service of God, ought to be godly people. I think the musician ought to love the Lord as much as the preacher ought to love the Lord. The musician ought to be filled with the Holy Spirit just as much as the preacher ought to be filled with the Holy Spirit. And musicians ought to be godly. Well, you and I live in a day and age Where in much of Christianity, as long as you're gifted in some way, as long as you might have some musical musical abilities, or maybe you can sing, Doesn't matter how spiritual are, doesn't matter how godly you are, they'll throw you up in front of everybody and put on a show and put on a little entertainment and man that guy can play, that guy can sing And we never give one consideration to their spiritual character whether there's any humility there or there's any love for God And so we gotta be careful of that. And I've heard horror stories and I've seen it uh over the years and different places I've served where some of the and I'm not picking on anybody in particular, but some of the people that were gifted in the realm of music. Sometimes we're the most proudful, most self-centered, most ungodly, most unspiritual people in the church. But because they were gifted, then they got exalted. And I think we ought to watch out for that. Now, I'm not saying that because I think we have a problem with that here in our church. I thank God for Brother Mark, a godly man. If you know Mark at all, he loves the Lord There's no doubt about it. And um and our other musicians, uh, I thank God for it. But I'll tell you this, when I'm pastor, we're not gonna put somebody up and sing and play simply because they're gifted. We want to be sure they know and love the Lord also. So uh Asap, what a tremendous man. Very gifted musically, very gifted as a singer, and yet had tremendous insight into the things of God had a testimony of godliness and and uh humility and spiritual uh understanding And uh we're grateful for that. So it says a maskil, and I'm probably not pronouncing that correctly, a maskil of ASAP. Now, what in the world is a maskil? It simply means this. It means contemplations or the thoughts or insights. And so that little title is telling us this. Psalm chapter 78 is the insights, is the thoughts Of this fellow named Asap, as he served the Lord, as he sang praises to God, as he walked with God and trusted God as a faithful Israelite under David and King Solomon He had thoughts about God and got these um these insights and he penned them down under the inspiration of God. So Psalm 78 is a fascinating psalm It would be what we would call a historical psalm. In other words, it's accounting, it's giving an account of some of the history of Israel And if you'll read through that, you pick that up in what Pastor Matt read here a little bit. It's talking about some of Israel's failure. So it's a historical psalm, but it's also what we would call an instructive psalm. If a psalm is called instructive, it means it's giving us what? Instructions. Man, we got a brilliant crowd here today. Praise the Lord. Thank God for you all. And um an instructive song is giving us instructions. And so it's in the Bible And it's giving us instructions. That means these instructions are from God through Asaph to us. Everybody with me so far? Alright, so if God is going to give us instruction, how many people agree with me? We ought to pay attention. In fact, I want to suggest to you and I the reason we get in messes sometimes is we don't listen to God's instructions. Anybody here ever try to put a bicycle together or something? Fellas are bad about this. And get that thing. I don't need no instructions. And when you're done, the tire is where the seat ought to be, the handlebars where the tire ought to be. And uh finally say, Maybe I ought to look at those instructions We are such knuckleheads. We make a mess of our lives. Then we say, Preacher, what does God tell me to do? And then we look at the instructions. Why don't we listen to God first before we mess everything up? Can I get an amen? So God has given us some instructions this morning. And if we had time, we could look at the whole chapter. It's tremendous. He talks early on in the chapter about training the next generation. To fear God and to uh learn of God's ways and what God expects of us and what God warns us about. In fact, he makes a statement there, and we don't have time to to do all that I'm already doing, but uh uh he makes a statement there so that the next generation doesn't make the same mistake the last generation made. How many parents here hope and pray your children don't make the same stupid mistakes you made? Anyone here like that? Yeah. Yeah And so this is a significant psalm in the Bible. It's very important for you and I as believers. He highlights some failures of Israel. And without spending too much time on them, but we come through here, and he points out that Israel provoked God. Look at verse number 40 with me. And these are pretty much here around where our text is going to be in just a moment. He says, speaking of the uh his fathers, Israel, in years past. He says, how off did they provoke him in the wilderness? Now provoking God, I don't know about you, that just sounds bad To provoke God. Anybody uh ever, uh uh this past summer, we had a hornet's nest Out here right along the driveway, right where the kids come out from the little north door here, they come up to the buses. There was one Sunday afternoon before the evening service, I came over, and for whatever reason, here was this gigantic hornet's nest. I mean right right over there. And uh I thought, good heavens, this is right where the kids come out and walk up here and butt uh cars driving in and out and part of the side of the parking lot there. And uh, I thought we need to do something about this. So I started throwing rocks at it. No, I didn't. I came in and I told uh I saw Vern. I said, Vern, remember that Vern? I said, Vern, we got a hornet's nest over here. We gotta do something about that. That's a bad place. And by the way, it was those white-faced hornets. Do you ever see them? They're the bad ones. They're bad. And I said, we got to do something about this. And um uh and he says, okay, I'll take a look at that. And so maybe after dark we can uh spray that thing down and throw some bombs at it or something. I don't know. Shoot it. I don't know. Whatever we need to do, we gotta deal with that. And he says, All right, we'll look at it tonight. Well lo and behold, before the evening service um Stuart Harvey and Mark got wind of this hornet's nest there. And so I said, yeah, we'll wait till after dark. We'll take care of that. And they said, well let's go look at it. And so they started walking over there. And before I knew it, those guys are knocking that thing down and spraying it and doing in the daylight right there. And uh I got on my knees and prayed, God have mercy and protect us And um provoking hornets. How many people agree with me? That's foolish. Can I tell you something more foolish than that? Provoking God. And Israel did that. The word provoked there means to rebel against. God told them to do something. They said, no, we're not. They rebelled against God. They provoked the anger of God. One thing I had to learn to get used to being in the ministry is people getting mad at you. You say, oh, everybody loves the preacher. Uh-huh. And um and uh I thought, man, so finally I kind of got used to it, you know, a little bit. There's always gonna be somebody made about something And um not in this church, I'm talking about other places, but uh um but man have God mad at you I don't know about that. I don't want to provoke God's anger. Israel did that. And he goes down. They provoked God. Then he says they grieved him in the wilderness. Grieved God. They turned back, he says, verse 41. They turned back. They walked away from God. Just walked away. Did you ever see somebody just walk away from God? Maybe they're living for the Lord They're reading their Bible, faithful to church, and for whatever reason something happens, they're disappointed, somebody doesn't do what they think they should have done, or somebody says something that offends them And they just walk away from God. I'm telling you, can I challenge every one of us here as we begin a new year? Doesn't matter what anybody does, doesn't matter what the circumstances are, don't walk away from God Don't forsake him. God is good. So you say, well, somebody hurt me. Yeah, but God never did. Stay faithful. Stay the course. Don't walk away. Big crowds, little crowds, just stay faithful. Rain, uh, sunshine, uh stay faithful. Rain, stay faithful. Snow, stay faithful Just stay at it. Just stay at it. And Israel walked away. They turned their back on God. They tempted God. They forgot God, he says there in verse 42. And in factor God into their decisions. But in verse 41, that little statement caught my attention and limited the Holy One of Israel. Asaph is saying, under the inspiration of God, that the people of God, by their actions, by their attitudes Limited God. Now, I got thinking about that. Limiting God That's pretty serious. I don't want to limit God. Now, by the way, let me back up here. The reason he mentions these sins of Israel, it's not just gossiping. He's not just saying, oh, I want to make sure everybody knows what Israel did wrong. We've got to be careful about that. Amen. Our ministry is not just to make sure everybody knows what somebody else did wrong. That's not what ASAP is about here. He's listing these here under the inspiration of God for a purpose. One is to magnify God's mercy. In spite of all of Israel's behavior, in spite of all of Israel's actions, and these serious sins. Look at verse 38 with me, would you? You got your Bibles open there. Look at verse 38. But he, God Being full of compassion forgave their iniquity and destroyed them not Yea, many a time he turned turned he his anger away and did not stir up his wrath. Now I have verse 39 highlighted in my Bible. I thank God for verse 39. For he remembered that they were but flesh, a wind that passeth away and cometh not again. I am glad God's patient with me. I am glad God remembers that I'm just an old sinful hunk of flesh down here. And He has great plans and He has great purposes for our lives. But he remembers that we're just sinful flesh. And that is such an encouraging thing. Anybody here glad God's patient? God, sometimes we just come to God and God, have mercy on me. God remembers we're flesh. God remembers we're flesh. You say, Preacher, I messed up in twenty twenty twenty-one. I messed up bad. Oh, I don't think I don't think God could ever forgive me. I don't think God could ever use me. I don't think God can ever restore me. Hey, listen, God remembers your flesh. God remembers we have a sinful nature, and He's slow to wrath, and He's great in compassion. And if we come back to Him, He'll restore us And he'll still use us. Amen. Isn't that a wonderful thing? Say, God, put me on the shelf. I don't think God puts people on the shelf. I think we put ourselves on the shelf. And if we'll make things right, we'll fess up, get it right, God will use us again. Maybe we might forfeit some capacities we can be used in, but nevertheless, God can use us. God can use us. So he's writing this here and pointing out this to magnify God's mercy, but also to warn the coming generation, as I said. Now here in verse 41, one of Israel's failures was that Masap mentions is limiting God. Limiting God. How do I know if I'm limiting God in my life? The word limit has the idea of putting a perimeter around. To fence in, limit God, put a fence up around God. Sometimes we say it this way, and I've used this in messages over the years. Sometimes we try to put God in a box. Or compartmentalize him. Well, Sunday mornings, that's my God time. That's God's time, Sunday morning. I'll give that to God. The rest is mine, but that's God. You know what you're doing? You're limiting God. I want to suggest to you Monday morning's God's time just as much as Sunday morning's God's time. Saturday night, Thursday afternoon, you name it. And so to limit God, when he says that Israel limited their God, he's saying they put a so to speak a fence around him. They boxed him in. They put a perimeter around him. They restricted, here's what he's saying: they restricted what God wanted to do in their lives. They restricted God. They limited the Holy One of Israel. I studied but studied my Bible for many, many years. Some of you also. I found two important truths in Scripture. Now there's a lot, but two important truths in Scripture. And I've come to this conclusion. Number one, I found this to be true. God wants to bless and do great things. In his people's lives. You say, preacher, me? God wants to. Yeah. God gave us life for a purpose. Can I get an amen? You and I are not here by accident. You and I are not here by just chance or happenstance. Doesn't matter what the circumstances around our conception and birth may it be May have been out of midlock, it may have been a mess, but nevertheless, God is the author of life, and everyone that receives life has a purpose for that life. So God has a plan and purpose for every one of us. It's not all the same, all various capacities, various purposes He has for us. But nevertheless, God wants to use us, every one of us, in one way or another. Every one of these young people down here, every one of these middle aged people here, every one of these ol uh Senior folks here, God wants to use every single one. He has a plan of purpose. And I believe God wants to bless us You can't show me, you can't study the Bible and you can't study the Bible and come to this conclusion, oh, God doesn't want to bless his people. You won't find that in the Bible. God wants to bless us. God wants us to use us. Jesus said, I am come that you might have life, and that you might have it more abundantly God doesn't want us just to be miserable and unhappy and go through our life frustrated and angry and bitter and He wants us to have life and have it abundantly. By the way, abundant life is not dependent upon a certain level of income. Amen. Say, well, if I just had if I just had a six-digit income, uh then I could have abundant life. You know, I could take you, I'm going to Dominican Republic here in a few weeks with Dr. Creed to preach down the seminary down there. And uh I could take you to some dear folks I know down there, I've met them over the years, that have, that your garage is nicer than their house. And I'm telling you, they are some of the happiest, most joy-filled, spirit-filled people I ever met in my life. Loving God, loving each other, loving life, serving the Lord. I tell you, an abundant life, the blessings of God is not dependent on a certain level of income. You've got a bunch of American Christians are miserable because they don't have a seven-bedroom house. Listen, if we got a roof over ahead, we got more than we deserve. And so God wants to bless us. God wants us to have an abundant life. He wants us to have the joy of the Lord. That's his desire for us. And I see that in Scripture. And the second thing I see in Scripture is this. It is possible to limit God's blessings in my life. It is possible for me to live in such a way and conduct myself in such a way that I limit what God can do in my life and through my life. God wants, I'm convinced, uh, I'm convinced God wants to bless Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church in the year 2022. This is the body of Christ. You understand that, right? This isn't just some organization we've thrown together. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is the body of Jesus Christ. He died and suffered hell for this body. He shed his blood so that we could exist. God loves the church. He does not want it just to stagger through another year. He doesn't want us just to languish through another year. He wants to bless our church and give us The joy of the Lord and the power of the Holy Spirit in our ministry and lives. I know that's true. But you and I can conduct ourselves in such a way that we limit that You follow what I'm trying to say? We limit what he can and will do through us. It's possible. It's possible. God wants to bless your home this year He wants to bless, I'm convinced he wants to bless your marriage, your home, your personal ministry, Sunday school teachers. God wants to use you in the lives of those that sit under our teaching, bus workers. Choir members, God wants to use you and stand up here and sing. He wants to fill you with his Holy Spirit and praise his son through you. The Holy Spirit, exalt Jesus Christ through your singing and ministry. But we can limit that by our attitudes, our actions. It's up to us as to whether we allow or limit God's blessings in our lives. It's up to us as to whether we allow or we limit how much how God uses us. Now, how can you and I limit God? Say, preacher, good night. God's unlimited. I read a quote, and I'm not quoting exactly, but I thought this was a tremendous thought They say God controls the stars and the universe. All move at his command. But he's given human beings the ability, the free will, to say no. Isn't that something? We can limit God. He manages the stars in space, but yet He allows us the choice either whether we manage our lives or he does. You know what I found out? I found that my life goes a whole lot better when God's running the show rather than me. Anybody here know what I'm talking about? Brother, I take control. Oh no, Lord, I got this. Lord, I got this. Oh, brother. Make a mess out of it. So you and I, we can limit God. Oh, we can limit him. How? Well, I I'll say this Just again by way of introduction, it's not our lack of wealth that limits God. Say, well, you know, I I touched on this here a little bit. Sometimes people think, well, God God couldn't do much with me. I don't have much. I'm just I'm just poor. Listen, it is not our lack of wealth. In fact, sometimes I think We depend on our wealth rather than the Lord. How many times have I thought this as a preacher? How many times have we said that? We're looking at faith promise. Man, we need more money. So we can reach more people. I want to suggest to you, now money's a factor, there's no doubt, but I'm going to suggest to you God can use a widow's might to bring glory to him. Just a little bit. I love when we take faith promise and we get a little promise come in there, ten cents by some child. I say, thank God God can use that ten cents just as much as he can, ten thousand dollars I know what some of you are thinking, saying, oh good, I'll just give 10 cents in. You're missing the point. It's not my lack of wealth that limits God. It's not my lack of abilities. That limits God. In fact, sometimes I think people that are very gifted have a tendency to look to themselves and lean on themselves. I'm so glad God said in Corinthians, He said, God has chosen the base things of this world, and the foolish things of this world, and the weak things of this world, so that he gets the glory in the service. And I look at that list and I think, well, I think I qualify there. Maybe God could use me. It's not our lack of wealth or our lack of abilities. It's not our lack of education. That limits God. It's not our lack of health. Well, I'm just kind of sickly. I don't know what I God couldn't do much for me. I'm just uh I don't have these physical abilities Hey, I want to mention one name. See if you're familiar with this name, Fanny Crosby. Anyone recognize that name? Dear lady, back in the 1800s, blind. Doctor put some ointment on her eyes. By mistake, put the wrong thing, blinded her. She didn't get bitter She didn't retreat. She grew and wrote thousands and thousands of hymns. Some of the dearest hymns in our hymn book was written by a lady who could have said, I can't do nothing for God, but she refused to limit God. God did great things through her life. I don't know what your wealth situation is, I don't care. It doesn't matter to me. I don't know what your IQ is. I don't know what your uh abilities may or may not be, but I know this. God wants to use us and whatever limits we have on these areas does not limit God. Say, well, how do I limit God? How can I limit God? Let me give you a few thoughts. There's a bunch of them. I'm just going to name a few. Number one, I put this down: we limit God by not trusting Jesus Christ as Savior. By not trusting Jesus Christ as Savior, would you come with me to Matthew chapter 23? Real quickly, if you would, come to the New Testament, Matthew chapter 23. And I want to begin reading in verse 27, Matthew 23, first book of the New Testament. Matthew 23, and down to verse number 37, right towards the end of the chapter there The Lord is looking over the city of Jerusalem, city that God loves. And he makes this statement, an interesting statement here. Oh Jerusalem, Jerusalem. Thou that killest the prophets, and stonest them, which are sent unto thee, how often would I have gathered thy children together as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings. You see the desire of God? You see the desire of the Lord? Oh, I wanted you to be mine. I wanted to care for you and take care of you. I wanted to love on you and protect you and provide for you. I wanted to be everything you needed. Look what he says. Sad words, the very last. What does he say? And ye what? Ye would not. Oh, I wanted to bring you in. Matthew 23, verse 37. I wanted to bring you in. I wanted to care for you and meet your needs and provide and protect you just like a chicken does her little chick. But you would not. You limited God By rejecting John 1. 11, he says, he came unto his own, and his own received him not. And in so doing, they limited what God could do for them. By rejecting not trusting Jesus Christ as Savior. Look at verse 38. Behold, your house is left unto you what? Desolate. That wasn't God's will. He wanted to bless them. He wanted to give them purpose and meaning and provide for them. But they limited him, and because of that, their house was left desolate. God does not want anyone to die in their sins. Listen, get that settled. God does not want anyone to die in their sins. God is not willing that any should perish. There's not one person you'll ever look in the eyes of. There's not one person you'll ever cross hands with that is not someone that God wants to save. God is not willing that any should perish. God wants everybody to come to repentance. And he says that eternal life is a gift. That he gives to us. Forgiveness of sins is a gift that he gives to us. Having a new life in Christ is a gift that God gives to us. But He only gives it to those who will humble themselves and trust Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. And every person that says no. And every person that refuses or neglects to trust Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, they are limiting what God can and wants to do in their life. How many folks here? You're saved and you know it. Say amen. How many people are glad you're saved? Amen. I look back at my life and what I was before Christ. And what God has done for us. I'm so glad. God gave me the grace to trust him as Savior, May 7, 1979. I tell you, I wouldn't want to go back to that life for all the tea in China Limiting God by refusing Jesus Christ as our Savior. I don't know. I may be talking to someone this morning. You've never trusted Christ, you don't think it's that big of a deal. You don't see, ah, I don't see what so I don't worry. I had a guy tell me one time, I don't worry about that stuff. I tell you what they're doing, they're limiting God, what God can and wants to do I'm telling you, there's nothing in the world like being forgiven of sin. There's nothing in the world like knowing I have a home in heaven. There's nothing this world has to offer, like having peace of mind and peace of heart. Christ is my Savior and my salvation is settled. And how people limit God, what He wants to do for them by not trusting Christ as Savior. The Calvinists talk about limited atonement. The only thing limited about the atonement is man's rejection of the atonement. Christ died for all, and all can be saved. 1979. I wanted to be free from my sin. I've told you my story, first five months of the year, living an unbelievable sin, unbelievable lifestyle And I wanted to be free. I don't want to be this kind of person. I don't want to live this life. And I was bound in bondage to sin. I couldn't break it. I began crying out to God, oh God, help me. That was my prayer. Help me. God, through his word, began to point me to Christ, point me to Christ. I look back now, how much I limited God. What, listen, what I would have missed out had I not trusted Christ as Savior? What I would have missed out on if I'd not trusted Christ as Savior. I had back, I wasn't here very long as pastor, maybe a year or two at the most. I don't I I don't know. It wasn't a long time. But there's a fellow in the church said that he's got a couple. He says, I've been witnessing to them for a long time. He said, preacher, would you go with me Thursday night and go visit with them and talk to them and try and lead them to Christ? I said, I'd be glad to. So Thursday night came around. We loaded up in his car. We went down here into Mountain Lake Park. It's a trailer sitting there. And he said, this is where they live. So we had a word of prayer in the car. We slipped out, knocked on the door, they invited us in. There was them and there was another couple there visiting with them. And we said, listen, it's a bad time. We'll come back. They said, no, no, no, come on in. And he introduced me. I'm the pastor. He introduced me, the pastor of the church, yeah, we heard about you, and we talked a little bit, a little bit of chit-chat, and so finally I just Said, listen, we would love to have you come visit us. I said, I'd love you to have come visit church. They said, maybe we will someday. I said, but let me ask you a question. There's something more important than going to church I said, what's that? They were very open, very friendly. And uh I said, knowing for sure that our sins are forgiven, that when we die, we go to heaven, not to hell. Ever think about that at all They said, yeah, we think about that. Said, do you know for sure you're going to heaven when you die? They said, no, we hope so. We don't know, though I said, let me show you from the Bible how you can know for sure you're going to heaven. They said, yeah, we'd like that. I can still see it in my mind's eye. I was sitting here on the sofa. They had a sofa across there, and a couple chairs they brought out of the kitchen And they said there was two couples, two couples, the other fellow and myself. And I got the Bible out, and I went through as carefully and as thoroughly as I could God's plan of salvation. They agreed we're sinners. They knew that. All four of the couple, husband and wife, all four of them knew. Yes, we're sinners. And they were concerned about. I explained about hell, showed them the wages of sin as death. I explained, if you died now in your sins, where would you go? They said, we'd go to hell. Said, you don't want to go to hell, do you? No. I said, well let God doesn't want you to go to hell either. I showed how Christ died, suffered hell for him, was buried, rose again I said, now just because Jesus died on the cross rose again doesn't mean everybody's going to heaven. We got a choice. We can receive that gift or we can reject it. I said, let me tell you how to receive it. And I showed them, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Oh, they were on board. I'm telling you. I don't think in all my years in the ministry, I don't think I've ever sensed the convicting presence of the Holy Spirit like I did in that living room that night. God was there. They were under conviction of their spiritual condition. And I said, let's bow our heads. Let's call on the Lord. Let's get this settled They all bowed their heads. I said, Would you call on the Lord? I'll help you. Here's how how to do it. And I started leading prayer and none of them said a word. And I said, Would you be willing to call on the Lord? And they looked at me and every one of them said no. I'm not going to do that. I thought, well, let me go back over this. I thought they misunderstood. We went back over the whole thing. By now the fellow Marvin's with me, he's crying. And I said, let me explain. And I went through that whole thing again. I said, would you be willing to call on the Lord? And you could just feel the tension rise. As they harden their hearts against the gospel of Jesus Christ And finally, I wasn't getting anywhere. I hit a brick wall head on, 90 miles an hour. Boom, it shut things down I said, well, I said, let me pray. I said a brief word of prayer, urged, urged in my prayer, God to convict them, help them make this decision before it's too late. We left that house. We got out in the car. Harmon's crying. I said, I've never seen anything like it. He said, I've never seen anything like it. We came home, we had prayer, we parked in the parking lot, prayed out there again. You know, I went back to that house three, four times, and they never let me get past the threshold. No, nope, nope, no. Eventually moved away to another state. I've often wondered all these years. What God could have done for that couple if they'd have trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. What they missed out on by saying no. To the gospel. You know what they did? They limited God in their life. Listen, God's not going to save anybody against their will. God's not going to give anybody eternal life against their will. God's not going to forgive anybody's sins until they come to Christ. There's no other way to be saved. But through the Lord Jesus Christ. And when they said no to Christ, they limited God. And what they and I don't know what ever happened to them. We're talking 25 plus years ago. I don't know if they're even still alive. I'd like to believe that at some point they came to Christ, but I don't know. Limiting God by rejecting Jesus Christ as our Savior Uh not preaching the gospel limits God. Listen, um I'll just say a word about this. But I believe if Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church stops preaching the gospel, we're going to limit what God can do in and through us. I don't know about you. I want to be a church where people get saved through the ministries of that church. Where people find eternal life, where God changes lives. I want a ministry. I want to see God taking drunkards and making them sober, taking fornicators and making them pure, taking liars and making them honest. Taking thieves and making them honest. The power of God changing lives. But we stop preaching the gospel. We're going to limit what God is able to do through us. You follow my thinking My challenge to everyone at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, let's keep gospel tracts in our hands. Let's keep the gospel on our lips. Let's keep the Word of God handy and share that message with anybody, everybody, because if we don't We're going to limit what God can do through us. You get some old dead church or I don't care how loud their music is and how much they jump and hoop and holler and carry on, if they're not preaching the gospel, they're dead. They're limiting what God can do. So number one, rejecting Jesus Christ, not trusting Christ as Savior limits God. Not preaching the gospel limits God. Number three, I've got to do go very quickly. But pride limits God. Would you take your Bible and turn to Luke chapter number 14 with me? Luke chapter 14. You're in Matthew, you'll hit Mark, and you'll run into Luke. And Luke chapter 14 and verse number seven. Luke fourteen and verse number seven. Jesus tells a parable here. He says he put forth a parable, verse 7, Luke 14, to those which were bidden, when he marked how they chose out the chief rooms. saying unto them, When thou art bidden of any man to a wedding, sit not down in the highest room. Let a more honorable man than thou be bidden of him And he that bade thee and him that he that bade thee and him and him come and say to thee, give this man place, and thou begin with shame to take the lowest room. But when thou art bidden, go and sit down in the lowest room. And when he that bade thee cometh, he may say unto thee, friend, come up higher, go up higher. Then shalt thou have worship in the presence of them that sit at meet with thee. Look at verse 11. For whosoever exalteth himself shall be what? Abased. He that lifts himself up, he that puts himself in the front, he that says it's me, my pride, he's going to be abased. But he and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. You see where pride limits God I get all I get all proud of myself. I fall in love with myself. Man, I'm the cat's meow. I don't even know what that means. But uh uh man, I'm something And God says, Oh, I can't do much with that guy. I can't do much there. Come over to chapter 18 of Luke, would you? Here we have two men one up into a temple to pray. And verse 9 of Luke 18, he spake this parable unto them, which trusted in themselves, that they were righteous and despised others. Two men went up into the temple to pray, one a Pharisee, the other a publican. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God I thank thee that I'm not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, even this publican. I fast twice in the week. I give tithes of all I possess The publican, standing afar off, would not so much as lift up his eyes to heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. You see the two attitudes about themselves? Who hold different perspectives on themselves? Look what Jesus said. I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other. Look at this. For everyone that exalteth himself shall be abased, and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. You say, preacher, oh, I want God to use me. I want God to bless my home. I want God to bless my marriage. I want God to bless my ministry. I want God to do all that he can do. I tell you one thing, I better get myself out of the way. I better learn to humble myself before the Lord. Paul put it this way, for I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. Christ, Christ I tell you, when you and I get proud, full of ourselves, we think we're something. You know what we're doing? We're limiting God. We're limiting God James put it this way in chapter 4, verse 6, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the what? Humble. 1 Peter 5:5 again, and Peter says it this way: God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble. I'm telling you, pride is one of the most limiting things. In the Christian life. The worst attitude, the worst attitude you and I can get in our hearts and minds is to get proud of ourselves. And we'll limit God, what God can do. For I'm crucified with Christ. Pride limits God, it traps me in myself, and I can't see all that God can do. Number three, let me give you these real quickly, wind down. I put this down: lack of prayer. Limits God. James chapter 4 and verse 2, he says, ye have not, because you ask not. I wonder how many things you and I as believers have missed out on because we don't pray like we should. I wonder how much more joy could be in our homes. If we just pray like we should. I want to challenge all the couples in our church. I want to give a challenge out. I know James talks about it. I want to put a challenge out, all the couples in our church. Why don't you just establish a time Morning or evening, sometime where you come together as husband and wife and humble yourselves before God and pray for God's presence and God's blessing, God's wisdom, and God's direction and protection on your home. Don't you think that'd be a good thing? I wonder how many families are missing out on the blessings of God. They have not, because they ask not. How many young people could have the presence and power of God? John R. Rice said he had a dream one time, and he wasn't saying this was a revelation of God. But he said he had a dream one time that he was in heaven. He was walking down the streets of heaven and he noticed, and of course this is fiction, as in a dream, but he saw these great warehouses And he looked in the warehouses and here was all kinds of things and possessions and material things and opportunities, just all this stuff. And he said to the uh the Lord said, What is all these warehouses? And he said, the Lord told me these were things and opportunities I wanted to give to my people, but they would not ask me for them. I tell you, one of the great disappointments in my life is my prayer life. I pray, my wife and I were talking last night. She said, What are you praying for? I said, I'm praying for revival. My heart to pray. You know what? We can work, and I try to work hard as your pastor. I'm telling you, I try to work hard as your pastor. But I'm telling you, if we don't pray, if I don't pray, if you don't pray, all I'm going to get is what I can produce by working hard. I'm limiting God. But if we can learn to get a hold of God, if we can learn to pray And we'll see not what you and I can do, but we'll see what? What God can do. And I want to see what God can do at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. It takes prayer. When we fail to pray, we limit God. We limit God. I challenge you, make 2022 a year of prayer. Let's do that. And then selfish prayers limit God He says in James 4:3, he says, You have not because you ask God, you fight in the battle, and you ask and receive not because you ask amiss that you may consume it upon your own loss. He says you're so selfish, even your prayers are all about you, getting you, what you want, you want, you want I tell you what, when we get our eyes off ourselves and we look on the things of others and we become concerned about others, we unlimit God. And God can do great things through us. Selfishness. Let me end with the last one real quickly. Unbelief. Unbelief. Hebrews chapter 3 and verse 19 says that there was an entire generation of Israelites that missed the promised land and died out in a desert wilderness Because they wouldn't trust God and do what he said. God says, you go into that promised land, I'm going to give you victory. You're going to conquer them. It's promised. I'm telling you ahead of time. Israel sent the spies in, came back. They said, Oh, yeah, it's a great place. They got grapes and milk and honey. I mean, it's something else Beautiful cities. Oh, the people there are huge. And their armies are powerful. And there ain't no way we're going to be able to conquer them. We're going to be slaughtered. And two, Joshua and Caleb says, oh no, no, God's promised us that we will win. Let's trust him and obey him. And an entire generation limited God. And they lived in a desert eating manna and wandering about for 40 years until everyone of that generation were dead, except for Jacob and Caleb. And they missed out on what God is. Listen, if we will just learn, if you don't get anything else out of this message, please get this. If we would just learn to trust God and follow his instructions, we can see God do great things through us. The fact of the matter is, it's not about you or me. It's about the Lord and us getting out of the way and just saying, yes, Lord. Yes, Lord, I agree with you. Not my will, but thy will be done. Trust and obey, for there's no other way to be happy in Jesus Trust and obey. I got thinking as I was preparing this, I got thinking about August of 1985. I was living in Chattanooga, Tennessee. I was a member of the Highland Park Baptist Church. Dr. Lee Robertson had resigned. There was another preacher. I'd spent my first summer traveling in neighborhood Bible time, and I was wanting to live for God. I was trying to serve God I just, I didn't want anything else in life. I just wanted to serve God. But I had my plans and my ideas how that was going to play out. I was going to be a school teacher. I want to teach first and second year olds because they're the only ones I wasn't intimidated by. And actually I started getting intimidated by that. But I want that's what I wanted to s that's what I wanted to do, and God dealt with my heart. And on August 25th, 1985, Sunday night, the preacher preached, and he just made a little statement About you've got to die to self and let Christ have his way. I'm telling you, that pierced my heart. I had some other things going on in my life that I that's what I wanted God pierced my heart. And that night I knelt an old-fashioned altar on this side of the pulpit. I can still see it. And I said, God, I'm taking my hands off. No longer me living Christ, it's you. I give myself to you. I was saved seven, six years before that, been serving the Lord. But I just had to say, Lord, I'm yours. I'm yours. And took my hands off. I'll tell you, God began opening doors. And I'm convinced I wouldn't be where I'm at today if it wasn't for that decision that night. Lord, I'm yours. Limiting God. First, we got to know we trusted Christ as Savior. Wouldn't it be awful for someone to go to hell that could have gone to heaven? That's awful. Getting proud. Oh, on something. No, you're just limiting God. Not praying. Praying selfishly, being selfish. And then just trusting God and doing what he says. Father, bless our imitation now. Lord, we don't want to limit you. I don't want to. With our sin and unbelief and pride, rejection. Israel did it. We don't want to do it. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed. I wonder if what some would say this morning, Rachel, I see some areas in my Christian life where I'm limiting God. There's some areas there where I've got to give attention to so that God can have his way without restriction in my life. Is there any like that? Uplifted hand. Preacher, I see some areas in my life that need attention. God bless you. I don't want what I can produce. I want what God can do. And I don't want to limit him. So let's ask the Lord to have his way. If you're here this morning, you've never trusted Christ as Savior, you might be a great person If you've never trusted Christ as Savior, you're limiting God, you don't have eternal life. You're still in your sins under the judgment of God. I urge you to come. Get that settled. Make that right. Father, bless our invitation. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed. Eyes are closed. And I don't