I have a pen and paper, I encourage you to get that out. I want to give you a few things to jot down, part of tonight's message. I appreciate what Brother Pat said about uh uh exercising our freedom that other countries do not have. And uh, you know, if we have freedoms, if we don't here's a proven uh principle is that if we don't exercise those freedoms, we lose them. And I really had a powerful illustration of that this this past week. Um it was brought to my attention that one of our young people was giving gospel tracts out in school Not during class, not disrupting anything. And uh the teacher uh pulled them aside, told them they were not allowed to do that. If I remember correctly, took the tracks away from 'em. Now we've been through this several years ago, uh exact same situation ten, twelve years ago And so uh I called the principal. I thought, well maybe it's just a misunderstanding. And I called the principal and and asked if she was aware of the situation, and she was already aware of the situation And um she said that uh I said, well you know uh we need to correct this. There's misunderstanding somewhere. Uh there was no law broken, there was no nothing done that was wrong. We have complete freedom to do this as long as it's not disruptive. And uh the principal dug her heels in a little bit and said, no, no, no, we're not going to have this on the school property, and uh defended the actions of the teacher Well, I immediately called the CLA and told them, you know, we've been through this before. I told the principal, I said, listen, we know what we're talking about. We've already been through this. And um and so I called the CLA, we got the information and uh present it to the uh principal. This was Friday, I guess, and um So they have the documentation, government documentation from the CLA lawyers. So we're going to be following up this week. Make sure it's clear to the child And in the teachers and principal's mind, what can and cannot be done. Now this is what I learned from that. The school, the leadership of the school did not know What our government's freedoms are, what our people's freedoms are to give out gospel tract. Now my question is, why did they not know that? There's one reason they didn't know that because nobody gives gospel tracts out. They've not dealt with it before. And so now when it came up and somebody actually exercised that freedom, they didn't know what to do. And they made the wrong decision, and I'm very confident it's going to come down, though it'll be clarified But that's a classic example of us not exercising our freedoms and in so doing losing those freedoms. And so um be much in prayer. Uh uh to me I just love track month. There's so many aspects of this uh that it affects that little eight-year-old boy giving out a hundred tracks That would have never happened if they wouldn't have tried this. Brother Leon's testimony, that stirred my heart. And uh you know why? Because I'm scared to give them out. You know, I get uh I gotta get up the nerve and courage to do it. And uh and uh so um you know this doing this uh helps helps us keep our freedoms by exercising them. So good stuff, good stuff tonight. Deuteronomy chapter eight, I just want to give you a few thoughts. We're talking about confronting our comfortable sins. Just as Jesus did to the Pharisees when they brought the woman taken in adultery been mentioning that. They were all worked up about this open blanton sin. They were very comfortable with their own sins. Jesus said to them, what did he say? You that are what? Without sin cast the first stone and they slink away or slunk away or slank away, whatever the f how do you say that? They uh the what They left. Yeah, exactly. And what happened was the Lord confronted them with sins that they were very comfortable about. And here's the sad thing is rather than dealing with the sins, they just walked away. And I don't want us to do that. I've been doing this long enough, and I've been saved long enough. Many of you have. I know there are sins that it's very easy for me to get comfortable with. And we all have them, right? And what we need is the Lord to step in and say, Hey, what about this? What about that? And in a time when our society is deteriorating so rapidly and so extreme, it's very easy for us to focus on the extreme sins of society and never deal with the comfortable sins of our own heart. And the fact is, the extreme sins of society are not what's hindering God my prayers. It are my it is my comfortable sins that hinder my prayers. Follow what I'm saying. It's not the sins of society that block God's blessings all my life. It's the sins I harbor and I don't deal with that block God's blessings all my life. So that's the purpose of this. is to get uh to have God challenge us and confront the sins that we've become so comfortable with, a lot of times we don't even notice them. And we don't realize that they're hindering God working through us and blessing us. And one of them is referenced here in Deuteronomy chapter 8, verse number 11. God, of course, is speaking through Moses, and he says, beware That thou forget not the Lord thy God in not keeping his commandments and his judgments and his statutes, which I command thee this day, lest look at this, lest when thou hast eaten and art full and hast builtly goodly houses and dwelt therein, and when thy herds and thy flocks multiply, and thy silver and thy gold is multiplied, and all that thou hast is multiplied, Well it sounds like America, doesn't it? Then when all this takes place, you have all this prosperity, all this blessing. Then thine heart be lifted up, and thou forget the Lord thy God, which brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage. Look at the come down to verse 17. And thou say in thy heart, My power, and the might of my hand hath gotten me this well. But thou shalt remember the Lord thy God, for it is he that giveth thee power to get wealth, that he may establish his covenant which he swear unto thy fathers as it is this day What's he addressing here? He's addressing Israel's sin of ingratitude. God had blessed him so tremendously. And their bellies were full, and their bank accounts were stacked, and their farmlands were full of cattle. I mean, God blessed them, and they took it all for granted. And they forgot that it was a gift of God and they were ungrateful. And that's a sin I think we in America with all our prosperity is we become we become comfortable with being ungrateful. Father, bless our study. I want to be real quick tonight, but I believe you have something to say to us, so help me I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. I found a website. There are gazillions of websites. I found one. It's called complaint. org. www. complaint. org. I went to it. The website is all to put complaints in. They said on they said on there, uh, this is the universal complaint site. Feel free to complain about anything. And you fill it out, put your name in whatever, put your complaint in, and it goes whoever. I don't know what happens. I didn't want to get involved. But isn't that typical of America? Complaint. com. I looked up the word complaint. It means to express dissatisfaction. In other words, it's the idea of saying this isn't good enough for me. This isn't the quality that I deserve. This isn't what I wanted. The emphasis of complaining is primarily on my wants And how they're not being met. I looked up the definition of the word ingratitude. How would you define this is like Dr. Barron said, this is class participation. How would you define the word ingratitude? I knew you were going to say that. Not being thankful for what you have? Discontented with what you have. Anybody else? How would you define being ungrateful? Would you agree with me on this? It would be the idea of taking what you have for granted. It's just there. I would say being ungrateful, if you're going to be grateful You would you agree with this? You are a you appreciate what you have. You appreciate where it came from and what was involved in receiving it, and being a given to you. And you express that appreciation. Fact is, we as Christians can very easily become comfortable with being ungrateful. We can just take God's blessings for granted. We can just assume they're there. And worse yet, we get in our minds we deserve it. I deserve this. And the Bible condemns that. The Bible tells us it is sin To be ungrateful. In Luke chapter 17, there were ten men that had leprosy. Now I think most of us are familiar enough with our Bible. We understand the severity of leprosy That was not some light affliction. Leprosy in the Bible Times and that day and age, leprosy was about the most devastating thing that could happen to a person It was a slow, horrendous, painful death. It was a death certificate. Unless God intervened, you had leprosy, you were going to die a slow, painful death Body parts just fall off, and you've heard the stories. And as bad as that is, then you are quarantined and isolated from your family and friends. In fact, it was so bad, now this was for sanitary reasons, the Lord wasn't being unkind, but it was so bad that God instructed Israelites that they contracted leprosy and they had to leave the the restricted area they were in, they were instructed, if people approached them, they were instructed to cry out, unclean, unclean As a warning to the folks coming near him to stay away. Now can you imagine the social life? Can you imagine the isolation and the loneliness that would take place? with someone that contracted leprosy. This is a very, very serious condition. We have nothing in our day and age to compare to that, that you and I experience And so there were ten of these guys, and they came to the Lord to be healed. And God and Jesus, of course, being gracious, all-powerful God that He is, He healed them all and told them to go and show themselves to the priest. Now you know the story, you know where this ends up. They turned and did as Jesus said, and as they went, they were healed. All ten of them were healed. Miraculous thing. This was not some trivial miracle that took place. This was a life-changing event in these men's experience. This was the most wonderful thing that had ever happened to these men. They were given a new life. And the Bible says, one. Of the ten came back to give glory to God, to express any kind of appreciation. And Jesus' immediate response was: what did he say? Where are the nine? Were there not ten? And you know what struck the Lord? Not that one came back, that you would expect that. But what struck the Lord was nine dinn. Nine took this amazing gift For granted. I don't know what their thinking was. Maybe they felt they deserved it. Maybe they got so excited about it they didn't even think about going back and expressing any kind of appreciation. I don't know. We're not told. But I know that nine of them express no gratitude. And that is wrong. Now before we come down too hard on them, let me remind those of us who are saved. Christ has done a greater miracle in saving us from sin in hell than the miracle of healing them of leprosy. The scourge of sin is far greater than the scourge of leprosy Now this might be a little hard to swallow initially, but think about it. It is far better to be saved and have leprosy than to be healed of leprosy and die and go to hell. The gift of salvation is a greater miracle, a greater gift, a more valuable gift than being healed from leprosy. And yet the Lord says, How many that I have saved from sin suffered hell on the cross? Mark referenced it. How many express any type of appreciation to me at all? And and I don't think the Lord would say, Where are the nine? In our day and age, he could say, Where are the millions? That have trusted me but expressed no gratitude. And here's the tragic thing. We're okay with it. We're comfortable with that. Let me give you a few things to jot down here real quickly. Number one, I put this down, and I encourage you to jot these down. This stirred my heart. Everything we have in life. Including life itself is a gift from God. In fact, in Acts chapter 17 and verse 25, Paul says that even the breath in our lungs is a gift. from God. The fact that we can breathe is God giving us something we don't deserve. I was chaplain with hospice for many years, as most of you are aware of that. And uh what a what an education that was. What an amazing experience. And we ever get a staff in here and I'm able to have a little more time, I would love to get back and do that again. And there was a man who lived outside Grantsville, was on hospice. He was dying. He wa was had trusted Christ, had a profession of faith, but he didn't have any pastor, and so I ended up visiting him. He was dying of uh is it emphysema from smoking? I visited that man about two and a half months before he died And that was one of the most horrible things I've ever seen in my life. Where he would absolutely fight. When it got to the end, he would fight for every breath he had. God says the fact that you and I are breathing right now is a gift that God gives to us. I would leave that man's home so sad. I don't get out and sit in my car and thank you, Lord. Thank you, God. Every every uh everything we have in life, including life itself Is a gift that God gives to us. And our whole lives, I believe our whole lives should be lived as an expression of our gratitude to God. Just everything about the way I live is expressing to God the fact that I appreciate the gift that you've given me to breathe and function. Well, you w when you and I start when when I start complaining a little bit, I know it's hard for you to believe that I would ever do that, but uh I start complaining a little bit, you know what helps me? I'll go visit Nina in the nursing home. Phew. Come walking out of there and say, God, thank you, I can walk. Thank you for the health you've given me. Our whole life should express that. In fact, get this. Living the Christian life, biblically, living the Christian life and serving God is an expression of gratitude. We don't serve God. Hey, listen, Joy and the others downstairs marking them and the bus workers. We're not doing that so we get rewarded with heaven. We're not doing that to get to heaven. We do that because we are going to heaven and we thank God for what he's done for us. And we want to express our appreciation by sharing the gospel and serving our Lord because we're grateful for what he's done. That should be the ideal motive in the Christian life. And so, number one, everything we have in life, including life itself, is a gift from God. Number two. It is God's will that his people be thankful. It's God's will. Would you do this real, real quickly with me? Go to Psalms. And we're just going to scream down through a bunch of these. Now bear with me. Y'all are doing fine so far. The team that listens the most eagerly, I'll give my tracks to that team. Psalms 92. We can be awfully carnal about being spiritual, huh? Psalms 92, look at this. Get it there, and just keep your pay finger the page in your fingers here, because we're going to look at these super quick. Look at Psalms 92, verse 1 It is a good thing to give thanks unto the Lord and to sing praise unto thy name, O Most High. Look at Psalms 97, verse 12. Flip over there. Rejoice in the Lord, ye righteous, and give thanks at his the remembrance of his holiness. Look at Psalms 105, verse number 1. A few pages over. Oh, give thanks unto the Lord. Call upon his name. Make his deeds known among the people. These are not suggestions, they're not observations, these are commands. Look at verse 106, chapter 106, verse 1. Praise ye the Lord. Oh, give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy endureth forever. Look at Psalms 107, verse 1. Oh, give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy endureth forever. Look at Psalms 118, verse 1, a few pages back. O give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy endureth forever. Look at verse 29 of that chapter. Oh, give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy endureth forever. Psalms 136 Come all the way back there, Psalms 136. Verse number 1, 2, and 3. Oh, give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good Oh, give thanks unto the Lord God of gods for his mercy. Oh, give thanks unto the Lord of Lords. Look at verse 26 of that chapter. Oh, give thanks unto God of heaven for his mercy endures forever. And I could go on and on and on and on and on. God says over and over and over and over, give thanks for what I've done for you. God commands us to. It's God's will. Say, I don't know what God's will is for my life. I can tell you right now, God wants you to be grateful. God wants me to be grateful, be thankful. Now, there's something I want to teach you very, very quickly here that I think will help. Go to 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, and I'm down to about five lines of my outline. Of course each line's 20 minutes, but uh no, that's not funny. Uh go to Ephesians chapter 5, verse 20. All right, are you what? I want them both. First Thessalonians five eighteen and Ephesians chapter five and verse twenty. Don't question me. No, I'm kidding. Go to 1 Thessalonians 5, and then we're going to go to Ephesians. I'm hurrying. Take your time, but hurry up. Look at verse 18 of 1 Thessalonians 5. Now watch the wording here very carefully. In what's the first word? No, the first word. In. In everything give thanks. Does that say give thanks for everything? No, it says, in everything, give thanks. You have a car wreck, in that car wreck, give thanks. Is it saying I should thank God for the car wreck? Not necessarily. But in the car wreck, I can say, thank God I wasn't killed. Right? Now come over to Ephesians chapter 5. Now this throws a wrench in my whole theory I just gave you. Ephesians chapter 5 and verse 20. The Bible tends to do that. Did you notice that? Look at verse 20. Giving thanks always, what's the next word? For all things. Whoa. Is that telling me I should give thanks for the drunk that ran the stop sign and killed the family of six? Is that telling me I should thank God that that happened? No. That flies in the face of what we know to be true about God. That flies in the face of what we know is true about the character of God and what he would expect from us. In 1 Thessalonians 5, verse 18, we can see that where I give thanks in things. I'm not thankful for that situation, but in that some good might come out of it, and thank God for that. Ephesians says give thanks to God for it What's the answer? The answer to that is the same answer to every time there's apparent contradiction, you look at the context. Ephesians is talking about, the whole book of Ephesians is talking about the blessings of God And when he says, give thanks for all things, he's not saying give thanks for all of these things God has done for us. All of these blessings of salvation. He talks about the family and the home. And if you look at the context, he's saying thank God for us. For some specific things. All these things that are listed throughout the book of Ephesians. When you get to 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, he's simply giving a list of general statements. He's kind of summarizing his thing and he says give thanks in all things and that applies across the board Now what am I trying to say? I'm simply saying if things don't work out the way I think they should, I can still thank God that He is sovereign. And then he's in control and he can bring good area, ver uh uh Romans five eight. I don't thank God that that family was killed in the car wreck But I do thank God for the fact that He is almighty, all powerful, and He can take this horrendous situation and somehow bring some good out of it. It's God's will that we be grateful. It's God's will that we be thankful. Let me give you the third one real quick. Ingratitude is a serious matter. We don't have time and I've got to end, but Romans chapter 1, beginning in verse 18 down through the end of the chapter, gives a progression of moral deterioration. And the end of chapter 1 of Romans ends up with absolute perversity and blasphemy and the vilest of sins you can imagine. But in verse number eighteen of Romans chapter one, it begins with one sin. It says, neither were they what? Some of y'all are looking at it. What's it say? Look at Romans 1:18. Somebody help me. Y'all were using the King James Version, right? What are you looking at? Romans chapter 1. You guys are messing my sermon up. Verse 21. What are you looking at 18 for? It's verse 21. You guys. Because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were what? Now if you'll study that chapter out, and if you'll start with the correct verse, you'll find that the root of the moral degradation at the end of the chapter begins With people not being thankful. You know when America started to decline? When America started thinking it uh it owned, it deserved and earned all the blessings of God. And you look, took the Bible out, took prayer out, started ridiculing God and the principles of Scripture, and you notice America's moral decline. And that's true in your life and my life. You know why I think American churches are so worldly? I mean just stinking worldly. Because we've gotten to the point that we're not grateful for the little things God has done for us. We've lost the wonder of our salvation. And now we're looking to the bright lights of the world. You know what the answer to that is? Just to humble ourselves before God and say, God, I don't deserve one minute out of hell. I thank you for saving me. I tell you what, the world doesn't look quite so enduring and so endearing. We get really grateful for what God has done for us. The extreme immorality of our society finds its roots in ingratitude. The extreme worldliness of the church finds its roots in ingratitude. The extreme immodesty of Christian finds its roots in ingratitude. Years ago, I was helping a couple in a situation, this is a long time ago, and uh one person had gotten involved in morality, been unfaithful. I think I've mentioned this before, but we're unfaithful You know what they told me? After they got made things right and I got it all taken care of. And uh you know what they said? They said, I wasn't thankful for what God had given me. He said that's where that's where it all started to go wrong. I wasn't thankful for what God had given me. That's Romans chapter 1. Romans chapter 1. How do we correct that? I put this number 4, and it's the end. We must deliberately develop The habit of being grateful. Don't just let it happen. The flesh isn't naturally going to be grateful I must deliberately decide I'm going to be grateful. I'm going to die to self. I'm going to mortify the attitude of the flesh. And I'm going to decide, I'm going to develop, deliberately develop a habit of being grateful. Now that takes some effort. That takes God helping us. It takes some spirituality, some maturity. How do we do that? Well, I think there's several ways. Confessing the sin of ingratitude. I wonder when the last time was when any of us knelt before God, maybe in an altar or beside our bed, knelt before God and said, God I have sinned against you in not being thankful. God, I have sinned against your holiness and your grace in thinking I deserve what you're giving me. In taking the very breath I have for granted, God, I've sinned against you How many when your kids are small, you give them a special gift and you're so excited about it and you know they're going to love it, and they take it and run off and they act like you had no part in what they got. Anybody ever have that happen? It breaks your heart. That's what God goes through every day with his children. He just runoff, like he has nothing to do with it. That's sin. We need to confess that. God, that's wrong. I think a good thing to do is write down a list of things that God has done for me, a list of great things I'm grateful for. Tell you you got these new little phones. You can put all kinds of lists and stuff in there. I found all kinds of little things. You can put a list down there of all the prayers God answered. I'm starting to put them in there. Let's get a notepad, all the things God has given you Ain't a lot. You could just go on and on and on and on and on. Actually, let me rephrase that. We should just go on and on and on and on and on. Why not? Let me give you the last one. How do I develop this habit? I think this, tonight before we leave, let's stop and thank God. Right now. Just say, God, in our own, between us and God, God, thank you. I've sinned, I've been so ungrateful. I've complained, I've taken things for granted, God, that is sin. Just like those guys that had the woman taken in adultery, Christ confronted them and they come convicted. They walked away. Let's not do that. Let's bow before God. God, you're right. Father in heaven, blessed Lord, I ask. I ask you'd help us to be, if if we're not anything else, God help us to at least be grateful. Not to be comfortable with Taking things for granted. Lord, we want to be grieved by that. We want to be repulsed by our own ungrateful hearts. Lord, we need your Holy Spirit to help us. I'm not going to ask for hands raised. We're all in the same boat. We all serve the same Lord. He's done the same thing for all of us. We all owe Him the same thing. Maybe before we leave tonight, individuals before God, let's start this, let's get this ball rolling of gratitude. Father, bless our invitation, I ask, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. And Jennifer, just play a few verse of invitation. Maybe You feel like I do just want to kneel and older and say, God, I've been s I've taken so much for granted. God, I want to, from this day Not be comfortable anymore with the sin of ingratitude. I want to be grateful. When's the last time you knelt at an altar and just said, Thank you, God, for saving me from hell? Thank you, Lord, for giving me. Breath and health, country I can worship freely, a Bible. Thank you, Lord