Alright, Philippians chapter 2. And uh I'd like for you, I'm going to read verse number 3, and then I know verse 4 is our memory verse, but I'd like for us to read verse 4 together. uh with me if you would. Philippians chapter two. Get everything straightened up here. Alright. Now we're good to go. Verse 3 says this, let nothing, how many things? Nothing be done through strife or vainglory. Now, the word vainglory means meaningless self-exaltation, just promoting myself. Vainglory. Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory. Now look at the last part of this verse. But in lowliness of mind. Let each esteem other better than themselves. Here's my definition of that word better, higher on the list. Let each esteem other higher on the list than themselves. Now read verse four together with me, would you? Let's all together. Verse 4. Ready? Look not every man on his own things. But every man also on the things of others. Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others. I want to talk this morning about ingrown eyeballs. Ingrown eyeballs. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless our Sunday church service this morning. Pray you bless this message. Lord, I pray you would challenge us to obey and follow what your word tells us here in these particular verses. That you would enable us and your Holy Spirit would stir us as believers to not strive or have vainglory The Lord esteem others better, higher on the less than ourselves, and not to look on our own things, but look also on the things of others Lord, you've convicted me in preparing this message. I pray you'd convict all of us and prompt us to be more Christ-like in our mind, in our attitude, our way of thinking. And more Christ-like in our treatment of others. And Father, I pray that there would be anybody tuned in this morning that does not know Jesus Christ as Savior, with all my heart, I pray your Holy Spirit would bring great conviction. And they would turn to Christ to find forgiveness of sins in new life. So I yield myself to you, Lord. I present my body anew with all my heart I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit and be the preacher. Speak through me again, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. The book of Philippians is a tremendous book. In fact, I want to challenge all of us In the month of December, this is just a challenge I want to throw out to all of us, is to read the book of Philippians just over and over and over throughout the month Short little book, there's only four chapters, you can read it in fifteen, twenty minutes, half hour at the most. To read the book of Philippians And maybe just several times through the week, or maybe some would even want to uh uh you know uh read it every day. Some some folks here work for the government. You have plenty of time all day long. You could read that, and we won't mention any names, James. But um But I do want to challenge you. This book is a tremendous book, the book of Philippians. It is a book of joy. In fact, if you were going to give a theme for the book, it would be joy, the joy of the Lord. I think, and you could pick out any number of verses, but if you want to if you were going to try and pick out a key verse In the book of Philippians, go to go over to chapter three and look with me if you would at verse number one. I think the first phrase Of verse number one is a tremendous key to the the whole verse. Look what it says. Chapter 3, verse 1. Finally, my brethren. Okay, he's summing this up. Alright, but here's here's what I'm trying to say is what that means kind of. Finally, my brethren, read the next three, four words with me. Rejoice in the Lord. Brother, that is a summary. Of the book of Philippians. Rejoice in the Lord. Rejoice in the Lord. The book of Philippians is about having the mind of Christ and then having the joy of the Lord. A reality in my life. We preached this summer. I really enjoyed it. We did a little series this summer on Sunday mornings on what the Bible teaches about joy. And I tell you, the greatest joy a person can have is the joy of the Lord. The joy that God produces In fact, in our study in that series, we kind of came to the conclusion that God provides for the believer who will trust him. Follow his instructions, do what he says. God will provide for the believer the joy that he experiences And he'll put that in our heart and life. Jesus seemed to imply that in statements he made. So Philippians is a book of joy, the joy of the Lord. I've been considered an adult well by some folks, I've been considered an adult now for about forty years. Not everybody considers that, but um uh 1978. I turned eighteen years old and I think that most places that's considered adult, right? At least I considered it at that point For 40 years I've been considered an adult. And I've been living this life long enough that I've learned as an adult that there are many things in life that can steal our joy. Can I get a witness? Any adults here would say that. There's a lot of stuff in this old sinful world that can steal our joy. In fact, sometimes it seems like just about the time we feel like we got to handle them stuff Whoa, something else comes in and throws us for a loop. Can I get a witness? I was talking to the fellows this morning. I've got thinking, uh, I guess it was last evening, I got thinking about my grandfather on my mother's side, my mother's father. And um uh he was born in nineteen eleven. How about that? So he would be a hundred and nine years old, I guess. Does that sound right? Somewhere around there, 100 and he was born in 1911. I got thinking about what he went through in the in that in that time frame. 1911, when he was three years old, the world went to war with World War I. A horrific war. War of attrition. When he was three years old, the world went uh World War One started. When he was seven years old, World War One ended with uh I forget how many millions killed, fifty million, something like that, killed Uh just two years after that, when he was about nine or ten years old, the Spanish flu pandemic hit the world And uh uh you know we know a little bit about that now. And shut things down and killed millions. I forget what the numbers are there, I have it written down, but uh just tens of millions of people died from that When he was nine years old, ten, I think it lasts about two years, so nine, ten, eleven, twelve years old in there, that time frame. And then when he was about twenty-eight, twenty-nine, the stock market crashed. The world went into the Great Depression, people just scratching just to have food and just to have the basics of life for years. When he was about um, let's see, 11, 21, 31, when he was about 29 or so around there, uh, World War II started And they lived through that the horrific war there and the six million Jews in the concentration camp killed and then millions and millions and millions of others killed. Then shortly after that, the Vietnam War. What I'm trying to say is this, uh we think we got it now, we got kids born in 1995, they're mad because their PlayStation froze up You know, oh, I'm so miserable because of uh the internet's down. I'm telling you, we live in a world that can easily steal our joy. A lot of things happen. We've got it pretty good, even in the midst of a pandemic. I'm telling you, we've got it pretty good compared to years gone by and some other parts of the world today. But I've been alive long enough to know that this world's pretty good at stealing joy. But I found this. In 1979, I trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. I've been knowing the Lord now for 40 years, a little over 40 years. And I've been reading this Bible just about daily, very few days missed in all these years. I've been reading and studying this Bible, and you know what I found out? I found out that every conceivable situation, every conceivable circumstance that you and I face in this world as believers, the Bible addresses that circumstance Either directed either directly in a precept or through principles taught in Scripture And the Bible has an answer. The Bible has a response. The Bible has a solution to every aspect of this world's Ability to steal our joy. To steal our joy. The Bible has the answer. I heard a preacher years ago said that he was traveling and he stopped in a public restroom along the highway, interstate stopped at a rest area, was in there, and somebody had scratched on the bathroom wall, they wrote, Jesus is the answer. And uh he said, under that somebody else scratched on the wall. What is the question? And he says Uh he said, he's a pretty he was a pretty well known preacher, it's with the Lord now. He said, I'm not really in the habit of doing this, but I got my pen out And he said he wrote underneath that, Jesus is the answer, somebody wrote, what is the question? He wrote, now I'm not at I'm not advocating this at all. I don't suggest you do this. But he wrote underneath that, he wrote, doesn't matter what the question is, Jesus is still the answer. Oh, that was a pretty good response. Book of Philippians tells us that we can have joy, that we can live in victory, regardless of what this whole world throws at us. Regardless of what circumstances or situations we find ourselves in, the Bible in general, and the book of Philippians in particular Has either a direct statement, a direct precept, or at least a principle we can learn from on how to deal with those. Now, this was written to the book at Philippi, of course, church at Philippi The book was written by the Apostle Paul. If you go back to Acts chapter 16, we have where the church started, was started by Apostle Paul. A fascinating start to the church. It began in prayer, really. And the Church of Philippi had become a very good, strong, mature church in a lot of ways Paul says tremendous positive things about the church. The church at Philippi would have been a church that you and I would have been thrilled to be a part of. We would have been happy there. It's a good church. However, it was like it was not a perfect church. And by the way, you will never find a perfect church. And if you, by the way, if you do happen to find a perfect church, don't join it, because it won't be perfect anymore if you do. So the Church of Philippi was a good church. It was a good, strong, mature church, and uh but they were not perfect, and it appears that they had a tendency towards a spirit of disunity. It appears that there was a little bit of strife there in the church, a little division. They were mature. They were strong. They had a good witness for the most part into their community. But they weren't perfect. And if you would, notice there, look at the first part of verse 1, of chapter 2, the first couple verses Uh Pastor Matt read this a little bit. Look what he says there. Verse 1. He says, if therefore, if there be therefore any consolation in Christ, if if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit Any bows of mercies, fulfill ye my joy that ye be what? Like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. Now, Paul is writing to them, of course, under the inspiration of God, and he makes this statement there. He says, Listen, you all need to be careful that you're like-minded, that you have the same love, one accord, one mind. Now why would he make that statement? It implies to me that sounds like perhaps they weren't of one love. Perhaps they weren't like-minded. Perhaps there was a issue of not having the same love one towards another. If you would come over to chapter number uh four He says, verse 1, he says, Therefore, my brethren, dearly beloved, long for my joy, my crown. Boy, he loved this church. He thought very highly of this church. So stand fast in the Lord, my dearly beloved. Now look at the bless these two ladies. Verse 2, he says, I beseech Jodius. And beseech Sintiki, that's the way I say it. I beseech you, and I beseech Sintiki that they be of the what? Same mind. What does that tell us is what does that imply about Iodius and Syntiche? They probably were what? Not of the same mind. And if somebody's not of the same mind, what does that mean? They are what? They're not in agreement They're probably fussing with each other. Right? Anybody can anybody give me that? They're probably fussing And he says, listen, gals, listen, ladies, you guys got to get together on this. You need to work this out. You need to be of the same mind. Now, I don't know, but I feel bad for these two ladies. Think about that. For all of eternity, their names are recorded in Scripture as two ladies who had a hard time getting along I don't know about you, but I wouldn't be real thrilled about that. And so the church was a good church. It was a strong church. They had a good witness. Paul loved them. He said, You're my crown He goes, Man, you this church that God used me to start, you're a crown to me. He thought highly of them, but they were not perfect And there was this element of disunity in the church to some extent And it indicates, verse 4, the last part of verse 3 in the verse 4 indicates, at least to me, that the cause of this disunity, this Lack of being of one mind, of having the same mind, of being uh having the same love one for another, this lack of it was caused by a bad case of ingrown eyeballs. Look with me again at verse number four of chapter two. Look not every man on his own things, ingrown eyeballs. But every man also on the things of others. One of the causes of disunity, even in a good church Even in a strong church, one of the causes of disunity in a good home, a strong marriage, a good family, one of the causes of disunity Is when we get a case of ingrown eyeballs. Ingrown eyeballs. We look on our own things. Now, my first point is this: what are the symptoms of ingrown eyeballs? What are the symptoms? How do I tell if I've got ingrown eyeballs? I put a few down here. You might think of others as we go through it, but I put a few down here. Number one I thought one of the symptoms of having ingrown eyeballs is to be obsessively concerned about myself To be obsessively concerned about myself, or to be obsessively focused on myself. If I have ingrown eyeballs, what are my eyeballs looking at? Me. They're looking inward. They're looking at myself. We put it this way: it's all about me. One of the symptoms of ingrown eyeballs is to be obsessively focused and concerned with myself. It's all about me. Everything. All conversations, everything. It's all about me. Me, me, me, me, me. That word look there in verse number four has this idea to fix my eyes upon or to direct my attention toward. One of the definitions, I was looking how it was used different ways, had this idea to be continually thinking about myself. Myself, myself. Look not every man. Now here this was interesting as I was looking up the words here, doing word studies Uh look not every man on, it says his own. Then he uses the word, what's that next word after own? Things He doesn't say anything in particular. In fact, that word where it comes, the word things comes from is actually just kind of a blank. Look not every man on his own. This is the idea. Look not every man on his own, and then you fill in the blank. Could be anything It's to be one of the symptoms of ingrown eyeballs is to be obsessively focused, is to be obsessively concerned about anything about myself Look not on his own blank. Fill in the blank. I'd venture to say, probably, as I'm making these statements, God is bringing things to your mind. Things that you and I kind of focus on and obsess maybe to some degree over, and it just is all about us. Something I have, something I do, something I love, something about me One of the symptoms of ingrown eyeballs is to be obsessively concerned and focused on myself or something about myself. I put down another symptom of ingrown eyeballs. Number two. To have little or no concern for the well-being of others. Just have little concern for the well-being of others. Oh well, uh this is how we say it. Well, that's their problem. Anybody ever hear that? I wonder how many of us ever say that or think that way. Well, you know, that's their problem. Um, the disciples were that way a little bit. You remember when Jesus was teaching great multitude, there was 5,000 men. Plus women and children. And uh the day got long, and Jesus said the people are faint, they need something to food. And he asked the disciples, he said to them, What sh uh give ye them to eat And the disciples were like, What? Are you nuts? That's in the Greek. Um, uh are you crazy? Oh, if we had two hundred pennyworth of money it wouldn't be enough to get us And one of the disciples said this. He says, send them home. Just send them away. You know what he was saying? It's their problem. It's their problem. That's one of the symptoms of an ingrown eyeball. I was trying to think of somebody in the Bible that is a good example of a person that is has little or no concern for others. That it was all about them, had a bad case. of ingrown eyeballs. And there's a number of possible illustrations in the Bible, but one stood out in my mind. I don't know who you would think of, but I thought about Jezebel. Anybody remember old Jezebel, the wife of Ahab? Good heavens, you talk about a bad case of ingrown eyeballs. She could care less what anybody else's problem was. She could care less about how her actions or her behavior, her decisions, how it affected others, what it would cost others. A lot of people died because Jezebel had ingrown eyeballs. It was all about her and little or no concern for others So one symptom is to be obsessively concerned for myself. Another symptom of ingrown eyeballs is to have little or no concern for the well-being of others. I put a third one down And that is this, to manipulate people or situations to my own advantage. To manipulate things or to manipulate people and use people to somehow accomplish my own desires, to fulfill my own pleasures, to to fulfill my agenda and use and manipulate people Uh, can you think of anybody in the Bible that was very good at manipulating people towards their own end? One comes to mind, stands out in my mind. Anybody here? I know it's Sunday morning early. You're not used to thinking But uh can anybody think of anything? Anybody? What's that? Samson, well actually I thought of Delilah Delilah was pretty good. In fact, Samson got manipulated several times. I thought of him. And Delilah was pretty good at getting information out of him where his strength was And uh to be honest with you, Samsung, not only was he very strong, I think he was very dumb. He fell for I mean, it's pretty obvious what she's doing, and he just kept Going along until finally she found out she manipulated him. By the way, here's a little Bible trivia. Do you know that Delilah did not cut Samson's hair? She got him tricked, and then she brought the Philistines in and they cut his hair. How about that? How many people learned something this morning new? Nobody. Good You all knew that. To manipulate people. Delilah had ingrown eyeballs. She wanted to she wanted she wanted what the Philistines had to offer her, and she manipulated Samson to find out where his strength was so she could get what she wanted And ultimately, of course he was responsible for his actions, but ultimately it took his life. Can you think of anyone else? I thought about Jacob The the uh the uh trickster, Jacob. Well he got he got that birthright from his brother, didn't he? And uh, boy, he got all those sheep and that cattle from his uncle Laban. Boy, he manipulated that whole situation His most of his early life was all manipulation, manipulation. Jacob had ingrown eyeballs. It was all about him. It was all about him accomplishing his agenda. And making himself better off at the expense of others. I put others down, Delilah, and mentioned Delilah. The Pharisees, boy, they were pretty good at manipulating people. In fact Jesus warned his disciples about the Pharisees and false teachers. He described them this way. They were wolves in what? Sheep's clothing. You know what that is? That's manipulation. That's deception. That is putting on a show and that is put uh putting up this front in order And Jesus exposed them later on in order to get the praise of men, they loved the praise of men more than the praise of God, in order to be able to sit in the high places in the temple And all to advance their agenda. And they would just play on the crowd. They would play on people who came sincerely to worship and manipulate them To accomplish their own will. The Pharisees had ingrown eyeballs. Delilah had ingrown eyeballs. Jacob had ingrown eyeballs. And then the master manipulator. Who is the master manipulator? Satan himself. Second Corinthians chapter 11, I think it is, Paul warns the church there that Satan can manifest himself as an angel of light. And he says, even his ministers come across as ministers of light. They're agents of the devil, but brother, they can talk smooth and they can get the crowds And they can manipulate people to accomplish their own will. There's a lot of preachers on television have ingrown eyeballs. And they'll play on the sincerity and the the faith of their people and make millions and millions and millions of dollars. Now there's nothing wrong with being wealthy But when I fleece the people of God and I make merchandise of the Word of God for my own advancement, that person's got ingrown eyeballs. And is manipulating people for their own advancement and their own well-being. In John chapter 8 and verse 44, the devil's called the father of lies. In Genesis chapter 3, he manipulated Eve by asking questions where God had made clear statements and he finally got her. to disobey God and bring sin into the world. The master manipulator. And then if we had time we could go to Isaiah chapter 14 where it's all about him. I will five times Satan says to God, I will, I will, I will. Satan's problem was he had ingrown eyeballs. No longer anything about the Lord. It was no longer God's glory. It was no longer God's will. It was no longer God's plan for all of creation. It all of a sudden became all about Satan And I tell you, when you and I get wrapped up in ourselves, when you and I start falling in love with ourselves, we're going down the exact same road where the devil is. Ingrown eyeballs. One of the symptoms is to be obsessively concerned with myself, to have little or no concern for the well-being of others, to manipulate others to my own advantage. I put a fourth symptom down, number four, unwilling to do something for others without getting something in return. A person with ingrown eyeballs is going to be unwilling to do something for others unless they get something in return. In other words, this is how it's worded. What's in it for me? What do I get out of this? One of the sad things I learned shortly after I was pastor, it was a number of years I guess I've been here for a little while, sometime. But I was uh I got a call from one of the neighbors in the community here And I had witnessed to him a little bit and w I felt like we're friends and we're good neighbors. We got along pretty good. And uh he said, My wife is in the hospital And he said, would you uh be willing to come up to the hospital and visit and pray with my wife? How many people remember long time ago when you used to be able to go up and visit people in the hospital So back then you could. And so I said, sure, I'd be glad to. And uh I went up to the hospital there, and there she was, and they were unsaved. And uh visited a little bit. And I said, can I read some scripture? He said, sure. And so I read some passages, kind of worked the gospel in. Nobody made a decision at that point. And I said, well tell you what, before I leave, I'd like to have a word of prayer. Just that God would be gracious and God would uh make your wife well and and meet all your needs. And they said, Oh yes, thank you, Pastor Lemon. Thank you, thank you. And so we prayed, and I just had a simple prayer, guessing God's blessing, God would meet their needs, save everybody, and uh real nice time. And as I started to leave, he came over and grabbed me by the arm. Remember back when you used to be able to touch people like that? He grabbed me by the arm and he pulled me aside and he reached over to me and handed me a $20 bill. He offered it to me. I said, what's that? He goes, this is for praying. I said, what do you mean this is for praying? He goes, I want to, this is $20 for the prayer he just gave for my wife and my family. I said, don't give me $20 for praying. And he made this statement. He said, our priest requires $20 for a prayer to be made for the family. I said, well, I don't. And I said, I'm not taking it. And I mean he pressed me and pressed me. I said, no, I'm not taking that You don't get paid that. I walked out of there. You know what I thought? I thought that priest has ingrown eyeballs. Can't even offer a prayer without getting something out of it. What a sorry, what a sorry religion that would be. Can I get an amen or not? Ingrown eyeballs. What's in it for me? What do I get at? By the way, I'd hate to be that priest the day he stands before God. Give an account for that. And so, ingrown eyeballs, what's in it for me? What do I get out of it? Unwilling to do something for others unless I get something in return. Here's another symptom I put down. Value my own opinion and possessions above others. I value my opinion. I value my possessions above others. Um, you say nobody would be like that. Hey, did you ever watch the reports on Black Friday when something goes on sale Brother Ades, dog eat doll, get that get that uh um cabbage patch doll. I mean on sale. I mean people, do you ever anybody know what I'm talking about? They're clobbering each other, they're throwing everybody down fit fights over stuff on sale. You know what that is? That's ingrown eyeballs What I want is more important than anything else. Black Friday. Go somewhere in where there's a big crowd. Remember back when there used to be big crowds of people? Uh go somewhere as a big crowd and yell, Fire! You're gonna find a very few people helping others get out of there. Brother, they're climbing over each other, they're getting out of there Uh uh Black Friday, Yell Fire, uh uh Out on the Highways, Road Rage Brother, I might be 30 seconds later if uh if I have to wait for this guy, turn and left. Blow the horn Let 'em have it. Uh Black Friday. Uh how about when uh a snowstorm comes or a pandemic hits and toilet paper I don't care about whether anybody else has toilet paper. I'm just getting mine Ingrown eyeballs. Ingrown eyeballs. My needs, my desires, my opinion, my possessions take precedent over everything else The symptoms of ingrown eyeballs, let me give you a couple others here real quick. Unwilling to share. Unwilling to share. I remember, I've told this before, I remember When we were living in Colorado, in Boulder, Colorado, the boys were just small. Dan was just born just a couple months before we moved out there. Sam was maybe uh one or two years old. And uh I mean they were small. And we lived out there three years and we've been there a little while. We had an apartment and uh we were gonna have the some folks over. I was helping a fellow start a church, Brother Manning, a dear friend of mine And uh Brother Holmescher, the director of Bible Time, we're going to have them over to our uh house. I I forget what it was. Something was going on. I think it might have been Mark's birthday or something. Anyway, before they came, we knew there was going to be some other little kids there, and we decided we should teach the boys how to share. We were gonna so this was big. So we got the toys out in the living room there, and I sat down with the boys and we got them around. I said, all right boys, now Dan's like a baby, you know, he's maybe one. Sam's a little older And I said, uh, we're going to practice sharing. Sharing. I said, all right, all right, let me teach you how to share. So I had a toy, and I was holding it, and I was playing with it, and I said, All right, uh, Sam, you asked me to play with the toy I'm holding. He said, okay. So he said, Daddy, can I play with the toy you're holding? I said, yes. And I gave it to him. And I said, that's sharing. I said you try it. So he was playing with it. I said, Sam, can I play with that toy you're playing? And he handed it to me. He says, yes. And he gave it to me. I played with it. I said, that's sharing. And Daniel, Daniel's just kind of like, g And uh share, uh, share. And so man, we practiced it. I thought, oh, we got it down. So next day, uh folks came, I think it was Sunday afternoon, they came over to the house, boys were out The kids were there, all right, so I'm watching, the other kids are playing. I thought, here we go, I'm gonna see how well the boys do. And one of them had a toy and the other one reached over for it, and he got the toy and he went, Mine I thought, oh brother, they missed it completely. They didn't learn it at all. You know what that is? That's ingrown eyeballs. In fact, I'm suggesting to you we're all born with ingrown eyeballs We're born with it. Sharing doesn't come natural. We've got to learn to do it. And so, ingrown eyeballs. Look not every man on his own things. A couple others. This one struck home with me. Difficulty accepting criticism. How many people here like to be criticized? I don't. I get it all the time. I kind of got you like it. I get it all the time. Dr. Lee Robertson said, any fool can criticize Says it doesn't take any strength, doesn't take any character, and really doesn't even take any intelligence. Anybody can criticize But the ability I need to develop is to be able to learn from the criticism I receive. Usually in criticism there's an element of truth. There's something can be learned. And uh if I got ingrown eyeballs, I am not I am not open to correction. I am not open to anything. It is all me and nothing you have to say. Ingrown eyeballs. Symptoms. Let me give you one more. To be unthankful And to be ungrateful is a symptom of ungrown eyeballs. In other words, nothing is ever good enough I deserve better than what I'm getting. I deserve to be treated better than the way I'm being treated. I need to be ser I deserve to be served better by this waitress than the way she's serving me. I deserve to be better treated. Better You know what that is? Finger and eyeballs. I, I, I. If it's not the best, and it's not perfect. And I don't I'm ungrateful for it. No no no that's in grown eyeballs. Look not every man on his own things. Ingrown eyeballs. So the symptoms, let me very quickly give you the danger of ingrown eyeballs. What if you say, preacher, I think I've got a bad case of ingrown eyeballs. Oh my word, that's serious. What are the dangers of ingrown eyeballs? I put a few down. Number one, they destroy relationships. If I got ingrown eyeballs, I'm going to have a hard time having a relationship with people. In fact, in several categories, one in the church. We already looked there at verse 2 of chapter 2. He says, be fill ye my joy, that ye be like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. Chapter 4, he warned these two ladies, you need to be of like-minded. And what was happening? They had ingrown eyeballs, and it was hurting the church. It was hurting bringing division and disunity into the church. I tell you, we get focused on ourselves, it becomes all about us. And it's no longer about Christ or the Great Commission or the will of God. It all becomes about me. I tell you what, that hurts a church. Amen or not. Ingrown eyeballs destroy relationships in a church setting, in a church situation. Some in the Philippian church had become infected with ingrown eyeballs, and it was costing them Take your Bible, if you would, real quickly with me. Go to Luke chapter number 22. Luke chapter 22. You say, sorely, preacher, a good Christian wouldn't get infected with ingrown eyeballs. Look at Luke chapter 22 and verse number 24. Luke chapter twenty-two and verse twenty-four. Matthew, Mark, Luke Chapter twenty-two, verse twenty-four. Look what it says. And there was also a now it's talking about the disciples here. There was also a what? Ooh, I underlined that in my Bible. That's a red flag right there. There was also a strife among them. Wonder what they were striving about, how they can help each other and how they can do things for the other ones and kind of lift the others up. No? And there was strife also among them. This is what the strife was. Which of them should be accounted what? What was their focus on? themselves. Oh, I'm greater than these other guys. I'm a better I'm a better disciple than John is That's pretty obvious. I told you years ago I was in a church on staff and uh there was a a fella got bent out of shape and one of the one of the leaders in the church really is in the lobby. It was church probably around two, three times bigger than our church. And it was be between Sunday school and church and the lobby was crowded and I was running around doing my stuff and I kinda came through and this guy was running his mouth, had a few people around him. And then he very loudly made this statement. He says, I'm the best Christian in this whole church. Wow. You know what my first thought was? He just proved he's the worst Christian in this whole church. Ingrown eyeballs. What does it do? It hurts relationships. Look what happens here. And they uh there was strife among them, the disciples Which of them should be counted the greatest? How many people agree? That sounds awfully childish for disciples to be doing that. Better be careful And he said unto them, the kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them, and they that exercise authority upon them uh upon them are called benefactors. In other words, you're he said, you're acting like the unsaved people. You're acting like the Gentiles, those who are without God, without Scripture, without Christ But look at verse 26. But ye shall not be so. But he that is greatest among you, let him be as the younger. And he that is chief as he that does serve. For whether is greater, he that sitteth at meat, or he that serveth? Is not he that sitteth in me, but Jesus speaking, I am among you as he that what? Serve it. Ingrown eyeballs, the danger of ingrown eyeballs, it brings disunity, division, it hurts the church Can you imagine if every one of us as members of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church had the attitude, best thing I can do, the greatest thing I can do is serve others. Be a blessing to others. How many times people walk into church with this attitude? All right, church, you better bless me today, or I ain't coming back. What if we walk in the church and say, Lord, I want you to use me to be a blessing to others? Ingrown eyeballs reverses that and it brings great harm to the church. I want to suggest to you, ingrown eyeballs hurt the relationships in the home. Ouch in the home. Uh I believe the root of all family breakdown The root of all family breakdown, whether it's between siblings, whether it's husband and wife, mother and father, parent and child, Brother, sister, brother, brother, sister, sister, the root of all breakdown I want to suggest to you is ingrown eyeballs. Becomes about me. I'm the priority. I'm the one that needs to be treated better. I'm the one. I, I, I, I We can get that cure for those ingrown eyeballs, and it's no longer about me, but it's about me giving, about me serving, about me being the lesser, not the greater. Then things will turn around. Then things turn around. The danger of ingrown eyeballs is they destroy relationships in a church, in a home. Let me put this one down. In with the Lord. With the Lord. One of the requirements for discipleship, and the Lord gives us three times in Matthew, Mark, and Luke, He says, one of the requirements for discipleship is to die thyself. Deny thyself. Take up his cross and follow me. He says, You want to be my disciple? You deny yourself. Don't focus on yourself. Don't exalt yourself. Don't worship yourself. Don't love yourself. You deny yourself. You take up your cross. You follow me. Listen, if I've got ingrown eyeballs, I'm not a disciple of Jesus Christ. I can call myself that. I can think myself to be one But if I'm exalting myself, I'm focused on myself, if it's about me, selfishness, and Jesus says, you cannot be my disciples. He uses those very words. You cannot be my disciple. The first stage of discipleship, to get my eyes off myself Get my love off of myself. Get it on the Lord and others. It destroys relationships with the Lord. If I have ingrown eyeballs, I am not a disciple of Jesus Christ If I have ingrown eyeballs, let me put it this way, I am out of fellowship with the Lord. I am out of fellowship. God told Isaiah, my ears aren't heavy that I cannot hear. He says, I will not hear because your sins Have separated between you and me. I tell you, selfishness, self-centeredness, self-exaltation, self-love, me, mine, I, I, I kills any kind of fellowship I have with my Lord. Kills that fellowship. So the dangers of ingrown eyeballs, number one, they destroy relationships. Number two, it diminishes our witness No one respects a self-centered person, amen or not? Boy, I just love him. He's so self-centered. Oh, I enjoy being with her. She's totally wrapped up in herself. Nobody says that. Nobody thinks that way. I have tremendous respect for him. He's totally self-centered. Nobody says that I tell you, when we get wrapped, when we get ingrown eyeballs and we get, it's all about me and my will and my way or the highway, I tell you, it kills our witness. Especially as Christians. All he thinks about is himself. It's all about him I tell you what, when we get, when we have self- when we have ingrown eyeballs, we're no different than this old sinful world. Right or wrong? This world needs to see somebody that's Christ-like. And it's no longer my will. No longer about me. Others, Lord, yes, others. Let this my motto be. Destroys our witness. It uh destroys our relationships, it diminishes our witness. I put this down. It is impossible to be selfish and Christ-like. Impossible. In fact, a selfish, when I'm selfish, I'm more devil-like than I am Christ-like. Number three, I put this down, another danger of ingrown eyeballs, it drowns out our joy. Now I've done this, been guilty of this enough myself, and I've seen it in other people. I've been around long enough. I've seen in other people the most miserable people in the world are selfish people Most miserable people in the world are people that are living for themselves. It's all about them. You know what I found? I found the happiest people in the world are people who are living for others. Serving others, doing stuff, not me. Here, let me be a help blessing. I've told this before, but a preacher that had a tremendous influence in my life for many years. had a lady come to him and just uh she met met with him uh during the week she said I need to talk to you came in and she says I'm unhappy I'm miserable I'm frustrated and she just went all these things And finally she goes, What can I do? What can I do? He goes, I'll tell you what to do. He says, go home and bake a whole bunch of blueberry muffins. I think he said blueberry muffins That's what I would have said. Go bake a bunch of blueberry muffins and go down to the nursing home, the people that never have anybody visit them, and you give those muffins out and you pray with those people and you visit them a little bit, and then you come back to me and We'll see how you feel. And she got mad. She says I ain't going down there doing that for those people. They ain't done nothing for me. They can't help me. And she went home mad He's all right. About a week later, she showed up smiling, happy. She said, Preacher, I got home. I got thinking about it. I thought, well, I'll give it a try. And she said, Preacher, this past week going to nursing home, giving out those muffins, has been the happiest week of my life. Others, others, others. You know what ingrown eyeballs do? destroys our joy. It drowns out any joy we have. Selfish people are unhappy people I put a fourth danger down of ingrown eyeballs. It develops into further sin. Like cancer, a little spot will show up on a lung or a liver And they'll say, boy, we gotta watch that. Hopefully we caught that in time. Why? Because if left untreated, that cancer will what? spread. Get into the bloodstream, get throughout the body, get into the bones. You've got to catch that. And that is exactly what ingrown eyeballs are like. If they're not caught, that selfishness, that self-centeredness, looking on my own things, if that is not caught and addressed quickly and early, It will lead to other other problems. The basis, I believe, of all other sins Is the sin of selfishness. I mentioned Isaiah chapter 14, where the devil looks to God, and five times with his fist raised to God, he said, I will, I will, I will. And brother, from that one case of ingrown eyeballs in the devil, it spread into the humanity, and then for all these many, many thousands of years, it has spread Unchecked, it will lead to other sins. I put this down. I think this is a good statement. There is no limit to the depravity of selfishness. Think about that. There's no limit to the depravity of selfishness. If I tolerate selfishness, there's no telling where that may lead to. Where that may lead to. The most vile, perverse, wicked crimes and sins committed by man find all their root in ingrown eyeballs, selfishness, me, my what I want. The danger of self of ingrown eyeballs destroys relationships, diminishes our witness, drowns out our joy, develops into further sin. We talked about the symptoms. You say, preacher, what's the cure? I look in the mirror of God's Word and I see I've got a case of ingrown eyeballs. What do I do? Well, I'm glad to say ingrown eyeballs can be cured. First of all, I need to recognize, confess, and forsake my selfishness. I just need to come clean with God and say, God, I've been awfully selfish. In this relationship, in this situation, on the job, wherever it may be, in the church, I've been selfish I tell you what, most selfish, most people with ingrown eyeballs don't realize they have ingrown eyeballs. They don't recognize it. New York Times did a poll a number of years ago And they polled people about selfishness. Thousands. They pulled, I don't know what the, I don't remember what the figures were, thousands of people. They polled them about selfishness. 17%, 17%, according to the New York Times, 17% said, yeah, I tend to be selfish. 17%. 60%. Overwhelming majority. 60% said, no, I'm not selfish. Everybody else is. Yeah, they're all selfish. You know, most selfish people don't see themselves as selfish. In fact Don't get mad at me. In fact, I venture to say while I'm preaching this message, a bunch of us were thinking of other people that are awfully selfish. Right or wrong, don't ever don't raise your hand. But I was describing the symptoms, I guarantee you some of us were thinking, yeah, he that's him, exactly. Yeah, that's her You know what? I'm never going to cure my ingrown eyeballs by viewing and pointing out the other people that have ingrown eyeballs. I need to recognize it myself. I need to acknowledge it. And I need to confess it and forsake it. Most people do not recognize their own selfishness. Proverbs 28, verse 13, says this: He that covereth his sin. Refuse to acknowledge it. He that covereth his sin shall not prosper. He's not going to grow. He's not going to have God's blessings. He that covers his sin. But He that confesseth and forsaketh shall find mercy. You know what the first step to curing ingrown eyeballs? First step to curing selfishness is. First step to curing an obsession with myself and pride is first of all acknowledge it, Lord, I've been awfully selfish. Lord, I confess that is wrong, and that's sin. It's hurting me and my people. Lord, I forsake it. I want to put that away. I want to die to self. I want to get rid of that. That's the first step. I'm so glad for 1 John 1. 9. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to what? Cleanse us from all unrighteousness. That reminds me when Jesus would touch the lepers and cleanse them. You know, when you and I come to God, we confess our sin. God, I'm sinned. This is wrong. This is disobedience to you, and I want to forsake it. And God forgives us, and then he cleanses us. I can be free of that. I can be free of that selfishness. I could be free of that which is making me so miserable. That was just hurting my relationships. Number one, acknowledge, confess, and forsake it. Another cure for ingrown eyeballs is to renew my mind into the mind of Christ. Come back here to Philippians, real quick. As I finish this up, Philippians. And uh chapter 2, now he says verse 4, he says, Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others. Get your eyes off yourself, get those ingredient eyeballs turned around Now look at verse 5. Let this mind, this attitude, this way of thinking, this perspective, let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. Now look Who being the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation and took upon him the form of a what? Servant, and made in the likeness of man. Look at verse 8. And being found in fashion of man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. You know what he's saying? He's saying, You want to cure those ingrown eyeballs? You start thinking the way Jesus thinks. You start seeing yourself and others the way Jesus did. He humbled himself. He became a servant, became obedient, even unto death. No longer about Jesus, no longer about him. He was rich, yet for your sake and my sake he became poor. Put aside his self. He got his eyes on others. I'm so glad. I'm so glad that Jesus Christ considered me worth becoming a servant and dying on the cross for. Amen or not? That's the mentality, that's the mind that I need to develop in my own art and life towards others And those eyeballs will start coming back out around. They'll start turning around and look out on others and look on the things of others Number one, acknowledge it, confess it, forsake it. Number two, get the mind of Christ, see God and myself and others away. God does, his perspective. And the last of all, put this down. Dr. Robertson used to tell us down at Highland Park over and over and over, die to self, die to self. Just resolve to die to self. Just say, all right, it's not me. Boy somebody says or does something or something comes up, that old self flares up. No, no, no, no. Die to self. Crucify that. Just nail it to the cross. Then serve. Give. Help. Look not on my own things, but the things of others. Dr. Roberson, I've told this before also, but he said one time, this was before they had the big auditorium, they were running four, five, six thousand packed into this this It was called the old Chauncey Gould Auditorium. And there was just no room. They overflowed crowds, every service. And he said a lady came to him after the service one time very upset. She said, Doctor, I heard him tell this. He said, she came and said, Dr. Robertson, somebody was sitting in my seat this morning, and I am not coming back. Whoa. I mean that's pretty serious, right? Somebody sit in your seat. He said, he said, without thinking, I just responded, you need to die to self. She got mad. She went out. He said next week she came back. And she was sitting up over here. And afterwards she came to me and said, Dr. Robertson, you were right. I was just being selfish. Because I found another seat. I'm fine. I'm fine. Die to self. Just die to self. Tell you it saved a lot of marriages. Save a lot of ministries. Tell you, we'd have a more effective witness, this old sinful world. We just died a cell. I like this quote. I don't know where I got it, came across it somewhere. The smallest package ever wrapped up Is the man wrapped up in himself? Smallest package ever wrapped is the man wrapped up in himself Ingrown eyeballs. We're born with them. We better address it or it's going to spread. It's going to get worse. God will help us. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. To recognize our own ingrown eyeballs, or to help us to see how serious it is. And Lord, I pray you'd help us to take the steps necessary to cure that And get those eyes turned around off of ourselves, off of our own things, and every man also on the things of others. Others The heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, Preacher, yeah, God God touched me this morning. God spoke to me. God got me this morning. I know that they're there Those ingrown eyeballs, and you'd say, Preacher, pray for me that I'll acknowledge it. I'll do what I need to do to get these eyes off of myself. Is there any like that this morning? Preacher, I see it, I see it. The Spirit of God Touch my heart. Spirit of God addressed me. Put his finger on it. Now it's up to us. The ball's in our court. We're going to trust the Lord and make the adjustments in our thinking. Acknowledging it, dying to sell, or are we going to let them be and get worse? Maybe those online, God spoke to your heart, you're at home there. Let's just make an altar. We've got an altar here in church, at home, the sofa or chair, wherever you're at. Let's just come and humble ourselves before God, not like the disciples who strove who's the greatest. No, let's come by to self. Humble ourselves, say, Lord, correct us, correct us. You're listening, you're not saved, you're here in the service, you never trusted Christ. Your number one need is to come to Christ in humility, trusting Jesus, your Savior. Forgive you, have eternal life. We encourage you to do that. We can help you. You'll just acknowledge it. Father, bless our invitation now. I ask you in Jesus' name. Amen