Turn to Matthew chapter five. If you remember, I think it was last year we started a series on interacting with other Christians in the church family. It's been a couple weeks ago anyway. We started this one. It's the 19th of January. So we're going to pick it up interacting with our enemies. By the way, uh had a good uh wild game dinner on uh Saturday night up with Brother Sean Updograf up in Bradenville, Pennsylvania, and uh they had Um they told me I believe there was uh a hundred and eighty-eight folks came out to the thing and they had a nice crowd. Uh the place was filled real good. had uh great food. I took um my son Sam gave Dan and I uh some snakes that he had killed and scun out. I don't know if some of you saw I was able to take them along and incorporate them into it, and that was really uh quite a hit. Folks really enjoyed that. And uh when it I counted five Folks and had raised their hand that they had prayed, Trust the Lord with me as Savior. So I was hoping for a little bit more than that, but you never know. You know, the seeds planted. Uh they had uh one of the guys in the crowd was an avowed atheist. I don't know if he was one of the ones that responded. Sean was telling me. Another guy was telling me. There was an associate. How many folks recognize his name Arnold Palmer? The golfer, one of his buddies was in the sir in the uh thing that golfs with him. I guess he lives up in the area there somewhere And uh so anyway, he heard the gospel. I knew who he was. He had pointed him out. I didn't see him respond, but he listened very intently. And so um Had a great time. Did something I've never done before in my life in the ministry is I had to uh I could not do I was supposed to preach revival Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday And it was just no way I could do it. I hated that. And so apparently I had referred Mike Clark to them. We all know Mike Clark. He was available to us. And uh we said, you know, he could preach for you, he's a good preacher And so, but I believe they canceled the meetings. I haven't been able to get a hold of Sean yet, so uh pray that uh I didn't hurt them in any way with that there, but I really hated that. Matthew chapter 5, verse 43 The Bible says, Ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemy. But I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that curse you Do good to them that hate you and pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you. Let's pray. Father, please bless now as we pick up this lesson here. And pray you'd help us incorporate our lives and that we can make a difference in this world. We can have an influence. Our actions would influence others for the cause of Christ. In Jesus' name. Amen. Now if you remember, a couple weeks ago we pointed out one of the unpleasant things about the Christian life is the fact is that we end up with enemies one way or another. And we're talking about, we're not just talking about Christians having uh disagreements with Christians, you know, or getting crosswords with uh people in the family. You know, that type of stuff happens. You know, you get in the flesh sometimes and you say something you don't mean to say and it hurts someone, you have to apologize for that. And if you remember I said In that type of setting, you know, those things happen, uh, we we get over it, we love each other, we get up and we go on. You know, that's that. But that's not what we're talking here. We're talking about In a sinful world, folks who are opposed to what God would have us to do and be. People who are our enemies Now, we pointed out and we pointed out that our passage here assumes that we have them. He doesn't say, if you have enemies, love them. God assumes that we're going to have those. As much as we don't like that, nevertheless, it's a reality. The Lord Jesus Christ had enemies. King David had enemies. Apostle Paul had enemies. Elijah, the prophets, had enemies, and uh whether we like it or not, we're going to end up with them too. An enemy, we said, is one who hates me. Definition of an enemy, one who hates me, someone who is hostile. to me and what I'm trying to be as a person and what I'm trying to accomplish in life, someone who is in opposition, that wants what I'm trying to accomplish, and as Christians, what are we trying to accomplish? As Christians, what are we trying to be in life? Hey, we want to do the will of God. We want to be Christ-like. We want to be what God intends for us to be. So we're making an effort to be that. We're trying to grow in our faith, mature, be everything God wants us to be. Inevitably, we're going to come across folks who are opposed to that, who do not want us to do or be what God wants us to do and be. And so they are our enemies. Now, I put, remember, we said there's three kinds of enemies, at least the way I say it, perceived enemies. Folks who are not necessarily our enemies, but we get it in our head that they are. We said sometimes a teenager towards their parents is like this Parents don't let them do this, that, and the other. Oh, they hate me. They don't want me to be everything I want to be. When in reality they don't hate them. The Galatians, uh the believers at Galatia had that idea about Paul He was preaching to them the truth, and uh they were viewing Paul as their enemy. He's opposed to us. He doesn't love us, he doesn't care about us, when in reality he was just telling them the truth And so perceived enemies who are not necessarily that way. Then we said practical enemies, and we pointed out Simon, where because of his immaturity, his actions His actions produced the results of enemy-like type things. Even though he was sincere, he was just a young Christian and he wasn't helping the cause of Christ. He was being in opposition to it, even though he wasn't really opposed to it. Does that make sense? And so in practicality, he his actions became enemies. And then there's what we call the proven enemies. These were folks who are motivated by hatred or jealousy or whatever. So we talked about all of that. I can't find anywhere in Scripture where I'm supposed to be someone's enemy. I can't find I I look through Scripture, I'm uh you know I'm open to somebody showing me something I'm missing here But I don't find anywhere God expects me to be somebody's enemy, a brother, sister, or a human being's enemy. So now I want to tonight, and I've got a uh actually the reason I look and I'm uh feel so great is the doctor gave me codeine. And I've been saving them up, and I took a whole bunch right before church tonight, and I feel great. But I'm afraid they're gonna run out. So I gotta get all of this stuff in really quick before that medicine wears off. So um uh let me um by the way that you do feel pretty good with that stuff, you know I want us tonight look at basic biblical principles in dealing with our enemies. Then probably next Wednesday night, uh we'll look at I want to uh I have a list of practical things to do. Now you get this principle out there and then they say, alright, how how do you do that? How do you implement that? I'll look at them next week. I just want to give the principles tonight Basic biblical principles. Look here at verse 44. He says, But I say unto you, now I think we touched on this earlier, but what is Jesus saying here? Look at the beginning of verse 43. Ye have heard that it hath been said. Then verse 44, but I say unto you, what's Jesus doing here? He's establishing his authority. He says, you know, you've heard this other from before. Maybe the Old Testament, the scribes. You've heard all this stuff out here. But listen, as your authority, I am telling you, this is the way you need to be. These are the principles you need to live by. So the world's out there saying, all right, how do you deal with enemies? And by the way, don't we're not even talking about political enemies. Alright, so we're not talking about Al-Qaeda. We're not talking about communism and that type of thing. You deal with political enemies differently than you deal necessarily with individual personal situations. So I'm not suggesting that we as a nation, you know, not defend ourselves. So let's just completely get that out of the idea. But the world out there, that world's idea is this. Do unto others before they do unto you. Right? Isn't that the way the world sees it? Man, you gotta get it out there first. Don't get mad, get even. That's where you've heard it said unto you. But Jesus says, but I say unto you, the world says, keep honking, I'm reloading. You get the world's philosophies on bumper stickers, you know. Um to err is human, to forgive is out of the question. So that's pretty much what the world says unto you. Jesus says, but I say unto you. Now, what are the principles? I want to give you the first principle, and it is not found. Here in this passage. We've got to go to Proverbs chapter 16. And we're going to come back to this, but Proverbs chapter 16, I think, if I understand scripture right, this is the very first place I've got to begin. Say, I'm Christian, I want to do right, I want, I want to please the Lord, I want my life to be everything God intends for it to be, and here I've got somebody or somebody who are opposed to me And man, they're just hostile. And how do I deal with this? First thing I've got to do, Proverbs 16, look at verse 7. Proverbs 16, 7. When a man's ways please the Lord, he maketh even his enemies to be at peace with him. The first thing I see in Scripture, and I'm going to deal with these individuals or individuals who are hostile to me, is number one, I must get thoroughly right with God. Before I interact with them, before I have any interaction, or I'm going to try and deal with them in a Christian manner, I've got to get alone with God and make sure that my ways please the Lord When a man's ways please the Lord, he maketh even his enemies to be at peace with him. It is impossible to properly interact with my enemies without being right with God. I can't do it. Let me ask you a question. Now don't be sideonite. If I am not right with go back in the early part of this series. We went to Galatians 5. We said all of us are operating under one of two influences. Remember? I'm either operating under what? The flesh, or I'm operating under the spirit. And then we had the works of the flesh and the fruit of the spirit and what those two operating systems produce. And so, if I am not, if my ways do not please the Lord, Proverbs 16:7, if I do not please the Lord, which operating system am I working under? The flesh. I'm not under the Spirit, because then my ways would please the Lord. So if I'm out of fellowship with God, if I'm not right with God, I'm back under the flesh I've got the works of the flesh, and if somebody's going to be hostile to me, even in the do you know that even you can try and be a good Christian, live the Christian life in the flesh Sure you can. A person can have the right goals, but try and accomplish them in fleshly means through my own determination, my own power. And so If I'm right when I get right with God, I'm no longer under the operating system of the flesh. I'm now under the spirit, the spirit of God, and my ways please the Lord. So it's impossible to interact correctly with my enemies if I'm not right with God in the first place. But look look at a verse here. And this caught my attention. When a man's ways please the Lord, he Maketh even his enemies to be at peace with him. Who's the he there? When a man's ways please the Lord, he maketh even his enemies. Who's it? Yeah, it's it's a small H there, but when a man's pleased the Lord, that's just what I'm suggesting. When a man's ways please the Lord, he, the Lord Maketh my the my enemies to be at peace with me. This is what I think he's saying here. I think he's saying that when I'm right with God When I get thoroughly right with God, God then begins to work in the heart of my enemy, in his heart, to work and bring him about to be at peace with me. When I get right with God, in other words, when I get right with God, I've got God working on my behalf. God's now involved in this thing If I'm not right with the Lord, if I'm out of fellowship with God, I'm dealing with that enemy, I'm basically on my own. You know But when I get ready with God, then God makes even my enemies, they'll be at peace with me. But God begins working in their heart. God starts getting them to a point where they're not so hostile towards me. Which then makes it easier to do the following principles that we pick up later on. Pray for them, whatnot. And so if they're at peace with me, if they're my enemy, but they're at peace with me It's a whole lot nicer to be good to them, right? It's gonna be a whole lot nicer to love an enemy that's at peace with me than one that's hostile with me, right? And so if I get right with God, that gets God working in the heart of my enemy, gets them around into a frame of mind, perhaps you could say That it's a whole lot easier now for me to do the things that I need to do as a Christian in my relationship with them. Now I think Verse 7 is a general statement. I don't think it's a specific promise. Now, you could take issue with that, and I'd be open to that. But I think in studying this and looking at this, I think he's making a general statement here because I found that in Scripture there's a lot of folks who were thoroughly right with God, and their enemies were not at peace with them They were intense against them. Would you agree with me that Elijah on Mount Carmel, when he prayed down fire from heaven and ate uh and the fire ate up the sacrifice And uh he beheaded the four hundred prophets of Baal. Would you agree with me he was thoroughly right with God? Sure His ways pleased the Lord. He was doing exactly what God said. And God answered by fire in a tremendous way. If anybody was Ways were pleasing the Lord at that given time, it was Elijah. Let me ask you a question. Was Jezebel at peace with him? Hardly. She goes, man, what you did to them is going to happen to you by morning time. And her hostility was increased. So I find some exceptions to the statement here, and that tells me that this is a general statement. When I'm living my life pleasing to God, I'm living under the fruit of the Holy Spirit Those that are opposed to what I'm trying want to be and need to be as a Christian, those that God will work in their hearts and they will be, in a general sense, they'll be less hostile towards me. So number one Uh, first thing I gotta do is get thoroughly right with God. Now, come back to Pro uh Matthew chapter five Let's pick up the second principle. And did you notice that in our interactions with varying types of Christians, it often begins with getting right with God? That was the case with our fallen. If any man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual, restore such a one. A lot of times our interactions with other Christians in the family of God, it all begins with me getting right with God first, and that's true here. Let's go to principle number two, Matthew 5, verse 44. Again, he says, but I say unto you, you've heard it said, hate your en love your enemies. I mean, uh, love your neighbors, hate your enemies, but I say unto you, love your enemies. That's principle number two. I'm supposed to love my enemies. The word love there, anybody want to take a guess? What Greek word do you think that word love comes from? Nope, it's not Phileo It's the agape love. It's the love that God has, unconditional love towards mankind. And I had a suspicion that that's what it was when I looked it up. I said, I'm curious, what what word did God use for love here? And so I looked it up. It's the word agape. And it's interesting, and I think I knew this before and just hadn't read it lately or whatever. But as got reading on that word, um that word is used in the Greek language. The word agape love is never used In Greek literature, it's never used for man's love for man. It never is. In fact, not until Christianity is the term agape introduced. as to people loving other people with that type of love. In the Greek culture, it was not, that was a God love. That was a divine love. It was something above and outside the realm of human experience. The Greeks outside of Christianity didn't even comprehend that that's something humans would do to each other, would love each other with an unconditional love. But Christianity introduced it, and the word is used here, that we are to love not just our brothers and sisters in Christ. Man, I love this church dearly. It seemed I came over in the office last evening for a little bit It seemed like it'd been a year since I was over here. And uh, you know, getting ready for church tonight, it seemed like it'd been a year since I'd been at church And um I I I'm not talking about the building, just the people. I just thank God for this church. And you know, but he's not saying here that we are to agape love our brothers and sisters, we're to do that to our enemies. A love that finds its motivation not in the one being loved, but in the one loving. You say, love my enemy. There's nothing lovable about them. That's the whole point. I'm not supposed to love them because they're lovable. I'm supposed to love them because God loves me unconditionally, and I need to love them unconditionally. Now, that's easy to say It's a whole lot harder to do. Now notice it says, love your enemies. As we said, the enemy is one that's in opposition, one that's being hateful to me. Now here's a question. How would you define if somebody came up to you and asked you how they would say, what is love? What do you mean, love your enemies? What is that? Most of the world would say you love something, well you have this nice feeling, this warm fuzzy feeling about it. I got some enemies. I don't have any warm fuzzy feelings about them. You know? And the I the thing is, the point I'm trying to make is this. Love is not a feeling. It doesn't mean I have to have this this all gushy feeling towards the one that's would like for me to be dead. It's that love is a decision I'm making. This idea here is love your enemies. That's a command of Jesus Christ. That means I'm making a decision That I am going to love this one, and it's not based on how I feel about them, but it is a decision I'm making, it's a commitment I'm making for the well-being of that person. I love them. I want what's best for them. I want God's will to be done in their life. I want God's blessings on their life. I'm making decision. I love them. That is a desire of my heart. It's a decision of my heart. It's commitment I'm making to their well-being. It's not some feeling I have I think that's what's killing us, our marriages and and our family relationships and even our church relationships. We have this idea that, well, if we love someone, then we have all this gushy feeling That feeling may come later on at some point, but that's not the basis of what love is. So I love my enemies, and we'll get into some practical ways to do this. But look at the next one here Bless them which curse you. I put it this way, bless my enemies. And I don't mean bless them out. Bless means to speak well of, to praise. So bless them which what? Curse you. Right here's my enemy. He's cursing me. What does it mean to curse? This is the strict definition, to express desire for another's misfortune or ruin. So here's somebody, they're hostile to me, they're my enemy, they don't want me to be and do what God wants me to be and do, and they are saying things that are uh uh that are going to try and hurt me. They're saying things that are going to try and ruin my testimony, try and get me out of fellowship with God. And so I'm to bless them. I'm to praise them and speak well of. You say, well, what am I supposed to do? Why? To say stuff about is nice and it's not true? No, it's not what God's saying. In fact, I believe if my decision to if I make the decision to love my enemy That will enable me, alright, I've already made a decision, alright, I love this person. Excuse me, I want them to Experience God's blessings in their life. I want them to be everything that God tends for them to be. And I make that decision, that commitment, that is my desire for them. I love them. Then that is going to enable me to sincerely say things to praise them. I'll find some way, something about them that I can praise them, some virtue about them that I can magnify. Now what do we tend to do? If we have an enemy, somebody that's opposed to us, somebody's trying to hurt us, we find their vices. We try and find something wrong. Something they did wrong, and boy, we want to blow that up and make sure everybody knows that. Isn't that how politics works? Well, this other guy wants the office that I want. Hey, find some dirt on him and just blow it out of proportion. What would politics, what would our campaigns be like if everyone operated by Matthew 54 Oh no, my partner's a my uh my opponent is a great guy. He's an honest guy. No, he's honest. You know, uh we wouldn't know who to vote for Just like we don't know now. But uh my decision to love my enemy enables me to sincerely bless them. to sincerely speak well of them. So number four, let me give you a fourth principle. Do good to my enemies, right there. Do good to them that hate you. We are to operate by a different standard than the world does. We're to operate by a higher standard. The world says, do good to someone that's going to hurt me, that wants to destroy me? Yeah We don't operate by the world standards. Let me give you the fifth one here real quick. We're to pray for our enemies. What do you do when you pray for someone? You stand on stand before God on their behalf. There's a person that's out. They do not want me to be the kind of Christian God intends for me. They don't want me to do the things God wants me to do. They are opposed to me. They're hostile to me. What do I do? Fifth principle is I go to God and stand before God on their behalf for their well-being. God, please help them. I'm getting a little ahead. I'm getting into next week's message a little bit. But a good way to view our enemies, it helps us do this, is to view an enemy not so much as an enemy, but as someone that's broken. There's something not firing right. There's something not working right. Or they wouldn't be opposed to what I'm trying to do. You follow what I'm saying? And so I come to God on their behalf and say, Lord, something's not right. Something's not hitting on all cylinders there. Something's broken. Please intervene there. Fix that. Help show me what I can do to fix it And I pray for their behalf. I believe this is a true story. A Chinese Christian, years ago over in China, very poor, Um after the communist uh uprising, I think it was the Boxer Rebellion, uh there was a Chinese Christian, as I said, I believe it's a true story, uh he had a little rice patty And you had to buy water from the government, and what they would do is they had little pump stations, and he would pump it, he would pump it down a little irrigation trail, and it would go into his rice patty. Well all the rice patties were connected by these little irrigation ditches and what you would do is, and they did this out west when we lived out there, you would uh block off the section of the irrigation ditch and then it would fill your rice paddy. was Christian, was a very humble man, very very honest man. He was either daily or weekly, I don't remember what it was. He would buy his water and they would pump it into his little rice patty But his neighbor was an atheist, was a communist, hated the Christian, everything he stood for, despised his God. His honesty and humility and all that. And what he would do, as soon as he saw him starting to pump on the one end of his little rice patty field, he would come over to the irrigation ditch and he would open it up And all the water would just run through his rice patty over into the communist rice patty, and his patty would get all watered up. And uh his allotment of water was uh the Christians' allotment of water was over, he'd quit the pump, he'd come out and his rice patty would be dry. It all would run into the neighbors. And this went on. And he wanted to do right. He wanted to be a good Christian. But here this guy is stealing his water, stealing his livelihood Stealing his provision for his family. And uh so he prayed about it, prayed about it, prayed about it. He determined he was going to give no harsh words to his neighbor. He determined he was not going to confront him. He's just going to ask God to bring a solution to this. Finally, we got it figured out. The day it was for him to get water They turned the pump on. He went immediately back to the back of his water, his little rice patty, and he removed the gate for his neighbor. And he let it run, and he would fill his neighbors up first, then he'd quickly close it, and then he would get whatever water he could still. And most of the time it was enough for both. And he kept doing that And the neighbor, the atheistic communist, saw that he had been stealing water from his neighbor all this time. He never got angry, he never confronted them, never reacted, but instead he Treated him kindly and made sure he had his water first and then used that. And that began to work on him. And the story goes that as he did that, the two fellows became friends And as a result of their friendship, the atheistic communists ended up becoming a Christian and trusting Christ. Why? Because he did good to them that despitefully used him. He prayed for him that was opposed to him. He loved his enemies. He's followed these principles. And I think it all goes back to where he started, when this Christian fellow started, the first thing he did was, I'm going to do what is right. And that leads me back to Proverbs 16, where it says, When a blaze man's please the Lord, he maketh even his enemies to be at peace. Isn't that something? Now I'd like to think we're not we don't get all these enemies out there out to get us. But God said that they're part of it. We see it every Christian is in scripture had enemies. And so they're going to be there. Let's just determine we're going to be right with God and we're going to operate by God's standard. Father in heaven, please bless now our invitation. And Lord I pray that we would be uh uh take a strong stand, Lord. We'd be uh true to your word and your your uh uh Standards, but Lord help us to be gracious and kind when this whole world is opposed to what we believe you have us to do. Blessed now we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.