F you five. While you're turning there, I do want to mention uh wintertime our displays with the sword in are kind of go slow down a good bit, so we get backed up, we get a backlog of copies of the Sword of Lord, if you would, if you have someplace you can take some, maybe at the workplace or a laundromat, the doctor's office, wherever you could take some, maybe give them out to somebody or put them somewhere. Somewhere uh folks can read them, uh we get a little better use out of them. Of course, when springtime hits, summer hits, then they start moving, then we don't have enough. We can't keep everything full. But um uh I uh want to mention that if you can have a place to give them out, go ahead and take some. I read about a fella, a truck driver in Broken Bow, Nebraska. Anybody here ever been to Broken Bow, Nebraska? I think I Rogue through at one time. Uh a truck driver pulled into an all-night truck stop. The waitress served him. And uh while he was sitting there eating, three tough-looking leather-jacketed motorcyclists Hell's Angel motorcyclist came in. They saw him and decided to give him a hard time. They verbally abused him. One of them grabbed a hamburger off his plate. Another one took a handful of his French fries The third guy picked up his coffee and began to drink it. Now, put yourself in that situation. How would you respond if that happened? I'll tell you how that This guy was fine. Instead of doing what the average person would, he calmly rose up, picked up his check, walked to the front of the room put the check and his money on the cash register and went out the door. The waitress followed him out and uh just kind of see what he would do, stood watching out the door as the truck drove down on the on down the road When she came back in, one of the bikers said to her, Well, he's not much of a man, is he? She replied, I don't know about that, but he sure ain't much of a truck driver He said, why do you say that? He just ran over three motorcycles on his way out of the parking lot. Now we're talking tonight about interacting with enemies. And uh let's read this passage, have a word of prayer, and I'll just share. Tonight's going to be more of an introductory type thing, kind of laying the groundwork, and we'll get into detail a little bit uh later on future. messages. But look at verse 43 of Matthew chapter 5. Ye have heard that it hath been said, thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemies. Alright, that's the world's approach, right? You agree with me? That's the way the world would do it. Verse 44, but I say unto you, now here we have the authority of Jesus Christ. Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you That ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven. For he maketh his Son to shine on the evil and the good, he sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust For if you love them which love you, what reward have you? Do not even the publicans the same? The world does that, he's saying. The unsaved people do that. And if you salute your brethren only, what do you do more than the others? Do not even the publicans so? Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect. Interaction with my enemies. Let's have a word of prayer and I'll share some thoughts with you. Father, we ask now that you would bless our study of your word I yield myself to you, Lord. I present my body anew this hour. I ask you to fill me with your spirit. And Lord, I pray you'd take us, the folks that are here You'd use us to be a testimony of this old sinful world, of your love and your grace and your mercy, the power of the gospel in our lives, and how it affects our living. Uh bless this study again I ask, Lord. In Jesus' name. Amen. I was saved at the age of nineteen, as you very well know. When I first got saved, I was pretty ignorant as far as What genuine biblical Christianity was. As a child, we had been to Sunday school and church, and you know, I knew some of the basic things I was taught, and I thanked God for the Sunday school and the impact it had on me as a young child. But When I got saved, I had it pictured in my mind as Christianity and Christians being some sort of utopia. Where everybody loved each other, there was never discord, there was never disagreement, just everything was uh absolutely perfect and flowed uh like well-oiled machinery. Boy, I was in for a surprise. Didn't take long to realize Christians are still human, right? Christians uh have uh still have the old nature, we still have these conflicts. And so we've been looking the last month or so At living the family life is what I'm calling it. What does the Bible say about interacting with God's people, the family of God? We've looked at a number of these. Now we're approaching a subject here That's unique. Dealing with our enemies. Now see if you don't agree with me on this. How many folks are glad you ventured out tonight? So far, you're glad to get in church. Good. See if you agree with me on this. There's times when we get on each other's nerves. Anybody? Now I know the pastor never gets on anybody's church nerves, but church members, anybody can I get a witness? Sometimes you know about that gets on my nerves when you don't respond, and I ask. But even the best of friends At time, do not things don't click. And this, for lack of a better term, getting on each other's nerves nerves, some that was cute. When the boys were small, they would say some, they would say this. They said, man, Sam's really getting on my nerds. My nerds. That's what they thought it was. But when uh when this when this friction comes up within even good friends, God's people, sometimes that will lead to unkind words. You just get aggravated with somebody, and the flesh gets in there, and man, you say something unkind, and later on you say, Man, I didn't mean that. Anybody ever been there? Anyone? Sometimes it'll lead to disagreements. Just because, you know, there's just that friction there. There are differences of opinions about something. It leads to disagreement, unkind words. Sometimes I hate to say this, but even among God's peoples, brothers and sisters in Christ, it leads to arguments. We get in an argument over something that's really not that significant But nevertheless, it happens. But here's the point I want to make. Those things happen, even within the people of God, but in the end, we love each other. That's my brother in Christ. That's my sister in Christ. And I said some things I didn't mean to say, or they did some things that they really didn't mean. And when it's all said and done, you know, listen, uh, we're brothers and sisters in Christ. We want to keep the union of Christ. We want to glorify and please the Lord. We love each other and we care for each other. We appreciate each other. And so we go forward. Something happened and we dealt with this, some people we disagree with and things like that in some of the previous subjects. And it's amazing how much the Bible Discusses all that, deals with that. But we go forward, we try to do better, we try to be a blessing to one another, and we go on. Now there's one aspect Of living on a sinful and fallen planet that is very unpleasant, and that is this. I'm not talking about a disagreement with people who care about each other But I'm talking about having enemies. Enemies. Um You say a Christian shouldn't have any enemies. Hey, do you know Jesus had enemies? King David had enemies. The Apostle Paul, probably humanly the greatest Christian that I know of, I've ever read of. He had some intense enemies. Elijah had enemies. In fact, it's hard to come up with any man or woman of God in the Bible that did have enemies to some degree. So it's a part of life. In fact, if you would, look at our text, verse 44 again. He says, But I say unto you, love your enemies. Did you notice there, Jesus is basing his statement on the assumption that you have enemies? He doesn't say, hey, if you happen to have some enemies, love them. He doesn't say, hey, you know, if there's enemies in your life, love them. He just says, love your enemies. It sounds to me like he's assuming what? You've got to love your enemies. Do good to them. Bless them which curse you. Do good to them which hate you. Pray for them. Which despitefully use you and persecute you. I mean it's a matter-of-fact statement. And so we have them So my next thought in preparing this and studying the scriptures on this, you know, several things came to mind. One was how much the Bible talks about God's people dealing with their enemies and interacting with them. So I got looking at this, I thought, well, what does God mean by an enemy? What exactly is he referring to? So I did a little word study on the word enemy there and how it's used in the Bible, and I boiled it down to three basic aspects of a definition. First of all, an enemy in the Bible refers to someone who hates me. They feel strongly against me. They may have strong emotions against me. They do not like me. It is someone who is hostile to me. We're a small crowd tonight. We can interact here a little bit. How would you define someone being hostile towards you? What would that What's that mean? Alright, they're unkind. They're nasty to you. They don't like you. They don't like you, so that fits in with hating us All right, they're angry. To me, the word hostile has an idea of not being passive, but being aggressive about it. I mean this is not just somebody that goes by and says, oh, I don't like that guy. But this is something that they are actively expressing. Their animosity towards you. You follow me? They're hostile. It's not a dormant feeling. It's a very active frame of mind. They are hostile. Would you agree there were people that were hostile towards the Lord Jesus Christ? They were out after him. Several number of places in the gospel it says they sought how they might destroy him. They didn't just not like him. They were hostile. They wanted to do him damage. They wanted to shut him up. Shut him down. Take him off the off the scene completely. So, someone who hates me, someone who is hostile to me, and this kind of falls in the same definition, someone who is up in opposition to me. Whatever I'm trying to accomplish, whatever I'm trying to be, they are in opposition to that. They do not want that to happen. They don't want me to be what I'm trying to be. They don't want me to accomplish what I'm trying to accomplish. They don't want me to get to where I'm wanting and need to go, they're my enemy. They're my enemy. Now I just want to lay the groundwork tonight. Next week we'll pick up on what we talked about tonight, but I want to talk about three kinds of enemies. That you and I face, as a Christian or just as a person in general? Three kinds of enemies, the way I see it anyway. Number one, and these are the people we're going to have to deal with. These are the people the Bible addresses and interacting with them. Number one, I put it this way: perceived enemies Perceived enemies. In other words, someone who is not really my enemy, but I see them as an enemy. You follow what I'm saying? They might not have that animosity that I think they do. They're really not hostile towards me, but I perceive them as being hostile They're not really trying to hinder me or oppose me. They have no strong feelings against me. But for whatever reason, I've got it into my head that they do They're not really my enemy, but I perceive them as that. You say, where in the world do you find in the Bible a perceived enemy? I'm glad you asked. Take your Bibles and turn to Galatians chapter 4 with me. Galatians chapter four. And uh get there right before Ephesians. Galatians four. And verse number sixteen. I'm curious how many folks are using a new Bible for 2011? Anybody start out with a new Bible? Yeah, I got mine here. And it's different than my other ones, so Uh it takes me a little bit to find the pages sometimes. Galatians chapter 4, and look with me if you would at verse 16 Before I read this, before you look at it too much, let me ask you this question. Was Paul the friend of the Galatians or their enemy? He was their friend. He wanted to help them. He had their good in mind. He had their well-being in mind. But look at verse 16 of Galatians chapter 4. Like I said, I got a new Bible here. Alright. He asked them this question. Am I therefore become your what? Enemy because I tell you the truth The Galatians apparently had gotten it into their head that Paul didn't like them They had got it into their head that Paul was against them. That Paul was their enemy. He was hostile towards them. Now the question is: was Paul their enemy? No, absolutely not. They had a misperception of Paul's motives, what he was trying to accomplish, his goals. in his interaction with them, and they viewed him as an enemy. Now, can you think in our everyday living, in our interaction with people, how that could happen in our experience? Where you where somebody would think someone's their enemy and they're really not. How about this? Okay, that would be some interaction with the community. But I thought of this one. What about a t a young person and their parent? How many people were thinking of that Uh the young person thinks my parents hate me. They don't let me go out and stay till two in the morning. They don't let me go to the parties where the other kids. My parents hate me. They don't love me. They just they don't want me to have any fun in life. That is a misperception. There's a lot of young people because their parents love them, their parents have some restrictions, their parents have some requirements for them. And they get this idea in their head that my parents are opposed to me. They don't want me to be what I want to be. They don't want this. They don't want that. They're my enemy And they're not really your enemy. Listen, if a young person, I know they're out with uh uh James for the most part, but if a young person has godly parents that put restrictions up and have requirements for them, rather than viewing it as their enemy, they ought to thank God for that parent I've used this, I mentioned this before, but when I was youth pastor in Indianapolis, we had uh a good, we had about 40, between 40 and 50 teens came regular. About half of them, I would say, came in on the buses. You say, Kathy, probably half, maybe a little more, came in on the buses. That means their parents were for the most part were not Christians. Their parents did not come to church. They were getting little or no support from their parents in their spiritual life and their Christian growth. And so, but they would come in. They had gotten saved various means, and they would come in Wednesday night and Sunday, and we'd run the bus Sunday night and pick them in, much what James does. The interesting thing was we had another group who were kids from Christian homes. And the kids from the Christian homes, their parents had restrictions, their parents had expectations and requirements and whatnot for them. I remember one in particular. In fact, he's grown now, married, has kids, faithful to a church. In fact, he speaks in church occasionally. He emails me all the time. He came in my office one time, Charles. And he said to me, he said, preacher, he says, I wish, he was like 15, 16 at the time. Pastor Dennis, he said, I wish my parents cared about what I do and don't do. I wish my parents cared whether I smoked dope or not. I wish they cared whether I drank or not. I wish they cared whether I dated Christians or not. I wish I had Christian parents. Isn't that interesting? At the same time, in that same group, we had kids of the same age were in there and all they could do was gripe about their parents. I can't do this, I have to do that, this is that, and this, that, and the other. And here's another kid wishing his parents. Those kids viewed their parents as enemies when in reality their parents were one of the best friends they had. And loved them. Was trying to help them. My question always comes up: who knows more about life? Someone who's been living it for 40 years or somebody who lived it for 15 years? And a two-thirds of those fifteen years has been a little kid. And so there's perceived enemies, people who really do care about me. People who really do love me, people who really do have my well-being in mind, and yet because of self-centeredness, immaturity, or ignorance. I perceive them as being my enemy. That was the case with Paul. So that's a parent-child situation. Here in the situation with Galatians, it was a preacher and the people But Paul don't love us, he don't care about us. Why is he pre- Man? And look notice the why they thought he was the enemy. What's the verse say? Verse 16 there. Am I therefore become your enemy because what? I tell you the truth. Well, if that preacher really loved people, he wouldn't talk about hell so much. Wait a minute. If hell is real, looks to me like that's the truth. We ought to let people know about the truth. Well, if they love people, they won't say Jesus is the only way to get escape hell and go to heaven. Wait a minute, is Jesus said I am the way the Truth and the like, no man cometh unto the Father but by me. And so they perceive the people who hold to the Word of God who uh uh uh will not compromise the trees of God's word. They say, well those people are the enemies of the state. They're the enemies of the community. And so some people perceive folks who are not really their enemies. Paul, what about King Saul? Remember the situation with King Saul? How did King Saul view David? Yeah, he was a green-eyed jealousy. And man, he perceived David to be his enemy. Question, was David Saul's enemy? No. David behaved himself wisely, the Bible says. David cut the hem of his garment, and many got convicted, felt bad about that, asked God to forgive him David was not Saul's enemy, but Paul, or Saul, because of his immaturity, because of his self-centeredness. Misconstrued David, felt threatened by him, and therefore perceived him to be his enemy. David would have been Saul's best friend. He was the best soldier he had. The interesting thing in that situation is this. Saul perceived David to be his enemy, therefore, Saul ended up behaving and becoming an enemy of David. Isn't that interesting? The very thing he perceived in David, he ended up doing towards David. And so perceived enemies Uh a child sees parents sometimes. Not always, thank God, but sometimes they see a parent as uh as an enemy. Uh Saul viewed um David as an enemy and ended up becoming David's enemy in a very real sense. Sometimes I've been around in preachers fellowship, and I can tell you honestly, I do not feel this way even remotely But sometimes view the church folk as their enemy. I'm thinking of one preacher in particular. Man, he never had anything nice to say about his people No matter what they did wrong, they did this. And he got this paranoid mentality about him that the whole church was out after him to get him. They were his enemy Well, I tell you, that makes for a nice atmosphere in a church service, huh? And sometimes people view the pastor that way Because they hold standards, they hold up certain things and they view the pastors. Man, he doesn't A lady told a preacher one time he was out visiting and sh and she said, You are so nice. She came and heard him preach, she left, You are so mean. You were nice when you visited me. You were mean when you preached. And so perceived enemies. So that's one type of enemy. Let's go to the second one real quickly. Perceived enemies. I put it this way: practical enemies. Now, this is people who are not necessarily my enemy, but their actions and the behavior are practically Enemy like. You follow what I'm saying? They don't mean to oppose what I'm doing. They don't mean to hinder me. They don't mean to be and opposition to what I'm doing, but because for various reasons, they really like me, they really for me, they really want to be a friend, but their behavior is such that it comes across and in effect becomes my enemy They mean well, but their actions, their behavior hinder and even oppose the gospel. Now, believe it or not, I think I found an example of that in Scripture. If you would, go with me to Acts chapter 8. Here you have a situation. Now, we talked about this in Bible Institute. Last class. And I was putting this together, boy, the s the the situation, the event here just fell right in. And I think this is an example of someone who means well But their behavior is such that it is comes across as being enemy-like. Acts chapter 8, look with me at verse 5. Then Philip went down to the city of Samaria and preached Christ to them. Now I'm going to read an extended portion here, so get this event in your mind. Try and picture what's happening here. And the people with one accord gave heed unto those things which Philip spake, hearing and seeing the miracles which he did. So far, positive response, right? Boy, people are giving heed, they're amazed by all this. For unclean spirits, crying with loud voice, came out of many that were possessed with them. Many that were taken with palsy and that were lame were healed. And there was great joy in that city. Alright, there's the setting. But there was a certain man called Simon, which before time in the same city used sorcery. and bewitched the people of Samaria, giving out that himself was some great one. Question, was he really a great one? No, he's bewitched everybody. He's got him fooled. They think he's really something he's nothing. He's just the trickster Verse 10. To whom they all gave heed, from the least to the greatest, saying, this man is the great power of God. Now he's got him fooled. Now I I can't help but inject this here. Does that not sound like some maybe TV preachers? Boy, they can they make it look good. Boy, they've got everything fooled that there's some great man of God. And in reality, it's all just a show. Alright, so let's read on. And to him they had regard, because that for a long that of a long time he had bewitched them with sorceries. Now the sorceries were demonic stuff and tricks and all that But when they believed Philip preaching the things concerning the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women. Now look at verse 13. This story fascinates me. Then Simon himself believed also. And when he was baptized, continued with Philip. What happened to Simon? He got saved. Simon got saved. If we had testimony time in church, someone get up and say, Praise God, Simon got saved. Let's read on. And not only did he get saved, he got baptized, and he's hanging out with Philip. He's being discipled. And wondered, beholding the miracles and signs which were done. Now that word wonder there is interesting. He's amazed by this. His mind's clicking. Now remember, he's coming from a background where he's doing tricks He's fooling people. He's doing sorceries, bewitching people. Now he gets saved, he gets baptized, Philip's discipling them, and he sees God doing these amazing things through Philip, and his mind's clicking. He's wondered by this. He's amazed by this. Verse 14. Now when the apostles, which were at Jerusalem, heard that Samaria had received the Word of God, Gentiles, they went unto them with Peter and John, who, when they were come down, prayed for them that they might receive the Holy Ghost. Now remember this is a transition period. For as yet he was fallen upon none of them, only they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. Then they, the apostles that came up, Peter and them, uh then they laid their hands on them and they received the Holy Ghost. And when Simon saw that, Simon saw that through the laying on of the apostles' hands the Holy Ghost was given, he offered them money, saying, Give me also this power that whomsoever I lay hands, that he may receive the Holy Ghost. So you get the picture here? He's amazed. This is all new to him. He's coming out of this demonic deceptive background He's being discipled, all these amazing things, and they lay hands on people and they receive the Holy Ghost. And he goes, Man, uh Philip, I want to do that too. Here, I've got some money. What do I have to do so I can do that Peter shows up. What do we know about Peter? What do we know about Peter's personality? He's very impulsive. He just blows off and goes on at. So keep that in mind. But Peter said unto him, Simon, this guy is all fired up, thy money perish with thee. Because thou hast thought that the gift of God may be purchased with money. Thou hast neither part nor lot in this matter, for thy heart is not right within the sight of God. Repent therefore of this thy wickedness, and Pray God if perhaps the thought of thine heart may be forgiven thee, for I perceive that thou art in the gall of bitterness and in the bond of iniquity. Boy, Peter's ticked Agree with me? That's not a bad word, is it? I don't think so. Peter's mad. And he flies off And the behavior of Simon appears to Peter to be that of an enemy. He's hindering the gospel. He's opposing the work. He's doing this to mess things up. And Peter, Simon's action, in all practicality, by doing that, he's misconstruing, he's behaving like an enemy of God. Now, my question is this: what is Peter accusing Simon of? What's he basically telling him? Heresy, he's telling him he's not what? You're not even saved You're in the bond of iniquity, you're in the gall of bitterness, you've got to repent of this, or you're going to burn in hell forever, is basically what he's saying. Now, my question is this: was Simon saved? Yeah, come back to verse, look back there in verse 13. Simon, this isn't Peter's opinion, this is God's statement. Simon believed also, and when he was baptized, continue with Philip. That is salvation. He believed. That's what saved him. Baptized, he identified himself as a Christian, and he's being discipled by Philip. So God says he got saved. Peter reacts to his actions as if because his actions We're enemy-like of the gospel by injecting money into the Holy Spirit and thinking he can just buy it Now, I'm getting more in this than I'm intended to, but was Simon really an enemy of the gospel? No. In fact, look how he responds to Peter. Then answered Simon and said, Well, I can see him like a whooped puppy Pray ye therefore, pray ye to the Lord for me, that none of those things which ye have spoken come upon me. That doesn't sound like an unsaved rebel to me That sounds like a Christian who does, you know what it sounds like to me? A very immature, ignorant Christian that thought something was different than what it really was. His ignorance and his immaturity caused him to misunderstand the person and the work of the Holy Spirit. That's important thought. And so his actions were enemy-like, trying to mess up the situation and misconstrue what was really happening. But he wasn't really an enemy But practically what he was doing was becoming enemy. And sometimes that happens. Sometimes people mean well, but they don't understand what's happening. They don't under scripture, understand the scriptures or whatever. And they do what they think is what they mean well, but in their immaturity, or and I don't mean this in an assaulting way, in their ignorance, their actions are really become enemy-like of the cause of Christ and what we're trying to accomplish. So I spent more time on that than I wanted to, but you have perceived enemies. Somebody's trying to help me do right, trying to instruct me, uh and I think well they're my enemy. Others They're trying to do right, but what they're doing is being is an opposition to what were what needs to be done, and so it appears to be it uh is practically is an enemy, although they're not necessarily. Here's the last one Proven enemies. These are people who are actually genuinely opposed to me or us or whatever setting you want to Place it in. People who are motivated by hatred towards you. Enemies People who are motivated perhaps by jealousy, and they do not want you to succeed. They do not want the gospel of Jesus Christ to succeed. Genuine enemies. They actively attempt to hinder the success of whatever I'm trying to be or whatever I'm trying to accomplish They obstruct our obedience to God. They want to shut us down. They want us off the scene. They want us taken out. They want to hurt us, they want to hurt our cause. Now the fact of the matter is, you say, well sh nobody would ever be my enemy. Wait a minute. Come back to Matthew 5. 44. Jesus spoke assuming that we have them. Jesus spoke with the assumption, you better love your enemies. He didn't say, if you have so he says you better love your enemies. So there are people in this sinful world for whatever reasons. Now, I'm tempted and may bring this out in a later message. Sometimes they are our enemies because they misperceive us. They don't understand what we are. I'm thinking of a situation where there was a person who was very much an enemy of mine. But once they understood the scriptures, once they understood what we're trying to accomplish from God's perspective, then they understood. And cease to be an enemy. But nevertheless, there are very real enemies. So, when Jesus said, love your enemies, which of these three is he talking about? All three. Whether that person th uh is uh is perceived as an enemy or not, suppose you think mom and dad hate me They don't care about me. They don't want what's best for me. You know what you ought to do? Love them. Do good to them Whether they're actually your enemy or not, even if it's just in your own paranoid mind that you think they're your enemy, you still ought to love them. There's no justification anywhere in Scripture for me to be unkind to someone that I view as an enemy. Maybe that person is not really an enemy, but what they're doing is hurting the cause, hurting what I'm trying to be and accomplish. I need to love them. And maybe that person hates my guts And uh they're kind of like the one guy that said, I would never murder any murder anyone, but I certainly approve of their funeral. I think Mark Twain said that. They hate me. I'm supposed to love them. Now I'm going to end with this, and I wanted to lay that groundwork that regardless of what category of enemy a person may fall into. God gives me clear instructions how I'm in to interact with them. And here's the interesting thing, and I'm open to stand that's actually anything, but not here publicly, but I can't find anywhere in Scripture where I'm commanded to be somebody's enemy I can't, I got looked, and I looked and there's somewhere that I'm supposed to be someone's enemy. Now I know we're told y'all are thinking of who? That we're supposed to be enemy of. The devil. You say, wait a minute, I'm supposed to be the devil's enemy. I'm talking about people. I'm talking about our interaction with others. I can find nowhere in Scripture where I'm supposed to be someone's enemy. Now, if somebody is unsaved, they're drinking themselves into a drunkard's grave and a devil's hell I want to stand in the way of that. I want to oppose that. I want to hinder that. But I don't want to hurt that person. I'm not trying to take them out. I'm actually their friend. I'm actually trying to help them. Sometimes we knock on doors. We go to the share introduce ourselves. We try to be as nice as we can now some of our folks that's Stretching it, but uh uh we try and be as nice and pleasant and attractive as we can, and uh we try and we try and share the gospel. Sometimes people get offended and they misunderstand. Who do you think you are coming around here telling me how to get saved? We're not their enemy. We're their friends. Somebody said soul-winning is this. One beggar telling other beggars where he found bread. Right? That's what it is. And so we're not we're not to be anybody's enemy. We don't want anybody Hey the Mormons come by and knock on our door. Am I supposed to be an enemy to them? No, I want to be their friend. I want to win them to Christ. I want to get them out of that false doctrine so they can know Christ and know what genuine Christianity and salvation is as they go to heaven I don't want to kill them. Don't stick your dog on them. Right? So nowhere in Scripture am I instructed to be an enemy. I'm going to be a friend. Jesus went about doing what? Good. He was people's friends. He wasn't their enemy. And so, but we're going to have them. And in the coming weeks we'll look and see. You'll be amazed how much this Bible talks about our interaction with people who are our enemies. And it's very practical, I think you'll enjoy it. Father in heaven, please bless us, Lord, as we grow in our faith, we interact with others of all stripes Help us, Lord, to be mature. Help us to be intelligent Christians, understanding people and the Word of God and your instructions for us. And just bless us. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. I don't know how to do an invitation or something like this. But maybe there's somebody, I'm preaching this, and they just come to your mind And you think, man, you know, that girl, that gal, that guy has just again, I think he'd like me to be dead And maybe tonight you just need to give them to the Lord and say, God, I don't want to be their enemy. I want to do what the Bible says Maybe you've got this idea that somebody in authority over you is out to get you and you just think they're being mean. In reality, they love you and they're trying to help you. I just say, God, I'm going to love them. I'm going to listen to what they say. I'm going to consider what God would have me to do and react to them. Whatever it is, let the Lord have his way. Father, bless our imitation now, I pray. In Jesus' name.