Five. Trying to squeeze a lot in this evening, so we're gonna get right to the Bible and get to our message this evening. We're going to look at one verse. I'm going to try and be right to the point. James chapter number five. And we're going to be looking at verse number 12. When a little puppy loses its tail, where do you go? What do you do? You go to a retail shop. Isn't that cute? Alright, that there you go, Jacob. How'd I do? I did great, good. I tell you, you gotta keep these kids happy. James chapter five. Let me get turned on again. James five. And look at verse number twelve. But above all things, my brethren, swear not, neither by heaven, neither by the earth, neither by any other oath. But let your yea be what? Yay. And your nay nay. Lest you fall into condemnation. I think I'm a little loud here again, but they so let's pray together, Father. I ask you bless now our time in this in your word, particularly this verse I ask, Lord, that you would teach us and speak our hearts from this passage and the truth that's contained here. I ask, Lord, it would have an impact on our lives, maybe Lord, if you could and you would change our behavior, mold us, make us more like Christ. Bring our speech and our thinking and our character in line with your word It's my prayer for me, Lord, and I pray that would be true for every one of us and us as a church. I present my body anew, I yield my will so that you can speak through me Fill me with your spirit, Lord, and uh have your way, I ask. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I look at the book of James. We're working our way, we're coming down to the end here, and I look at the structure of the book of James And I get the impression that uh uh the structure here appears to be fairly disconnected. And by that I mean with you go through the book of James and they'll deal with one subject for a little bit And then he'll switch different uh to another subject or another issue, and there's really no connection between the two. It's just kind of uh random issues he deals with and sometimes there's no real clear connection between the two and we've noticed that as we've gone through here A little bit like the book of Proverbs. You read down through Proverbs. There'll be a verse or two or three. Deal with a subject, then boom, it's a completely different issue. And there's no real connection as far as the structure is concerned. I believe that is what the case is here, is verse number 12 I looked at it and I tried to see what is the connection to verse 7 through 9. Of course we looked at, or verse 7 through 11. We notice there that he's dealing with patience, endurance, not quitting, staying at it, getting after it. Then he comes down to verse number twelve and he says, Above all, brethren, and the question is, is he referring back? Is is letting my yea be yea and my nay be nay, is that more important than being patient? Is that is he putting a categorical uh priority here on this? Or is he dealing with another subject? Is he making a general statement here? And m as I study this, I come to the conclusion that there's really not a direct connection between verses 7 through 11 to verse number 12. Now that's if you're interested in studying the book and the structure of the book and outline of the book. I I don't see a direct connection here. There may be uh loosely related, but I think he's dealing with a subject in and of itself just in verse number 12. I think it's injected in here, and then verse 13 he picks up again, he deals with another subject. And so it's it's isolated, I believe it's one subject. Now the question is what is the subject? When he says, Above all, brethren, uh above all above all things, my brethren, swear not, neither by heaven, neither by earth, neither by any other any other Oath, but let your yea be yea, your nay be nay, lest you fall into condemnation. What is the issue? What is the subject he's addressing here? I put it this way, and I had it in the marks of my Bible from years ago. I think he's talking about integrity. Integrity. And that's what our subject is. I think that's what this verse is here. What is the integrity? Now the word itself is not used in this verse. It's not there. But I think it is obviously the subject of what he's addressing. What does it mean to have integrity I think we know what it means. To express a definition is a little bit challenging. I've taken my shot at defining what integrity is. I put it this way, to be morally complete. The word integrity has the idea of having everything intact. Everything in place. It is complete. Sometimes they'll do a uh uh um uh an analysis or a test of structure or something And they'll say this structure has retained its integrity. Uh over in the in Nepal they had uh earthquakes very severe and we've been praying and been aware of that and been praying for the Knickerbockers and others, the Dev Codas. And what they'll do is the inspectors will go in after an earthquake and they'll look at a building and they will determine If the building's integrity has been affected by the quake. In other words, is there some thoughts? Is there some area where the the the constructor is not complete? It's weak in some areas. And so when we talk about our integrity as a person, we're talking about our morality is in place. We are morally pure. We are genuine and true. Genuinely honest, genuinely true. I've tried again as part of my definition of integrity. I've put down what I consider to be some characteristics of integrity. I put this down. If a person has integrity, one thing I know about them, they have convictions. They have some things that they are convinced are right and wrong. Now, uh integrity must be, my convictions must be based upon the Word of God. And so it's very important. If we're going to be people of integrity, we must have convictions. I believe every Christian should have convictions. The newest Christian. One of the first things a new Christian ought to do is establish some biblical convictions. Now what do we mean by convictions? By some By that we mean this. You go to the Word of God and you determine what God says is right and is wrong. And I adopt for myself those convictions that this is right And this is wrong. There are some things I will not do under any circumstances, and there are some things I am going to do no matter what. These are my convictions And they must be based upon the Word of God. Now, if a person has integrity, they have some convictions. They have an understanding of what God says is right and is wrong. Now, a young Christian ought to establish some convictions. Us as older Christians, we should establish biblical convictions and we should hold on to them. I've always felt this. And if a person changes their convictions, they were not convictions to begin with. Because conviction by definition does not change. It is a conviction. Now, if I find out my conviction is not biblical, I ought to drop it. And establish a biblical conviction. And so a person of integrity, I spent more time on that than I wanted to, but a person of integrity is a person that has some convictions based upon the word of God. They understand what the Bible says is right and wrong. Another characteristic of a person with integrity is a person they have a conscience A person of integrity is sensitive to that which is right and wrong. They have a conscience. A person that has integrity, if they say or do something that is Wrong, that is sinful, it bothers them. I need to deal with that. I need to address that. I did something that was not right. I did something that's not pleasing, Lord. I didn't do something I should have done, and that bothers me I have a conscience about that. I worry about folks who claim to be Christians and can sin and it does not bother them. There's something very wrong. Now, I'm not surprised when a Christian sins. If any man says he's without sin, he's a liar. So sin is a very real issue in the Christian life. But I am disturbed when a Christian can sin and it doesn't bother them. They can just continue on in that sin. And there's no conscience. There's no uh it doesn't bother them, there's no chastening there. about that. And so a person, a Christian that has integrity, uh, one, they have convictions, two, they have a conscience. They're sensitive to that which is right and wrong. I put this down. Person of integrity is someone that has compassion. We have to be careful we don't get in our minds that integrity means being hard and cold and this is right and this is wrong and like these old prophets of God, you know, I'm just unmoved by anybody. No, no, no. I think integrity includes having a little compassion for people and caring about others and being uh uh kind and app Approachable to other people. I put this down. Another characteristic of integrity, I believe, as I see it, is consistency. If somebody has integrity, you know what they're going to be from week to week, month to month, year to year. They're going to be consistent. in their character and what they are and and uh their morals and their standards their convictions there going to be a consistency there. I like when I get to visit a church, maybe I haven't been there for years And I know years ago it was a good, strong Bible preaching church, old gospel, King James, good music, all of that straight down the line. I like it when I can come back years later and I find out the church holds the exact same position it had before They're still running buses, they're still winning souls, they're still giving out gospel texts, they're still preaching the old book. That's a sign of integrity They consistent. They're staying at it. And then I put this one down, and this introduces our text. Is uh another characteristic of integrity is credibility. Now, by that I mean this. If a person has integrity, it means they're honest. It means this: that what they say is so. There's nothing dishonest about them. In other words, a person of integrity, when they say yes, it really is yes. And when they say nay, it really is nay. And they don't need to evoke some fantastic vows and fantastic promises To convince somebody that what they're saying is true. A person of integrity can just say the truth and it is true. It's known to be true. You follow what I'm saying? Integrity. It's a sorely lacking in our world today. And so I think that's what James is addressing here when he says, above all these things. Everything we've been talking about, all this, here is a priority, and that's my point number one. I'm gonna try and get through these as quick as I can. Number one, the priority of integrity. Notice verse number 12. He starts off the verse by saying this. But Above all things. That phrase, above all things, had this idea on the top of your list How many people here like me, you have a to-do list? Anybody do th do that down? I used to have a to-do list in my mind, but I lost that years ago And so uh now I use it on my phone and it's really fantastic. I have it in fact it's called To Do is the name of the act and uh I put it on there, it gives a reminder. And uh how many people on your to do list you try to prioritize that, the thing that has to be done the first, the most important, put that at the top and then work your way down. Anybody here uh do something like that. I try to follow that. I use that on my phone. Well what James is saying here, this matter of integrity must be number one on the list. Above all things, above all your other issues that you're dealing with, above all the other concerns you have about what kind of Christian you are, what kind of person you are The number one top of the list must be, I must be a person of integrity. If I'm not anything else. I have got to be a person of integrity. Be a person of integrity. Has this idea before anything else takes place? Make sure your integrity is in place. And so this is a high priority as far as God's concern. God wants you and I To understand that being men and women of integrity, that our word is true, that we are genuine, we're real, we're honest, we're morally complete. God says, I want that to be the top of your list. Top of your list. Now here's another word that I thought was interesting as I studied this. Above all things, what's the next word? Brethren, right? Is that next? Above all things, brethren, my brethren. Who's he addressing? Christians. The only people in the Bible referred to as brethren other than just Jews among themselves are Christians. He is saying this. How many folks here tonight you're saved you know it? Say amen. I can tell you one thing, God wants us to make a high priority as children of God. God wants us to be people of integrity. If I claim to be saved, High, number one on my list ought to be that I am a person of integrity, that people can believe what I say. That what I say is true, that what I do is right, that what I am is real, that must be Number one on priority. We may fail in many different areas of life, and we do, but one thing we must be We must be men of integrity. We must be women of integrity. We must be young people of integrity. I noticed here when he says, my brethren, he doesn't address any age levels I want to suggest to you a third-grade kid ought to be, if they're a Christian, they ought to be a child of integrity. They ought to be honest. Amen or not? They ought not to cheat on their tests. It's better to fail and be honest than to get an A and cheat. God says, I'm more concerned that you'd be a person of integrity than you'd be kidding of the year. And everybody thinks you're wonderful. Number one on your list should be integrity. Teenagers ought to be young men and young ladies of integrity. That their Christianity is real. It's not just a show. That they have some convictions, and whether it's in school or in the youth group or in the community That what I am is real. I'm a real Christian. I have real convictions. I have a real compassion. I have a real love for God. And honest. And by the way, moms and dads ought to be parents of integrity. We ought to tell our children the truth. Amen? We don't lie to them. We don't put on a show for them. We're integrity. And so he says, priority above all these things. My brethren, Christians, of all people. People of integrity. You would, and I don't know that I'm going to get through this tonight. Come with me real quickly to Genesis. There's an illustration. I've used this on occasion over the years to illustrate this truth, but Genesis chapter number 49. Here you have Jacob is blessing his boys. It's at the end of Jacob's life. And he brings in his twelve boys, and he goes, as tradition was there, he goes through a series of blessings. And he brings in his firstborn, Reuben, in verse number three. And he each of these boys, he kind of gives a description of their character. He addresses who and what they are, and then he Makes a few statements about him. Here he's dressing Reuben. And he says some interesting things about Reuben. Look at verse number three. He says, Reuben, thou art my firstborn. Ah, that's privilege. The firstborn in the Jewish society was tremendous privilege, in fact, spoken very highly of through Scripture. So the firstborn, this is a tremendous uh position of great privilege and great responsibility. My firstborn, my might. And the beginning of my strength. Wow, isn't that a great thing to have said about from your father, to say that about you? You're my firstborn, you're the beginning of my strength, you're my might, the excellency of dignity. He says that uh and the excellency of power? What's he saying? He says, Reuben, you're a strong man. You hold a tremendously privileged position, great responsibility. You're very, very gifted. You're very influential. He's making tremendous statements about Reuben. Every man would like for these things to be said about him from his father. So here's what I get from Reuben so far. He is very gifted He is very strong. He has phenomenal influence and potential. But now look at verse 2. The Excellency of Power, unstable as water, thou shalt not excel. Wow, you talk about taking the wind out of his sails. Then he makes a statement of some things that Reuben did, which we won't address, because thou wentest up to thy father's bed. Apparently some indecent things that Ruben did. But he makes a statement there. He says, Ruben, you're tremendously gifted. You're strong. You have a lot of influence. But you lack integrity. You're unstable as water. He can't trust you. Can't depend on you. One time you're there, another time you're not. You say you're going to do this and you do that. You promise this and you don't do that. He says, Reuben, I can't trust you. We can't depend on you. And because of your lack of integrity, you will not excel. You're not going to be what you could be. You're not going to reach your potential. And what a tragic thing to be have said about that. That phrase, thou shalt not excel, has this idea. Ruben, you're going to come up short. When all the others are going forward, you're going to be left behind. You're going to f he's basically saying this. This is horrific. He's saying, Reuben, you're gifted, you're strong, you have tremendous influence. This is what he's saying, but you're going to fail in life. Because you don't have integrity. You can't be trusted. You're inconsistent. You have no convictions. You're not real. God says in James chapter number 5 in verse 12, he says, above all these things, my brethren. You may not have tremendous position. You may not have a lot of responsibility in life. You may not be that strong and you may not be that influential. But above everything else, you need to have integrity. You need to have integrity. I want to suggest to you the janitor in a in a McDonald's ought to have the same level of integrity we expect from the President of the United States Above all these things, regardless of what position you have, regardless of what gifts you have or have not, regardless of what abilities God has blessed you with, above all that, you've got to have integrity, you've got to be reliable, you've got to be true, you've got to be honest. Let your yay be yay and your nay be nay. So number one, I see the priority here. Quickly, I want to notice the I want us to notice the plainness. Of integrity. Back here in James, uh if you would turn there real quickly again with me and We have the priority of integrity. Then he says this. He says, But above all these things, my brethren, and he makes an interesting statement. He says, Swear not, neither by heaven neither by the earth Neither by any other oath. And he boils it down. He says, This is what I'm trying to say. Let your yay be yay, and your nay be nay. It's very simple, very plain. The word swear there, when he says swear not, he's not talking about profanity He's not talking about using bad words. We think of somebody swearing, they said bad words. By the way, using profanity is an indication of a lack of intelligence. Sometimes people think, well, I'm really mad, I'm gonna swear. Well that just tells me you don't have much of a intelligence to withdraw from. You can't communicate your frustration, your anger in an intelligent way. She's gonna offend people. And by the way, I've gotten to the point, this was years ago, people walk around with these offensive, filthy shirts. I don't like just walking by anymore. I would go up and say, you know, that shirt is really nasty. Here's a gospel track smiley face. But I'm telling ya, uh so when he talks about that's uh that's a rabbit trail. But anyway Uh when he says swear not, he's not talking about profanity. And by the way, Christians ought to never use profanity under any circumstances Our words ought to be pure. And by the way, I I think this while while I'm talking about this, let me get this, I don't think we ought to even use crude language. I hear Christians, even some Christian leaders sometimes around, and they'll use words that are just crude. Words that when I was a kid, we got our mouth washed out for saying stuff like that. And so he's not talking about that. When he talks about swearing here, he's talking about using promises and vows to reinforce my statement. The Jews were notorious for this. They would make these elaborate vows to convince people That what they were saying was really true. They wanted to give this appearance of honesty, this appearance of integrity. You've been coming on Wednesday nights in our study, the Sermon on the Mount, you know the Jews were very concerned about how they appeared They were very concerned of what people thought about them. They were very concerned of what their image was. And so if they were people to believe that they were being honest They would have all these tremendous, dramatic vows they would take on the temple of God, upon the uh I am telling the truth, upon the temple of God and the throne of God, I tell you this is the truth And they make all these tremendous statements. And he's saying, listen, don't do that. Don't do that. For these Jews, their image was a higher priority than her integrity was. They were more concerned that somebody thought they were something than that they would actually be that. I found out that if I'm honest, I don't have to convince people how honest I am. If I'm true, I don't have to go around and convince people I'll truly it becomes obvious. I'm very suspicious. We were talking, I think Pastor Grant and I the other day were talking, I'm very suspicious of folks that tell me 25 times that they don't lie. I start wondering, you know what, I bet they lie. If they didn't lie, they wouldn't have to go to such lengths to try and convince me they don't lie. I'm not a troublemaker. I'm not a troublemaker. Take that 900 times they're not a troublemaker. I tell my wife, watch out for that person, they're a troublemaker And so the they were more concerned about their image than they are about their integrity. They were more concerned what people thought was a higher priority than what they were. Peter was guilty of this. Making these great vows. Remember when, in fact, we just had it on Easter, remember, uh, with the rooster, and uh the Lord says, you're gonna all y'all are gonna deny me, and Peter says, I'll die before I deny you. He meant that with all his heart, I'm convinced. Then he got to the the courthouse and the trial of the Lord Jesus, and he's out with the maid, and I want to turn there, but we won't. But but he's he denies the Lord. Somebody says, hey, you're one of them. No, I ain't. Uh-uh. Then they come again. Yeah, you are. You're one of his disciples. I know his disciples. I don't know nothing about him And then the third time they come and say, yeah, your speech betrays you. You're one of his disciples. And the Bible says he began to swear, I'm not one of his. He was putting on an image, he wanted to convince them that he was telling the truth, but he was not telling the truth. He was lying And in order to cover up his lie, in order to convince them that he was telling the truth when he was really lying, he evoked these tremendous promises. Now it's not recorded what these swearing involved. He may have said stuff like this, listen, I promise you, on the temple of David, I am not one of his disciples. And he he he comes up with these tremendous, tremendous vows To convince them he's telling the truth. You know what? All Peter had to do was simply say yes or no. But because he was lying, he had to come up with these values. My point is this integrity is very simple. It's not complicated. It doesn't have to be elaborate Special dramatic vows are not necessary when my word is true. When my word is trustworthy, I don't have to evoke all these things And did you ever hear this? And no doubt some of us have said this at some point. Somebody says something, is that really true? I swear to God it's true. Anybody ever hear that? God says don't do that. Don't do that. If it's true, all you have to do is just say yes. If it's not true, just say no. Your integrity ought to be the such that you don't have to evoke these, uh trust my heart and hope to die. Anybody ever hear that? We used to, I don't know how this came up. We used to say, cross my heart and hope to spit. I don't know what that I swear on my mother's grave. Anybody ever hear that? I swear and poke me in the eye with a needle, it's true. God says, listen, if you're a person of integrity, those are not necessary. Just yay or nay. It's very, very simple. There is tremendous simplicity and honesty. There's tremendous plainness in purity. The farther we get from the truth, the more complicated our language becomes. Did you ever catch a kid in a lie? Or an adult, as far as that goes. Catch a kid in a lie, and they don't want to come clean, they don't want to admit they lied, so what do they do? They have to come up with more lies. And then they gotta cover those lies with more lies. And next thing you know, this story is so complicated, nobody in the world understand you get that from politicians all the time. I like what Mark Twain said. Mark Twain said, if you tell the truth, you don't have to have a good memory. Right? I don't have to remember what I came up with before. And he's saying that say your yay be yay and your nay be nay. It's very plain. It's very simple. Integrity declares with the lips the intentions of the heart. It doesn't have to put on an image. Proverbs 8, and we don't have time to go there. Let me just give this to you. Jot it down. Proverbs 8, verse 1 through 9 is this. Someday I'd like to preach a message on it, but it's how to talk. Proverbs 8, verse 1 through 9, he tells us how we are supposed to talk. How a wise person talks. And one of the main points in that passage is they are very plain. Our words are very plain Very simple, very clear, nothing complicated. So number one, integrity is a priority. Number two, we notice the plainness of integrity, and last of all, and I end with this, and I've got to end, is the precaution of integrity. Look at the last part of verse 12. Lest ye fall in to condemnation. Basically, this is what he's saying. You're going to be held accountable. You're going to be held accountable. Very similar up to verse number 9. Grudge not one against another, brethren, lest ye be what? Condemned. Because you're going to be held accountable. We're going to be held accountable. Um, I believe in the Christian life it's very important that we keep in mind That every one of us someday are going to have to give an account of ourselves to the Lord Jesus Christ It ought to be very much in the forefront of our minds at all times in our conversations, in our actions, when our integrity is tested We ought to keep in the forefront of my mind, I am going to have to stand before the judgment seat of Christ, and I will give an account for even the idle words that I say. Tell you what, that'll help develop integrity. Lest ye be condemned, you're going to be held accountable for the words you use. Our actions and our words, we must never forget. So he says, My brethren, above all things, my brethren, swear not, neither by heaven, neither by earth, neither by any other oath, but let your yea be yea in your nay-nay, lest Ye fall into condemnation. Now I made a statement. I said, the words of our lips ought to reflect the integrity of our heart Now let me back up here a little bit and I want to say this. That doesn't necessarily mean we have to say everything that's in our heart. Uh, you know, just because we think it doesn't mean we need to say it. My wife says sometimes, she says, Dennis, everything that comes in your head comes out your mouth And um that that's not a that bothers me a little bit, but um anyway. We need integrity. Integrity. Does this make sense? I brought an apple up here. I like to eat apples. I eat a lot of apples. You know I found out when you squeeze an apple, you can get an apple press, Brian's not here tonight, but you can squeeze an apple. You know what you get out of an apple when you squeeze an apple? Apple juice. And I found that when you squeeze an orange, I get orange juice. When I squeeze a lemon, I get lemon juice. And integrity is this. When we get in a situation where it's pretty tight, and there's a temptation maybe to say something that makes me look good and something come out, and it's not completely honest, it's not completely true. You know what that is? That squeeze is producing the juice of dishonesty. And all that means is that my heart is dishonest. But if when that squeeze comes and I have it, my heart is a heart of integrity And I say the truth even if it costs me, and I do what's right even if it costs me and hurts me, but I still do right. That tells me that I have a heart of integrity. And he's saying, listen, my brethren, above everything else, make sure you have a heart. That is of integrity. Integrity. So as I started the message, I thought this verse 12 doesn't have anything to do with the previous verses. Patience, endurance, trying. But when I finished my message, I thought, you know, maybe it does tie in a little bit. And that when our patience is tested and when we're one tempted to grudge If my heart is integrity, if above all else I have integrity, then I'm going to be honest and I'm going to be right and I'm going to do what is right. Amen? I tried to rush through that. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now and help us. Help me, Lord, to be a man of integrity, a husband of integrity, a father, a Christian. of integrity. And I think many of us no doubt feel the same way. Lord, we need your help. Lord, only you can change our hearts. Only you can do for us what we really need done, so we submit to you and we trust you and we look to you. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I need God to help me to be a man or a woman or a young person of integrity. And that's what I want. And I see areas that there are flaws. And I need God to help me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? I see Aries in my own heart and life that there are flaws in this area. I need God to help me. God bless you. Many, many hands around. I believe it pleased the Lord. I believe it pleased the Lord, his people, we humble ourselves before the Lord and say, God, help me. Do what you need to do to change me and mold me. That above everything else, regardless of whatever my shortcomings may be,