Matthew again. We're just gonna start there. As you know, we are in our series on family life, working uh interacting with Christians within the family and dealing with different issues and situations that come up And the last three lessons we've been looking at what happens if somebody in the church becomes an enemy, or and yet applies to outside the church also. Matthew chapter 5 How do we deal with them? How do we interact? We know some basic things. Let me find my place here. Matthew 5. And verse number forty three. I think you guys can sit down. I don't know if there's anything. Oh, you're waiting on the sign of bless. Ha ha. You guys make me nervous back there. Stand there Matthew five verse forty-three. I felt like I was in a bar with bouncers back there is what it looked like Notice uh verse 43. Oh, this is what I started to say. Um I got studying this, it's amazing how much Jesus in the Bible talks about enemies. It's all through there. Examples given, illustrations, direct teaching. And so the Lord has a lot to say. Look at verse 43. Ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemy. That's basically the world's approach. But I say unto you, the Lord Jesus said, Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you Whole different approach, whole different frame of mind than what the world offers or what our flesh naturally does. And so interaction with our enemies. Let's have a word of prayer, and I have some practical things I want to share with you real quickly. Father Bless now our study in your word. Lord, I'm grateful for folks that come out cold, snowy night, and uh they're faithful to church. Lord, um we appreciate that so much. I pray you would help us to grow in our faith, in our maturity. Lord, use us here, use this lesson, these truths, I pray, to help us grow. Lord, we hate to think of the idea of having an enemy. I don't believe a mature Christian would desire uh an enemy, but nevertheless, Lord, they're re they're a real part of life. So Give us wisdom and Lord fill us with your Spirit. Have your way. Fill me with your Spirit, I pray, Lord, as I teach and preach now in Jesus' name. Amen. We pointed out that uh we need to determine exactly if uh somebody is actually my enemy. We said we have uh there can be perceived enemies. Now this is on the part maybe of a uh somewhat immature Christian or immature person where somebody's trying to do what's best for them, somebody's trying to help them and uh give them guidance and leadership And they take that as that person doesn't like me. They won't let me do what I want. I can't get my way. Therefore they're my enemy. That's what I call a perceived enemy. And so we talked about that. Then we talked about practical enemies, and I don't know that I'm communicating this the way I see it in my mind, but somebody who really isn't against me Uh they would if you talk to them, they would say, Oh yeah, I'm their friend, I'm for them. But their behavior and their actions practically end up being that of an enemy. They hinder, they hurt, they uh uh keep uh keep me from being what God wants me to be And uh by all practical purposes, they function as an enemy, even though they probably won't see themselves as that. Then the third we said was a proven enemy. That's just somebody who is flat out against us Uh they don't like us, they don't what we're don't want to don't like what we're doing, they don't like what we're trying to be, and they are out to hinder, to hurt, to stop to um uh just interfere in any way they can. So last week we gave some biblical principles uh from the Bible, just some general biblical principles And uh if you remember, we said this. The first thing when I encounter somebody that is uh I determine it's an enemy. They they don't like me, they're out after, they're out to hurt me The very first thing I do, does anybody remember from last week what I said last week? What's the very first thing I do? Get right with God. And that, I don't know about you, but that just caught my attention as I got studying this. And we took that from uh Psalms, uh we took that from Proverbs 16, 7, that when my ways please the Lord, even my enemies are at peace with me. And so the first thing I got to do, I got somebody man, it's there's there's fighting me, they're doing this, that, and the other. First thing I do is get along with God, make sure I'm right with God Make sure my heart is yielded to the Lord, I'm filled with the Spirit, and I'm not going to be operating in the flesh. And that enables God to begin working in their heart. and getting this to establish peace. And we talked about that. Then we noted from Matthew 5 here that I'm to love my enemies. Basic principle here. We didn't give any specifics how to do that But God says I'm to love my enemies. And again, the word love there was agape. I'm not to love them because they're lovable or I get anything out of it. I'm to love them simply because I'm a child of God and I'm to emulate my Lord. I want to be like Christ, and so I love them In spite of their unloveliness, in spite of the fact that I get nothing in return, nevertheless I love them. Number three, we are to bless our enemies, speak well of them, and praise them. Number four, we said we are to do good to our enemies. And number five, we are to pray for our enemies. So those are some general principles there of what the Bible says. Now I want to give some practical application. Here I've got somebody Maybe a family member. Maybe, God forbid, maybe it's somebody within the church. And they're absolutely out to take me down for whatever reason. Maybe it's a co-worker. It's outside the family of God. Let me give you a few things here. We're going to look several verses up Old and New Testaments, so keep your Bible handy. Number one, now this doesn't sound real practical to begin with, but I think you'll see what I'm saying here Number one, practical application. I need to read and love my Bible. Say, what? I'm interacting with my enemy. I want to practice I want to do what these principles are, and I'm supposed to read and love my Bible. Yep, take your Bible, turn with me to Psalm 119. If you open your Bible right smack dab in the middle, you'll be very close. To Psalm 119. Psalm 119. While you're turning there, I forgot to mention this. I got a phone call tonight about, oh, it was about 10 till 6 or whatever, somewhere around there, 6 o'clock. Phone call, I might have been quarter till six. It might have been thirteen minutes before six o'clock. I'm not sure But um got a phone call. The guy says, is this Pastor Dennis Lemon? I said, yes. He goes, I'm calling from Mobile, Alabama. I said, uh, okay. And he says, you're familiar with that? I said, well, I know basically where it is. And he got talking, he says, I've been listening to your sermons on the website. And he's a pastor of a church down there, he's preaching on prophecy, and he's been listening to our series on Zechariah And he says, I got a bunch of questions. And he started asking me about the rapture and the second advent and all these types of things. And I was answering. He says, Yeah, that's what I thought. He said, that's the way I thought it was. And uh then he asked me for some books on uh good commentaries on uh Zechariah and Uh he said he really he asked do you always preach and alliterated? I said, well often. I said usually. I said it helps me. He goes, Yeah, I like that too. What's going on? Then he makes a statement. Here's where I'm blowing my own horn a little He says, uh, he goes, man, he says, I really like your preaching. He says, you've really got it together. So here's the funny thing. I hope he's not listening now. Um he's uh he's a holiness preacher, Pentecostal holiness, I think. But uh we had a great conversation. It was neat and I said he said, Can I use any of your material for my sermons? I said, Yeah, go ahead. And uh I didn't think about it. I should have said, I got a great series on tongues. Listen to that. It'd be good. But I thought that was pretty neat. And uh how God's using that website in amazing ways. Alright, Psalm 119, look at verse 165. Notice what it says. Great peace have they which love thy law. Okay, not a problem. Look at this. And nothing shall what? Offend them. Alright, I want to practically interact with I've got an enemy. I see them every Sunday morning. or whatever, every time there's church service, I'm running into them. They're at work, they're family. Every time we have a reunion get together, funeral or something, I'm running into them. How in the world do I deal with this They are against me, they don't like me, they want to hurt me, they want to take me out. First thing I do is I read and love my Bible because Great peace have they which love thy law, and notice nothing shall offend them. The word offend there means to cause the stumble, mess you up, get you off track Let me put it this way, nothing shall cause you to get out of the spirit and into the flesh. That's what it boils down to, right? I get my enemy, they're hurting me, they're saying new things, it gets me worked up. Next thing I know, I'm st I'm offended. Now we use the term here means to stumble, as I said Next thing I know, I'm in the flesh. I'm saying things that are not pleasing to God. I'm thinking and feeling things that grieve the Holy Spirit Ephesians 4 talks about bitterness and wrath and these types of things that grieve the Spirit. And man unstumble. So one thing I've got to do, I have got to get to the point where I love this book. I'm reading it, I'm cherishing it, it's helping me, and what that's going to do is, I put it this way I find my acceptance, my worth, and my security in the Lord and his promises, not in another person's treatment of me. What happens is our enemy says and does things that hurt us, that throws us because we're looking for our security in people treating us a certain way. And if I can just wean myself of needing to be treated a certain way where uh where I f so that I find security and contentment and peace, if I can wean myself from people and find that in the Lord. Doesn't matter what they're going to do, it's not going to throw me. I'm not going to get in a flesh. I'm not going to get all worked up. Because my security is not on whether they treat me nice or not. You follow what I'm saying? A peace in my heart is not based upon whether they're kind to me or unkind to me. The peace in my heart is based upon the promises I find in God's Word and my relationship with the Lord. So it sounds irrelevant in the whole context, but reading my Bible, maintaining a love for the Lord and His Word. is a key factor in able to interact with people who are my enemies. So number one, I put this down, love and read my Bible. It's something practically I can do to help me deal with that person. Number two, and some of these overlap with the principles a little bit, go back to Romans with me if you would. And chapter 12. We looked at some of these in Sunday school not long ago, but Romans chapter 12, and we're going to look at verses 19 and 20. This is the second practical application. Do not retaliate Now, when you think of an enemy, what do you think of their behavior towards you? I've kind of been saying it, but Yeah, they're hostile, they're offensive, um, they are doing and saying things. They're not uh see if you agree with me on this. See if I'm communicating this. They're not passive. An enemy is not somebody that's passive. You know you follow what I'm saying? They're not inactive. If they're an enemy, they're they're being aggressive. They're being active. And so my statement is this, don't retaliate when they do something that is Is this a word? Instigatory? When they're trying to instigate something, they're trying to provoke me. Don't react to that. Don't retaliate to that. Look at Romans here, verse 12. Chapter 12, verse 19. Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves. All right, what do you think? What does he mean when he says what are you doing when you're avenging yourself? Yeah, you're getting even. You're reacting. Right? You're responding to something that has been done. I'm going to revenge it. Alright, you'll pay for that. I didn't necessarily initiate it But my avenging myself is me reacting, me retaliating. And he says, don't retaliate Read on. Did the beloved avenge not yourselves, but rather give place unto wrath. In other words, put it aside. Distance yourself from it. Give place unto wrath, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord. How many people here believe God is all-wise? Amen. How many people believe God is all-knowing? So if somebody provokes me, they're hostile, they're aggressive to me, they're trying to provoke some type of action, they're trying to mess me up The Bible says, all right, I'm not going to react. I'm not going to retaliate to that. I'm going to put wrath aside, distance, and I'm going to let God deal with them. If God is all-knowing and all-wise, don't you think God knows the best way to deal with them? He can handle them in a way that, you know, my reasoning is probably punching them in the nose would be the best solution to this problem. Well, God knows a little more than I do. And God knows a better way to deal with it than I do. So I don't retaliate. I just uh back off, get the wrath, get myself, I'm not going to get mad. I love God's word, I love his principles, I love the Lord, I'm in fellowship with him. This isn't gonna offend me and get me in the flesh I'm not going to retaliate to this. Enemies are unkind. You agree with that? They say and do things that hurt us, but we must not retaliate with them. Let God deal with their unkindness. In fact, we go back to the principle we got last week is uh I respond to their unkindness with what? Kindness. I do good to them that bless you. In fact, look there at verse 21 in this chapter. Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with what Good. So when they're trying to provoke, they're saying things that hurt, my flesh immediately wants to retaliate, but I don't do that. I die to self. I love God's word. I understand the principles of Scripture So I'm not getting off track. And instead of them, instead of me retaliating, I'm going to let God do all the retaliation. I'm just going to be nice to them. I'm just going to be kind to them. Somebody put it this way. I heard Ron Comfort, and since then I've heard other preachers say it, but I heard him make the statement: no attack, no defense. That's a great principle for scripture, for Christians. I'm not going to go out and attack them, and when they attack me, I'm not going to defend myself. I'm going to let God do all the defending. I'm just going to be out kind. You could take this point and re-word it another way. Instead of do not retaliate, you could put it word it this way. Act, don't react. In other words, get it settled in your mind how my what my behavior is going to be. And regardless of what that person says or does, I'm not reacting to what they're saying. I'm going to act according to scriptural principle. I'm not going to let the situation, the circumstance dictate my actions. I'm going to plan them on purpose. You follow what I'm saying? So number one Read and love my Bible. Doesn't seem to apply to this, but it really does. Number two, don't retaliate. Number three, this gets a little more practical. I put it this way. tactfully avoid the enemies I cannot transform into my friends Let me say that again. Tactfully avoid the enemies that I cannot transform into my friends. What's the best way to get rid of an enemy? Yeah, make them a friend. Somebody said, kill them. No. The best way to get rid of an enemy is to make them a friend. And they're no longer an enemy. So that's the goal. And if I understand all the Matthew chapter 5 and the other scriptures we looked at, if I understand them correctly, I think what the Lord is saying is: do everything you possibly can. To turn that enemy into a friend. Be kind to them, be good to them, pray for them, bless them. Sounds to me you're trying to make them a friend of yours. Sounds to me like you're trying to remove all hostility and bring uh uh fellowship in its place. Now If that's possible, do that. But reality is that's not always possible. The fact of the matter is, and you may have folks in your experience in your life that come to mind when I say this, but The reality is, some people, it doesn't matter what you're going to do, you're not going to make them happy. Can I get a witness? Doesn't matter what you do, they're going to be hostile, they're going to be antagonistic. No matter what you do, they're going to be that way. So how do you respond to that? I've tried, I've blessed them, uh, I didn't curse them, I did good to them, I prayed for them, I did all these things. I love my love the Lord, I'm reading the Bible, as far as I know, I'm right with God, and there's just nothing I can do. Then I have to tactfully avoid them. And I have scripture for that. Romans chapter 12, come back up to verse 18. Same chapter we just saw. Look at verse 18. If it be possible Notice that phrase? If it be possible, the implication being what? Sometimes it's not possible. But if it is. Live peaceably, as much as, if it be possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men. In other words, do everything you can to be at peace with that enemy. If it's possible. If it's not possible, then I need to avoid them. Tactfully. Don't make it obvious. I'll tell you there's a little phrase I cannot stand Now teen girls were real bad about this years ago. They would do this like this. We are not on speaking terms. That is stupid. That is as unchristian as you can get So don't come in and say, oh no, I tried being nice to them and I blessed them and they cursed me and I did good to them, and so I'm not I don't have anything to do with them. That is not tactful That's stupid. That's fleshly. What I need to do is be kind and all that, but if I can avoid interacting with them and getting a prov provocation or something, I just keep my distance. Very kindly, very nicely. In other words, I I uh I don't necessarily cross the street the other side when I see him coming. But um I just I don't want that conflict. Um there are certain newscast news broadcast fellas that if I watch them I get mad You know anybody know what I'm talking about? If I watch that guy, I mean I just get ticked. Guess what I don't do? I don't watch him I don't want to get mad. So uh, and there's certain people, as much as possible, try and live at peace with them, but sometimes you can't. And the best thing to do is just tactfully avoid them. Don't go overboard. Every time you see them, oh hey, and and go overboard. The best thing is to do is just be nice, say hey and just move, keep it moving, move right along. And so I think that is uh practical advice. And here's a fourth one, the last one And you don't hear much about this, but I think it fits in here. I put it this way: do not go to court against a Christian brother. And I have scripture for that. If you would turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 6, there are some situations within the church. Where it gets so bad, the hostilities are so bad that sometimes somebody feels like they need to go to court about this Maybe it's over an issue, a borrowed tool, a job that was done, those types of things Now I'm gonna make a statement here. This has been Kathy and I's practice. I'm not saying you should do this. I'm not saying that uh you know there's necessarily a right and wrong here. This has been our practice though and it's worked well for me. We have tried very m hard Uh and sometimes it's not it's okay, but we try very hard not to do business with people within the church. We just to tried avoiding that. When we first went into ministry, Kathy babysat for a couple ladies in the church. And they were good ladies and and it was a but there became up an issue one time, I don't remember if it was discipline of the kids or some finances or something and the bad thing was was doing business in the church then when there's a problem in the business guess what it carries into the church. And particularly for me in the pastoral position back then, it just made it more difficult. And so we've tried to avoid that, just us personally, so that nothing, if something comes up or whatever that's of the business, it doesn't spill over into my relationship with them as a church member. and I can go forward. But sometimes the situation is such, whether it's that setting or something unforeseen, but it just escalates and escalates and escalates and finally somebody says, I the only way we can settle this is in civil court. Oh, I've got to go to court over this to get this settled. The Bible strictly forbids that. Now, if you would, look with me at 1 Corinthians 6, verse 1. Dare any of you having a matter against another go to law before the unjust and not before the saints? Do ye not know that the saints shall judge the world? And if the world shall be judged by you, speaking believers, are ye unworthy to judge the smallest matters? Know ye not that we shall judge angels? How much more things that pertain to this life? If then ye have judgments of things pertaining to this life, Set them to judge who are least esteemed in the church. I speak to your shame. Is it so that there is not a wise man among you? No, not one that shall be able to judge between the brethren, but brother goeth to law with brother, and that before the unbelievers, unsaved judges Now therefore there is utterly a fault among you, because you go to law one with another. Why do you not rather take wrong? Why do you not rather suffer yourselves to be defrauded? Nay, you do wrong and defraud and that your brethren. Now here's a situation he's dealing with and he doesn't give specifics. But two Christians Had such a severe fallen out, we don't know what the circumstances were, but they were going to law, and he rebukes them severely. And he says that uh uh that uh they are at fault by going to an unsaved A judge to determine what's the best solution. Now I have never heard of a church doing this. I imagine over the years there have been ones that have, but If I understand this passage correctly, he is saying that suppose Andy and Mark have a fallen out and they're gonna uh they they can't solve the problem And uh somebody says, oh, we're gonna we've got to go to court and get this settled, and they say, wait a minute, that's we can't do that. And if I understand this, that's right, the right way to do it would be to take spiritually mature people in the church. Godly men, humble, says least esteem. That means they're not big shots. They're just humble, godly, wise people. You take the issue before them, spend time in prayer, talk it out, and they make the help make the decision what's the best way to solve the problem. Now I've never heard of a church doing that. It's never been my experience. But that's the way I understand Scripture. Don't have brother and sister who have fallen out and become hostile to each other. Don't go out before the world. and let them make that decision. Bring it to the church. Let the godly, humble, spiritually minded folks in the church make that decision and solve that. So that's the ideal So we're not to go to court one with another. I know a ministry just this past summer. I think it was this past summer. I preached somewhere, but there's a ministry in Indianapolis that I was loosely associated with. had a falling out with another ministry and they were going to the s the Indiana Supreme Court, these two, one was a school and one was a church And they were suing each other over the properties and all this stuff, and it was just as ugly as can be. And um Bob Hamlin was here for Old Fashion Sunday And he was the one telling me about it. And I like I said, I was loosely associated with the school years ago. And uh he said he went to both of the leaders involved and he says, I took this scripture right there confronted him with this, said, you're sinning against God, you're bringing shame on the name of Christ. And they just disregarded it and went on. Now in that Sam, we are not to go to law one with another. We're to settle that within ourselves. We're going to judge angels someday in this little piddly stuff here on earth, and yet we've got that coming. So, some practical things. You could go on and on and on. But I think the Lord will lead us. If we're in a situation where we have somebody that's hostile and kind, uh they're an enemy. If I love the Lord, I get thoroughly right with God, I spend time in His Word, I stay in close fellowship with God, God will give me wisdom. And God will lead me and direct me in the best way to implement these principles Years ago, 1999, we went on the air with our translator. The FCC requires that within one year's time Any interference we give, we are required by law to do everything we can to resolve that. And so we were fine with that. I think it was about maybe a year went by. It was outside that framework that we were required by law to take care of. And we had a person back on Alexander Lane call me up He said I'm getting interference on my phone and my radio from your radio station. Well, I looked and I knew immediately we were not obligated to do anything. I could have and he was very hostile He was upset, boy, he was letting me have it, and his girlfriend previously had chewed me out. And um uh but anyway I said, tell you what, let me come over, let me listen to your phone, just verify that it's actual, and we'll replace your phone for you. We'll get you a better one that won't interfere. Ah, that's the least you can do. He was all upset So I went over there, got the phone, sure enough, Oliver B. Green. They're going to hell if you don't get saved. Yep, that's us. So I said, all right, got the food and all that. We went out and bought a nice food. I mean we paid a little bit for it and got it. And I said, try that. Got it hook, plugged it in, all that. Lo and behold, it's quiet as it could be I said, now what about your stereo? We said we're coming through on your stereo. Can uh um you know we'll replace that? Let me hear it. And he goes, nah. He goes, you've done enough. He said, that's fine, I can live with it I said okay. So about a year, a couple years went by. Guy comes by the house. He says you got a wild game dinner goes on, don't you? I said, yeah. And uh he says, well, I'm with the Wild Turkey Federation, and um he says, uh maybe I could come out and do something. I said, yeah, it'd be great And so he came out and for several years he came out. And uh I think it was like three s years ago, Bill Barrens preached the wild game dinner. Then he stayed over and preached Sunday morning. Do you remember that? About three, four years ago And that morning, Ray Beard, the guy was so, he was an enemy. But he stayed after, and Dr. Barron's led him to the Lord, weeping and crying back there. And he'll call me up sometimes, he'll come by and want me to listen to some DVD, some patriotic thing he has, and and uh, you know, old Ray's become a friend. Now what if I'd have said, too bad, sucker, time's up. Think we'd ever let think he'd ever gotten saved? No. So you do good. And they were being unreasonable and they were I mean they were using language that I wouldn't use anywhere under any circumstances. And uh but nevertheless we follow these principles, they work. Now, ideally, we want to take that enemy and make them a friend. But if that if that doesn't happen, if that's impossible, then we just tactfully keep our distance. And go on and live for the Lord and um and do what's right. Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us, Lord, to be wise in interacting with others. It's not easy. It's a whole lot easier to preach this than it is to practice it But I help us to love you and stay close to you. Help us, Lord. God, maybe somebody right now is somebody's on my on your mind as uh as we're talking and praying. There's an individual there and you say, you know, I need to be kind, I need to try and win them, and I need to be gracious and Christian to them. Why don't you ask the Lord to help you? Ask the Lord to give you wisdom. And uh whether it's a family member, co-worker Worker and neighbor, a church member, ask the Lord to help you be Christian about it. Father