Just given in light of the fact that this Wednesday we begin our uh worldwide Faith Promise Missions Conference. Um I don't know what annual year this is. It's got to be at least twenty Uh we've been having our annual missions conference. God has blessed our missions program in tremendous ways over the years We're now currently supporting, I want to say, I don't have it in front of me, it's in the bulletin there, 78, somewhere around there, missionaries and mission organizations around the world. I believe we have missionaries on about every continent that we have a part in and praying for and and corresponding with, supporting financially. Many of them we've been with them on the field and different folks in the church have been with them. And so missions is uh not just a highlight of our year and not just a an exciting part of our church. I want to suggest to you, and this is where I'm going to try and communicate in the message That world missions is the very heart of our church and the very purpose for our existence. So with that in mind, let's read Matthew chapter Mark chapter 16. And verse number fifteen, let's read it together in unison, if you would. Read it with me. Here we go. And he said unto them, Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. I've entitled the message, just a simple title, Into All the World. Let's pray and ask the Lord to challenge us this morning. Father in heaven, we come to you with very grateful hearts. For what you've done and you are doing in our individual lives and in our church. We give you the glory for any and every good thing that takes place. Father, without you we could do nothing. Now, Lord, as we focus our hearts and minds on the upcoming conference this week, and Lord, we re-examine the purpose for our existence as a church and your clear instructions to us as a church. I pray you'd stir our hearts anew, renew our vision. I pray you would extend our faith in trusting you to use us in greater ways. to get the gospel out around the entire world to folks who are lost in sin. Lord, as I give this message this morning, I ask with all my heart That you fill me with your Holy Spirit. It would not just be me speaking, but God, I pray, it would be your Holy Spirit speaking through me, your word And that you would apply it to our hearts and lives. Present my body, I yield my will, and again I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. The Bible is the only book that has ever been written that does not need to be rewritten. The Bible is the only book that's ever been written that does not need to be updated. It is as current today as it was the day it was penned of the inspiration of God by the biblical penmen. It does not need to be revised. It does not need to be rewritten. It does not need to be updated. In fact, what the Bible needs above everything else is simply to be reread. It needs to be applied to our hearts and lives as individuals. And by the way, we constantly challenge folk to read their Bible on a daily basis The Bible is uh to me very, very clear. We are to meditate in the Word of God on a daily basis. And so if you're not in that habit as a Christian, if you know the Lord is your Savior And you're not in the habit of spending a little bit of time every day in the Word of God, letting God speak to you from His Word, meditating on what He says, I really want to challenge you this morning to do that. The Bible needs to be read and reread over and over and over. But we don't want to just read it. We want the Spirit of God to take His word and apply it to our lives. And change us and mold us. We need our thinking to be altered. Romans chapter 12 talks about the renewing of the mind. And so we need God to continually work in our hearts and lives and speak to us and apply to our lives and into our homes. the truths of the Word of God. And so m my statement is this the Bible doesn't need to be re rewritten, doesn't need to be updated, doesn't need to be revised. We just need to get back in it, read it, and then do what it tells us to do. Follow its instructions. Now you and I do not have to be a great Bible scholar. And uh I like to consider myself a student of the Bible. I don't know how if I'd use the word scholar But I like to think of myself as a student of the Word of God. But you don't have to be a great Bible scholar to see very, very clearly in Scripture that God has given to the church A very uh very important mission. God has given some instructions to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church and all other genuine churches. God has given to us some very clear instructions. We call that instruction, that command, it's generally known as the great what? Commission. The Great Commission. How many people are familiar with that term? The Great Commission. You've heard that before, you're familiar with it. That is the commission that God has given to the church. Our church, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, has uh he's given us. Now my question here is in the introductory statements is uh what is a commission? When we say this is the Great Commission, what is a commission? What do we mean by that? Well, I looked it up on dictionary. com. Online dictionary. They gave this definition. I thought it was pretty good. They said a commission is a trust or a responsibility given to a person or a group by a supervisory power or authority. Did you get that? It's a little lengthy description, but he says a trust or responsibility given to maybe an individual person, maybe a group, a church, a local church. It's a trust or responsibility given to us by a supervisory power, a power over us that supervises us. Hmm, sounds pretty good to me, huh? Another definition I came up with is a little more simple. It says this, an authoritative order charge, or direction. Now, as Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we have a supervisory power over us. We have an authority over us. By the way, it is not the Pope. Amen? It is not as an independent Baptist, it is not no it is not a denominational hierarchy. We are not part of some denominational organization that has authorities over the church. And by the way, the supervisory authority, the authority over Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is not Pastor Dennis Leatherman. Authority over Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is none other than the Lord Jesus Christ Himself. He is the head of the church. He is the chief shepherd of the church. And he is the one as the authority. Giving us this great commission. Great commission. Great commission. And so Jesus Christ, our supervisory authority, is given to us a great commission. It's clearly expressed here in our text. I don't uh uh to me that it's very, very clear. It's no misunderstanding what the Lord wants us to do. There's no question about what God has instructed us as a church that we are to do, what our commission is, our trust, our responsibility. Look again. And he said unto them, Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. That is our commission. That is our responsibility. That is what our superior authority has entrusted to us. To take the gospel into all the world and preach it to every creature. If you would, turn with me to the book of Matthew You're in Mark. Just come back to your left a little bit. The first book of the New Testament, Matthew, the last chapter of Matthew. Now, if you've been around Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church at any length of time You're very familiar with these passages that we're looking at this morning. They're nothing new, but they are extremely important in the purpose of our church. Matthew chapter number 28. And I'm going to begin reading in verse number eighteen. Very last uh verses of the book. I want you to follow along. By the way, if he's If you're a member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church and these verses aren't highlighted or marked in some way in your Bible, I highly recommend it. If you're saved, these ought to be highlighted, this ought to draw attention uh especially to these verses. Notice What verse 18 says, and Jesus came and spake unto them, these are the disciples, this is after his crucifixion, after his resurrection, he's about to ascend to heaven. He's given these instructions. He said unto them, he spake unto them, saying All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. Jesus is the supreme authority. He has all authority. He has all power. Now look what he says. Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, of the Son. And the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. Amen Very clearly, God has given to us as a church a commission, a responsibility. He has entrusted to us. This responsibility of taking his gospel into all the world. All the world. All the world. Very early in my own Christian life. By the way, this is significant to me, but a week from today, it will be 38 years ago. that I trusted Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. God transformed my life. It's 38 years later. Now I know many of you are this are in the same situation, feel the same way. But I'm telling you, 38 years later, 38 years later, and it still has a daily, profound impact on my life, the decision made back then. Still haven't got over it. Still haven't got over it. Early on, in my by the way, did I ever tell you how I got saved? May 7th, 19th? Well, I'll do that again some other time. But very early in my Christian life, for whatever reason, I was able to grasp the importance of the Great Commission I was impressed early in my Christian life, for whatever reason, the Great Commission, the significance of it seemed to grip my heart. And as far as back as I can remember in my walk with the Lord, my heart has longed to have a part in getting the gospel to all reaches of the world. For whatever reason, early on, in the church I was initially in wasn't real strong on missions, but uh whether the church is strong on missions or not, the word of God is strong on missions. And God stirred my heart and put a longing in my heart to get the Word of God into countries, places where there's spiritual darkness Uh Kazakhstan is such a burden on our hearts with a country of seventeen million people and two. Independent Baptist missionaries that we know of, set up there, established. Now I'm sure there's other Christians, we know there's other stripes, but I'm telling you, it is a land of spiritual darkness. And ours a church, my heart as a pastor and as an individual Christian, and our hearts of the church are stirred for that country and the phenomenal spiritual need there in other countries like it around the world To get the gospel there. Places that do not have the Word of God in their own language. I remember back when I was in Bible College down at the Highland Park Baptist Church, and they would have these great mission conferences down there. Uh eight-day mission conference, Sunday to Sunday And they would bring in 75, 80, 100 missionaries and sit up there and have this great, great conference and missionaries from around the world. And as a young man, as a young Christian, I'd meet these missionaries and I stood in awe. As I saw these men and women who God was using to take the gospel to people around the world, please listen, young people. To take the gospel to unsaved people around the world and uh to hear their stories, amazing stories This past week I was kind of reflecting back over, and I remember there was a fellow, and I don't know if anybody would happen to recognize this name. I think he passed away here several years ago, but his name was Daryl Champlin I don't know if you were uh here that heard that name. He wasn't real big name missionary, but he was an amazing man. He served over in Congo for years, and then uh some changes took place. God redirected them to Surna uh South America. I was able to meet him and I heard him one time and I didn't believe it. I I I couldn't believe it. I said this story can't be true. And he was saying it was he was down there in Suriname and there was uh tribes and there was um uh he would tell and uh since then it's been documented, so it was legitimate, but at the time I thought that that's amazing, that can't be true, how could that happen And he told how he was confronted with witch doctors, literal, actual witch doctors. We're talking about the 1960s, 1970s, in that range. And they would confront him, and they boasted of the power that their devils had given them Over fire and over different things that would not harm them. And one witch doctor in particular was uh brother uh Champlain was preaching and people were getting saved and lives were being changed and he had a church established and it was a threat to these witch doctors and they put a challenge out to all the people And they said, and they built a fire, they broke glass, and they threw it all uh put it out there and they built a fire that had hot coals and broken glass And the witch doctor challenged all the Christians and all the people in the community, saying, which God is greater? Our gods? Enable us to dance and trump on this fire and these ashes without harm. Can the God of this white man, is he greater than our gods? And they started pounding the drums and the rock music began to play. And they got out there and they danced on those hot coals and on that broken glass. And when they were done, they walked off and their feet were unharmed. Dr. Champlain says, and again I have it documented here, he says uh he says he was challenged by God. He says, I felt like the Lord was stirring my heart, yes, God can. Do amazing things, and God is greater than these devils that these witch doctors are worshiping. And he said he, to his own shock, he took his shoes and socks off. And he said, My God, the true God, the living God, is greater than your devils. He says, I went out and I began to walk around on those hot coals and that broken glass, trusting God that he would do amazing things. And he said, when I came off of that, the people stood in awe. And he said, My feet were hot, but they were uncut. There was no blisters, they were not burned. They said that was a turning point when the people realized that there is a true and living God that is greater than the devils of this world. The false gods of this world. And I was in these meetings and these great conferences, and I'd hear Dr. Champlain tell these things that God had done, these amazing things. And to shake his hand, and he would sign my Bible. I had a Bible signed by all kinds of missionaries and great preachers, just an amazing collection of signatures of these tremendous men and women of God. And one day we're on the bus route and my wife, one of the little bus kids, needed a Bible, and my wife gave her my Bible with all my signatures in. I've hated her ever since then for that That's a little aside. But uh see I still haven't got over it. I'm still very bitter about that. So there's a little bus kid somewhere in Chattanooga that has my Bible with all the signatures in But how'd we get on that? My heart was stirred. I'd meet these missionaries and hear their stories, what God was doing. And I wanted to be a part of that, not to walk on coals, but I wanted to be a part of the Great Commission. I wanted to be a part of what God had entrusted the church to do, to take the gospel into jungles in South America, in cities of Europe, and islands of the South Pacific. I wanted to To be a part of what God was doing. Part of the Great Commission. I remember so often, I'm just sharing my heart this morning. This is what it is. This mission is what it is. I would kneel at that big altar at Highland Park and I'd say, God, here am I. God, I'm willing to go lead me and direct me. And I had ideas, maybe places Philippines was big in my mind. And for whatever reason, God never allowed me. For whatever reason, God never directed me I'd say, Lord, here am I, here am I. I talked to mission agencies and missionaries. I'd say, what can I do? What can I do to get the gospel? Where they say, well this is a needy field, and they tell me where God had called them and they'd uh urge me to consider that. And then they would be another area out in the Midwest. uh uh north uh midwest up in Minnesota and uh the Dakotas and Montana out there and they said we need a great need for church planning. There was a fellow was at a ministry, uh uh an agency that was starting churches through local churches, doing it right. And I talked to him, and God always closed the doors. Close the doors. I said, Lord, if you will not let me go to the mission field, Then I am giving myself to you to be used however you can to help those that are going And I will do everything I can to get behind those who you have opened the doors and you have enabled them to go, and I'll do all I can to support them That's been my and Kathy's heart for all these many, many years. To get the gospel. If I cannot go, I will do all I can to get those who will go onto their field. I tell you this, and I know I'm talking about myself a little bit this morning, but I trust you'll bear with me. One of the greatest experiences of my life, one of, took place just this past March. When myself and about seven or eight other preachers and Christian workers, and most of you know, we went down to Mexico and into the center of the country there and into regions where There is absolutely no gospel witness, and this was I I had a misconception about Mexico And to be able to go out with Brother Hummel and others and go into a village. Now get this: a village that has never, ever in history been exposed to the gospel of Jesus Christ. What an amazing experience to meet people and interact with people that had never heard the gospel of Jesus Christ. Oh, they had the Catholic version of Jesus. But they had no concept of what it means to be saved. They had no concept of what the gospel is. And to be able to meet them one-on-one, individual, and present to a person for the first time in their life, probably in the first time in the history of their family Present to them the gospel in their language. And as we walked around those little villages to see people reading, for the very first time in their life, the message of Christ. I'm telling you, that is what this missions conference is about. You and I doing all we possibly can. To make it possible for people around the world to know and hear and understand the gospel of Jesus Christ and have an opportunity to trust Him as their Savior. What an experience to see people sitting in the streets and on their uh front of their steps of their houses reading the Word of God. And for the very first time. That is our great commission. Now I said all that. Now let's come back to our text. And I'm not really expounding this text this morning. But I want to give some thoughts, some things that we need to consider about this matter of the Great Commission, the matter of missions. I put this down, number one, the priority of the Great Commission. The priority of the Great Commission. Notice there in Mark chapter 16 and verse 15, Jesus Christ, in verse 14, it's interesting, and I'm not going to take time to uh uh deal with it, but he's rebuking his disciples for not having faith. He's rebuking them And then he makes this statement. He said unto them, who is the he in verse number 15? It's Jesus Christ. Let me ask you this: who is Jesus Christ? He's our Savior. He is the Son of God. Jesus Christ is the one who spoke this world into existence. By him all things are created. Jesus Christ is the final authority. He is the judge of all mankind, of all the world. There is no higher authority than Jesus Christ. As part of the Godhead. And it is Jesus Christ that says to you and I, Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel. How many people would agree with me? If God is telling me to do something, that ought to have a high priority in my life. How many people would agree with that? Sure. I how I I don't know. I imagine you feel the way I do. If God, if God wants me to do something, I ought to do it That'll be a high priority. How many f how many folks here are your parents? You expect your kids when you tell them to do something that becomes a priority in their life. Now I want you to clean your room. I'm playing video. The cleaning the room as it comes from the lips of the parents becomes a priority over playing video. And all the parents said and all the kids said I never did that stuff when I was a kid. Because they didn't have it. We just did other stuff. I'm not gonna tell you. Well what I'm trying to say is this When God says to the church, go ye into all the world and preach the gospel, that is our priority. That is not top priority. Oh, we need to build buildings. Yeah, it'd be nice. Yeah, we certainly could use a new fellowship home. We're working on things. But I tell you what, our priority over building a fellowship, Paul, is getting the gospel into all the world. Oh we need to have uh new carpet and stuff and one of these days we're gonna have to get some new carpet, we need some work up here, and uh that's nice and all that. But our number one priority is getting the gospel into all the world. I'd rather us all meet shoulder to shoulder, cramped in a chicken coop, with no carpet and whatever's on the floor in a chicken coop. And be getting the gospel into all the world, then have the nicest building in the world, and not be obeying the Great Commission. Follow what I'm saying? That's our priority. That's our priority. The gospel. God Himself has given to us this commission. The greatest investment I can make with my life. You and I have one life to live. We have one life. We don't get a second chance at this thing. When it's over, it's over. And what we invest our life in is it. The greatest investment I can make with my life is not making millions of dollars. I want to stop there and say there's nothing wrong with making money. We always point this out. Some of the richest people in the Bible were great men and women of God. There's nothing wrong with that. But I'm suggesting to you there is a higher, a greater investment I can make than making lots of money, building big houses and living in mansions We have a tremendous privilege just here to uh house our missionaries coming in in an absolutely elegant house at the lake, free of charge. I mean it is something. I think I think I'm gonna put him in our house and Kathy and I are gonna go and stay there. Mark and Jackie made this possible for us, but uh I can't wait when they get here. I'm just I'm giddy with them being able to stay in this amazing house. And I'm I have no not I know nothing about the owners, please don't misunderstand. I'm not trying to be critical in any way But I tell you what, it's far greater to invest your life in getting the gospel in the whole world than in building a multimillion dollar house beside a lake. There's nothing wrong with that. Everybody understands what I'm saying, right? This is a priority for the Church and for you and I as individuals to Listen and hear what God is telling us to do. Go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. And is God telling us that? That must be a priority. And we invest ourselves in these things. The greatest investment in our life is not necessarily investing it in some experiencing some tremendous thrill You know, the people do weird things today to get thrills. They tie a rubber band to the leg, jump off a bridge. That's insane. You know, through all these things. I'm telling you, there's something greater I can do with my life and f trying to find the next greatest thrill That is invest my life in the gospel of Jesus Christ. And I'll tell you, I can't imagine a greater thrill than handing the message of Christ to somebody who has never Been exposed to it before in their life. You talk about fulfilling. You talk about a group of preachers getting back to the house where we're staying and rejoicing in the Lord and the blessings of God. The greatest thing Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church can do is invest ourselves into getting the gospel to people who've never heard it. No greater thing. No greater thing. The priority of the Great Commission. The priority of the Great Commission. I um It's a church in another state pretty far away, actually. And they were having some struggles and different things, and um a couple of the different people in the church were calling up. The pastor called me up, he ended up resigning, and um Just different things going on. They called and they said, we have a concern. And they had to boil it down, just to simplify it, they had tens of thousands, I think it might have been a hundred thousand dollars or more, put up in the bank And it was in case their air conditioning broke, went bad, so they could replace the air conditioning. Question, is there anything wrong with that? No. That in and of itself, there's nothing wrong with that. But here's the rub. They said our budget is so tight, we need to cut back on the missionaries. And we're going to knock down their giving to that and we're going to drop half of them and all of that. I said, well, what about this? I mean that would la that would go a long way in keeping these missionaries on the field, keeping that support up They said, well, you know, the if the air conditioning goes out, it's going to be hot. I didn't say that, but I thought this. If people die and go to hell, it's a whole lot hotter. Seriously Listen, it is better for a church to sit in a sweltering tin shed and get gospel to people who are lost and on their way to hell than have a comfortable padded air conditioning building and missionaries not getting out. You follow are you catching what I'm trying to say? It has to be a priority in our lives. We do a lot of other things and stuff around here, and it's great, it has its place, but the number one priority in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church must be getting the gospel to lost people. Here and around the world. Must be a priority. Must be a priority. Number two, I put this down. The pity of the Great Commission. The pity. So what do you mean by the pity? Well, it's probably not the best word, but the Bible references different places, God pitying. Now there's a difference between God pitying somebody and you and I pitying somebody. When we pity someone, now I was going to say I pity Tom because he doesn't have any hair on his head, but to me that's a tremendous That's a tremendous thing. I have no idea why in the world anybody would want hair on their head. You gotta comb it, wash it, it's a hassle. But let's say I pity Tom because Mary tells him really lame jokes all the time. Aw, poor Tom. Right? Aw, poor Matt. He doesn't get to go fishing every day all day long. That's our pity. When God pities someone, you know what does? He comes down and he changes things. He affects things. He meets the need. It's not just, oh, poor you. God's not in heaven and say, oh, poor Dennis, he's lost sinner on his way to hell. That's too bad. No, he dies for me. He suffers hell in my place, buried and rise again. If I call him and put on my faith and trust, he forgives me and saves me. So when I talk about the pity of the Great Commission, I'm talking about God's tremendous love for mankind. And coming down and meeting our needs and doing for us what we cannot do for ourselves. The message of the gospel is the love of God. The message of sacrifice for our sins. The greatest, I was thinking this past week, what is the greatest event in missions history? Was it Grace? Was it when when uh David Livingston went to Africa? Carrie went uh to India or uh John uh to the Hebrides, uh John Payton went to the new Hebrides. Which was what was the greatest event in his and I came to this conclusion. The greatest event, now hear me out, because I'm going to go beyond this, but the greatest event at that point, as I was thinking, was when the New Test when the church in Antioch, First Baptist Church of Antioch Sent out Paul and Barnabas on the very first missionary journey. The very first missionaries in the history of the world. sent out by a local church and they go from one city and they preach the gospel and they go in the synagogues and people hear and believe and get saved and they organize a church, establish a church, and they move on. To another city and they preach, and this city turns against them and rejects them and throws them out. And they go to another city and they preach and people believe and get saved. They organize and they go on and on and on. I thought, what a great event in the history of missions. And I got thinking there's a greater event. Not when the church at Antioch sent out the two missionaries on the very first missionary journey, but when God the Father Sent his Son Jesus Christ to earth to bleed and die for our sins and be buried and rise again so that mankind, that whosoever will, may be saved. Greatest missionary event. You know what missions is? It's the love of God. It's God loving people in Kazakhstan and Mongolian, Kurzhstan, and Australian. And uh around the world loving them, Mexico, and sending his people out to go to them to tell them how they can be forgiven and saved and on their way to heaven The pity of the Great Commission, the love of God, the love of God. The very core of missions is God's love for lost sinners. God's love. Let me give you quickly, let me give you my third one: the plainness of the Great Commission. It's not complicated. It's plain, very plain. Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. It's not complicated. Just go. Get out there and tell them how to get saved. Just go to where people are and proclaim to them the message of Christ, how he died for them, was buried, and rose again. He has power to save them. It's very simple. It's not complicated. Now it involves organizing churches and dealing with different things, and it requires some wisdom that God will give. But the concept itself is not difficult. It's not complicated. Just go out there Go out there. I am absolutely convinced, and I've said this repeatedly, I am absolutely convinced there are people right now as we are sitting here in our service, there are people in Kazakhstan. There are people in Mongolia, there are people in New New Zealand, there are people in Mexico, there are people in Terra Alta, there are people in Cumberland, there are people in Oakland, Maryland, that if somebody would come with an open Bible And show them how to be saved, they would call on the Lord and trust Jesus Christ as Savior. If somebody would just go and tell them that That's what it is. It's not complicated. Just go there and tell them the message of the gospel. You say, well, you've got to convince them how powerful it is. You've got to convince- No, no, no. The message of the gospel is the power of God unto salvation. You give the message, it will do its job. We just need somebody to go and do it. We just need somebody to go and tell them. Go and preach them the gospel. Then number four, I put this down, the perimeter of the Great Commission In other words, how far does this extend? How far in the world are we supposed to go? Into all the world. Every last village, every little holler up in some mountain range in Nepal, every town, every city, every village, every neighborhood I tell you who blows my mind is Gary Forney. How many people know Gary Forney, most of our church folk? He's missionary. He's a mission organization. He started churches up in Canada, up in uh what was the name of that town where that ice trucker road uh thing was? Anybody know? I'm the preacher, I'm supposed to know, right? Uh city, a little city, India uh Eskimo Village up in in in Canada. And uh started a church. Who in the world would go to the Arctic Circle and start a church? God stirred his heart that there's a hole Millions and millions of people, whole culture north of the Arctic Circle, all around the top of this planet. Siberia all around there. Nobody's reaching them. And so he starts a missions agency to stir up and get people to go. And now he's got dozens and scores of missionary families all around the top of our planet. Reaching millions of people who would never be reached. Isn't that an amazing thing? You know what the perimeter for the Great Commission is, North and South? The North Pole and the South Pole. You know what the perimeter is east-west? It's all the way around, the whole thing. Every single corner, every single village, every single town the perimeter. Then I put last of all, and I'll end with this, the people of the Great Commission. The people of the Great Commission. He says, go ye, go ye. Who are the people God uses to take the gospel into all the world? We say, well, it would have to be somebody that's highly educated If they're going to go into all the world and preach the gospel and be that missionary, they have got to be very, very highly educated. They have to have a super intelligence. They have to have a super high IQ to be able to do that. That's what we would think Oh, they gotta be really gifted. They have just have to be able to do anything. They can do anything. They're just amazing. They're almost superhuman people. You know what I found out? Exact opposite of that is true. The people God uses are just ordinary people like you and I. Just ordinary people. You know what I found? I found a lot of the people God uses struggle with having strong faith. Did you read verse 14? The Lord's rebuking his disciples for their lack of faith. So here you got a group of guys that doubted whether he really rose from the dead that were questioning everything. Now they're standing bug-eyed. He actually is alive. And he's saying, now this is Dennis Leatherman version, you knuckleheads, I told you I was going to do this Now get out there and tell everybody what you saw. Huh? Huh? Okay. Now I'm exaggerating, being a little silly there, but that's basically the people he's using. Fishermen, businessmen, some of them pretty shady. They get shaved. God says, all right, go out and do it. Go out and do it. Go out and do it. God's not looking for ability. He's looking for availability. I've used this illustration before, and it's not original with me, but it is so great. If you have a nail and you're going to put a picture, your wife says, David, I want a picture right there on the kitchen wall. And Dave says, all right, where's the hammer? Oh no, Micah took it out in the woods. I don't know where it is. So I I I need to put the picture up. I need a hammer-nail, and I don't got no hammer. What do you do? You find something around there. You anybody here ever use the backside of a of a screwdriver? Or a a wrench, the side of a wrench? How many of you ever use your shoe? Listen, super intelligent, powerfully gifted people would be great on the mission field. But God will use whoever's willing to go. You know what I feel like? My wife and I were just talking about this not long ago. I feel like, you know, God really needs a hammer to do the work he's doing here, and all I am is an old shoe. But God will use an old shoe if it's available. You follow what I'm saying? And the people God uses to get the gospel in the older world are simply people who are willing. Or available. Say, yeah, Lord, here I I'm willing to go. I'm uh I'll go. Or Lord, uh uh Lord, I'll do everything I can to get those that are going to support them. Uh you know, I got Lord's blessed me with some money. I can support them. I can pray for them. Maybe I can go on a trip every now and then and go help them do stuff there on the field. We have an amazing day today. We can travel around the world and help them firsthand, right? Hand on hand But just people, just ordinary people, even people that struggle with their faith, aren't strong in their faith, they'll use them if they'll take whatever faith they have and put it in him and trust him and let him direct them and lead them. I was listening to a sermon this week, another preacher, and he was telling about a fellow in his church that they thought That he was um that he didn't eat meat. What do you call a person doesn't eat meat? Vegetarian. No, that's an Indian word for bed hunter. Um I've been wanting to say that in a sermon for so long. And they thought the guy didn't eat meat. And so uh the they went on, a couple years went by, and they just they'd eat salad. They ate the stuff that the things I eat eat. And um they just assumed. So they were on a trip, they went to a conference or somewhere and he was with the guy and and he says, tell you what, I'll take you out to lunch. They went out to lunch and they had one of these big buffets like Golden Corral or something like that And he said, the guy and the the preacher said this would be cheap, they're just gonna get salad, you know. He said he came back with chicken, pork chops, steak, everything he found that thing packed full of meat. He goes, What's the deal? He says, You're a hypocrite, everybody thinks you don't eat meat and you come out here and you're eating all this meat He goes, Oh no, we love meat He said, Well when we were at church and that missions conference and the preacher said about doing all we can to try and get missionaries out on the field and support them, my wife and I decided we could save a lot of money by not eating meat and use that money to support missionaries. So he was just an average guy. He had a lived in a small apartment. But he wanted God to use him. Wanted to be a part of the Great Commission. So they went without me. Went without me. Except when the preacher took them out, then he And that's something. The people, God Jesus, just ordinary people, just like you and I, and say, Lord. This is important. This is a priority. People have to hear the gospel. They have to be exposed to the gospel all around the world. And Lord, if whatever I am, whatever I have, Lord, I'll invest it. I'll invest it. I would be ashamed and embarrassed to ever And and this some of you know this is true. I would be ashamed and embarrassed to ever ask anybody, anybody to give me money or do something for me. I I would be ashamed to do that. But I'll tell you what, I'll stand behind this pulpit with all authority and with all the strength and motions of my heart and ask God's people to support missionaries. To do all we can to get the gospel out to every person in the world. It is a priority that God has given us as a church. The Great Commission into all the world, into all the world. I want to ask three questions and we'll give the invitation. Number one, and I want us all to ask ourselves these questions. Number one, am I willing To go to the mission field as God directs me. Now, don't answer out loud, just between in your heart. Am I willing to go to the mission field as God directs me? Let me alter that a little bit, put it this way. Is there a longing in my heart to go to fields where there's no gospel, where there's no witness? And take the gospel to them. You say, I'm not gifted, I'm not at this, I'm not a very great spirit. God's not asking for all that. He's just asking for people who are willing. People have a heart. People say, God, here, take me, use me. I'm a shoe. If you need a hammer, a nail and whatever, here I am. Lord, I'm just. Here's the question: Is there a longing? Am I willing? Is there a longing in my heart? To go and take the gospel to others. If that's true, then this week it's very important you need to pray. Let the Lord lead and direct you. Trust them. Listen what the missionaries and Dr. Creed says this week. Listen very carefully. Second question is this. Am I willing to invest my life and resources to support those who are going? Now, I'll tell you, here's where I struggle a little bit, and I've got to end. But here's where I struggle a little bit. We talk about being called of God to go to the mission field, and I believe that with all my heart. But here's the thing: God has given us a command He said, go ye. So this is how I solve the conflict in my mind. He has commanded us to go, but then we say, well, I need a call to go. This is how I've solved that conflict in my mind. I think every Christian ought to consider themselves called to go until God says, no, you need to stay where you're at. God's told us to go. Then we ought to be alright, unless God and then when God says, No, I want you to stay here in Oakland, they need a witness here. They need a uh missionary, quote unquote, here. I want you to stay here or wherever. So if I don't have the go-ahead to go, then the question is, am I willing? To invest my life, my resources in supporting those who are going, doing everything I can to get them there. And then the third question is this. Am I doing all I can to get the gospel in my area to people who do not have the gospel? I found that those who are not soul winners in America don't become much soul winners in Europe. They're not witnessing here. And our missionaries that we bring through, one of the things we watch for, are they witnessing now? Are they sharing the gospel here? Because if they're not doing it here, chances are they're not going to do it there. And our responsibility is also to be a witness here. Here's the thing I love about missions conference right on the tail of track month The two blend together beautifully. We are doing here, we do it all year long, but particularly the month of April, we are doing here what we expect our missionaries to be doing overseas, right or wrong. Being a witness, sharing the gospel, getting the gospel to people. So am I involved here? Am I doing what I expect missionaries to do here? Somebody said, I forget who the preacher was, somebody said, the light that shines the farthest abroad shines the brightest at home. And I found that the churches that have the greatest missionary vision are often strongest soul-winning locally where they're at. And that ought to be true for us. I hope your heart is stirred. I'm coming into missions conference with a stirred heart this year. I want God to use me. I want God to use our church, our people. The most important mission we have ever been given by God Himself, taking the gospel into all the world. Father in heaven, I pray you'd use these few thoughts. Or as I shared my heart this morning, I pray that you would stir us and we would go into this week anticipating you speaking to us and directing us and enabling us. to carry out this great commission. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many folks here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church would say, preacher, I'm going to pray with all my heart. I'm going to pray, pray, pray that God does a great work this week at our missions conference and stirs us in this matter of missions. How many would By the uplifted hand, say, Preacher, that's something I'm going to pray, pray, pray with all my heart. God bless you, hands all around. Let's make that real. Let's make that true. That's where missions begins with prayer. I want to say, preacher. I am what I am. But I'm willing this week, and you say I'd like for you to pray for me, preacher, but I'm willing this week to just put myself on the altar. And whatever God would have me to do, whatever that means, I want to come in with a willing heart, a surrendered heart, a submissive heart, say, God, whatever you instruct me in this matter of the Great Commission, whatever role I play in the Great Commission. God, I want you to make that clear to me. And I'm willing to trust you and follow that. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Whatever role I have in the Great Commission, I'm willing. And I come into this with a submissive heart. God bless you, hands all around Now I'm gonna have to shorten this, but let one last question. Is there happen to be anybody here this morning to say, preacher, I don't know for sure that when I die I'm going to heaven? Now, indirectly, that's what this is all about. People knowing for sure their sins are forgiven, they trust in Christ, they're on their way to heaven. You hear this morning you say, Preacher, I'm not sure that when I die I go to heaven, not to hell. You say I'm concerned about that. You'd say, preacher, I'd like for you to pray with me that God will help me settle that in my heart, that I can know that God has forgiven my sins. Christ has cleansed me of my sin And that I have a home in heaven. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about that. About where I spend eternity. God bless you. How about it? Any others? Preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about that Now Father in heaven, I thank you for the Word of God. This great challenge, this responsibility you've given us. Help us to take it seriously, I pray. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. James want to play invitation. As she plays, how about it? You raised your hand.