First chapter of Revelation In just a minute here, I'm going to read verses four through eleven. Let me go ahead and and and tell you what what the plan is here and I talked with Pat Pastor about this and he was and he thought it was a good idea. And um uh so th this is the plan. Um he has me preaching for him tonight And then next Sunday morning and next Sunday evening. And then also three weeks in February, he's going to be taking that mission's trip to New Zealand. And so I have a nine part series that is starting tonight. And so we're going to um start it tonight and then we're going to um uh get part way through it by the end of next week and then by the end of February um we'll be done with that. And um so I'm really excited about it. So that's the plan. And tonight is going to be the the introduction message to the series, if that makes sense. And a lot of you probably already know what that series is going to be just off of the reference there. But Revelation 1, I'm going to read verses 4 through, well probably actually probably through the ra the rest of the chapter there. So verse 4. It says, John to the seven churches which are in Asia, grace be unto you, and peace from him which is and which was. in which is the come, and from the seven spirits which are before his throne, and from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness, and the first begotten of the dead. And the Prince of Kings of the Kings of the Earth, unto him that is l that loved us and washed us from our sins in his own blood, and hath made us kings, and priests unto God and his Father. To him be glory and dominion for ever and ever, amen. Behold, he cometh with clouds, and every eye shall see him, and they also which pierced him, and all kindreds of the earth shall wail because of him Even so, amen. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, saith the Lord, which is, and which was, and which is to come, the Almighty I, John, who also am your brother, companion in tribulation and in the kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ, was in the I was in that island that is called Patmos for the Word of God. And for the testimony of Jesus Christ. Verse 10. I was in the spirit on the Lord's day, and heard behind me a great voice as of a trumpet, saying, I am Alpha and Omega, the first and the last. And what thou seest, write in the book, and send it unto the seven churches which are in Asia, unto Ephesus, and unto Smyrna, and unto Pergamis And unto Thyatira, and unto Sardis, and unto Philadelphia, and unto Laodicea. And I turned to see the voice that spake with me, and being turned I saw seven golden candlesticks, and in the midst of the seven candlesticks, one like unto the Son of Man, clothed with a garment down to the foot, and gird about the paps with a golden girdle His head and his hairs were white like wool, as white as snow, and his eyes were as a flame of fire, and his feet like unto fine brass, and if they as if they burned in a furnace And his voice is the sound of many waters. And he had in his right hand seven stars, and out of his mouth went a sharp two-edged sword, and his countenance was as the sun shineth uh as the sun shineth in his strength. And when I saw him, I fell at his feet as dead. And he laid his right hand upon me, saying unto me, Fear not. I am the first and the last. I am he that liveth and was dead, and behold, I am alive forevermore. Amen. And have the keys of hell and of death. Write the things which thou hast seen, and the things which are, and the things which shall be hereafter. The mystery of the seven stars which thou sawest in my right hand, and the seven golden candlesticks, the stars of the angels of the seven churches, and the seven candlesticks which thou sawest are the seven churches. I'm going to pray here and then we'll look at the the introductory message. And I've just entitled this Introduction to the Seven Churches. introduction to the seven churches. And the plan is there is nine services over the next few months that I'll be filling in for pastor. And the the the the plan is to um By the end of that, have gone through all of the seven churches that are mentioned here. So let's pray and then we'll look at the groundwork for this. Lord, we thank you for the day that you gave us, Lord, and Lord, every time I'm asked to do this, Lord. I always just feel so inadequate. So Lord, I pray that where I'm weak, Lord, and where I'm inadequate, you would make up for it. Lord, I pray you'd fill me with your spirit. And I pray you would just take over the service tonight. Lord, if there's anything that I'm about to say that is contrary to your word, Lord, I ask that you just keep me from saying it. But Lord, also if There's something that you would have said that I don't maybe have written down. I ask that you bring it to my mind. I pray that we would not just uh learn the facts here and learn the history, but would apply the things that you teach us tonight, Lord. We love you. We thank you for loving us. And it's in Jesus' name. Amen. So introduction here to the seven churches. That's the title of the message tonight. And then the plan is to next Sunday morning look at Ephesus and then the following there look at Smyrna and so on. But just to kind of lay some basic groundwork here, just so we kind of all get caught uh uh up uh on the same page here and all get up to speed here. Uh some sometimes um the book of Revelation can be a uh for some people it's a little bit scary. I don't think it should be. Um I know some people like to kind of shy away from that because Oh, there there could be scary things. I'm I'm not really scared of it because I know I'm saved and I know uh where you know I know where I'm gonna spend eternity and I um I'm I'm not really really too worried about it. But um All that being said, I think it is something we should study. We should know about it. I mean, obviously it's written for our learning as well. And so there's things that are here for us. The theme I mean if you could give a theme to the book, it's it would be I heard someone else say this, this isn't original with me, but the theme of the book of the Revelation shouldn't just be the end, but it should be in the end Jesus wins. And so I like that. But anyway, we're going to look at the first few chapters here over the next several weeks, I guess But just to kind of get us all on the same page, the book of the Revelation was penned by the Apostle John. Now he penned 1, 2nd, 3rd, John. He penned the Gospel of John and now also Revelation. And actually he uh uh he went on to be a elder um there at the church at Ephesus. And um when you read the Gospel of John He referred to himself as the disciple whom Jesus loved. And so I think this is very interesting. He was younger. He was a very young man when Jesus called him. So he was able to see Jesus' earthly ministry. He was then after he was able to see uh Jesus ascend up and then he was um he saw the church explode there at um at Pentecost and all that. So John had had been around for a while, no doubt seen quite a lot of of different things, good and bad, but that's who uh God used to tend this. And now uh the situation he's in here He's at the island of Patmos, and we see that that pointed out there in verse 9. Now, something I kind of want to point out right here at the beginning, there is a special blessing to those that read and those that hear this book. If you read in verse three, Blessed is he that readeth, and they that hear the words. of this prophecy. And keep those things which are written therein for the time is at hand. And so I I mean I I I think that's just something kind of uh to to point out there. That's not anything I'm going to preach on. But It sure is nice to get extra blessings, so I think it's a good idea to read the book of Revelation and then also apply what you uh read there. And um this is This is just a suggestion. I think it's also a good idea just to listen to an audio of it. I think and if you listen to it that way, there's just um a blessing that you can get from that as well. But anyway He was on the island of Patnus when he was writing this. Now doing some studying here, doing some digging, you can find pretty quickly that uh during this time uh the emperor was Domitian or Domitian however you say that uh emperor's name Now he was very he was known for a few things. One of them was his intense persecution of the Christians. He didn't like them. And that was sadly a common thing. Persecution was definitely rampant during that time. And for the early church. Now, this emperor Domitian, his older brother was the Emperor Nero, and many of us recognize that name. So Domitian was Nero's little brother. So keep that in mind. Now, Nero, he was the one that blamed the Christians for the fires. And of course, if you study that, most believe he set fire to Rome himself. Then he played his uh violin while the city burned. He just wanted to blame the Christians for something, um, and so he set the city on fire. Interesting. But anyway. So that's who this emperor was. And now this island of Patmos was just off the coast of Southwest Asia Minor. Can you put that map up, Jamie? I have a picture of a map here. And again, tonight I just kind of want everyone to get in mind where all of this is taking place. Now, if you can read that, where Ephesus is, if you look at this the last S there And that island that is just right below that S is the island of Patmas, I believe, there. It's either that one or the one right next to it. But either way, Right off the coast there, southwest side of Asia Minor. Of course, that's uh Turkey today. And um so and then these are the churches he's writing to. You can take that down now. Thank you for that So that is where he is when he is writing this. Church tradition says that what happened to John. is he was uh sentenced uh to death and um that there was um an error in executing him and there's actually a couple of different theories on that And I'm not sure which one is correct. The more I study it, the more I'm not sure which one is correct. Uh one of them said that um what happened was is they went to throw him in a pot of boiling oil and it and it tipped and so he fell out and lived Uh but they couldn't execute him twice, so they sentenced him to uh exile. And so whatever it was We do know that he was sentenced to death, but then there was something that happened, and he ended up being exiled to the island of Tatmas there. So that's that's what happened there. Now let's get into the text here. Verse 10. With all that that's going on, verse 10, I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day. Now, that is an amazing thing in and of itself. To go through the things that John had just gone through and now being exiled. to still be in the Spirit on the Lord's day. And this is just a total side note, has nothing to do with anything that I have written down here. But and I hope I don't embarrass anyone, but when when we go through something very tragic and still show up in church that evening, my hat's off to you. And I mean that And to still have tragedy hit your life like that and say, you know what, I'm going to be in the Spirit on the Lord's day. And my my hat's off to you guys for that. But anyway. We look at uh at this, and uh he was in spirit on the Lord's day. Okay, so verse um 11 um is where is when this voice starts to speak to him And um the voice was a great voice, as a trumpet, saying, I am Alpha and Omega, first and the last. And um what thou seest write in a book. We see he's given instructions to write down. Um uh the things he's about to see and specifically to deliver this to these seven churches mentioned. The seven churches we're going to be looking at uh were named right off the bat here in the first chapter And he's he's being told, I want you to send this to these seven churches. And we won't be able to get into any in particular church tonight, but but I just want to lay the groundwork like I'm saying. And then we go on and he has he has this uh this this the he sees the Lord here, he sees this vision here, and we know that's the Lord from what's about to be said. Um we're looking at this and he sees these seven golden candlesticks in verse 12 And in the middle of these uh golden candlesticks, he sees the Lord. He sees a vision of the Lord here. And um And uh he describes his appearance here in verses thirteen through fifteen. Check some of this stuff out. Look look at the text here. Verse um Uh and starting in verse thirteen, it talks about how um his eyes were like a flame of fire. That'd be intense, wouldn't it? To look at someone in their You ever had someone look at you with those piercing eyes? It's like, ooh, they just look at you and you just gotta y yeah. Anyway, imagine what imagine with that looked like. Eyes were like a flame of fire, feet like fine brass, uh head like white wool, voice like many waters. Now I've been told that I have a a deep voice and a very um projecting voice But nothing like what that voice was, I'm sure. Can you imagine d what what that's gonna sound like or what that sounded like to him? The voice of many waters. A picture like the sound of like a tsunami or something. I don't know But um I wanted to point this out too. This is just interesting to me, trying to lay the groundwork here, thinking about who is writing this down, who God has to record this revelation. John had seen Jesus many different ways, hadn't he? When he was a you know a fisherman, um he saw Jesus there at the beginning of his ministry. Um He saw Jesus asleep in the boat. You know what I mean? See seeing Jesus calm in in the tragedy. Um He had seen Jesus perform miracles. He had seen the um things like that. He had seen Jesus arrest. He was there when they showed up and arrested him Um then obviously he was in the upper room there when Jesus appeared after his death. He saw Jesus go up into heaven. Um seen him in in risen form, but this time when he sees Jesus, it's it's different. His eyes are like fire, his hair is uh white like wool, his voice is booming like many waters. And um You know, and don't misunderstand me. Yes, when we see when we think about Jesus, and when we see Jesus, yes, we should see him as loving, kind, compassionate. He is and forgiving, and but he's also holy. And we should see him as holy. I think um you know entertainment industries and and and Um eat nursery stories even I don't know, but things like that. Um sometimes we try to just focus on Jesus meekness. And it's almost like we paint this picture of him and Hollywood's painted this picture of him. The entertainment industry has painted this picture of of Jesus as like this frail little man. That's not Jesus Um he's God. And he's holy and he's powerful. And when he's when John sees him speak here, it is booming. And it's impressive. And it's and his reaction says that. Verse 17, when I saw him I fell at his feet as dead Kind of wonder maybe if that's something similar to what Isaiah saw. Anyway. So in verse 16, uh he sees him holding seven stars in his right hand. Now it says what the stars are in verse 20. We'll get to that in a minute. But he's holding seven stars in his right hand, and a sharp two-edged sword from his mouth. Now, isn't that interesting? Because the Bible says the Word of God is quick and powerful, sharper than any two-edged sword. When Jesus speaks, that's God's Word. That's Jesus' word, is God's Word. And so he's seeing the Word of God. That's all man, this is awesome. I can't even imagine what was going through John's mind as he was seeing these things as as an older man here. But anyway, moving on, John's response, as I said, he fell at his feet as dead And then verse 17 here in 18, he tells them who he is. He said verse 17: He laid his right hand upon me, saying unto me, Fear not, I am the first and the last, I am he that liveth and was dead. Jesus. And behold, I am alive forevermore. Amen. And have the keys of hell and of death. So he says who he is. And um think about the persecution that John has already experienced. Think about um you know he was he was uh pastoring there in Ephesus or uh maybe even after he saw Jesus ascend and he sees uh the church just break open there at Pentecost and Um and he's seeing all this and then persecutions all over. I'm sure that with the amount of persecution that was going on, I mean I like to think, you know, some and I know we all think, oh, persecution's not going to bother us, we're going to keep going forward, but I mean realistically it'd probably be pretty discouraging when you're seeing people The headed and you're seeing the I mean that I mean that'd be that I don't I'd like to think that I could stand through that, but I I know I I guess I won't know until w a minute. But I mean, you think about all that he's gone through and he's staying firm and staying true to the Lord. I bet he got a little bit excited when he sees Jesus here. I bet he got a little bit excited, probably more than a little bit. And um anyway. Now this is something interesting here Don't show that quite yet, Jamie, that next picture, but in just a second. In verses 19 and 20 here, he gives some instruction to the right to the churches. Again, verse 19, write the things which thou hast seen, and the things which are the things which shall be. The mystery of the seven stars which thou sawest in my right hand, and the seven golden candlesticks, the seven stars are the angels of the seven churches. And the seven candlesticks which thou sawest are the seven churches. So he says what the stars are, and he says what the candlesticks are. Now, um something very interesting that I just kind of want to note here, and again as I was studying this, this You ever have one of those moments when you're just like, whoa, this was a whoa moment for me. I was like, dude, that's awesome. Um the emperor at the time, uh Domitian or d or however you say his name, Domitian had a son that died at birth, an infant son that died at birth. And being Caesar's doing what Caesars do, he decided to make a God out of him, right? And so they went through all those ceremonies, made him a god, and they made these shrines and they made these statues. And um for a series of I I don't remember the exact time period, but it was it was whatever that time period was that they made the coin, the gold coins, it was a picture of his son. Um or a not a picture, it wasn't a picture, it was a an engraving of his son. Go ahead and show that there, Jamie. This is what the picture looked like. And what's interesting here, and there was a slogan that went on, and as soon as it pops up, I'll tell you what that was. But during that time. So this is the emperor's son, the one that's exiled John. There really is a picture of the Oh, he's not back there. Oops. Never mind. Um could someone find him? That would be great. Well I'll I'll get to that here in just a s a second. Actually he'll he'll show up here. But um I was wondering. I was wondering. Because usually I'll get a feedback, or usually I'll get a hang on a minute, or something. Um anyway, thank you for that. So I would get you to do it, but he has it safe somewhere, so there's that. There he is. There he is. Right on. Coin! Yes. See I was off to the side here and so that wall is right there and I could so I was talking to you, but you weren't there, and it was kind of funny. That. Okay. So um you see what's around that engraving is seven stars. Count one, two, three, four, five, six, seven. Now um They were gold. And there were some silver ones as well, it's my understanding. But the slogan was, whoever holds the seven stars holds the power, or something to that effect. And so that was going on right before he was exiled there. And um so when Jesus shows up and said and he's holding seven right stars in his hand, I mean he tells us what those are, but I'm pretty sure that would have been encouraging to John knowing that Jesus is the one holding the power. Um kind of cool, isn't it? So that's um That's a coin there, and thank you. You can take that down. So that was a thing that was going around at that time and and and the Caesar made a real big deal about it And uh whoever held the the seven stars held the power because money is power. So that was the the process there. Anyway, so He s like I said, he says what these stars are, and he says they're the angels of the seven churches. Um and so What what I believe is this, and studying it and looking at where that word came from and things like that, um, and looking at commentaries, and and and I'm pretty sure that uh Pastor has mentioned this before as well, but he's referring to the the elders of the seven churches. That word angels is the Referring to the elders there. And it makes sense when you read the next few chapters as well. So then anyway, the candlesticks, as very plain, are the seven churches. Seven candlesticks are the seven churches. So he's right off, if you remember that map, he's right off the coast there of Asia Minor. Being told to write to those seven churches, to send uh this this revelation to those seven churches, and he's sees the the the Lord in the middle of those seven churches, because he's in the midst of the candlesticks holding the power in his right hand holding the seven stars. And then if you look back up at it, he comes in verse sixteen, and he had in his right hand seven stars And then look at verse 17. And he laid his right hand upon me. We could get into a lot of speculation there. I don't want to say anything definitive. um or anything dogmatic I should say. But I think what was going on here again was assurance to John that yes, I'm in control. I have the seven stars and I'm the one that has the power. So anyway The Lord was there comforting him there as well. So the seven candlesticks are the seven churches. Now uh I c I don't again I don't want to be dogmatic and say that's exactly what Jesus was doing when he was holding those seven stars, it's because of that coin, and but I think it is something real interesting and certainly John would have known what that slogan was Um but I don't think anyone will debate that in the end Jesus wins and he has the power. So verse 20, seven councils, the seven churches. And that closes out the chapter. And chapter two, he begins addressing these churches individually And um so he starts with uh Ephesus and then uh Smyrna and then he goes to Thyatira and then Sardis and Philadelphia. And Laodicea, Pergamus was in there. I forgot about them. But anyway, so he goes, and we're not going to look at any one of those tonight. Next week we'll look at Ephesus in the morning and then Smyrna in the evening. But just real quick in just a few minutes here, I know it's almost eight o'clock, but there's just a few things I want to point out, and I really only have one application tonight, um, with especially with this being a groundwork Introduction type sermon. I really only have one application, and I'll get to it in just a moment. But generally speaking, I want to point out some observations of these churches. One, they were real. These were real churches. Um this was not just a um what's the word? Not allegory. Um symbolism thing, a metaphor or anything like that. These are actual legitimate churches. And you can go actually if you go overseas over there, you can actually look and see uh uh the the the ruins of some where some of them were. Pretty cool stuff But they were real. They existed. And again, just gives credit to the authenticity of the Bible. We know the Bible's true. But when archaeologists dig up these Things that the Bible uh says is there that we already knew were there because we believe the Bible it is kind of encouraging. So uh they were real. Um Each one was in a local New Testament church, and we saw where they were on the map. They weren't all right there together. They were spread out a little bit, but they had it looked like they had uh Asia Minor there covered up pretty good and But each one was was um real and they were there. Second thing is um I wanna I wanted to say each one was totally individual of each other. Now they they they may have had uh uh times in uh in where they were went back and forth visiting churches and stuff like that like tonight There's uh several of us from our church that are um uh in Clinton, Maryland. There's several from from accident tonight that are here uh uh tonight. So um, but they were all they're still different churches, different independent churches. And so that's one uh place we get our um doctrine of the autonomy of the local church from Um each one was unique, and we'll see this as we go through it. Um they were all in different sized cities, some were rich, wealthy, booming cities, some where there wasn't much persecution at all, some where it was Death sentence if you were caught, you know, um d different cities, different levels of uh persecution, different cultures, um things like that They each had their strong points. Um they each had their weaknesses. There's one um I believe where there's a or possibly two. I'll have to go back and look where weaknesses weren't mentioned, but uh It's implied that they all had their strengths and weaknesses. They were totally individual. Um they were totally autonomous, totally unique. Although they were connected in Christ, they still operated on their own. We see that Um third thing I noticed is Christ had a specific message for each church. Now, this went to each church. Each church got the book of Revelation. So that means they got to see what God had to say about the other church, which is interesting to me. Of course, we're getting to see what he had to say about all of them. So that makes sense. And so God had a message for each church. Now each church had a very specific message. Now we're not the church at Ephesus. We're not there. This is several thousand years or two thousand, whatever some I don't know the math. It was a long time later. Okay, 2,000 years later. And um that's not or not that church. That's that was them. Okay? They were totally unique, totally individual is what I'm trying to say, and they had their strengths and weaknesses, but God had a message for each church. Now, God's message to the church at Pergamous Will apply to us, even though we are not the church at Pergamus. The message to the church at Thyatira will apply to us, even though we are not the church at Theatira. And one reason I say that, one, is because it's the Bible and it's written for our learning. But also we see in chapter 1, verse 3, where we get a special blessing for reading it and keeping it, doing what it says. So, anyway, there's a message for each church, a specific message, but it this the messages apply to the other churches, but then also to our church today. And to accident and to other churches, and you get the point. So it it it still applies. And I think it's going to be um uh interesting to see what we learn. So The other thing I want to notice is the accountability of each church. The churches weren't answering to each other. The churches were answering to God. God says, you know, I have somewhat against thee. If you read through that, he says that several times, I have somewhat against thee, referring to the um different churches. So the churches were not. So Ephesus wasn't in submission to Smyrna, and Pergamos wasn't in submission to Laodicea and so on. They were all in submission to God. So, and I think that I think we understand that it makes sense. So, I have a couple of applications, really just one big one though, and I'll be done here in just a few minutes. This was just all the groundwork, and we're going to be looking at each individual church. So next Sunday morning we're going to do a study on the church of Ephesus, and next Sunday night we'll look at the church there at Smyrna and so on. But um first thing I really notice is an application, something I can take home with me tonight, is each church is important to God. Each church is very important to God. And he he takes the time here to single out seven. And each one of them, you can tell that the Lord is very interested in. Their size might have been different, their demographics might have been different, their culture might have been different. But they're important to the Lord. And so with that, the church at Mountain Lake is very, very important to God. God pays attention to what we're doing. And we know that. We know that. God pays attention to it. But now with that in mind, we should never have the attitude of Well we're not, you know, that important like, you know, the really big churches. You know, it's it's not like that God died for us. Christ died for us, the same as Christ died for the big churches, the small churches. And we're all important. Every church matters to God, is what I'm saying. Every church that's his. There's people that and this is total sideshow. There's people who call themselves churches that aren't anyway, whatever So each church is very important to God. We should never have the attitude of, oh well we're not important. They are, but we're not we're w you know. Or we should never have the attitude of Well, w we need to try to be big like that church. Okay, if you meet by big you mean witnessing the more people, seeing more soul saved, I'm all for that. But understand we're different. We're different. This area is not the same as Baltimore. This area is not the same as Chicago or New York City or the Dominican Republic where they're headed right now. So which church is more important? Neither. They're both important. They're all important. And God cares about each one, and he gave himself for the church, whichever one it is. So anyway, and now this is the main main thing that I wanted to get to this evening. And it's this. And this is something I think I I can take home with me. You can take home with you and apply this. But just like Christ had a message for each one of these churches. And had somebody write a letter to them, he's done the same for us. God's had men write this letter to us. God has a message for us. God has a letter for us. If we don't read the letter, we don't get the blessing. If we don't hear the letter, we don't get the blessing. And I don't know if you caught this. I kind of just snuck it in there, but I'm coming back to it now. Verse 3: Blessed is he that readeth. And and they that hear the words of this prophecy and keep those things which are written therein. It's pretty hard to keep them when you don't read them or don't hear them. And so what I w I'm the the it's after I understand, but the driving point I wanted to make tonight Was that just like Christ had a message for these churches, He has a letter for us? There is a blessing if we listen to this letter, there's a blessing if we hear the letter. Now I want you to stop and think for a minute. What if the churches did not read or did not hear These words. That had been tough. There's some encouragement in here that they really desperately needed, especially with all the persecution stuff that's going on. And we'll look at the the individual ones here in a minute. But they really needed that. And I think about that. There there are struggles. I mean there w we s we see struggles. We fa we face heartache. It's it's part of life. We need that message. We might not be being threatened with our head cut off like they were. Well maybe soon, who knows? But We might not be in the exact same position there, but we have trials, we have struggles, we have real heartaches, and life is tough. It's even tougher when you don't read the Bible. It's even tougher when you don't have that message and don't hear it and don't keep the words which God's giving you. I was sharing with the kids this morning. Um actually it was out of Proverbs. uh verses that that that pastor preached from this morning, different message, but the same verses. And I was sharing with the kids this morning. You know, life is just better when you read the Bible and do what it says. Now, I mean there might be some persecution that comes with it like they face, but I mean generally speaking here, life is just going to be better if we just do what God says. But we got to read the message before we can keep it. So I was just thinking about this, and and I know with this type of a message it was really the only point I wanted to make, but I think it sure would be a shame if we missed out on this blessing And this is talking specifically about Revelation, but the the thought here applies to the whole Bible. Let me just ask you. Are you reading it? Are you reading this letter? Think, wow, that is so cool. God showed up and and and told John what to write to these churches, and John wrote that to the churches, and the Lord was there telling them what to write. That's what we have. God showed up and told these prophets and the apostles, he told them what to write, to give to us. And I can't imagine what life would be like without reading that letter. You know, uh in chapter three of Proverbs, again I was talking about this this morning with the kids It says, length of days, long life, and peace shall be added to thee. What? The commandments, if you keep them. The more I keep the commandment, the more peace is added. So if I don't read the commandments and keep the commandments, the less peace. I don't know about you, I want peace. I don't I don't I don't like being stressed out. I don't uh I don't like being stressed out. Of course sometimes I stress out over, you know, when When I'm gonna eat again or something like that, but you know, sometimes I stress out over some pretty silly things. But in all seriousness, I I don't wanna be a worrier. I don't want to be stressed. And if I will read the letter that was given to me, but then not just read it, hear it, and do it. My life will be a little bit more peaceful. Now, could there be some consequences that come with standing for the Lord and read the Bible? Yes, sure, but You're going to have that peace. Could there be some persecution? Yeah, I mean, were there some Christians that died very young? Yeah, absolutely. In horrific ways? Absolutely. But they had peace. You um can do some studying and you can read um some of the early church history and um have a copy of uh Fox's Book of Martyrs. Very, very interesting stuff, but something you'll find is all those martyrs, they had some peace. What about Stephen, the Book of Acts? Well he was being stoned. He had a sense of peace about him. So peace isn't always being rich and having nice stuff and being fight you know financially secure and things like that. But peace is just knowing. I'm doing what I'm supposed to do and God's looking out for for me. God knows what's going on. You know what I think about Job? I mean, man, lost everything except for his wife, which I think that was by design. said, curse God and die, that's rough. Um He said, I I don't know. I looked I'm paraphrasing, I looked to the right and the left in front of me behind the but I know he knows the way that I take. There's peace that comes with being in God's Word and then doing what it says. We look at these seven churches here, and we're going to look at over the next few weeks. Um, you know, each one is so individual, so unique. But imagine if they wouldn't have received this letter, you know, what it would have been like. Now we have received the letter. We have a copy of the Word of God. And if you don't have one, you can get one pretty easily here. So why not just read it? Can I just ask you, when's the last time you read it with your family? You you get your mom and dad get together with the kids and read it. Or husband and wife together just read it. When's the last time you read it? When's the last time you opened it? When's the last time you read it for yourself? And when's the last time you read it, got convicted about something, and did what it said? Because man, that's where the blessing comes in. So anyway, we'll look at um all these other churches um over the next uh several um weeks here. So next week we'll look at the verse two and then in February we'll pick up the the the rest of it there. So Lord we thank you for this day that you've given We thank you for um giving this to John and and so we can um so we can see it, so we can benefit from it, Lord. And I pray that again we wouldn't just learn these facts, but we would apply the facts that we learn. Lord, we we love you so much. We thank you for loving us. We thank you for sending your son to die for us. It's in Jesus' name. Heads bowed, eyes closed for just a moment.