Galatians chapter number five, I know we're uh got a full schedule. I just want to condense what I was gonna say tonight. We're actually kicking off a series uh well I'm and I'm really looking forward to this. I hope God will use this as I'm anticipating to help us in our Christian life. If you would, chapter 5, Galatians, I want to begin reading in verse 16. And it says, the Bible says this, this I say then. Of course, this is Paul writing under the inspiration of God. He's writing to the church in Galatia, that's a region, these churches there. And he says, This I say then, walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lusts of the flesh. We have the Spirit. And we have the flesh. Then he expands on that a little bit. And this isn't the message, but it's laying groundwork. He says, For the flesh lusteth against the spirit. The word lust there has the eye strongly desire. There's a tension between these two, a battle going on. The flesh lusts against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh. There's this conflict, and it's within us. These are contrary one to the other, so that you cannot do the things that you would. How many people here? You're saved, you know it. Say amen. How many people know what he's talking about here? That old nature, the flesh. And then when you get saved, we have the Holy Spirit of God dwelling within us. And they're contrary to each other, and they lust one against the other. In other words, my flesh wants to run my life. And the Holy Spirit of God wants to run my life. But they they can't both And he says, so that you cannot do the things that you would. I think he's referencing Romans seven, where Paul says, the things I want to do I end up not doing Things I don't want to do, I find myself doing. And that's that conflict, the flesh and the spirit. How many people here ever had something you knew the Lord wanted you to do it, and for whatever reason, you didn't do it The flesh got in there. I didn't do what I know what God wanted me. And then there's other things I know the I know the flesh is wanting me to do it. I know that's not right. And I end up doing it. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Yeah, so that conflict is there, that's what he's referring. The flesh and the spirit, the flesh and the spirit. Now read on But if you be led of the Spirit, you're not under the law. Now, verse 19, he gives the works of the flesh. This is what the flesh produces. If I give in to the flesh, this is where it's going to lead. The works of the flesh are manifest, which are these adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, which means lawlessness of no restraint, just do whatever Idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance, that variance means fussing and fighting, strife, Variants, emulations, that's envy, jealousy, wrath, strife, fussing, seditions, that means division, not able to get along, divided. Um seditions, heresies, envying, murders, drunkenness, reveling, just carrying on, and the such life Other which I tell you before, as I've also told you in time past, they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. If I'm just under the flesh, if I have not have the Holy Spirit in me, I'm not part of the kingdom of God. I'm not saved. But the fruit of the Spirit is love. This is what the Holy Spirit produces, contrary to the flesh. Love. Joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance, it's self-control Against such there is no law. Would you agree with me? The list of the works of the flesh and the list of the fruit of the Spirit are contrary to each other. I mean, they're almost diametrically opposed, two opposites. And so we're going to study, with God's help, the fruit of the Spirit. This is what the Holy Spirit, this is what God wants to see in our lives. This is what God wants us to allow the Holy Spirit to produce in our life, the fruit of the Spirit. Now, before we start the series, I thought it was a good idea to understand a few things about the Holy Spirit. And so tonight I just want to do, and I only got a couple minutes, so I'm going to really condense, but I just want to do, I'm calling it in introducing the Holy Spirit. Introducing the Holy Spirit. Let's pray real quick. Father I'm so grateful for the ministries of our church. And Lord, just over the years, what you've done. And my heart's full tonight to see these kids and all the workers. And God, what you're doing in lives, how you're using uh folks to impact the next generation, I'm so grateful. And Lord, I pray for us now as we go into these summer months. Lord, teach us of your Holy Spirit and His role and what He wants to do. in our lives and produce this fruit that we can't. And so fill me, I pray, with your spirit. And that it would be Him, the the one that bears these fruit, would be speaking through me and teaching us. So that we can grow and be uh mature in our faith and and see you working. So have your way, Lord. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I don't know if the name A. J. Gordon means anything to you. His name is actually Adornyram Judson Gordon. He was named after Adornyram Judson. He was an associate of D. L. Moody, he's a very, very powerful preacher of years gone by. And um he was taking a friend of his from England. He had an associate, he had a friend from England was visiting, and he wanted him to see the Niagara Falls. And uh so he took them up there, and we were standing, they were looking at the Niagara Falls, and they were and they were just in amazement of this phenomenal uh falls of God's creation And A. J. Gordon said to his friend from England, he says, right there is the greatest unused power in the world. That water coming over that false, the greatest unused power in the world. And his English friend responded immediately. He says, no, not so. He said, the greatest unused power in the world is not Niagara Falls, it's the Holy Spirit of God. The unused power of God. I think a sad fact, and I I hesitate to say this because I don't like saying this, but I think a sad fact is many, maybe most Christians have very little understanding of who the Holy Spirit is and what he can and wants to do in our lives. I thought it was a good idea, as I said, before we study the fruits of the Spirit, is to have some basic understanding About the Holy Spirit, who he is and what he is. I want to look up a lot of verses tonight. We're going to do some, and so if you would, uh go with me to John chapter number 14. John chapter 14, he is telling his disciples. Jesus is telling his disciples about his upcoming crucifixion, and he's going to be leaving them. Now they really don't grasp what the Lord is saying at this point. They they have no idea what he's talking about, basically And he makes the statement, I'm going to go away. I'm going to go away. He says, but I'm going to leave a comforter for you. Notice with me, verse 16 of John chapter 14. He makes this statement He says, I will pray the Father, and he will give you another comforter that he may abide with you forever. And Jesus says, I'm going away, but don't worry. I'm sending another comforter. And he's going to be with you. He's going to be with you forever. Come down again. Verse 17. Even the Spirit of truth Whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him, but ye know him. Look at this, for he dwelleth with you and shall be future tense in you. Come down to verse 26. But the comforter, that's who we just referenced, the Spirit of God, the Holy Spirit of God. Which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things and bring all things to your remembrance whatsoever I have said unto you. I'm going away I'm going to give you another comforter. Even the Holy Ghost, the Spirit of God. Father's going to send him. Come over to chapter 15 and notice verse 26. He says, But when the Comforter, Holy Ghost, when the Comforter is come, whom I will send unto you from the Father, even the Spirit of truth, which proceedeth from From the Father, he shall testify of me. So he repeats himself. I'm going to send a comforter. I'm going to send a Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit of truth. The Holy Ghost. He refers to him with different names. Come over to chapter 16 and verse number seven. Nevertheless, I tell you the truth. Do you get the idea the Lord's trying to get this in their heads? He's pressing this issue. And he says, Nevertheless, I tell you the truth, it is expedient for you that I go away. For if I go not away, the comforter will not come unto you. But if I depart, I will send him unto you. Sounds to me that it's very, very important to the Lord that we understand the Holy Spirit of God is given to us by God when Jesus ascended to heaven. So we're talking about the fruit of the Spirit. Who is the Holy Spirit? What is He Oh, this Holy Spirit bearing fruit in our lives. Who is he? Three things. I'm just going to throw them out at you. Number one, I want us to consider the deity and the personality of the Holy Spirit The Bible clearly teaches the Holy Spirit of God is God. He's co-equal with the Father. He's co-equal with God the Son. If we had time, and if you take, if you took Bible Institute, we spent an extensive period of time on this, but the Holy Spirit of God has every attribute of God the Father. He's God. Along with that, the Holy Spirit is a distinct personality. He is God. Question, how many gods are there? It's one God. But the Godhead, and this people have a hard time with this. The Bible is very, very clear. The Godhead is made up of three distinct personalities. God the Father, we refer to him in the Old Testament, Jehovah. Jesus referred to him as the Father. God the Son, Jesus Christ, came flesh. Paid for our sins for us. And then God the Holy Spirit. Three distinct beings, yet one God. And the Holy Spirit is not Jesus Christ, God the Son. God the Spirit is not God the Son, and God the Spirit is not God the Father. He's distinct, but yet it's one God. What do we call that? What's the term we use for that? The Trinity. The Trinity. God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit, not only God, but He is a personality. Now, let me give you some references here. Again, I wanted to look these up, but we won't. Concerning the deity. Of ge of uh of the Holy Spirit, the deity of the Holy Spirit. There's some direct statements. I wish so badly more time But Acts chapter five, verse three and four we have Ananias and Sapphira. They lied about money they donated. How many people are familiar with that, you know, somewhat? They said, oh, we gave so much money, they really didn't. They only gave, they said, we got so much money from a property we sold. We're giving it all to the Lord. They didn't. They kept back some. They lied. And in Acts chapter 5, verse 3 and 4, Peter confronts them about their lie. And he says, You have not lied unto man, you've lied to God. And in the very next verse, he says, you've lied to the Holy Spirit. And it's making a very, very clear statement. You can't misunderstand what Peter's saying. The Holy Spirit is God. When they were lying to the Holy Spirit, they were lying to God. Again, we don't have time. 2 Corinthians 3:17. We're told that the Holy Spirit is the Lord. Lord God Almighty. So we have some direct statements, and this isn't comprehensive at all, and I'm pushing through this a little bit, that the Holy Spirit is God. In Psalm chapter 119, verse 7, we're told that the Holy Spirit is present. I cannot flee the presence of your Spirit. Well remember where I go, the Holy Spirit is omnipresent. He's everywhere. In Genesis chapter 1 and verse 2, it says, the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters. The Holy Spirit was part of creation. In verse 26, God's explaining a little bit. We have there, and God in the conversation among the Trinity God says, let us make man in our image us, plural, referencing the Holy Spirit again In Job chapter 33 and verse 4, says, Job said, The Spirit of God hath made me. Creation. Again, in Job 26 and verse 13, they reference the Holy Spirit part of create involved in creation, creating all things. It says Psalms 104 and verse 30, that God sent forth his Spirit and they are creation, they are created. So the Holy Spirit is involved in creation. The Holy Spirit is omnipresent. He's everywhere. John chapter 14, 26 says, He shall teach you all things. The Holy Spirit is omniscient. He's all-knowing. He's all truth. Luke chapter 1 verse 35, the Holy Spirit is described as the power of the highest. In other words, the Holy Spirit is all powerful, it's omnipotent. In Hebrews chapter 9 and verse 14, the Holy Spirit is referred to as the eternal Spirit. The Holy Spirit is eternal. He always has been, he always will be. These are all attributes of God the Father. These are all attributes of God the Son. And they're stated very clearly about God the Spirit. Again, the Bible associates God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit every time we baptize. We find the Holy Spirit of God and the Son of God associated with God the Father. I baptize you in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. That would be blasphemy to include someone who was not God into that equation. Right? To equate the Holy Spirit with God, if the Holy Spirit was not divine deity. In 2 Corinthians 13, 14, we have the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, all stated on equal terms. And so the point I'm trying to make is as we study the fruit of the Spirit, fruit of the Spirit, we're talking about God, the Spirit. God producing this. God bearing this fruit in the person of the Holy Spirit. And then the personality of the Holy Spirit And again, I wish we could expound on some of this here. But in John chapter 14, John 16, and other passages that we didn't read referencing the Holy Spirit, he's always referred to as He Him. We hear people talk about pronouns. What are your pronouns? Well the Holy Spirit is he him He's a person. He's not just an impersonal force like electricity, stupid movies, oh the force be with you. That's not he's not that he's a person And when we study everything the Bible tells us about the Holy Spirit, we find out that He has traits of personality. The Holy Spirit has knowledge, he knows stuff, he's able to reason He used reasoning, he can teach knowledge to you and I. That's personality The Holy Spirit has a will, and I can give you references for this knowledge is 1 Corinthians 2. 11. He has a will. He has what we call volition. He desires certain things. There's things that the Holy Spirit of God desires to be true in my life, and there's things that he desires that would not be true in my life, and for you. 1 Corinthians 12. 11 references the will of the Holy Spirit. Romans 8. 27 talks about the mind of the Spirit. The word mind there has the idea of thoughts and plans and purposes. Holy Spirit thinks. God thinks. God has thoughts. Holy Spirit has thoughts. He thinks. He has a mind. Romans 15, 13, the Holy Spirit loves. He loves us. The Holy Spirit loves Jesus Christ. Holy Spirit loves God the Father. God the Father loves the Holy Spirit. Jesus Christ loves the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit loves you and he loves me. We sing, Jesus loves me, this I know. What a great song. Amen. We could equally say the Holy Ghost loves you and me. He has personality, a mind, a will, knowledge, love. He's able to teach In John 14, 26, Jesus says very bluntly, He shall teach you all things. He'll lead you and teach you. That implies intelligence. The Holy Spirit can be blasphemed. We can say and do things that are blasphemous concerning the Holy Spirit, just like we can blaspheme God. And blaspheme Jesus? We can blaspheme the Holy Spirit. And Jesus warns about that. Acts 7. 15, he can be resisted. Stephen is rebuking the Jews, and he says, Ye do always resist the Spirit of God. Holy Spirit's leading and working, and you resist them. You say, no. The Holy Spirit can be quenched. So he works in our heart and he tries to lead us and direct us and we resist him and we push him down and say, no, I don't want you to lead me. I don't want you to to uh influence my thinking and my actions, my decisions, and we quench the Spirit of God. That happens often When maybe in our devotions or the preacher's preaching, and the Holy Spirit begins to deal with my heart about something, and I say, no. No, not going to do that. I'm not submitting that. I'm not making that change. I'm not doing that. That's called quenching the spirit, resisting the spirit. He's a person. He can be grieved Ephesians chapter 4, verse 30 says we can bring grief to the Spirit of God. Things we say, and in that context, it's primarily how we talk to people and about people. And it grieves the Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit can be insulted. Hebrews 10, verse 29. So the Holy Spirit's not some abstract force. He's God Almighty with a very distinct personality. So that's the deity. Then we have the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. If you'll just give me a minute or two, come with me to Romans chapter 8. The indwelling of the Holy Spirit. Romans chapter 8 and verse number 9 Paul is talking, of course, to Roman believers now, but he's referencing very similar to what we read in Galatians 5. He's touching on the same subject, really. And verse 9, he says, But ye are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. There you go. If so be that the Spirit of God, what's the next three words? Dwell in you. Now, if any man have not the Spirit of God dwelling in him, context. He's none of his. He's not saved. Not part of the family of God. But I don't have the Holy Spirit. Come with me very, very quickly to 1 Corinthians chapter 6. This is the next book as you make your way through the Bible, 1 Corinthians chapter 6. And I really I should have said this before. I encourage you to jot these passages down because they're important. I think, I think understanding, I think understanding the Holy Spirit of God's presence in my body And his ministry, his work, is absolutely vital to living a successful Christian life I cannot emphasize the importance of the Holy Spirit in the life of the believer. Notice what he says here in Corinthians chapter 6, verse number 19. What? Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost? Look at this. Which is in you And ye are not what you're what you have of God, and ye are not your own. So the Holy Spirit of God dwells within us. How many folks here you're saved to know it? Say amen. If that's true, and I have no reason to doubt, if that's true, that means this: God Almighty, omniscient, all-powerful, all-knowing, perfect in wisdom. Perfectly holy dwells within your body and my body in the person of the Holy Spirit. Now, if we would, if that would get a hold of us, it would blow our minds. When this dawned on me in Bible college, I was as roommates with Dean Demaris, and we had this little apartment together And and and we're studying. And I knew it was true, but it let's see if you know what I'm talking about. I knew it was true from shortly after I got saved, the Holy Spirit was in me, but it never dawned on me. Anyone know what I'm talking about? All of a sudden you realize, whoa. And hit me. The Holy Spirit of God's in me. He dwells within us. This Holy Spirit. This fruit of the Holy Spirit we're going to study comes from within us. From the presence of the Holy Spirit in me, He bears this fruit. It's not something I work up. Everything that comes out of my life is either from the flesh or the spirit. One of those two. And the flesh cannot, it wouldn't even if it could, but it cannot produce the fruit that the Holy Spirit produces. The Holy Spirit's in me. The Holy Spirit dwells within me. If you're a genuine Christian, you have the Holy Spirit. The moment of salvation. Ephesians 1. 13. The moment I got saved, Holy Spirit got moved in me. Number three, and last of all, the dynamic of the Holy Spirit. So our series that we're starting is the fruit that the Holy Spirit will bear in my life, that the Holy Spirit will bear in my life. Now he's God, he's a personality, he's in me. So the dynamic, or what role does he play, what power does he have in my life? What does that mean? Well, one, he seals our salvation. Ephesians one. Sealed until the day of redemption. I mean we're secure. The only way a person can lose their salvation is if the Holy Spirit loses it for us. He seals us. We're kept. Number two, he empowers our witness. Acts 1. 8. You shall receive power. After that the Holy Ghost come upon you. We see people saved here. I always want to see more people saved than what we do. I thank God for the ones we do save. But remember, it is not us saving them. It's the power of God and the person of the Holy Spirit saving that soul. You with me? And so he empowers our witness. I give the gospel and the power of the Holy Spirit, and he brings conviction to that person, they believe and get saved. Number three, he gives spiritual gifts. I asked a few moments ago how many people you're saved, you know it. You said amen. That means God has given you some spiritual gifts. So I've had people say this to me. So preacher, oh I could never do nothing. Liar, liar, pants on fire. Either you're right and the Bible's wrong, or the Bible's right and you're wrong. Because my Bible says, let me give you the reference here if you don't believe me. 1 Corinthians 12, verse 4 through 11. He gives every believer gifts, bearing gifts, bearing gifts. And so you have a gift. What's the purpose of the gifts? To build the Church of God, to advance the gospel. Every one of us has some gift, some ability. That's another study series. Holy Spirit helps us pray. Romans 8. He comforts us. He gives us peace. When we're going through heartache and hurt and grief, he gives us peace. He gives us peace. Talking to Nan and Dr. Williams. And you know, it's what what they're dealing with with Doc, his health is is heartbreaking. But they have a peace. And he so he told me this on the phone. He says, I have peace. I have peace. You know where that comes from? Not the flesh. That's the Spirit of God comforts. How many people here ever went through a heart-wrenching time, but yet you had peace in your heart and soul? Anybody know what I'm talking about? That's the Holy Spirit of God. He comforts us. He convicts us of sin, John 16, 8 through 11. Convicts us. I want to spend time on each of these. I can't. When we're out of whack, and preachers preach or reading the Bible or listening to radio, FBN, or something. And something comes up and it's like, man, that's hitting me right between the eyes. That's the Holy Spirit convicting us. The preacher's up there preaching, the Holy Spirit's down here. Evan, you sit at a bad place because you get picked on here a lot. The preacher's preaching away and you got some sin in your life or something you know is not doing what God wants you to or whatever, and the preacher's just he don't know, he's just up there preaching. Man, the Holy Spirit's down inside. He's talking about you. That's you. That's you. Anybody know what I'm talking about? People put it this way, when I go out, they say, Blaine, you you stepped on my toes today. Number one, it wasn't me. Number two, if it was your toes, we missed the target. We went the heart He convicts us. And then, and I am with this, he bears fruit in our life. And these fruits that are listed, I use the term, I use a plural term, fruits, it's really fruit singular. We'll see that. But this fruit That God wants to be true in our lives. Love, joy, peace, long suffering. Go down the list. Holy Spirit does that. You say, preacher, how in the world can I produce this fruit? How can I do that? How can I be that kind of person? I'm here to tell you, you can't. And God's not telling you to bear this fruit in your life. God, we're going to see this, God is telling us, let me do it. Let me do it. It's the fruit of the Spirit, not the fruit of Dennis or Mark or Brian. It's the fruit of the Spirit. He bears fruit in us. It's God's will that every one of us as believers is submissive to the Holy Spirit. Let him fill us, let him control us. And then he bears this fruit in our lives. It's impossible, I'm convinced, it is impossible To be a mature spiritual Christian without the filling of the Holy Spirit. Without the Holy Spirit bearing this fruit, he has to do it. And I'm either controlled. I'm either controlled by the flesh, and that horrible list that that leads to. Or I'm controlled by the Holy Spirit and the fruit that he bears in my life. And these are contrary. And we go back and forth. Paul said, man, things I don't want to do, man, I end up doing the things I want to do. I find myself not doing. And I got this battle And it boils down to this. Who am I submissive to? Am I going to give in to the flesh? Or am I going to do, like the Bible instructs me, deny the flesh, mortify the deeds, the works of the flesh, put them away, and yield to the spirit, and let him bear that fruit in me It's an old illustration. You probably heard it. I mean, it's really old. But it kind of illustrates what I think is being taught here. There's an old Indian. I'm reading a book right now, I was reading it door in choir, about missionaries up in Canada way back early seventeen late seventeen hundreds, early eighteen hundreds, and they're reaching these These Indians in Canada, these natives in Canada, and they're getting saved. And it's just amazing. An old Indian chief got saved. The missionaries were there working with him, trying to train them and teaching them to live for God like what we're doing master clubs and teens and stuff. And I got in a conversation and the the Indians said, sometimes I do wrong And he says, sometimes I do right. And he said, it's like there's two dogs in my heart and soul, and they're fighting, fighting, fighting. One is good and one is bad, and they fight, these two dog fight. And the missionary asked him, he said, Well which one wins the fight? And the old Indian said, the one I feed the most. I feed the flesh And the flesh is going to control me. Watch garbage, read garbage, listen to garbage, go to garbage places, watch fleshly stuff, listen to fleshly stuff. Talk fleshly, go to fleshly places. Guess what's going to be stronger? The flesh. Or be the spirit. Let God speak to me through His Word. Be very, very careful about spiritual things and get around God's people. Be faithful to the things God has given to us to strengthen us spiritually. And then the Holy Spirit. I don't know about you. I I I'm my heart's been stirred. God laid on my heart a couple months ago about doing a series on the fruit of the Spirit I've been praying. God, I want that. I want your spirit to bear this fruit in my life. But I have to understand it's the Spirit. He's in me. And I've got to yield to Him. I've got to trust God. Let's pray. Father in heaven. I pray that I just kind of feel like I rushed through this tonight, but God, I pray maybe your Holy Spirit would challenge us and stir us to hunger and desire for this fruit to be born in our lives by you. By your spirit. Help us to get ourselves out of the way. Help us to mortify the deeds of the flesh. And let the Holy Spirit of God Do what he is designed to do, what his purpose is to do. Heads bowed, I suppose. How many would say, Preacher, I want God to give me a hunger. For the filling of the Spirit and the fruit of the Spirit in my life. Anything like that? Oh, I want that. And then you say, I don't feel that great a hunger for it. Ask God to give you that hunger, that desire. For God's Holy Spirit bear fruit. Father bless now, I ask our imitation in Jesus' name. That standing