Say and I uh and I actually was telling them before uh Pastor I uh mean Pastor talked about me preaching, but I wasn't uh sure if I was still on uh when I'd written this and I told the uh I told uh I don't know if they were all there, but I told the um the group, you know, I'd really like to preach this to the church. And but uh and I was like next time next time I'll preach it and you know what? That was really soon. So um Uh give me one second. Oops. My notes are backwards. Sorry about that. So, uh this uh the title title sermon, I don't remember if any of you know, but I uh last time I preached, I kind of forgot to uh I said my sermon title was really important and then I forgot to give it. Um does anyone remember that? Uh yeah, yeah, and I forgot to give it. But uh if you guys want to know it was called from Bull to Bitter. So I know it was a long time ago, but if you want to know, that's what it was called. Um but um Sorry about that. I just I was uh texting about a kid uh with his mom and she just texted me back. I'm sorry about that. So uh I was just trying to And that is a reminder to all those uh in the audience. Please turn off your cell phones uh or uh silence them. We uh I did that on purpose uh for uh for you, actually, for all of you. So um But uh and you can't laugh at yourself. Who can you laugh at? Because everyone gets mad at you when you do. Um, you know what? They're in order. Sorry, this is the first sermon I've written on notebook paper. And it's like tiny little notebook paper because I'd uh I'd I hadn't typed out I I usually type out my sermons. I always type out my sermons And then when I get down there and I'm like, oh after I sermon, I don't have a computer, so I'm like, uh right and so I run this like little like half not even half sheet paper. And so, you know, I didn't even number 'em 'cause you know I was like, oh I'm gonna use this one. And I figured they'd stay in order, but somehow they got all out of order, so I apologize. Um But uh I must have re unordered them or something. I don't know, but they're all in order. They were just backwards. So uh You guys don't need any of that. Uh turn to Second Kings for me and uh verse fourteen and twenty f or chapter fourteen and twenty-five. I'm still a little tired. I apologize. Um That wears you out. They beat the snot out of us. No, they were awesome. The Sheltons, let me say this. I didn't say this. Sheltons were amazing to us. They were they're phenomenal missionaries. They're phenomenal people and we we enjoy them. In fact, we enjoy them so much that like I don't even want to go on a mission trip anywhere else. First of all, you're really not gonna find any place prettier And that's pretty cheap, and you won't find any missionaries on Link Nicolas, because they were just super nice to us. It was a great uh we had a great time. And uh Second Kings in chapter fourteen and verse twenty-five That's the other thing that uh it's uh and I'm just gonna give you guys uh a little snapshot of my mind uh real quick. Um the other thing that's awesome about being able to uh is writing sermons on a computer is you copy and paste verses. And when you're dealing with titled notebook paper, you just write the reference down. And then you have to like turn to it and it's ridiculous. And uh and you put a lot in and so you're like, man, I I hope I don't have to put too much scripture in this sermon. No, I'm just joking. But um no, but uh I'll uh read this for you. Second Kings chapter fourteen, verse twenty-five. He restored the coast of Israel from entering in of Hamath unto the sea of the plain, according to the word of the Lord God of Israel, which he spake by the hand of his servant Jonah, the son of Amitiah, the prophet. Which was of Gas Heper Heifer. And I'm going to start with that verse. This sermon is called Introduction to Photography. Introduction to photography. I am not the greatest picture taker in the world. I'm not half bad. Like I in fact I'm good enough to know when I take a bad picture. Um some photograph let me tell you something. Some people don't know that they take a bad picture. And I'll prove it to you because have you ever asked someone to take your picture? Like if you're like at an important place, like we must have done I don't know a thousand times when we were in Puerto Rico By the way, uh my uh my sister Missy has eight hundred pictures from the Puerto Rico trip by herself. That she took eight hundred pictures. Now, as I was saying, some people take pictures of you with your camera And thank goodness we don't leave our you know we don't live in a film world anymore. It's all digital. And they give it back to you, and then they leave, and you look at the picture. And not only are you blinking, but you're like mouth is like up here. And you're like, I don't even remember putting my mouth up there. I thought I was smiling. And then and then when they get back to you, like, no, it's good, it's good. And they just like run away I'm not a great photographer, but I do recognize bad photography. Now, my m my wife's a decent photographer. She's really good photography. She she understands certain angles and things, and I don't get any of that stuff. I'm just like, hey, it's a picture. In fact, I really like taking pictures of people taking pictures because it's funny. Because like, you know, put someone posing for a picture, that's not real. But someone taking a picture of people posing for a picture, that's real. Um but my mom is a is a photographer elite She might not and and she's a good photographer, but that's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about like like she has like the mileage, like she has so many pictures Our our our old computers, because I had that job as the only boy and only nerd of the family, she has so many pictures. And I had to go back and find them all. And they are everywhere. Digital photography has ruined our lives. Because you can take hundreds of pictures at once and you don't care what they look like. It's like, alright, whatever. Before it was like, yeah, twenty-five shots, go. And now you have unlimited rounds. Now, I'm not a great photographer, but I do know some things about photography. I said all that to say. My sermon is called Introduction to Photography, which you already know. So, Gas Heifer, which he spake by the hand of the servant Jonah. The son of Amitai, the prophet, which was a death heifer. What do you know about Jonah? Actually, a lot of people, non-Christians, um, like a lot like people who are like Hindu, people who are atheists, know something about Jonah. They they most likely know that he was swallowed by a whale. If you press them a little more, they might know that he was swallowed by a whale because he ran from God. Then they might know, by the way, because you know we're getting down, you know, we're funneling down, they might even know that he then preached to Thousands of people that got saved. And then they might know if they were in uh on in Wednesday night services here for the past like four months, five months. Nine. Nine months. I'm not up here guys, I'm downstairs. So for the past nine months, the Jonah then got bitter at God. And bitter that those people weren't destroyed. You guys remember this? Okay, good. Good. I hope you know that about Jonah. That is Jonah 101 in four parts. Ran from God, eaten by a whale, revival, bitterness, or poutiness, whatever you want to call it. How many of you knew he was from Daph Heifer? Because I didn't know that. I didn't know that at all. But according to this verse, he's mentioned 2 Kings like once. And it says, he's from Gath Hepher. He's a son of Amitai. Interesting. You see, and you're like, well, why am I bringing this up? And bringing this up Because you know about and and you know I might be wrong and people can correct me about a week's worth of Jonas life. Is that right, Pastor? Looks like about a week's worth. Maybe a little more. We're going to say a week because it's easier for me to compute. A week's worth. Three days in the whale, one way one day running. Sure, he might have ran a little more. It might be ten days, it might be twelve days. It might even be a month, but I think it's less than a month. I'm gonna say a week because it's easier for me. That's not very long. In fact In some of the commentaries I read, if you read about Jonah, if the one if the commentaries are brave enough to say how long they think he served for, now it's not it's really not um Lay down in the Bible, I really looked for it. I could not find out how long Jonah served. But the ones that it talks about, it says that he was in the ministry for 35 years. That's an estimate. I might be wrong. Okay? But that's what the commentaries I've read say. You know one week about someone's life One week in thirty-five years of service. And you know what I do? And this isn't my fault. I judge him well I mean I you shouldn't judge people but but that I think I know Jonah. I don't know Jonah. I've had a bad week. You had a bad week? We'll get into that in a second. Well, that happens over a week. Now let me do some math for you. Um if you live 65 years on this earth, 65, and that's actually, I mean that that's a pretty good estimate, you know, maybe you live sixty-five years, do you know that it's 0. 003 percent of Jonah's life, and yet we say we know him Now, here's the thing. You might say, well, now some of you you know the cogs start to turn and you're like, well it's really not fair to judge Jonah that week. Why'd God do that? Don't question God. God put this in here To teach us what happens to you when you run from God. Alright? God put the book of Jonah in here, and he put that week in there. Not for Jonah's well-doing, but for yours. So don't ever think that God's doing the wrong thing by putting this uh one week of his life in there, not his whole life. Because God didn't write this book for Jonah, he wrote it for us and our but but I do want you to think What if God picked out one of our weeks? One week of our life. And by the way, this is Jonah's worst week of his life. I don't care what anyone says. This is the worst we could join his wife life. Rarely does someone and maybe I'm wrong now. I don't know. I don't know everything, but I'm gonna venture to guess, rarely does someone decide To turn their back on God and get swallowed by a whale in the same week. And then have a bunch of people he hates get saved because of him, and then hate them more for it. Not a lot of people go through that in one week. It's a bad week. All right, I've had bad weeks. Now here's my question then. You know what that kind of reminds me of? Since it's. 003%, which for you math nerds out there, a percent, one percent, is a hundred one hundredth. 0. 1% is 1,000th. 0. 01% is 10,000th. This is 300,000th. I'm going to be wrong. If I'm wrong, cor Craig me later rights Three hundred thousandths of his life. Dude, that ain't very long. And that's what we see. It reminds me of the term, a snapshot. Do you guys know what a snapshot is? It's when you're sitting there and Krista had one of these and I don't have and I didn't have it in slideshow because it's a snapshot. What happened was we were driving by, we didn't know we'd go see that waterfall. Do you guys see that waterfall? It was cool We know we were going to see the waterfall and stop at it. So Christians are like, cool, waterfall. And we kept driving. That's what we get from the book of Jonah. We get a snapshot of his life. Now in that picture, Chris, I know you know this, the waterfall is beautiful, but the people, because we are moving like forty miles an hour, were blurry. Therefore making it a bad picture. You don't want blurry people in your picture. Right? Now, I'm gonna ask you to be a little weird with me. I'm a weird guy, so it's cool. So I I know the way. Alright, so be weird with me. A picture is worth how many words? A thousand. Now, I'm gonna include that in the snapshots. So, scientifically. Oop. Hey. There it is. It was turned over, sorry. Scientifically. Therefore, and does anyone know how many uh I'll I'll ask us the audience. Does anyone know how many words are in the Bible? A lot. I heard that. Whole lot. Pastor, do you know? A lot. See, Pastor that's why he's the spiritual man of God up here. I tell you what. There are a lot of words. There are 774,000. Okay? Now there's and then there's like a hundred or a couple hundred words after that. We're only I'm only interested in the thousands. 774,000 words. Now, which means that the Bible is made up, if we take that old adage to heart, of 774 pictures. And one of them. Is a single snapshot of Jonah's life. Now there are more pictures in the Bible. Some of them. are beautiful pictures. I'm talking the uh the David and Goliath. I mean I I know God has this one up in heaven. I think God took pictures long before we figured it out because you know he's God and he knew how to do that kind of stuff. And um I think he used regular film, not a digital camera, because I think God's kind of like vintage like that. He's like really a classic classicist. So um but I'm pretty sure, you know, the writers throwing that stone Ma maybe you got a picture, right? That's one of the pictures in the Bible. Or uh or uh, you know, the apostle Paul, I'm sure he had plenty of pictures, all right? Um, you know, he got shipwrecked three times. I mean, you you're I'm certain God got at least one snapshot of that. Now, I think God has a picture of every single second of every single life in this world. I g I think that. But only a few of them sorry. Only a few of them made this scrapbook. Now here's something you guys gotta learn. Something that honestly kind of bums me out. Or does it bum me out? Kind of makes me sad and then it makes me totally fearful. I didn't make this scrapbook. Alright? I just didn't. And by the way, for you guys in here, a scrapbook is a bunch of pictures with really expensive paper. That's what it is. And uh and you have to buy like thirty-four pairs of scissors. And you never use them. You just have them in this giant case. And then you're like, did you spend $12 on a piece of paper? They're like, yeah, but I don't like it anymore. So they throw it away and you're like, $12 paper. It should sing if it's $12, all right? But um But this is a scrapbook. 774 pictures. Beautiful scrapbook. You guys aren't gonna be in it, sorry. There ain't no picture of you guys in here. It was written before well it was written a long time ago. Okay, we'll just say that. You know you might be in the end scene? Yeah, you know, God's saving a special picture place when uh the host is up there, but you're pretty much a dot. So, I mean you know, it it's like a crowd, you know, you're a dot. Unless you're wearing some weird color, you know what I'm talking about? This guy's saying, you know, if you wear fuchsia up in heaven You might be able to pick yourself out, but you guys aren't in here. However, that's not the only scrapbook. You see, God has kept every picture ever. Every moment of your life, God has. Now, most people are more classic and say, well, it's written down somewhere. Your life in heaven is written down somewhere, so God knows everything. But let me be a little more basic, a little more modern. You every picture of everything you've ever done, God has God has it. Now, introduction to photography The first lesson I'm going to teach you in introduction to photography. There you go. Is this picture capture moments And make them last forever. Let me say that one more time. Pictures capture moments and make them last forever. Now, let's talk about good pictures. Because good pictures is what we like, right? Now there are some different types of pictures. Now I don't need to go into them and I and I guess I could expand this message and we could be here for four days, but I ain't gonna do that. Because there are there are there are portraits, which is supposed to really encompass someone's a like long period of time in someone's life. Then there are snapshots where you're just like ch and you're just like taking pictures of people. All right, and then there's everything in between. But they take a moment of time, a sliver of time, and then capture it. Forever. And they're good pictures They're good pictures like uh like let's use uh Peter and Andrew. When they were fishing and Jesus asked them to board their ship and uh and uh like you know push out a little ways so he could speak to the people I don't know if that's the moment God has captured in the in the Bible scrapbook. I don't know. Or or if it's the moments where they're letting down their nets and then pulling it up, I don't know. But that's a good picture. I mean that one, I mean Peter smiling, Andrew smiling, but you're kinda looking at Peter like, dude, I I can't believe I didn't know what he introduced to you guys. But um It's a beautiful picture up in heaven. Because it's the moment that these two are about to become disciples of Christ. Oh, that's cool. And these people would change the world for Christ. It's cool. Isn't that a great picture? Don't you guys want to see that picture? I want to see that picture. But then there's another picture. This one is Paul getting saved on the road to Damascus. Oh, that's a good picture. I don't even know what that looks like. That's just that's gonna be cool. I mean may maybe God will have video of it in heaven, but imagine that picture, that light By the way, you see, um for those of you who don't know photography, you actually want the light on the face. And that's why, you know, there's light and you know, anyways. But uh It's a joke, because if you don't have light on their face, you can't see what they're looking at. Uh you can't see their face, you'll see a silhouette if it's behind them. But that light, I mean there's light there. And Paul didn't see it because he was blind. But um It's a great picture. He's on his knees, and I can just see it. I can see him crying a little bit. On that road to Damascus, that is a great picture. And then, oh, there's I mean there's other pictures. Like I said, David flying Goliath, man, that's a great picture. That's just cool. Or the portrait of David? Or David, maybe in the Psalms, maybe we can imagine like David. Walking through a garden and just talking to God. Or playing his harp, singing to God. I mean, there's just pictures in the Bible that's just powerful, moving. Noah building the ark. He's an old dude, alright? He makes every one of us look really, really young. Even the old people, he makes us look really, really young. Noah look, don't let anyone ever call you old because you're not. Noah was old, alright? And he built an ark. So therefore, you have no excuses. You can do anything. But Noah, I mean man, he he's old. But he's swinging that hammer, man, I think God just got a picture right there. High speed camera. She's got a perfect picture. Pictures take a moment in time and make them last forever. So other people can come and just look at them and go and And there's some pictures that will movie and peers. There's some pictures that will excite you. There's some pictures that inspire you. I don't uh Nash uh I don't uh n recommend National Gre Ne uh Geographic uh just because they seem to have a thing about naked natives. I you know, I think that's fair. Um I will say this, you look at the cover of any National Geographic, man, that's a picture. They don't have bad pictures on that cover. They make, they take great pictures Um then there's uh there's a picture and I was uh telling uh the kids uh about it um It's a picture of my sister and her friends when she graduated from high school. And uh they're just I mean, they got their arms around each other and they're they're in for a picture. My mom knows it my dad might not. Do you know what the picture I'm talking about Nope, see? My mom knows exactly what picture I'm talking about. Because it's one of the coolest pictures I've ever seen in my entire life Because it literally breathes friendship, companionship, and it will inspire you. I I I have an active imagination, I like to write, I like to create, and it inspires you. To have moments like that. There are good pictures, and thank God for them because that moment in time is so important. First lesson is that pictures capture a moment in time and make them last forever. There are good pictures, but there are also there are also bad pictures. You see, bad pictures, um sorry. But they're also bad pictures Peter denying Christ. You guys remember that picture? You guys remember it? That's such an important picture. God put four of them in the Bible, in the Bible scrapbook. Peter denying Christ. There are four snapshots of that in the Bible. And they may take that moment and they make them last forever. Why? Because moments do last forever. I haven't discussed that yet, but moments do last forever. You don't know it. But you can't change it. So if you can't change it, that moment is still lasting right now. It's still impacting the future. And that one snapshot of picture, that one snapshot of Peter denying Christ. That's one that I'm pretty sure he was ashamed of. That was a bad picture. You have bad pictures too. Let me talk to you. My my sister, but the the short one, um, the jerk, right? Let's just say she's just not a very nice person. Don't don't hang around her, your spirituality will just go down. She's a bad person. I don't like her at all. Um and I taught her to be that way. But um no, but she but uh the reason I say all this is because she took a picture of me And her? You guys know what a selfie is? Selfie's like, you take a picture. And I mean it wasn't called a selfie until like a couple years ago or whatever, but you take a picture like this. And and so you'll see people everywhere doing this. Alright? And if you have the forward facing phone, it's like there's just like it's like it's a mirror and they're like, Wonder how stupid I can look. Hey, hey yeah. Good. Alright? Or we're sitting on the couch. And she's like, I'm gonna take a picture of us. I'm like, alright, you know, I'll take a moment in time and capture it forever. Me and my little sister, we're buds. So she goes and I'm smiling, right? I'm about to smile. I'm like And she takes it. Sound like this. She has this picture on her phone still. In fact it's her screensaver, alright? And I look at it. And she's like and I'm like And it was a bad picture. You know who had a bad picture? Jonah. It's a bad picture. Peter denying Christ, Paul persecuting Christians? Man, I can't imagine that being a very that being one of those pictures that he would want anyone to see. I mean they knew about it and he and he wasn't he wasn't uh he didn't try to hide it but man, it's a picture that's a bad picture. When when the world caught you like uh David committing adultery? Oh man, it's a bad picture. It's a picture he probably never wanted to see again. It's a picture that he kind of wished that God would have left out of the scrap, but kind of just thrown away. What about uh Noah getting drunk? Oh man. No, there was nothing wrong said about Noah until that. Everything was great about Noah until that moment. And and it's a one bad picture and just but it captures the moment in time and it makes it last forever. And like I said, the Bible isn't the only scrapbook. See, because here's the things, you have good pictures in heaven and bad pictures too. And God's hard drive or God's box of pictures, there's a bunch of you. Every moment, every week, every month, every year, every day of your life is in that box. And some of 'em are good. Some of 'em, I bet you uh I bet you he takes out sometimes. And uh and he has time for it because he can be everywhere at once and and he knows everything. So uh but I don't know, maybe maybe takes out sometimes and looks and he's like, Oh man. You you remember this? And I don't know if he I don't know if he talks to angels or uh or who he's uh or who he's talking to, but but he's looking at it and uh He's like, y you guys remember this? And it it was the time that you witnessed to that one guy, even though he had tattoos all over his body and his eye was scarred and looked like it would suck out your soul and he was like and he just had a face like this and he's just like ah I'll show you. And that's what he said. But you were brave enough and decided to witness to him and give him a gospel track. I think God has that picture. Actually, let me read you another uh another uh verse. Turn to 2 Corinthians, if you would, 6 and 9 through 11. 2 Corinthians 6, 9 through 11. You see, like I said, the Bible isn't the only scrapbook. It's not the only pictures in heaven. Yes, it's important. Yes, we're supposed to learn from it. But you know what? There's a whole bunch more pictures in heaven. And unfortunately, and fortunately, some of them are ours. Turn to Second Corinthians chapter six, verses nine through eleven. I'm sorry, and I wait, let me make sure. Um the one that was actually chapter five. Yeah, I'm sorry. Um give me one second. I was uh I remember I had my notes wrong on this one. So give me one second, I need to make sure uh that this is the right thing to do. I'm in First Corinthians. That makes so much more sense. I'm sitting there going, man, that's uh no no no, you guys are right. Stay in Second Corinthians. I'm in First Corinthians. I'm looking for this verse. And I'm like, this does not look like the page looked like last time I looked at it. It it is chapter five though. It is second Corinthians chapter five, nine through eleven. I apologize. I'm sitting there going, man This I because because you know how your Bible sometimes reads like uh 2 Corinthians 6 at the top, but it's still on 5? You know what I'm talking about? So that's what I did here. And so I looked over and this is a long story Right, you guys all understand if you don't understand shame on you because you should have this mistake in your past somewhere. Um Wherefore we labor, that whether present or absent, we may be accepted of him. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ That everyone may be received things done if everyone may receive the things done in his body according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men. But we are made manifest unto God, and I trust also we are made manifest in your consciences. Now go to 1 Corinthians and chapter 3. 13. I apologize for the mix-up. First Corinthians three thirteen, this is the right chapter and verse. Every man's work shall be made manifest, for they shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire, and the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is. You see, God, I think, you know, I these moments that are like last in time, they're not pictures for fun. They're pictures for record keeping. Because we'll be judged on them at a later date God has all of our pictures. Now, like I said, some are good. Some of that time you gave that weird guide a track. Other times is the time that uh that uh you were praying and fasting and seeking God's face. And he felt very close to you. So you know what? He did a snapshot. That time that you could have done wrong and no one would have known. But then you didn't. Let me let you in on the secret. God knew and took a picture of it. And He knows about it. Unfortunately, like I said, there are also bad pictures that God has of us. Pictures that we are ashamed of The time you uh stayed home from church because you didn't feel like going, unfortunately, God's got that picture. Now I know the other ones, I think he does like going through them, but unfortunately when he's going through them, they're probably in like some chronological order, and he looks at that one and he's just like and just keep and he just skips over it. He doesn't want to focus on it He wants to get to the ones where you're praying, when you were fasting, when you were seeking God's face, when you were uh handing out tracts, when you were witnessing, when you were going to church faithfully. He wants to get to those, but sometimes you have to skip over the bad ones. You gotta you have to skip over the ones where you were uh Where you where you messed up morally or where where you're too frightened to give out a track, even though you know you felt, you felt that pull, that tug that says, give out that track to that guy. He needs it. And you thought And you and you like like if the if the Holy Spirit was a fire, you threw dirt on that fire. And you tried to cover it up. And unfortunately You didn't give that person that track, and you just walked away, and God has a picture of it. And he has that moment in time captured forever. Lesson number one. Pictures capture moments in time and make them last forever. Now that was my first point, my second two lessons are much shorter. Lesson two. Everybody takes bad pictures. I don't care who you are, there's a bad picture of you somewhere. There's a picture of you doing this. There's a picture of you sneezing in picture. There's a picture with you with your eyes closed. There's a picture of you looking stupid somehow. Trust me, I have them all. Not of you guys, of myself. If I had them of you guys that'd be really creepy. I now have a bunch of these guys because they just ugly, alright? But um But here's the thing, we all take bad pictures. The reason that I'm I feel for Jonah is because he didn't get a portrait, he got a snapshot. Most people don't know that he that if he wasn't a minister for thirty-five years, that he served God faithfully that whole time. Because God meant God it's gonna let you be a prophet if you're like If you just always fail him? I don't think so. I don't I'm I don't know. I'm not God. I'm not gonna tell him what to do. But man, I can't imagine him being bitter this entire time and uh being being angry at God this entire time and hating everyone's entire time and God still letting him be a prophet. All I know is he had one bad week. That's all I really know about him. That's what I see. Now some people have portraits, like Azariah. Uh let me uh have you turn to uh to Second Kings fifteen one through seven. Second Kings fifteen one through seven I don't know much about Jonah. It was a quick snapshot of a one week of his life or one month of his life, whatever you want to say. But I do know a little bit about Azariah because the Bible tells us. And it's not a completely bad picture. Let me uh let me describe the picture from you from God's word, shall I? In the twentieth and seventh year of Jeroboam, king of Israel, began Azariah, the son of Amaziah, king of Judah, to reign. Sixteen years old was he when he began to reign, and he reigned two and fifty years in Jerusalem, fifty-two years. And his mother's name was Jacoli. of Jerusalem. And he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord, according to all that his father Amaziah had done, save that the high places were not removed. The people sacrificed and burnt incense still in the high places. And the Lord smote the king, so that he was a leper unto the day of his death, and dwelt in the several house, and Jocelyn the king's son, was over the house, judging the people of the land. Let me skip down to verse uh seven. So Azariah slept with his fathers and they buried him with the fathers in the city of David, and Joseph his son reigned in his stead. Here's a portrait, a set-up picture, one that's supposed to encompass his whole life. Azariah the king. And it's mostly a good picture. And you guys have seen these, alright? You've seen these pictures, okay? I just I'm gonna tell you that. Those pictures, that everyone looks great, except for that one stinking kid of yours doesn't smile. And uh Or or that one kid is giving the other kid bunny ears, it's a perfect picture. You could sell this picture, but someone's giving someone bunny ears And you're like, I'm gonna chop off their fingers. And you like you're that and because you're like, oh I just don't like people ruining my pictures. Maybe you guys don't get that way. I don't like people ruining my pictures. Um But Azariah had a mostly good picture. Except for that little bit of leprosy Except for the fact that he didn't tear down the high places. Everything else was a good picture. But it was still a still a bad picture, and if it was more of a photo album of his life, if we could see that We see most of the good pictures, but everyone takes bad pictures. Everyone has that moment of sin, that moment of doubt. That moment of anger, that moment of bitterness, everyone has bad pictures. Now what do we do with those bad pictures? First, you treat others' bad pictures like you treat your own. My sinful little sister, who has that little picture of her on my phone, is mean. Alright, and we guess not. Alright. But here's what I know. If you have a bad picture of someone You should treat it like if they have a bad picture of you. Agreed? Because I know. And you know maybe you can disagree with me if you want. I don't and turn to Matthew 18, 35 for me. Matthew 18, 35. while I'm talking. Um you should treat others bad pictures like your own. So if you see someone else have a bad picture, Jacob, if you had a bad picture, which I'm sure you do, you're pretty photogenic, but I'm sure you had a bad picture, dude. You had a bad picture. I know you wouldn't want me and uh and brother Jerry laughing about it all the time. Now I'm not saying we don't. But I'm saying if you had a bad one, you don't want us sitting there laughing about it. You don't want us sitting there talking about it, dwelling about it. Because if you had a bad picture of me, I wouldn't want you doing that. You treat other people's flaws like you do your own. Like you want them to treat yours. Forgiving. Loving. Because if you don't treat them with that way, maybe God will take out your bad pictures. Maybe you see one on the ground and you're like, oh look at this picture. I just found this about this and one. And you go and you say, and by the way, I've done this with pictures, alright? One of my best friends. Um, his name is Stanton. He's a really good guy. I don't know if he's a really good guy, but he's a pretty good guy. And uh he's one of my uh he's a very good friend of mine. I didn't know this. He used to be like a butterball when he was a kid. And he knows it but like like Like I was chubby as a kid, but he was like a big leap. He was like he was two hundred and fifteen pounds, he was a little shorter than I am. Two hundred and fifteen pounds in eighth grade. Like he was a big kid. Alright? Like and so I found this picture. And me and my other friend and both of us are and both of us are chubby now and Santa's like real skinny now. And so it's funny. So it's like, you know, you know, it's it's funny. So we take them like a little fat hues. You know. And it's just funny to us. Don't treat sin that way. Because I know I have bad pictures. Because if we're all God's kids and we ti and we find uh and we find a moral sin, and we'll call it a picture, but a bad picture of someone else's I don't want God to have to take any of my bad pictures and just lay them out on the table for everyone. That sounds embarrassing. Now I turn to this chapter because this is the uh This is the parable of uh oops, I was page off. This is the parable of um of the unforgiving uh Servant. I I that's what I'd call it, but uh verse thirty-five. So likewise shall my he and we'll start I guess in verse thirty two. So then his Lord, after him he called him Said to him, O thou wicked servant, I forgave thee all thy debt because thou desirest me. Shouldest not thou have compassion on them on thy fellow servant, even as I had pity on thee And his Lord was wroth, and delivered him unto the tormentors, till he should pay all that was due to him to him. So likewise shall my heavenly father do also unto you, if ye from your hearts forgive not every one of his brothers their trespasses. You find out someone has a bad picture in their past, someone's got a fat picture, like my friend You don't wave around to people. You find out a moral a moral sin about someone. You know what you do? Straight up, forgive them, leave it alone. Put put that picture back in the box. You don't need to see that. That's not their their sin is not your deal. It has nothing to do with you. Because you have bad pictures too. Now here's the thing. If you have your own bad pictures, I'm gonna teach you how to deal with those, because everybody has bad pictures. That's the second lesson. Just because you have a bad picture doesn't mean you should stop caring about pictures. Just because you um because you had a stupid picture, because you messed up morally, or because you're just a because you did something stupid or you or you think you can't You think you are in in picture terms, you can't smile right in pictures. Doesn't mean you should give up. Let me tell you why. Because I had there's this terrible human being I know and she's my wife. And um I say that because Pastor, I don't take good pictures. Wait, let me rephrase. I didn't take good pictures I just don't smile in pictures, alright? Do you smile in pictures? Yeah, see? Guys don't smile and wood out what uh That's then that's how we are But our wedding was coming. And she made me smile. But she not only made me smile She made me practice smiling. In front of a mirror, for what I remember as two hours, she remembers as twenty to thirty minutes. Either way, that's evil. And so, I mean, I forgive her, and I'm not trying to, you know, show her sin all over like I just preached about, but man, she made me do that. But now I can actually smile on pictures pretty decently. Like I don't like I'm not that bad. Now. I uh most of the time I get it. Alright? But it's only eyes too. Because I have my mouth at work and then I but I guess And like um and it wouldn't it really wouldn't work so it wouldn't work that great, right? Just because you take bad pictures now Every once in a while, man, I'm just- I just keep I can't I I I failed this picture. I'm just gonna stop taking pictures. I'm gonna stop trying in pictures. Don't do that with life. You can teach yourself anything you want to in life. You can get over any sin you want to in life. Just because you've had bad pictures before doesn't mean it's going to affect the rest of your life. Take better pictures I'm not saying it's gonna be easy. Listen, smiling from a mirror, like seriously practicing that for thirty minutes, if that's what it was. Two hours. is very annoying and difficult. But I did it. I'm sure we can conquer sin. Don't let that defeat you. Don't stop crying in pictures. Lastly, uh last point of this point, which is everybody takes bad pictures. I'm hurrying, I'm sorry. If okay, so I'm gonna tell you guys a secret, alright? You guys see those pictures up there of me? Okay, there's one, but I look really fat. Like I'm chubby, but I'm not like I'm not like overtly fat. And they put it in this and like they're like, oh this is a great picture of everybody else. And I didn't say this out loud, but in I was like, Yeah, but my belly is blocking all of you. And that's what I was thinking. Do you know which one I'm talking about? It's on top of the tower. Now look like this. Alright? Alright. Now. Now, everyone takes a bad picture, like I'm saying. However, if I see myself as overtly fat in every picture I'm probably fat. Now you're like, what is the spiritual application here? If you keep messing up But you think, oh you know, I just messed up, I just messed up, I just messed up. After the forty or fiftieth mess up, you need to admit you have a problem. In anything, lying is a big one. You catch yourself lying all the time? You know, listen, I'm gonna be honest, a lot of people tell lies. But some people tell lies all the time. Alright? For no reason. And then they'll lie to themselves and say, well, it was just, you know, it was I shouldn't have done that, but oh well. If you find yourself committing a sin over and over and over and over again, it's not the picture taker, it's not just the circumstance It is you. And you need to fix you. Now, last point, and I'm done. Some pictures are more important than others. But we always don't know what those pictures are going to be. Weddings, super important. Don't take bad pictures on your wedding day. Chances are you're not gonna get to do that again. Alright? I mean it'd be weird if you'd if you had to say me and Chris are probably not gonna have her take wedding pictures again. There that'd be some extremely weird circumstances. And especially wouldn't be on that day. Alright, that's an important day. Your baby being born? Edward take that picture because those things grow fast apparently. Alright? Um graduation? You only graduate from high school once, you only graduate from college once. Alright? That's just honest. And I guess I guess you can get masters and all that ridiculousness, but Oh come on, higher education, whatever. Um but the fact is, some pictures are more important than others. There are moments in your life that you know the big decisions, alright? That you know you need to make the right decision. You can prepare for them, and you can either succeed or fail in God's eyes. I'm not going to tell you what you're doing. But if you're not if you're not following and here's an example, but if you're not following God's camera and you're following someone else's camera, it's not a good picture for God. And his is the only camera that counts. Did you ever do that? Like two people are trying to take pictures of you and you're like which one do I look at? Which one do I look at? And you go back and forth? If you're not following God's camera, it's not the right one. Some pictures you won't get a second chance at actually all pictures, let's be honest, you won't get a second chance at. But some are really important. The ones we took in Puerto Rico, we will never, at our age right now Take the exact same news group or group we did to Puerto Rico ever again. That's just we're not gonna do that same trip ever again. So those pictures were really important, right? So we couldn't mess them up. And we knew that. And then when you have this big life-changing decision coming up, don't treat it like a snapshot. Get it right, because you won't have another chance, most likely. Some pictures are more important than others. And here's the rough, and here's here's some one in the middle. Blow your mind. Or maybe just blew my mind. Some pictures. Are more important than others? And they're the ones you don't know are coming. I know it's not a picture, but you know the people who were filming the New York City skyline when the World Trade Center was uh ran into The first World Trade Center was ran into? Those people? They didn't know that was going to be an important picture. They were probably bored. They're probably eating Cheetos. And they're just filming. And it happens. And they didn't know how important that was going to be. You can't always prepare for the important pictures. So always try to take good pictures. Man, I can't imagine if their focus was off. If if their if their if their lens was dirty If the camera wasn't on, you think of these things I mean I I bet you they don't think of these things. Who's really watching that But some are the most important pictures of all time. The g uh the uh Marines. Six Marine the picture of the six marines. At uh Iwo Jima. Six Marines at Iojima. Dude, I've never okay, so Pastor, maybe you're maybe you're better than I am. But rarely am I sitting there when people are putting flags up and I'm like, this is going to be epic. Like on do you do that? No. No. And some of you guys might pick take pictures of people putting flags up. And I don't think anyone really realized how important that picture was gonna be. Not even the photographer. And then it got developed. And then they used that picture in those men to raise money for the war effort. And then they built a statue of that picture. Very few statues have been built after pictures. That one was. But he was there at the right moment. He was there at the right time. None of the guys were like can you imagine being one of the guys who is just like standing in the background and be like, you guys work? That guy would have been famous, he wasn't catching the flag. But all of them were working hard, all of them were in the picture, ready to go, and it's a great picture, but they didn't know that. You're gonna have moments in your life that you don't know are that important? But are. So always take good pictures. Maybe the Book of Life is a scrapbook. And some people just aren't in it. Maybe it's just a maybe Book of Life is just a scrapbook of you getting saved. Just picture after picture of certain people getting saved. And people who aren't in it go to hell. But there are other books besides the Book of Life, and there are other books besides the Bible, and those are the ones that you get judged at in the judgment seat of Christ And God will take out every single picture, every box, every scrapbook, everything He has of you. And He'll go through it. And He'll And I know this isn't how it works. Good, bad, bad, bad, bad. Oh, that's okay. That was for me. Bad. Good. Bad. That wasn't for me. That wasn't for me That wasn't me. And he's ve and he's only gonna keep the good pictures Pray you have a big stack of pictures. You want a big stack of pictures When you get up to heaven and the judgment seat's over, and God hands you your final scrapbook on probably like gold paper. I want more than four pages in that scrapbook. I want more than ten pages in that scrapbook. I don't want my entire life burnt before God. I want to be able to show I I want I want it like a little photo book to be able to be on my coffee table in my mansion. And not to be prideful, but it'd be cool to for God to be like, well these are the pictures that God took of me. When I was when I and and he was proud of me. This is God being proud of me. And you flip through and be like, that's when I got in the first one, you're like, Well, that's when I got to say that was that was awesome. And you and you and you're like, well that's and that's when I got uh baptized and and they followed uh the Lord in baptism. And you keep turning and and you page after page and that would be wonderful, but Well what if you don't have that? What if you get though and you're like, well, I I didn't get a scrapbook, I but I did get one that I can set on my um on my uh coffee table. And uh it's me getting saved and and his little collage of uh I mean I got saved there and then Um I never got baptized. I didn't have time to get baptized. I never really worked in the church, but um uh but but I did I mean I I helped it uh that one meal and um I uh I got my neighbors uh uh my neighbor's paper for a week once. And that's really it. I don't want to be that guy. I gotta have heaven and I get my pictures gone through and the bad ones burnt and the good ones kept forever I want the angels to be complaining about the boxes of scrapbooks that are being brought to my house. I'm gonna be like, are you kidding me? Another one? It's like a six box. If he's getting duplicates, I'm gonna be so mad I want that. Because then I don't know if you guys know this, but God lives with us in heaven. It's pretty cool. Revelation is my favorite that that might be my favorite part of the Bible. It's not like my life verse or anything. But it says he dwelt among them. It's not my revelation. I kind of want God to come over to my house. God. And and and and and you know it's not forgetting. You remember this? That was so cool. But do you remember that uh that Puerto Rican missions trip? Um and and and you know God knows exactly what I'm talking about. And like remember I mean and and you and and you'll be like I know that uh I know that these people uh have the same picture because they helped send the youth group there. I know that these people have the same picture, but I want to show you this picture, because this is from a different angle. And you remember when we did this, God? And he'll be like, yeah, oh man, that was great. And then we'll be like, oh God, do you remember this? This is when uh when I gave that ugly guy a track. The guy that scared me to death. You remember that? And he's like, yeah, man, you were really scared. I'm like, man, no, the little girl. And and you'll sit there and and you'll weep for joy over your pictures. There's no sadness in heaven There's no shame in heaven, I don't think. But I'm in a loss for words of what someone A three page scrapbook looks like or feels like in heaven. I just don't know. How we live our life, the decisions we make, have profound impact and have eternal consequences. I think is what I got from much of this. I wonder how many tonight say, preacher, you know, I need to take my Christian life much more seriously. And how I live my life and the actions I take, and there's some things there that just need to be changed. There's some things I don't want any more pictures of that. I don't want that recorded ever again to be true about me. I want some things at the judgment seat of Christ to be brought up that are pleasing, bring glory to God, or good things And we gotta decide, it's up to us. How many tonight say, preacher, pray with me? Some areas of my life that really need change, some areas of my life really need attention. Some areas I need to go forward and some I need to put out. Any like that? Uplifted hand all around. This is a good message tonight. Good allegory Of photos, taking photos of our life. Let's stand together. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. Help us, Lord, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen