I just want to look at verse number one tonight And just give some introductory thoughts to 2 Peter, just a few observations to lay some groundwork, and then Lord will, and next Sunday night we'll pick up and start just preaching our way through like we do 2 Peter, I just want to read verse number 1, if you would notice there with me. The Bible says Simon Peter, a servant and an apostle of Jesus Christ. To them that have obtained like precious faith with us through the righteousness of God and our Savior Jesus Christ. And like I said, for sake of time, I just want to give a little introduction tonight on the book and lay some groundwork. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you bless now. As we take just a few moments and look at this book of 2 Peter Lord, we believe with all our hearts you've given this to us by inspiration, and it'll profit us if we will take it by faith, and it'll help us uh correct us, instruct us Teach us in righteousness, give us good doctrine. So fill me with your spirit now for the next few moments. I pray your Holy Spirit, the author of this book, would Speak through me and teach us some facts about 2 Peter. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I believe personally, and I know our church believes as a body That this book right here, every word in this book right here has been given to us by inspiration from God. Somebody says, oh, just man wrote the Bible. Man penned the Bible, but God authored the Bible. We believe that every single word and the placement of every single word is there by the instruction and direction of the Holy Spirit of God. The Bible is literally a God-breathed book. God breathe this word, the words, into the hearts and minds of the men that penned it. Every word, as I said, is directed by the Holy Spirit Every word in 2 Peter. So we're going to start this study. And I want to challenge you, maybe over the next couple weeks, next month or so. Start reading through Second Peter. Maybe take you can read through in fifteen twenty minutes. You can read through the book at the most, ten minutes maybe He can read through the book, and maybe over the next several weeks, uh just read that thing through. Uh take of an evening or a lunch hour, and just read through the book of 2 Peter. Um I believe every word was placed in 2 Peter. Every word is there by the direction of the Holy Spirit. The book of 2 Peter, just a little background here. Historically, believe it or not The book of 2 Peter has been one of the most neglected books in the Bible. Believe it or not, church historians tell us that the early church, and I'm talking about after The book of Acts, the first hundred, two hundred, three hundred years of the church's existence, the book of 2 Peter was uh neglected, was ignored You find very few of the early church fathers quoting or referencing the book of 2 Peter. Nevertheless, it was given to us by God. Uh it was there was little interest in the book of 2 Peter on the early church. And throughout the church history, very few people have read or studied the book of 2 Peter Now I'm not going to ask you to respond to this, but uh I've as I was studying the book and looking at it, it went through my mind, I wonder how many of the people in our church have never read the book of 2 Peter. Now don't respond, don't respond to that But I want to challenge you. This has been, historically, a somewhat neglected book, a somewhat ignored book in the Bible. However The book of Second Peter has proven itself to be vitally important, uh, an important part of God's Word Especially in the day and age you and I are living, when we see so much false doctrine, false teaching creeping into our churches, 2 Peter, very, very important. As we live in the last days, I believe, and we see the coming of the of the return of Christ and the rapture of the church, every day that goes by, we're another day closer to that moment when Christ raptures up the church 2 Peter becomes very, very important as we realize we're living in the last days. And so as we see the increase of false teaching, we see the increase of church division So much division among God's people, even among independent Baptists, fussing over personalities, dividing over preferences rather than scriptural principles And 1 Peter addresses this. And so we see false doctrine, we see church division, we see the denial of the second coming in many circles of quote-unquote Christianity. Second Peter is vitally important. So I hope you'll study it with me. I hope it'll be more than me just getting up and preaching on Sunday nights from 2 Peter. I want to challenge our church to give attention to it, read it. Study it for yourself. Let the Lord speak to your heart. Let the Lord challenge your heart from the book of 2 Peter. Now, a few thoughts here, real quick, and I want to be mindful of the time. Number one, I want us to consider the penmen. The penman of 2 Peter. We know who the author is. We already addressed it. The author is who? God's the author of Scripture. But who is the penman? And we see it there in verse number one. It's very, very clear. Peter, Simon Peter, is the penman of the book. If you would uh notice, now here's something interesting I noticed. Look back there in chapter 5 of 1 Peter And if you'll remember, in verse number 12, we we're introduced to this fellow named Silvanus. We don't know any more about him than what uh we uh have here in in this passage of scripture but we understand from this scripture that when peter penned we say peter penned first peter Actually, what he did is we believe that he dictated to this fellow Sylvanus the words of 1 Peter, and Sylvanus wrote it down for him. That's not uncommon. Paul had people he would dictate the books of the Bible to. Spirit of God would move in his heart. He'd dictate it to these like secretaries, if you will, and they would record it down for him. Sylvanus, we believe was the quote-unquote secretary that Peter used to record down the book of 1 Peter for him. However, we come to 2 Peter, we don't find any reference to anybody That recorded this book for him. We have reason to believe that Peter penned this book himself, that he wrote it himself. And so just a little interesting there that Peter most likely penned this himself. If you would, 2 Peter, come over to chapter number uh chapter 1. Look down at verse number 16. He makes a reference here that confirms to us that this is legitimately Peter was the legitimate penman. Notice in verse 16 it says, For we have not followed uh cunningly devised fables when we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Now look at this. But were eyewitnesses of his majesty Peter says, we saw the majesty of the Lord Jesus Christ. Then he goes on in verse 17, for he received from God the Father honor And glory, when there excuse me, came a voice to him from the excellent glory, this is my beloved son In whom I am well pleased. Peter said, we saw the majesty of Jesus Christ. He said, I saw it myself, my own eyes The majesty of Jesus Christ. And I heard from heaven the voice of Almighty God. Now just stop with me for a moment. I like to use my imagination. Can you imagine hearing Audibly, the voice of the God that spoke this universe into existence Can you imagine that? The voice of God Peter says, I heard it. I was there, I saw, as eyewitness I saw the majesty of Christ. I heard the voice of Almighty God. Now here's my question. When did Peter see the majesty of Jesus Christ? and hear the voice of God saying, This is my beloved son in whom I well pleased. When did that happen? Not a transfiguration. Remember Peter and a couple of the disciples were invited to come up there with him? Jesus was transfigured there before his eyes, and they saw the very glory of Jesus Christ that he had before he became a man. And so Peter says, in this book, he says, I saw that eyewitness. And he has a purpose. We'll see that when we get there. He had a purpose for sharing that experience. But the fact that he included that tells me this. If Peter is not the penman of this book, then whoever is, deliberately deceive the people he's writing to. Because Peter, if somebody that didn't see the glory of the majesty of God, didn't hear the voice of God and they say they did, they're deliberately lying. And thus that eliminates the word of uh the 2 Peter from being the Word of God. You follow what I'm saying? And so we're confident that Peter was the penman here. He gives testimony to the fact He identifies himself in the first verse there. Now, we're not sure where he pinned this book from. As I looked at different church historians and contemporaries of this period of time and their writing, a lot of them, in fact most of them, suggest that he was imprisoned in Rome It's kind of the consensus. He doesn't tell us in the book where he's at. In 1 Peter he did, he was in Babylon. We don't know. He traveled extensively. He could have penned this from any number of locations. But traditional history and oral history says that he was crucified in Rome for his faith. And that's where he penned this from. 2 Peter is Peter's last letter that he writes. He's crucified shortly after this. If you would, look with me at uh uh chapter one, looking with me at verse thirteen. Chapter one He says, yea, I think it meet, look at this, as long as I am in this tabernacle. What does he mean I'm in this tabernacle? As long as I'm in this body. It's referring to his physical body as a tabernacle. It says, as long as I'm in this tabernacle, I think it's me, as long as I'm in this tabernacle, just to stir you up by putting you in remembrance. Now look at verse 14 Knowing that shortly I must put off this, my tabernacle, even as our Lord Jesus Christ showed me. What's he saying in verse 14? What's he saying is going to happen shortly? He's going to die. He's saying I'm going to leave this old tabernacle behind. I'm going to go and be with the Lord. I want to remind you, we touched on this this morning. I want to remind you, death is not the end of our existence. We just didn't dwell this tabernacle. This is just a house for our soul. This is just a dwelling, temporal dwelling place. for the real you and I, the soul. And Peter says it's not going to be long. I'm going to put off this old tabernacle just like the Lord told me. Now what does he mean just like the Lord told me? Keep your place here if you would come with me. to the Gospel of John. And all the way at the end of the Gospel of John, chapter 21, the Lord told Peter how he was going to die. He didn't tell him when, not directly, but he told him how he was going to die. He told him he'd be an older man when he dies And um I don't know. I was thinking about that. I don't know if I would want to know when I'm going to die or not. You know, you ever think about that? Uh I think I'd rather just leave that in the Lord's hands. And um I just my only my only thought on that is, Lord, be gentle when the time comes. Just I'm not worried about dying. It's the process that concerns me a little bit So the Lord addressed this with Peter. Look at chapter 21 of John, and look with me at verse number 18. Jesus is speaking to Peter and John. And he says, Verily, verily I say unto you thee, he's talking to Peter, excuse me, when thou wast young, thou girdest thyself and walkest Whither thou wouldest. He says, when you were young, you just were strong. You were a strapping young man. You could go where you wanted to go, when you wanted to go. And uh knowing Peter's disposition Peter was kind of a strong-headed guy, and Peter was going to do what he wanted to do. Did you ever meet somebody like that? Doesn't matter what anybody says, whatever they do, they're going to do what they want to do. That was Peter. Then he says, but But when thou shalt be old, so we know a little bit what stage of life he's going to be, when thou shalt be old, thou shalt stretch forth thy hands. And another shall gird thee, and carry thee. Now look at this last statement: whither thou wouldest not And the Lord is saying to Peter, He saying, Peter, listen. You were strapping, young men, you know, you did what you want Now you've been living for me, you're going to live for me, go feed my lambs is the context. And he says, Peter, one day you're going to be an old man. And when you're an old man, somebody's going to come and they're going to stretch your arms out. And they're going to take you and do to you something you would not choose to have done to yourself. And the history books tell us that probably in Rome Can't say for certain, possibly, in Rome, because of Peter's faith, and because of his preaching of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and no doubt People were getting saved, and the power of God was upon Peter in an unusual way, and for the Romans it was a threat to their worship of Caesar. And they saw Peter as a threat to their false worship. And rather than converting to the truth, and rather than coming to Christ, they rejected the messenger. And the history books tell us pretty reliably that Peter was crucified. They stretched forth his hands. They nailed him to a cross similar to what they did to our Lord Jesus Christ. Now here's the interesting thing. Legend has it, and from what I can tell, it's pretty reliable. That when it came time to crucify Peter, Peter didn't resist, but one thing he did do, he made a request. He says, I don't deserve. Now I'm just putting in my words. But what we understand, what legend says, is that Peter told them, I don't deserve to die the way my Savior died. I'm not afraid to die. I'm not going to resist you crucifying me. But I make a request that when you crucify me, crucify me upside down. Because I don't deserve to die the way my Savior died. You talk about a reverence, you talk about a respect and an adoration of the Lord Jesus Christ. That a man be willing, as horrible as the crucifixion was, to be upside down, multiplied that torture aspect of it. That's the death of this man that we're going to study, this last letter he wrote. That in and of itself tells me we ought to pay close attention to what he says. disregarding the fact that it's the word of God, but the very fact that Peter was knowing this was coming, knowing. Do you remember, this is a little aside, But do you remember when Peter, in the book of Acts, when Peter was in prison, and they were going to kill him the next morning? And I I I can't remember the chapter exactly, but they were going to kill him the next morning And the Bible says that Peter, he was sound asleep that night in the prison, and the angel came out, was going to deliver him, because it wasn't time for him to die yet, and the angel actually had to smite him to wake him up Now, I don't know about you. When I was little, my mom, she'd come in to wake us up. She'd be like, bonk, get up. Peter was so sound asleep, the angel had to smite him to wake him up. Now my thinking is this, how in the world you know you're going to be killed the next morning. The next morning I'm going to be beheaded, and old Peter stretches out. And just sleep soundly like a baby. How could he do that? Can I make a suggestion? He remembered what the Lord said that he would be old when he dies. And Acts, he wasn't old yet. I think Peter went to sleep that night, knowing full well one way or another, he wasn't going to die that next morning. I'm here to tell you, if God says you're not going to die till you're old, it doesn't matter what this world does, you ain't going to die till you're old. And Peter had that settled. So this is his last letter. He says there in ver in in chapter 1, verse 13 and 14, he says, Oh, I'm about to put off this old tabernacle I got wondered how old was Peter here. I did a little figuring and research, and best we can tell when he wrote 2 Peter, he was about 63, maybe 66 years old, in that range there. And in that time, of course, that was a bit of an old man. And so he stretched forth thy hands, he's taken unwillingly, and he's crucified upside down. So this is the man that penned this book, man that loved the Lord dearly, a man that was committed to the Lord even unto death. And he pens this letter to these dear folks. Now, what's the purpose of 2 Peter? Why did he write this? Well, if you look there in verse 1, if you come back, he says, Peter, Simon Peter, a servant And a apostle of Jesus Christ to them that have obtained like precious faith. Now I was going to preach on that phrase, but I just want to give introduction tonight He's writing the folks of like precious faith. Who would that be? How would you describe that? These are what? These are believers He's talking to brothers and sisters in Christ. How many folks here tonight, you're saved and you know it? Say amen. This is the folks he's writing to. The context was believers who had been saved. Come over to chapter 2 and look with me, if you would, at verse number 1. He says this second epistle, so whoever he's writing to, he already wrote one epistle. That would be what? 1 Peter. He said, The second epistle, beloved, I now write unto you, and both which I stir up your pure minds by way of remembrance. So we believe he's writing to the same folks he wrote 1 Peter to. And who was that? And if you'll remember from our study of 1 Peter, these were believers who had been run out of their homes, run out of their communities, in many cases forced out of their families And persecuted and hounded. Many of them gave their lives up, many of them lost their jobs, many were imprisoned, beaten and tortured for no other reason than they were followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. The first letter he writes to them to encourage them. He's writing to the same crowd. It's not an evangelistic message. He's writing to believers who have been persecuted and scattered. Who have been maybe discouraged. And as they get out into this area it's called Asia Minor, they begin settling into new communities. And they're reassembling together. And they're starting up these new churches in the areas they've been forced out to. And he's writing another letter to these folks. And last of all, what is the purpose of this book? Well, first Peter was dealing with the threats and the opposition to the church that was coming from without. It was the community, it was the world, it was the government, it was false worship of false gods. They were persecuting the church, opposition to the church from without the church. 2 Peter, it's a different threat. 2 Peter, I want to suggest to you is a much more dangerous threat. He's addressing these believers, these new reassembled churches, reorganized churches. He's addressing them about the threat from within And I want to suggest to you the greatest threat to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church isn't Washington, D. C. The greatest threat to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is not politicians, either side of the aisle. The greatest threat to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church isn't the Muslims or the Hindus or the Catholics or any religion you name. You know what I think the greatest threat to the well-being of our church is from within. Is from within. Jesus said the gates of hell could not withstand the church. But I'll tell you, he also said a kingdom divided against itself cannot what? cannot stand. And Second Peter is written to these little churches because of a threat from within Because of a danger from within. Because of a spiritual virus within And in my mind, that's the greatest threat. What was this threat? What did it consist of? Well, first of all, it was false prophets. False teaching, false doctrine. Look at verse 16 of chapter 1. Notice what he says. For we have not followed cunningly devised fables. Apparently There was creeping into these churches that had been so faithful to the Lord that had stood true through persecution. And now they're settling down. And now they're re-establishing. And now a threat from within is coming in. Somebody's bringing cunningly devised fables. False teaching is starting to creep in. Come over to chapter 2 with me. In fact, the whole chapter 2 is very adamant. In the chapter 3, he's dealing with these false doctrines. Look at verse number 1 of chapter 2. He says, but there were false prophets also among the people, even as there shall be false teachers. What's the next two words? Among you. Who privilies shall bring in damnable heresies, even denying the Lord that bought them, and bring upon themselves swift destruction. And he goes down through the rest of the chapter addressing these false teachers, these damnable heresies, his term. And he addresses the majority of the book of 2 Peter is addressing false teaching, false doctrines, damnable heresies. And I'm telling you, if false teaching and false doctrine was a threat to those early churches, I'm telling you false teaching and false doctrine is a threat to our church today. And that's why he's writing this book. And that's why I said at the beginning, I believe 2 Peter, it may have been neglected over the years, but I believe 2 Peter is vitally important to our churches today. Dealing with false doctrine, damnable heresies. And the whole chapter there, into chapter 3. Then there's a second threat to the church. These are folks who are going to creep in. Oh, they're sneaky. Oh, they'll put up a front and they'll act like they're one of us. How did Jesus describe them? Sheep in what are wolves in what kind of clothing? Sheep's clothing. Oh, they look like sheep. They smell like sheep. They they uh act like sheep, but they ain't sheep And he's writing to warn them of it. And then there's a second threat to the church. And that is this spiritual immaturity. Spiritual ignorance. Look at verse 5 of chapter 1 real quick me and I'll end with this He says, and he's given some opening statements there. Number 5, he says this, besides this, giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue, and to virtue knowledge. And to knowledge temperance, and that means self-control. And to temperance, patience. And to patience, godliness And to godliness, brotherly kindness. And to brotherly kindness, charity. That's unconditional love and action. And if these things be in you and abound, they make you that ye shall be neither barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. Look at verse 9. But he that lacketh these things He's not adding to his faith virtue. He's not adding to his virtue knowledge. He's not adding to knowledge temperance or patience or godliness or brotherly kindness or charity. They're not growing spiritually. They're not developing spiritually. And look what he says. He that lacketh these things is blind. And cannot see afar off and hath forgotten that he was purged from his old sins Do you know it's possible for a Christian to get so backslidden? It's possible for a Christian to get so ignorant and so blinded by his neglect of his spiritual growth According to this, he can forget that he was even saved in the first place. How many people agree with me? What a tragedy. And he's writing to this church and saying, you better be growing. You better be developing your spiritual walk. You better be nurturing your spiritual well-being. Because you can fall awfully far as a Christian. You can get awfully blind as a Christian. So he's warning them about spiritual ignorance, about spiritual immaturity. Come over to chapter 3 real quick. Look with me, if you would, at verse 17. The last two verses of the book. Ye therefore, beloved, seeing you know these things, beware. Lest ye also, being a led away with the error of the wicked, fall from your own steadfastness. What does it mean they fall from their steadfastness? They become what? Unfaithful They become unfaithful to the Lord. They neglected their spiritual walk. They neglected their spiritual well-being. They took for granted that they were right with God. They didn't nurture it. They didn't work at it. They didn't develop their spiritual walk with God. Look at verse 18, the last one. He says this: but grow in grace. And in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, he says, don't you guys be ignorant. Don't you guys be immature. It's vitally important. I'll tell you, I'll tell you one thing that'll hurt a church is when the members of the tw church quit growing spiritually. When the numb members of the church neglect their personal walk with God, the church pays a price as a body And so we have two threats. Number one, false teaching coming in. I'm telling you, and I'm calling on our church, our Sunday school teachers, our deacons, our trustees, everybody that has a role. I'm calling on every one of us. We must be alert for false doctrine. Now I'm not saying looking for false doctrine under every little bush, but brother, when something comes up, we need to address it. Amen or not. And number two, we need to maintain our personal walk with God. That's an individual basis. Did you know That the members of the church, your spiritual condition as a member of the church affects the church whole as a body? Anybody here ever get an ingrown toenail? I've been dealing with ingrown toenails. You know, when that little toenail isn't doing what it's supposed to do, when it's not when it's not nurturing its well-being. My whole body is affected by that. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Anybody here have arthritis in the knees? Does it affect the whole body or not? Yeah. Yeah. Man, you get up in the morning. I've never groaned so much in my life as I have the last few years in the morning. Get up. You know what? If we don't keep our walk with God, our personal walk with God, the whole church starts groaning I'm praying for revival. I'm asking God, that's our theme. I'm pleading with God, meet with us, revive us. And part of revival is you and I re-establishing, reigniting our personal walk with God. Let me ask you a question. How is your personal spiritual well-being? Are you walking with God? Are you keeping your heart pure? David said, created me a clean heart, O God. Are you keeping your heart clean? Are you staying close to the Lord, humble before Him, trusting Him, following His instructions? I'm telling you, the well-being of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is dependent upon the spiritual well-being of every individual member. Peter's writing this. That's the purpose of this book. False doctrine and personal walk with God. Let's pray. Father. I ask, Lord, you'd help us to be on our guard, be alert. There's a lot of false teaching out there. We want to be true to your word. And Lord, help us stay close to you, humble, walking with you, clean and pure hearts and minds. Obedient, trusting you, and following your leadership in our lives, following your word, instructions in your word. Help us, Lord. Confessing and forsaking sin as it comes in. Heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I need to give careful attention to my spiritual well-being? And maybe you'd say, preacher, there's areas in my life spiritually I need to give attention to any like that by the uplifted hand. Our church needs every member to stay close to God To walk with God. If we're going to be what we ought to be as a church, then every one of us needs to be what we ought to be. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name, let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.