Deuteronomy chapter thirty-four, the life of Moses. What I want to do tonight is just kind of give an introduction to Moses, a little bit of um, just some characters, just some things that kind of set the stage And as we begin, Lord will, next Wednesday night, start diving into his actual life. But notice what the Bible says here in Deuteronomy 34. It's the very last chapter of the fifth book of the Bible. And by the way, we'll probably mention this throughout the study, but Genesis through Deuteronomy is referred to as anybody know what the the the term they use to describe that? The Pentateuch, if you're familiar, uh Bible students will use that term, the Pentateuch, the first five. Books of the Bible. But the Jews refer to Genesis through Deuteronomy. They will often refer to it as the books of Moses. The books of Moses, because we uh uh believe are pretty confident that Moses penned these five books under the inspiration of God. So we're at the end of those five books, Deuteronomy, at the end of the book of Deuteronomy, and verse number, I'll start reading verse number nine. We'll read down through verse twelve, the end of the book. The Bible says, and Joshua the son of Nun was full of the spirit of wisdom, for Moses had laid his hands upon him And the children of Israel hearkened unto him and did as the Lord commanded Moses. Now, God makes a statement about Moses here And it kind of sets the tone for our whole study for the next however long. It says, and there arose not a prophet since In Israel, like unto Moses, whom the Lord knew face to face, and all the signs and the wonders. which the Lord sent uh sent him to do in the land of Egypt, to Pharaoh and to all his servants, to all his land. And in all that mighty hand, and in all the great terror which Moses showed in the sight of all Israel Here's God's summary of this man Moses, and particularly verse number 10. Says, There arose not a prophet in Israel like unto Moses. Not a prophet like Moses. So let's have a little introductory thoughts about Moses tonight. Father, I ask you bless now our study of this tremendous man that you used in in uh amazing ways I pray that as we begin this study in the coming months and and uh as we work our way through his life I ask that your Holy Spirit would take from the pages of Scripture truths and principles, illustrations and warnings and lessons that can help us live for you like we should. That we can be the people you created and saved us to be, live the lives you intend for us to live. So, Lord, you have to do that. Your Holy Spirit has to do that. I can't. And so I yield my will and my mind to you. I pray you guide my thinking as I speak tonight. I ask you to fill my body with your spirit. I present my body to you. Speak through me And take these lessons and teach us, I pray. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I think other than the Lord Jesus Christ, Moses is perhaps the most well-known person in all of Scripture. Just about uh well the majority of the world uh worships either uh in under the name Christianity or Judaism or Islam, and all three recognize Moses. as an amazing man. You read through scripture, he's probably, as I said, he's probably one of the, if not the, most well-known personality in all of Scripture apart from the Lord Jesus Christ. Uh movies were made. Some of y'all like me grew up uh once a year, I think it was at Easter time watching the Ten Commandments. Everybody, anybody ever see that old movie, Charleston Heston? We have this picture of Moses, and there's been other shows and many books written about Moses. And so he's very, very well known. Moses is a key character in all of Scripture, especially in the history of Israel. Moses played such a huge role, and um he was highly honored. I say was, Moses was and is still today highly honored and respected uh by the Jews all through history. Their admiration, their respect, and the honor that they show to this man Moses has been exceptional. He's considered the greatest prophet of all time, apart again, apart from the Lord Jesus Christ. Notice again there in verse 10. This is what God says. This is God's assessment of Moses. It's not a man. It's not some religious group. God says, there arose not a prophet since in Israel like unto Moses. Not Samuel. I think Samuel was a phenomenal prophet. Elijah was a powerful prophet of God, Isaiah. And we could go through and name some of these outstanding men. that filled the office of prophet that God used in amazing ways. And God says none of them were as great as this man Moses. He is greater than Samuel, Elijah, Elisha, and others. The Jews respected Moses, and again, I'm just giving some background here, and we'll dive into his life in a little bit. The Jews respected Moses, first of all, as uh they called him, the ancient Jews referred to Moses as the ultimate teacher. They viewed him as a tremendous teacher of the law. And um and as Israel after God had given the law there in Mount Sinai. And then they traveled through the wilderness the rest of his life. He's teaching the law. He's making judgment as to what lined up with the law and what did not. And the Jews viewed him as the ultimate teacher. They s they uh they believed he was the most humble man that ever lived. Numbers chapter 12 and verse 3, and we're going to look at that a little bit later. By the way, keep your Bibles handy because we're probably going to end up turning to a lot of passages. tonight. But they considered him the most humble man that ever lived. The Jews viewed viewed Moses as a great leader. And to be honest with you, my assessment of Moses, just reading his life for 46 years now, I believe he was no doubt the greatest leader that ever walked planet Earth, perhaps apart from the Lord Jesus Christ, of course. A tremendous leader. The Jews recognized that. They honored him and respected him for that. And then they honored him and respected him for his great sacrifice. We're going to find out as we get into the life of Moses down the road aways. There was a point where Israel sinned and God was going to destroy Israel. This is as they're coming out of Egypt. They had sinned grievously when Isaac had or Aaron had made thee a golden calf. God says, I'm going to destroy them all and make a great nation out of you. And Moses pleads with them. And again, we'll look at this in detail later on. But he pleads with God to spare the nation of Israel And he makes a statement. He says, God, if you would, blot my name out and forgive and spare them. What an attitude. He's telling God this. In other words, what he's saying is, God, let me bear the judgment of their sins for them, but don't judge them. Does that sound familiar at all? That sounds like the Lord Jesus Christ. When he takes our sins upon himself, he's judged in our place. Now, of course, Moses was not, the Lord Jesus will notice this, but he had the Spirit of Christ. He had the mind of Christ. Way back in history, Paul said that same thing in Romans when he says, I wish that I myself could be accursed. Cut off for my people so that they would be saved. Paul was saying, I'd be willing to forfeit my salvation, spend eternity in hell, if that would bring my people to Christ I wonder how many of us have even a minuscule burden for the lost to that degree. That's Moses. And the Jews respected him tremendously for his sacrifice, his dedication to Christ If you would keep your place here, but come with me to the book of Hebrews. And we find Moses mentioned numerous times in the book of Hebrews. And again, Hebrews, as the name implies, is directed to in the immediate when it was first penned, it was directed to, anybody want to guess who the book of Hebrews was directed to? The Hebrews. And of course, Moses holding the position in the minds of the Jews, the Hebrews. The penmen, under the inspiration of God, references Moses numerous times. Hebrews chapter number three And notice, this, and I think, I believe the penman is Apostle Paul. Again, God's moving on his mind, inspiring to write this. But I think he's making this appeal to Moses because he held such great esteem in the minds of the Jews, and he's presenting to them the fact that Jesus Christ is superior to any Old Testament sacrifice. Jesus is superior to any Old Testament ceremony. Jesus is superior to the angels themselves and any Old Testament character. That the Jews might think highly of. Now look what he says here. Hebrews chapter 3. Look at verse number 1. Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling. Consider the apostle and high priest of our profession. Who's he talking about? Christ Jesus, he says right there. Now I want you to consider This great apostle, this high priest of our profession. He's referencing the Jews' understanding of the high priest, Christ Jesus. Now look what he says here. Now this boggles my mind. Our profession, Christ Jesus, who was faithful to him that appointed him. So Christ Jesus was faithful to God, the one that appointed him to that position. Now look. As also Moses was faithful in all his house. Do you catch what he's doing here? He's comparing, now get this, he's comparing Jesus Christ's faithfulness. Would you agree with me? Jesus is faithful. Good night. He's like the perfection of faithfulness. But he's comparing the faithfulness of Jesus Christ to the faithfulness of Moses. Now that's an amazing thing that you would compare the Son of God, the perfect, faithful son of God, to a man. I could see the other way around. Could you hear a preacher saying this? We ought to be faithful to God and have Jesus as our example, our pattern for faithfulness to God. Sure. Well he's saying Jesus was faithful to God like Moses. So that tells us several things. One, Moses is an amazing man. That God would compare Jesus Christ to him, of all things. But it also tells us how high the Jews Honored Moses, that he would reach back and say, hey, Jesus is faithful to God, just like Moses was. He goes on there, verse number four. For uh verse number three. For this man was counted worthy of more glory than Moses. Now he's putting Jesus where he needs to be, above Moses But the fact that he compares them, he goes, insomuch that he who builded the house hath more honor than the house. For every house is built by some man, but he that built all things is of God. And Moses verily was faithful in all his house, but as a servant. For a testimony of those things which should be spoken after. But Christ as a what? Son. You follow what's happening here. He's saying, listen, Jesus Christ is faithful in every way, every promise, everything, every responsibility, and he was faithful in all, just like Moses. And then he kind of says, but Moses was faithful as a servant to God. Jesus was faithful as the Son of God. So he exalts Jesus Christ. He's not pulling Jesus down. But my point is this. The fact that the Hebrews viewed Moses to such an extent that he could even make that comparison. I can't imagine somebody saying, well, Jesus was faithful to God just like Dennis Leatherman was faithful to God. God have mercy. But Moses, Moses, the Hebrews honored him and respected him in such a tremendous way. Now I want to put a caution out here As highly as the Jews respected and honored Moses, they did not worship him. Man worship is a very real danger. We find that through scriptures. Kings, we get uh get uh think more highly of themselves than they should have and they would demand that people would bow down to him, demand that people worship him. There's something in the in the very core of every man and woman And it is an instinct to worship something, somewhere, someone. And we need to be very, very careful that we do not exalt people to the point where we worship those people. You follow me? Because there is a tendency. It's something that can and does happen. It can be a preacher, it can be a politician, it can be a movie star, it can be a musician. Before I was saved, I was such an idiot. Uh we'd put these big posters of these, they were really nothing more than perverted musicians. And I'm telling you, people would go by the tens of thousands and just scream and faint. And it was worship. It was man worship. Now the Jews respected Moses and they exalted him, but they did not worship him. We must be very, very careful. We never worship man. And not even close. And um, you know, God uh uh God will use a preacher or a soul without or somebody in a wonderful way to change someone's life and they're not careful, they start to exalt that person above the Lord. Listen, it's not the man, it's the Lord using the person So the Jews understood that. They understood that uh only God is to be worshipped. There should be no doubt In anybody's mind, there should be no confusion in anybody's mind who Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church worships, we worship Jesus Christ. We worship God. There should never be any confusion in anyone's mind who I as an individual worship Jesus Christ. I'm grateful for people God has used. I honor people God has used, but we worship God. And so for as highly as they lifted Moses up in the tremendous honor that they had and still to this day have they did not worship Moses. They understood that Moses was just a man, and here's what we're going to find out as we work our way through. Moses was just a man with flaws and failures, just like you and I. And they become very evident pretty early on. The amazing thing to me is that our God uses any of us. And look in the mirror, and we're honest with ourselves. We say, how in the world can God even use me? But God does. And he knows that we're but flesh, and he knows that we're just men, and God in his mercy and grace chooses to use us. Now that we don't presume in f failing, we don't, you know, we don't neglect our walk with God. We don't neglect the mercy of God. But nevertheless were flawed. And we see that. We'll see that in Moses. So they didn't worship him. They highly respected Moses. So we look in the Bible, come back here if you would to Deuteronomy. We look in the Bible, we notice That God gives us more information about the life of Moses than almost any other character in Scripture We're told of his birth and then his long life. He lived a long time, extraordinary life. And then we're told of his death. Now we have a few others in scripture Where we have an account of their birth and we have an account of their death, but nothing to the degree and the detail that we're given about Moses. We're told about Samson's life and we're told about Samson's death. We're told about Samuel, the prophet. We're told of his birth, the Hannah. We're told of his death. But not to the extent and the detail that were given of Moses. As I said at the beginning, he is an outstanding character in the Bible. Just the volume of Scripture that is dedicated to the life of Moses and the ministry of Moses. So, a few thoughts, real quick, a couple things here, setting the stage, giving an introduction. I want us to first of all consider the times of Moses. What was the world like? When Moses came into it, Moses' world that he was born into, what was it like? Well, he was born approximately 1,500 years before Jesus Christ was born. So that would put him about thirty-five hundred years ago from our time frame. He came into the world. He was born in Egypt, of course, and we'll see this. Egypt at this time was one um historian I was reading said that Egypt was a world superpower. Militarily they were powerful and they were very aggressive They would work their way up into Canaan, if you're familiar with the topography there. They worked their way up around uh the Mediterranean Sea, up into Canaan, up into the Middle East They had a there was a nation down below them, uh down uh going upstream the Nile, uh that they were very aggressive. They just tensions there all the time. They were a powerful, powerful nation militarily. Uh they were very powerful economically. Do you remember when Joseph was sold by his brothers to a caravan? They brought him down. Anybody remember that That was a highly used corridor for trade from the Far East and the Middle East down into Egypt. They'd go down into Africa. Egypt was a power, a superpower in the world at that time. Militarily, economically, their culture influenced that whole part of the world Um you can't help you study Egypt at this time and their influence and their might that they exercised in the world. It reminds me a bit of America American America has a powerful military, right or wrong? Yeah, most powerful in the world probably. Very powerful economically. Our president makes some changes in terrorists. The whole world is affected. Our culture influences the whole world. I've been around. Some of you have traveled around the world and different places you go and Uh I was down in Dominican Republic. We went down one time, we were up on the Salmonat Peninsula, we were all the way out at the end in this city out there, hundreds of thousands of people. I mean l uh just out in the middle And I'm sitting on the bus, we're loading up after we ate lunch, and this guy walks across in front of the bus and he has a t-shirt on and it says Deep Creek, Maryland. on his t shirt. And then I thought, what in the world? I tried getting off the bus to go see him, but he was lost in the crowd. We were in Mongolia, flew over years ago, back two thousand eight I think we went over, we got in the motel room in the fellow I was sharing a room with, he says, I wonder what their TV programs are like. He turned it on and it came right up to MTV of all things. And he turned it off right away, and I thought, that grieved my heart that this nation, their impression of United States is the MTV garbage. So what I'm trying to say is this that gives us a little idea of the of what Egypt was in its day and age. The power they had, the influence they had. That's what Moses is born into. Pharaoh. They did not have a republic. They did not have a democracy. Pharaoh had absolute power There were no checks and balances for Pharaoh's authority. Anyone here glad that our nation has checks and balances? Yeah. We don't like it when our guy's in, but we love it when their guy's in. But it's a good thing. No one person has unchecked power. We don't want that But they did. Pharaoh was considered a god king. They literally worshipped Pharaoh as a god And so that's the world that Moses is born into. Now what was the condition of the Jews? when Moses was born. Well, we learned in study of Joseph's life while Joseph was alive and many, many years uh after he passed away The Jews were highly respected by the Egyptians. They loved them. They honored them for many, many years, but as a couple centuries went by The Jews began to multiply. I mean, multiply. If you would, look, turn over to Exodus chapter number one. Back here right after Genesis, go to Exodus chapter 1 and notice verse 7. I'm trying to set the stage for this world that Moses is coming into. Chapter 1, Exodus chapter 1, look with me at verse number 7. And the children of Israel were what? Fruitful. What does that mean? They had lots of babies. They had nursery expansion funds going all the time. Children of Israel were fruitful and increased what? Abundantly and multiplied and waxed exceeding mighty. Look at this. And the land was what? Filled with them. Back last fall we had two rabbits in my backyard This summer we got 93 rabbits in our backyard. Not quite that many, but there's a bunch. That was Israel. I mean they're multiplying exceedingly. They're filling the land up. Now here's the interesting thing. By the time now this is what this is what stirred me a little bit When Joseph dies, they're respected. There's what what there's 70 of them came down, so they're increasing. They're having kids and grandkids and great-grandkids. 400 years go by. Now they're taking over the land. In fact, as suggested, there almost was more Jews than there was Egyptians. At this point when Moses shows up. Now here's the interesting thing to me. They spent 400 years here. Loved, honored, respected by the Egyptians for much of that time. 400 years later, here's what I'm getting at. They're still Jews. In other words, they did not lose their identity. They did not, 400 years and they did not assimilate into the Egyptian culture. They maintained their worship of Jehovah when all around them was pagan worship. They held to their commitment. They held to the true doctrines of Jehovah, who he was. And what he wanted from his people. They didn't lose their identity. They didn't lose their distinction as the people of God. And for all their failures we see later on, and for all their shortcomings and their sin, for 400 years. They passed on from one generation to the next generation to the next generation the true worship of Jehovah. And I tell you, that is a tremendous, tremendous testimony. Persecuted, we're going to see this, treated abominably by the uh the uh Egyptians, and yet they never forsook. When the Egyptians loved them, they maintained their distinction. When the Egyptians hated them, they maintained their distinction. And I'm saying to you, what the Hebrews did 400 years in Egypt, holding to their distinction, holding to the truth, you and I as a church need to do also. Say, well, the world loves us. Maintain our distinction. The world hates us. Maintain our distinction. We should never, ever, ever lose our identity as disciples of Jesus Christ. Not for the world's praise and not for the world's persecution. So for 400 years, Moses shows up. There's a million of them or more. And yet they're still Hebrews, they're still Jews, they're still worshiping Jehovah, they're still calling out to Jehovah. They did not uh uh lose their identity. And uh uh just a tremendous testimony. Now the time Moses shows up, they are a threat in the mind of Pharaoh. Are you still there in Exodus? Everybody's still hanging in here with me? It's kind of just giving facts out here a little bit, but um we're laying the groundwork for the life of Moses. Look at verse number 8 in Exodus chapter 1. It says, now, now remember, they're multiplying exceedingly and they're increasing abundantly. Now there arose up a new king over Egypt, which knew not Joseph. Now there have been multiple kings in that 400 years, but this one didn't know Joseph. Each generation they would get be reminded a little less of Joseph, a little less. And now finally a king comes up, and he doesn't have any idea who Joseph was. He'd ask him, he said, if you'd ask him, who's Joseph? He'd say, I never heard of him. I don't know who you're talking about. He knew not Joseph. And verse 9, he said unto his people, Behold, the people of the children of Israel. They had maintained their identity. They did not forsake their convictions, their standards, their love and worship for the Lord. The people of the children of Israel are more and mightier than we. Come on Let us deal wisely with them lest they multiply, and it come to pass that when there falleth out any war. They join also unto our enemies and fight against us, and so get them out of the land. He wanted them to stay in the land. He wanted them building their bricks and mortar and all of that. And so Pharaoh perceives these Jews, these Hebrews, these children of Israel, as a threat And he says, we need to deal with this. I put it in my notes, I put this down. Pharaoh established an Egypt-first policy. We're not accommodating them. It's Egypt first. And you know, he has every right to do that. That is not a political statement. Okay. But they're a threat to them. And they don't want to kick them out because they need them to do their menial labor. And so he begins this oppression, this intense oppression, for an extended period of time. That is the world that Moses is being born into. Now I want us to quickly, I've got a couple minutes left, I want us to consider the titles that Moses is born into, the times. They were rough, they had come a long way, and they were being oppressed intensely. Then God uses some titles for Moses that I want us to point out here before we get into his life. Come back again to the end of Deuteronomy. I've told you we're going to jump around here a little bit And Deuteronomy chapter 33, the second last chapter of the book of Deuteronomy, Deuteronomy 33. And look with me if you would at verse number one, Deuteronomy 33, 1. It says, now watch for the title God uses for Moses. And this is the blessing wherewith Moses, the what? Man of God bless the children of Israel before his death. That's God calling him a man of God. It's not the people saying, oh, he's a man of God. Now, no doubt they viewed it that way, but God's the one that's calling him a man of God. Would you agree with me? If God calls someone a man of God, that's something That God would say that about him. In Psalm chapter 90 and verse 1, right above the verse, we won't turn there, but that little title, Moses again is referred to as a man of God In fact, numerous times throughout Scripture, Moses is referred to as a man of God. Now, here's my question: What in the world is a man of God? What is it that makes a man a man of God? Now, I'm a preacher. It would be an amazing thing to be considered a man of God. In fact, sometimes people will refer to the preacher as the man of God I want to suggest to you the title or the position has nothing to do with whether a man is a man of God or not. It has more to do with his character. It has more to do with his walk with God. A truck driver can be a man of God. A businessman can be a man of God. A landscaper can be a man of God. So what is it that makes a person a man of God? Well, I got looking at scripture, and this is what I come up with. What makes a man a God is a somebody who is called apart or set apart by God for a specific role That God chooses that here's your role. I have a position. I have a job. I have a role. I have a ministry for you Would you agree with me? Being a father is a role that God puts men into. Yes or no? So a father, in this strict definition of the word man of God, the description of a man of God, a father would fit that description. He's called of God to be the father to these children. That's a calling of God. And so, being a man of God, called or set apart by God for a specific role. Moses was a burning bush. God called him to lead his people out of Egypt. It can be any other role that God may have for you and I, and that He does have for us, men and women. A man of God spoke God's word with authority from God. He declared the message of God That's what a preacher does. That's what a pastor does, an evangelist, a missionary. But it's also what God's people do. We're told to go into all the world and do what? Preach the gospel. Is the gospel a message of God? Yes. So God sets us apart for specific responsibilities, specific roles in ministries. He gives us the responsibility to proclaim the Word of God with authority. Sunday school teacher, a bus worker, you name it. And so a man of God would be someone whose life is characterized by integrity, faithfulness to God, and humility. And it is a man of God is someone who is empowered by God for the ministry God calls them to. In other words, they're not doing in their own power. The power of God is on them. They're filled with the Holy Spirit. Now, of course, Moses' case, the Holy Spirit didn't dwell, but the Spirit of God came upon him. God enabled Moses to do things that were not humanly possible. Stretch out your rod and the Red Sea part. So that wasn't no power in Moses' part. That was a power of God upon Moses. That same power is available to you and I, not to part cease, but to live godly and influence a world for Christ. And what I'm trying to say is this Moses was a man of God in every specific of the definition. And you and I can be men and or women of God if we meet those same Characteristics. You follow me? I'm trying to say this. It's not exclusive for only this person, this person. All God's people ought to be people of God. In these ways. However, God chooses to use us. So one title God uses for Moses is a man of God. What a title. What a description of this man. Just that title tells us so much about this man. And then there's another title that is used for Moses, and that is in Deuteronomy 34. And if you're there, Deuteronomy 34, look at verse number 5. So Moses, now 33, 1, he was the man of God. 34-5 So Moses, the what? Servant of God. He's a man of God, but he's the servant of God. Now, he's not the only one that God uses this title for. David is referred to as the servant of God. Paul refers himself over and over the servant of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so it's not exclusive for Moses to have this title. However, he's referred to as a servant of God over 40 times in Scripture. God says, a servant of God, servant of the Lord. My servant. Forty times. So what does that tell us? Well, it tells me one thing: God's highest title for a man is servant. Servant. The world, if they want to, you know, they want to honor somebody, give them a high title, uh high uh a title of great honor and dignity and position, over in England, they'll knight them. Sir Dennis. We'll give him a doctor's degree, Doctor So-and-so. We'll give you all these fancy titles. You can get carried away Charlie and I were talking about the Masons and they've got some fantastic titles in their organization. Supreme Commander of all Allied whatever. I don't know what their titles are When God says, here's somebody that deserves a great title, here's somebody I want to honor, he goes, They're my servant. They're my servant. Moses, this great man, this great leader. God doesn't refer to him as a leader, refers to him as my servant. My servant. You want to be a great leader? You want to be great in the eyes of God? I do. I'd like to be great in the eyes of God. Be a servant. Be a man of God. Integrity. Serving God humbly, faithfully. Serving, serving, serving. Matthew 20, 28, Jesus made this statement. I tell you, about five, six, seven, eight years ago. I read this in my devotions, and God pierced my heart. Matthew 20, chapter 20, verse 28 said, Jesus makes this statement. He says, even as the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many. And he was rebuking his disciples for wanting to be great. Having great positions, and he says, fellas, fellas, uh, you miss the point Be a minister. The word minister means servant, server. Serve, serve, serve, serve God, serve one another. Husbands, serve your wife. Wives, serve your husband. Serve each a minister. Don't go around demanding, you need to do this for me, I want that. Give me this. No, no, no. Not to be ministered unto, but to what? minister and give his life a ransom for many. And God says Moses, he's my servant. He had that the spirit that Christ had, Moses showed fifteen hundred years before Jesus Christ showed up. And so he's a servant. And so this is God's highest title for a person. I think it indicates Moses' relationship with the Lord. Moses was God's servant. That's the way he saw himself And then last of all, I end with this. The testimony of Moses. The times that he was born into. The titles God gave him, and then testimony. Now, we're going to get into the details of his birth and all of that. But number one, I put this down. The testimony was no other prophet was as great as Moses. We saw that at the beginning. Deuteronomy 34:10. No other prophet was as great as Moses. What a testimony. Number two, no other man was as meek as Moses. Numbers 12, 3. Again, we won't take time to turn there, but it says he was the meekest man on the earth. What does it mean to be meek? Submissive? Anybody else? Humble? Somebody has described, and we're going to look at this in detail probably four or five years down the road when we get to that point in his life. Um, but somebody has described meekness as strength under restraint In other words, I have the ability and maybe even the right to use force But I don't, I restrain myself and my humble myself. The best description I heard this was in college, I came across this description, and they were defining meekness And they showed the picture they used to try and define meekness was a great lion, a female lion. What do you call a female lion? A lioness. And I mean powerful. And she had in her jaws a little cub, little lion cub. Those jaws, they gave the statistics about the jaws, the pressure, the the pound uh what do you call that pound? Pound per square inch pressure is phenomenal That that lioness could have just crushed that cub, but she didn't. She treated it very gently. Very c very graciously, very kindly, lovingly. And they said, that is meekness. That is meekness. Moses was a meek man. Didn't demand his way vengeance. He was meek. Another testimony of Moses was no other person was as close in fellowship with God as Moses was. Deuteronomy 34, 10. Arose a prophet in Israel, like unto Moses, whom the Lord knew face to face, in an intimate personal relationship with God. I believe the key to Moses' life and his greatness of his testimony and the greatness in the eyes of God I believe the key to Moses being so used of God was his faith in God, his testimony of faith. And we're going to end with this. If you would come with me to Hebrews chapter 11. And again, Moses comes up, is brought up in the book of Hebrews back in chapter 11. And notice what it says, and one of the largest portions of the hall of faith, Hebrews chapter 11, is committed to Moses, his family, and his ministry. Hebrews chapter 11, look at verse 23. Says, by faith, I highlighted that little phrase all through the chapter. By faith, who? Moses. When he was born, was hid three months of his parents because they saw he was a proper child, and they were not afraid of the king's command. Look at verse 24. By faith Moses, when he was come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. esteeming the reproach of Christ, greater riches than the treasures in Egypt, for he had respect unto the recompense of reward. He forsook his position as the son of Pharaoh. And the grandson of Pharaoh, he forsook that position and he identified with God's people by faith. It's by faith. Look at verse 27. By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king, for he endured it, seeing whom is invisible. Verse 28, through faith. He kept the Passover and the sprinkling of blood, lest that he should that lest he that destroyed the firstborn should touch them. Verse 29, by faith they passed through the Red Sea as by dry land Which the Egyptians are saying to do were drowned. By faith, by faith, by faith. Five times Moses acted in faith. He took God at his word. He believed what God said. He acted in faith. So, Moses. Here he is. He seems larger than life. But we study him, we're going to find out he was a man, a person just like you and I. He had besetting sins. How many people know what I'm talking about? I don't know what they are, but how many people know what I'm talking about when I talk about besetting sins? It just comes back. I just got to deal with it over and over and over. Anybody? Come on now. Moses had them, the setting sins. Temper was one of them. And yet God used them in phenomenal ways. Now, this is what I'll end with. The things that made Moses great in the eyes of God, the world spurns. Faith, humility, meekness, integrity. The world says that's the exact opposite of the world views to be great I put it this way, the characteristic that made Moses great in the eyes of God are the exact opposite Of what is considered greatness in the eyes of the world. Fellowship with God. He has faith in God. He's meek. Has faith. And so I guess this is how I apply it. Let's quit worrying about what the world thinks of us. Let's focus on what God knows is true about us. That's what Limites' greatness was. He just trusting God. God said it, okay. I'll take it. I'll take God at his word. God did great things. Father, I pray you'd help and bless us as we start this study of this amazing man. And I pray you'd help us see ourselves and our potential in his life. And stir us and challenge us. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if there's something in the life of Moses. You say, preacher, I can see. Where I need that. Something he had was true in his life. Preacher, I need that in my life. Is there anybody like that? Preacher, I see some things there. And we're going to pick them up as we go through But let's ask God to stir us and help us go forward in our Christian faith, gain higher ground in our walk with God, be more usable, more effective. As we learn from Moses, Father bless now we pray as we have our imitation in Jesus' name, Amen