I've done this a number of times over the years, uh just a lesson on what I'm c referring to as irrefutable proofs that Jesus Christ rose from the dead Irrefutable proofs. I got an outline here if you want to get this, and I highly recommend take this, jot these down, and keep this somewhere in your Bible as a reference because it's very likely that you will end up sometime in a conversation with somebody about whether Christianity is legit or not or uh Jesus Christ, whether he's more than just a man. And I believe these uh what we're going to give you this morning would be very, very helpful in helping convince people that Jesus Christ is exactly who he claimed to be and did exactly what he said he would do. And um and uh I think it'd be very, very helpful. So I want to encourage you to get this, jot these down. I'm going to go as quick as I can through and try and finish this up in one class, one session And uh Matthew chapter number twenty-seven is where we're at, and I want to begin reading in verse number sixty-two. Matthew 27, 62. Now we're going to jump around various passages, so keep your Bibles handy there, and keep your pen handy. Jati's out. Anybody still need to outline? Anybody's missing one there? All right, I think we got everybody. Very good. Notice there in verse number 62, Matthew 27, it says, Now the next day that I didn't oh I didn't read scripture. I'm going to read scripture, then pray. All right Now, the next day that followed the day of the preparation, the chief priests, now notice who these are, the chief priests and the Pharisees came together unto Pilate. So they're going to the government leadership here. Saying, this is what they said to Pilate, Sir, we remember that that deceiver said, now notice how they're referring to Jesus Christ. That what? Deceiver. Now think with me for a moment. This is the Son of God. This is the sinless son of God. This is the man. This is the one. that brought everything into existence. By him all things were made, and without him was not anything made that was made. And they're referring to him as a deceiver, a liar They're calling Jesus a liar. Would you agree with me? I'd venture to say that right now, today, they regret that statement. And so that just struck me that these guys would use that type of term, refer to Jesus Christ in that way. And I guarantee you they regret it to this day. So let's read on. This deceiver, that deceiver said, while he was yet alive, after three days I will rise again. Command, therefore, that the sepulchre, that's the grave, the tomb where he's buried, the sepulchre be made sure until the third day. lest his disciples come by night and steal him away and say unto the people, He is risen from the dead. So the last error shall be worse than the first. Pilate said unto them, You have a watch, go your way, make it as sure as you can. So they went and made the sepulchre sure. Now this is how they did. Sealing the stone, so they put an official Roman seal on there, which is significant, and setting a watch, and they stationed some military fellas around there Irrefutable proofs, eight irrefutable proofs that Jesus Christ rose from the dead. Let's pray. Father, I ask you bless now as we look at the this event like no other event in all of history. And I pray that you would just settle it in our hearts and minds, help us to rejoice in it. And then Lord help us to be able to communicate very clearly to an unbelieving world the truth. of what happened that morning. And so bless now. Fill me with your spirit is always my prayer as I yield my myself to you. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen Number one, the proof of human reasoning. Now let's just think this through a little bit. What we're told here in other passages in Scripture. There were two things done to make sure that Jesus' body could not be removed from the grave. Now, who were the scribes and the Pharisees, who were they worried that would come and take the body from the grave? The disciples. Their whole motive, everything they're thinking is we got to keep the disciples out of that grave, away from that body. They're going to drag him out, say that he rose again. And so that's their whole motive. So they do two things to make sure that body could not be removed from the grave. First of all, they sealed the tube. Now, this is the Roman seal. You know, this the Rome Rome was a powerful, powerful government. And they felt very strongly about the rule of law. And they had numerous instances, if you didn't follow the law, the consequences were deadly, literally deadly If a Roman soldier had a prisoner and that prisoner escaped, that Roman soldier it would cost him his life. What I'm trying to say is this. When Rome put something in place, when Rome established something, particularly with their seal on it, they were not playing games. When Pilate said, you go and make it as sure as you can, he gave them the access to the Roman seal and the Roman military to keep that uh uh uh uh that tomb sealed up. Nobody, nobody is getting in there. Now that was their whole approach. powerful, powerful uh uh government behind this whole action. And so the tomb is sealed. Most powerful nation on earth and uh uncompromising in their enforcement of their law. Somebody breaks that seal, they're gonna die. Period. The second thing they did is they placed guards around it, day and night. Now I often wondered how these soldiers, what their attitude was. They're standing out in a graveyard guarding a tomb. But uh nevertheless, uh the uh the scribes and Pharisees, they were they were serious about this. They they weren't playing games And again, if one of those soldiers would have failed in their duty, uh, they would have lost their lives. And so Uh they put these soldiers around there. Uh we don't know how many. W the guess the guess is about probably sixteen uh uh military men trained in combat, armed no doubt, swords, shi uh bows, whatever they had And uh these guys could keep it secure. There was no uh issue about that. Anybody here ever been to the tomb of the unknown soldier? And how strict that is, and how the all they have there, man, you just cross that perimeter and man they're they're guns ready, they're they're defending that tube. Uh that's the same thing except there's 16 of these guys around there So the tomb is secure. There's no doubt about that. In anybody's mind, that tomb is secure. However, letter B, Jesus' body and bones are missing. They were not in that tomb. We'll talk about that a little bit more. So that body of Jesus Christ, that dead body of Jesus Christ, had to come out of that tomb somehow It's incredibly sealed one way or another. Well the first suggestion is uh let me um First suggestion is I didn't want you to see all those points all at one time. Number one, under B, he came out himself. So some suggest, and um you could if you look up any writing any books or volumes on trying to refute the resurrection of Jesus Christ. One of the suggestions that unbelievers come up with, well Jesus never really died in the first place It's called the swoon theory. He just kind of fainted. He was unconscious. It was such a trauma on his body that he just went into like a coma somehow. And uh he didn't actually die And so when they took him down and they put him in the grave, they thought he was dead, but he wasn't really dead. And while he was in the nice cool tomb there and had the coolness and the dampness, he kind of came to. And then he came up out of the grave. And so that's the idea that he brought he got himself out of the grave. Not likely. Most, or I shouldn't maybe I shouldn't say most, but many, many criminals died just during the scourging part of the crucifixion. I mean, we fail to realize maybe how brutal and how violent just the scourging was before he ever got nailed to the cross. And we could take time, I don't I don't uh I want to take more time than I have, but um uh many, many times they never even survived. The many times when those soldiers when Rome was crucifying somebody nailing to a cross, they were nailing a dead body already up on that cross, just gone through the motions. They died during scourging. And then the crucifixion itself, the whole thing was designed to kill somebody and to kill them very, very slowly. The Greeks had kind of introduced crucifixion, but the Romans perfected it And they absolutely knew what they were doing, and they knew that uh uh that he uh a person would not survive this. And on top of that, remember Uh when uh uh Pilate sent the soldiers out to make sure they're all dead, it was the pa the Passover was coming, they wanted to uh have him off the holy day. And uh so they went out. What'd they do to the two thieves to make sure they would die quicker? They broke their legs, snapped their legs, and there's a reason for that. They couldn't breathe, they suffocated because they they couldn't maneuver themselves on the cross. They came to Jesus Christ, he was already dead. And just to be sure One of the soldiers did what? Took a pierce, spierced him up below, we believe it's below his rib there, cage, up into his heart. They knew exactly where the organs in the Bible uh in the body were. They knew exactly how to kill someone. And so they very strategically and deliberately pierced that spear up, making sure it would get up into his heart, and blood and water came out, and they say that the water indicated heart failure, that he was already dead, and And um and uh so uh there is no way in the world he could possibly have survived that. And there's no way in the world those Romans would have taken him down off the cross if he was even remotely alive And so this whole idea is just grasping at straws to try and somehow come up and to deny the most uh the most uh uh provable event in all of history. And by the way The resurrection of Jesus Christ is said by many to be more provable than many, many other events throughout history. And so the idea that he came out himself is uh ridiculous, and we reject that out of hand. That could not have happened The other option is somebody else took him out. He couldn't get himself out, he was dead. Somebody else had to take him out. So the only possibility of anybody bringing him out of that tomb, as far as another person is concerned, it would have either been friends or it would have been foes Alright? There was no other. So it was either somebody that's supportive of him, sympathetic to him, or it was somebody that was opposed to him. As far as friends are concerned How could they the disciples could not have gotten past the Roman guards? I mean, Peter had a spear up in the Garden Gethsemane, and the best he could do was cut off a guy's ear. You know, these are not military men. Um uh and so uh they would not have been able to overpower the Roman guards, and even if they did Um then why didn't the Romans come after them? If they would somehow have overpowered the guards, broke the seal, got the stone away And uh, oh, by the way, when that swoon theory, the idea is Jesus been through all this horrendous torture, passed out unconscious, somehow comes to, but he's able to move a stone away. But anyway, uh if the r let's supp let's just say, all right, the disciples were able to, there we became sixteen Roman armed Roman soldiers somehow They got the stone away. They got the body out. Why didn't the Romans go after them? I mean that was their soldiers that they knocked out or killed or whatever they did to get that body out there. They're not going to let them just go. At no time do you find the Roman government pursuing the disciples for stealing something that was healed by the government? Not one time did they pursue him. You know what that tells me? That tells me the Romans did not believe that the disciples stole the body. They would not have gotten away with it. The Rome would have gone after them. They didn't. There's no account of that at all. That Rome went after the disciples And so the friends would not, could not have stolen it. There's no evidence of that whatsoever. And what about the enemies? Why here's the question about the enemies. Why in the world would they steal him? They wanted him dead. They went to great effort to keep him in that tomb. There's no way in the world. The Pharisees, the scribes, Would have tried to get the body out and what they would be doing is they would be supporting what they were trying to disprove. Right? You follow the thinking here So we're using some rationale here. We're thinking this thing through. There's no way Jesus could get himself out. The disciples couldn't have overpowered the soldiers. Even if they did, then the rubber government would have been all over that The enemies of Jesus had no motive whatsoever to get them out there. It was the exact opposite of what they were trying to accomplish. So there's only one other option, and that is God brought them out of there. Acts chapter four, if you would. Uh come over there with me real quick. Acts chapter four The disciples are preaching, and now they're taking heat because they're preaching the resurrection of Christ. They're preaching the gospel. They're preaching Jesus. You know, the disciples were martyred and thrown in prison and beaten, tortured, because they preached Jesus Not a political message. They were preaching Jesus. Now notice in verse number 10 of Acts 4, it says, Be it known unto you all and all the people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth whom ye crucified, look at this, whom God raised from the dead. Now man did not get Jesus out of there. Jesus did not come out of there. God brought Jesus Christ out of the grave. And so that's the only possibility. If we're just going to use some reasoning, use some logic, rationale, think this through a little bit, the only conclusion we come to is God brought them out of there Alright, number two. I know I'm buzzing here a little bit. But proof of Jesus' appearances. At least ten times in forty days, Jesus appeared alive after his crucifixion. Ten times in forty days. Um in uh in John chapter ten, twenty and verse twenty-seven, Luke twenty-four, thirty-nine Jesus said to the disciples, they're like, ah, it's a ghost. How many people agree with me? If my daddy walked in here, you'd say, whoa. Anybody here? Yeah. Uh I would be like, whoa. And so the disciples, Jesus shows up and they're like, whoa! And Jesus says, don't worry. Now this is Leatherman. This is the King Leatherman version, alright? And Jesus says, fellas, relax. It's me. Huh? It's me. No way. Yeah. Look, touch my hand. Put your hand up and look, here's the thing where they here's where they stick your hand up in there. It's me, guys He appeared to them. He showed them the wounds. And so the disciples were invited to touch him. The disciples, there's references for that, they watched him eat. He prepared meal. He had some fish out there by the sea, and uh he ate with them there in the upper room. The disciples are watching him eat. Now here's the kicker, this one, letter C Five, it's documented five hundred people at one time saw Jesus Christ alive. Now, of course, we're not given a list of all those names. At least 500 people saw him alive at one point. Now, if we were going to court, let's suppose I was accused of something And they said that I robbed, let's say, let's say that uh I was accused of robbing the uh the Midway liquor store down here. On Wednesday night at seven o'clock, Pastor Dennis Leatherman robbed the liquor store down here by uh uh it what's it called? Some of you guys know what's that liquor story call? And I say, wait a minute, no There's no way in the world I robbed that store. I'm telling you, I got an alibi. And it goes to court and I said, Alright, I got you got any witnesses prove you didn't rob that without store? I said, Yeah, I was preaching Wednesday night at church service And say I have one witness come in and says, yep, nope, Pastor Loman's at the church, he won there, he didn't steal it. Would one witness sway a jury, maybe? Hmm, maybe, maybe not. I mean you get one. Alright, so they said, uh that's not enough. Yeah, well you're not convincing us. I said, alright, I got four folks from I called four you up to say hey listen I need you. You come down there? Yeah we saw 'em. On threat of perjury. Put our hand in the Bible. Tell the truth. Pastor Leatherman was at church Wednesday night. Four witnesses. Do you think four witnesses might sway a jury? Yeah, that's pretty effective. Four, people say, completely different. Let's say, um, no, actually, you know what? I got more. I bring 20 people in. Stand court. Swear to tell the truth, whole truth, nothing but the truth. Yes, we saw him at church. He was there preached Wednesday night on Rahab and the Spies at 7 o'clock at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. All their witnesses agree. They all said yep, he was there. We saw him Twenty, would you agree? That'd be pretty effective. I'm probably walking. Right, it's a baloney. The whole accusation was baloney Let's say we have a very large church. Let's say I've got 500 people line up, one after another, one after another, one after another. You know what that would do? That would make the prosecution look ridiculous. And Jesus Christ, for using that, over 500 people, we saw him, we saw him, we saw him, we saw him And so the proof of his appearance is there. Again, I'd like to spend more time on this. There's the reference for that. The proof of the apostles' witness Um what is the strongest drive to keep a per that uh person that is in a person's life? What is the one thing that drives us more than anything else? Strongest drive in life. See if you you're you're thinking what I'm thinking Survival, the drive to stay alive is the strongest drive there is in human nature. The apostles gave up jobs, abandoned, were abandoned by family, and even gave their lives. Because they were absolutely convinced that Jesus Christ rose from the dead. That was the message of the New Testament church. Jesus Christ is alive. The resurrection of Jesus Christ verified everything he did, clarified everything he taught, all of a sudden it makes sense. Oh what a- oh, okay, he's alive. Man, then you go back and look at what he said and says, yep It's verified everything he claimed to be. And that was their message over and over. Jesus alive, Jesus alive, Jesus alive. And every one of the disciples, with the exception of John, were martyred Because they believed that Jesus Christ died. And it wasn't they just died. They were many of them were tortured. Many of them were, I mean butchered to pieces, solved in half, crucified upside down, rather than come back saying, no, no, no, listen, we just made that up. Seriously. We did he didn't Not one of them, every single one of them went to the grave. Not only them, but others were willing to give their life because they were absolutely convinced. Now, I don't know about you, but that's a pretty strong argument That Jesus Christ rose from the dead. Is it possible that somebody would give their life for something that's wrong? Yes. Muslims do it a lot. But the fact is, with all these other factors involved, it's pretty strong, irrefutable fact that Jesus Christ rose from the dead. So the martyr's uh uh witness The disciples experience. Generally it takes a long time to get over a loved one dying. Would you agree with me? Now they abandoned family and home to follow Jesus. Now he's crucified. Their dreams are shattered. The man they love is gone, dead. They saw him brutally murdered. And um uh it takes a long time. Anybody here lose a family member or maybe a spouse or something? And e maybe it's been some time ago, maybe some time, but every now and then it just hits you And there's a severe grief there. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Takes a long time. However, three days later, these disciples are rejoicing. They're out there telling everybody. I mean, their sorrow absolutely turned to joy like that instantly. And so they're just praising God. They're going everywhere telling everybody about it. So the proof of the disciples' experience, proof of team's lies. Uh, you know, Christianity is not just a bunch of rules. There's several people, just different people, I would say in the last month or so. Uh uh they say, you know, people, uh somebody said to me that Mount Lake is so strict. They're strict, they're strict. Listen, uh I don't think we're strict, we just love Jesus Christianity is not a set of strict rules. We don't say, all right, you come here, you want to be a Christian, you've got to keep all these rules. Christianity is a relationship with a living Savior. And and if you if you know what I mean, you know what I mean. If you know, you know. Jesus Christ alive, that relationship. I this morning my devotion time, I mean the Lord was there, he's speaking to my heart through his word, I'm talking to him. just as real as if he's sitting there in a chair beside me. And I'm telling you, we serve a risen Savior and it changes lives. It changes lives. We're not just following rules. We're following a Savior, a living Savior. And that affects how we live. It affects what we do and what we don't do. And so the proof of changed lives. We have a relationship with a living Christ. And by the way, if you don't have that relationship, I urge you ever that you establish that trust Christ as Savior. Proof of Jesus' legacy Nobody remembers insignificant people over a period of time. The vast majority of people that live are forgotten after they die. Eventually, the overwhelming majority of people are completely forgotten. But one man stands out in all of history. No one hates a dead man, but Jesus is hated uh by many in the world. Um uh like I said, most Jesus is uh stands out above everybody else. He's the most significant uh uh person in history. And what it is that makes Jesus this is what I'm trying to say. What it is that makes Jesus significant Is not just his teaching and his teachings were profound. But you know, some of the prophets had some profound teaching The apostles in the Corinthians, 1 Corinthians 13 on love. That is profound. So Jesus' teaching was profound, but that's not what makes him significant. Jesus' miracles, amazing miracles. But that's not what makes them so significant. Old Testament prophets did miracles, right? So his teaching, his miracles, all as tremendous as they are, that's not what's significant. You know what makes Jesus significant? He rose from the dead. That is why the whole world knows about him. That is why the course of nations have been altered Because of Jesus Christ's resurrection from the dead. He'd have just been crucified, buried, his bones would be over there, he would not have had the influence that he has now. Proof of Jesus' legacy. Then last of all, the proof of archaeology. The Jews hated him. If he if he did not rise from the dead, why doesn't somebody just show up with his bones? Why didn't they ever just come out? The disciples are out there teaching and preaching that Jesus rose from the dead. The Pharisees are saying, stop, do not preach the name of Jesus. They could have shut that. Now listen, don't write me off yet. This is significant. They could have shut the whole message of Christ down with one deed. Open that tomb, drag his dead body out, parade it around Jerusalem, that would have shut everything down. Everything they wanted, they would have gotten. If they'd have just brought that body out. But they didn't. And you know why they didn't? Because they couldn't. He rose from the dead, rose from the dead. There would be no Christianity today if Jesus Christ didn't rise from the dead. All the influence that Christianity has had on the world throughout all these years, the hospitals, the charities, the souls saved, lives chased, all that would not exist Had Jesus not risen from the dead? And if he didn't, why didn't they bring that body out, parade it around? And none of this would be. Let's pray. Father, thank you for a risen Savior in Jesus' name.