So I was uh going over my notes before I came up to church tonight. A a story came into my mind um that I heard. Uh at his Loving Leading conference last year. Um Dr. Gibbs preached and he was telling us a story about his his son. Um he was in uh he he was in Bible college, he had a ministry and it was in the truck stop ministry. It was the very first time he was going to preach in his life. And uh he said he was telling the story. He said he got up there and uh he had seven pages of notes. And uh some of you probably remember this if you listen to the CD. He said his message took four minutes. So he so he said after he went through it once he just flipped his pages and started back through 'em again. And went through them the second time. And he said when he started the third time to go through him one of the truckers said that that's enough. Twice is enough. Okay, so I got five pages. So that's like three minutes. So if I start to go over it two or three times, just stop me. So loving a leading conference coming up just a week or two. So we're really looking forward to uh to that, what the Lord will do out there uh this year. But it's funny, um When I get the opportunity to preach, it's a little different tonight because the pastor's sitting up here in the front. Uh we're kinda hoping he'd be sick tonight. That's pretty pretty bad to say. But uh No, just kidding, really. Not really, but it's funny how the Lord sometimes will will lead you to things. You know, when I when I get to our two preach, I always say, you know, the Lord l led me to this topic and I really think he did lead me to what he what he wants me to preach tonight. Uh it's not gonna be anything you haven't heard before, but um um It as always, a pastor asked me if I would would uh preach on tonight and uh I started out by seeking the Lord and seeing where he would would have me to go. Um so I prayed about it and I was thinking, you know, what what I could preach about and I was thinking, well, you know, it's it's around thank coming up on Thanksgiving. Maybe we could do something on uh being thankful. And I was thinking about uh something on prayer that I'd been thinking about for a while and and nothing was really coming together. And a phrase came to my mind, I can't imagine who put it there. But uh the phrase came to my mind, not with eye service as men pleasers, just came to me. That that came to me and I was like, oh, that's interesting So I I thought, well I'll look that up, see where it is, and I knew it was in the Bible, so I looked it up, and I found it's it's it's mentioned two times in the Bible. The first time is in Ephesians 6, uh 6, and the second time it's mentioned mentioned is in Colossians 3. 22. So that's what I want to look at tonight. Um while I'm going here if you want to turn turning your Bibles to Colossians As I started looking at that verse uh in Colossians three twenty-two, I I thought well I'll go back and I'll look at the whole chapter, Colossians three, and uh Don't worry, I'm not going to go through the whole the whole book tonight. So I started looking at the whole book of started back in Colossians 1. Started looking through the book of Colossians and seeing what what was there. And uh as I studied uh started studying especially chapter one and chapter three, uh the preeminence of Christ um just jumps out at you. It's just That Paul is addressing in this book, the preeminence of Christ. And we'll look at what that is here here certain or shortly. But like I said, this this isn't gonna be that's one page now already. I blew it up because Jackie said you might want to make it a little bigger so you don't have to get lost and all that stuff. So I took her advice So I blew it up. Um but it like I say it isn't nothing anything you haven't heard before. It's it's nothing new. But uh sometimes it's good to to uh a good reminder to look at this again. And I think the Lord, uh especially in my case, leads me to messages that I need, maybe more so than than you need it, or as much as what you need it. And as I I went through this, the Lord really convicted me on this subject of preeminence. By the way, my title, I gave it to Dave, is Is Christ preeminent in your life? So let's look at the text. I'm not going to read the whole chapter right now because we're going to go through pretty much the whole chapter three. We'll just read in uh Colossians 3. 22 through the end of the chapter. Says, servants, obey in all things your masters, according to the flesh, not with eye service as men pleasers, but in singleness of heart, fearing God. And whatsoever ye do, do it heartily as to the Lord, and not unto men, knowing that of the Lord ye shall receive the reward of the inheritance, for ye serve the Lord Christ. But he that doeth wrong shall receive for the wrong which he hath done, and there is no respect of persons. Let's pray before we uh get into the message here tonight. Father, we uh again thank you for the opportunity to be here, Lord. I thank you for the opportunity I have to uh to preach tonight, Lord, and uh I don't take that lightly to stand here, Lord, where our pastor stands and and Lord uh I just pray that that your spirit would uh would fill me tonight Lord speak through me Lord just uh take me out of the way, Lord, and uh no doubt that you led me to to to speak on this tonight, Lord. So I just pray that your spirit would work, Lord, that your people will be attentive, Lord, to uh and be sensitive to your working and in uh And convicting in in their lives, Father. For you bless this time in Jesus' name. Amen. I do want to thank Pastor for letting me uh uh come up and and uh preach tonight. It is a an honor to do that. The preeminence of Christ. I'm going to ask you to help me with this. Somebody Help me out. Tell me what what the word preeminence means. What you think the word means. If you listen to FBN, there's a guy that preaches on it every day and he says exactly what it is every day. Preeminence. The preeminence of Christ. Making Christ preeminent in your life. I can't remember exactly how he says it, but he says, making Christ first. And I always remember him saying that. Um I can't remember who who the guy is. But some some of the meanings of just the word preeminence that that I uh found was supreme was one word If you apply that to Christ, he would be the supreme outstanding. One I really liked was distinguished above all others. That Christ is d would be distinguished above all others in our lives. Uh when we're taught when we're we're referring to preeminence of of Christ. Um and making Christ first in our in our lives would be would be Christ uh having a place of of preeminence. Um we was um in Sunday school or something or recently last week and we were talking about is it the crosstic? for uh where the cross it for joy. I can't remember where it was, but uh And I thought that fit in perfectly. Uh joy The cross of what does Jesus stand for for in joy? Jesus. What did I say? Jesus. Easy. How about oh? Others. Why? You. So that across the today today i you you have to reverse it in day society, uh because you know today right is is wrong and and wrong is is uh is right, it it seems like today. But but uh if you look at that joy, Jesus, others and yourself. That's putting that's that's in the right order. Jesus would be at at the top of the list. Before Um before your wife, before your family, Christ should be preeminent. He should be at the top of the list. I know a lot of people don't don't believe that. They think your your your wife should be first. But uh this pastor said over and over and over again, uh your relationship between a husband and wife will never be what it should be unless Christ is. is is first in your life. Um so let's look at just uh some background of Colossians here. Uh who wrote anybody who wrote Colossians? Someone in the back speak up. Everybody up here is talking to me. Paul Paul wrote the book of Colossians. I wrote it from prison. Uh Dr. Pat in his message the other night preached from Timothy And he pointed out that uh Timothy was a pastor pastoral epistle, which was uh written to pastors. Um this is I think he may have even alluded to the the prison epistles. This is a prison epistle uh that Paul wrote from prison in Rome. And uh he wrote this letter as he did mo a lot of letters to deal with problems in the church and false teachings so often that were were coming up in the church. And he was writing letters to clear up uh these false teachings and things like that. Um And the the like I said, the preeminence of Christ is a theme that uh that I found that runs through through the book of uh of Colossians. So uh one would reason that obviously they had a problem with that in the in the church there, and he was writing to uh to deal with that. Uh there's a quote, I I have a quote here from uh from Wearsby. I thought it was pretty good. It says, many people today, like the false teachers of Colossae, will give Jesus Christ a place of eminence, but they will not give him his rightful place of preeminence. He is not a great man among great men. He is God's Son, preeminent in all things. Um I always write this stuff down, and then I can't remember why I write it, but It was really good. I I was I was thinking about the acrostic for joy and I wrote it backwards and said, How d how would you say that backwards? Joy. Yog. That's how that's how the world looks at it today. They don't they don't look at Christ Christ as being in a preeminent. They they look at him like like it says here, um, not not great the greatest among men, but just great. He would be it would be usually today it's it's me, it's yourself. And uh so that would be yourself and then others, and so often Christ is is put on the back burner. So uh instead of Joy it would be Yoj or something like that. And uh in today's society. Um But uh chapter one, I looked back to chapter one and I saw that some things that Christ or that uh chapter one dealt with Christ's preeminence in four ways. I'm not going to go through those But uh in chapter one he dealt with preeminence in the gospel, in the cross, uh in creation, and in the church. In chapter one. Uh but in chapter three, which is really what I wanted to look at. Tonight, uh I want to look at four ways to practice the preeminence of Christ in our lives. In our our daily, our our daily lives, four ways that we can practice the preeminence of Christ. um in our lives. Let's look at uh first of all at chapter three. We're gonna look at uh verses one through eleven. Um In these verses, I see uh practice the preeminence of Christ in our personal purity. And we're going to look down through these verses here and uh and look at that. Verse one says, If ye then be risen with Christ, and I want to point out something right right off the bat there, who who he's talking to here. It says, then ye be risen with Christ, he's talking to those saved. Seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. Set your affections on things above, not on things on the earth, for ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory. Mortify, which we know is it means put to death, so therefore your members. which are upon the earth. So in verse one he's we we said he was talking to uh he's talking to safe people here. And we're talking about personal purity. that we can practice preeminence. And in verse 5 here, he gives us some of those things. He says, put to death, basically, therefore, your members which are upon the earth, fornication, uncleanness. Inordinate affection, evil concupiscence, and covetousness, which is idolatry. The word um concupiscence there means uh evil desires or evil uh I can't read my writing. Um to lust after some an evil lust or something like like that. Um Verse six For which things sake the wrath of God cometh on the children of disobedience, in the which ye also walked sometimes when ye lived in them. But now you also put off all these Again here he's saying to put off these things. Anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy communication out of your mouth. When I read that, um Pastor said something a couple weeks ago. about the the filthiness of our language this day. And isn't that isn't that the truth? It's just awful. I was thinking tonight as I was reading through this again, we were at a um A baseball game. Oh it was a baseball what was we at? Baseball game. Pirates game. What's that? Alright, I'll tell that story last. First time at the at the baseball game this year. We go to a baseball game, you know I'm sitting here and my son is sitting here and my two nephews and my wife. And back here is about four teenagers Sitting behind you. And it it wasn't bad at first and I I kind of just tried to tone it out. And uh it it started to get pretty bad and they started to really, you know, get out of hand a little bit with their language. And I know Jackie's just sitting over there just Don't do anything stupid kinda kinda thing. And I just I just turned around, I just had it. I turned around and I said I said, you know, just something simple like could you guys please control your language? You know, and and it just I I'm seeing I'm just I'm I'm boiling. I mean I don't I don't even know where I'm at. I don't I don't even watch in the game or nothing. And it just just drives me nuts. I was at the fair this this year trying to watch some trucks run through a mud hole down at the fair. And the same thing. Here's here's a here we are sitting here, Austin sitting here right beside me. A family sitting here, this gentleman holding his young child, and just the filth coming out of his mouth. Just this was more than I could hardly take. But anyway, how about filthy communications out of your mouth? Put that off, it says. Lie not one to another, seeing that ye have put off the old man with his deeds, and have put on the new man, which is renewed in knowledge, after the image of him that created him, where there is either groove Greek nor Jew, circumcision, nor uncircumcision, barbarian, Scythian, bond, nor free, but Christ is all in all. We see here in the verses, these verses um You know we have we have a new life in Christ when we're saved. And uh this is one area where where we can put make Christ preeminent. We we have a new life. He's given us a new life. We've put off the old. We we should put these things uh aside and and think of of uh of Christ. Um There in verse eleven, I think I missed some here. Um we need to be we need to be pure. We need to be clean. Verse five says we need to be pure, clean. I thought when I when I heard that word uh cleanliness And in verse five, I remember an an institute, uh Pastor Cumberland came in and did our institute class one night, and uh he made a a statement that kind of stuck with me and it I came up. He said, The Lord will not use an unclean vessel. And when we were down at Loving and Leading this year, uh the one message was was be was about getting clean. with God and and you know um in order for God to use us to our potential, uh we need to keep Him first. We need to be uh we need to be clean. And there in verse uh verses eleven uh it says um either Jew, Greek, circumcision, uncircumcision, barbarian, scythian bond, free, um there's no no distinctions. No distinctions. It does uh um these distinctions don't matter. Christ, it says Christ is all in all. He's to be he's to be uh be preeminent in in our lives. The second second area, we first in the first eleven verses there we looked at uh we can practice preeminence in our our personal purity. The second is in our Christian fellowship. Which we see down through verses uh twelve through seventeen. One thing I really like about the pastor is how he can how you can take a verse and and just dissect that that one verse and and you know you could get Twenty-five sermons out of this chapter. And it's it all it's all good stuff. I I gotta I gotta I gotta use a few more verses. I gotta go through the whole chapter to get my forty-five minutes in. But anyway. Where that came from. But uh where was it? Christian fellowship. Practice Christ's preeminence in our Christian fellowship. Verses twelve Um through seventeen. There is so much. In this chapter, there is there is there's so much in here. You could preach uh a s a series on it. Easily, but uh let's look down through these verses. It says, Put on, therefore, as the elect of God. And there we again we see who he's talking to here. He's talking to the elect. He's talking to the saved. here in in this in this this chapter. Put on therefore as the elect of God, holy and beloved, vows of mercy, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, long suffering, Forbearing one another and forgiving one another. If any man have a quarrel against any, even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye And above all these things, put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness, and let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to the which also ye are called, in one body, and be ye thankful. So let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms, hymns, spiritual psalms, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord in whatsoever ye do. in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father for him. A Christian fellowship. As I said, he's talking to Christians here, and down in verse the word long suffering here. Verses twelve verse twelve there, that word long suffering, um caught caught my attention. You know, Christ Christ has been so so long suffering with us. Um He's been so patient. with us. And um because he's been patient with me, he's been he's been patient with us. And um The least we could do is is be patient with others, and uh especially in our our uh our Christian fellowship here. Um none of us are are are perfect, but uh That's an area where uh where we can uh be patient with each other and and just on down through here Suppose verse uh seventeen, whatsoever ye do, anything no matter what you're doing. Um Do all says whatsoever you do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by him. It just emphasizes over and over and over again throughout this chapter that no matter what you're doing, it it it should all be about him. It should all be, you know, keeping him uh keeping Christ preeminent, keeping him uh in focus. And uh when we keep him there, uh we have a lot harder time getting off track. Um but uh Three pages done, Mary. So the third uh we talk about practicing the preeminence of Christ first in our personal purity, secondly in our Christian fellowship. Um the third place that we see here in Colossians three is our homes. Um as we read through this, this is this is just basic stuff here, but uh it doesn't mean it's easy. Let's read verses 18 through 21. It says, Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands, as is fit in the Lord. Husbands, love your wives, be not bitter against them. Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing unto the Lord. Fathers, provoke not your children to anger, lest they be discouraged, for some reason often smiling at me Well I read that last verse, I don't understand why. But um Like I said, that that's just that's just basic stuff, but but it's it's not always easy easy to do. Um I said earlier, you know, it says husbands love your wives. And if if Christ is not If if if Christ isn't where he should be, if he's not preeminent our in our lives, then our our marriages are not going to be um what they could be, what they should be. So um children obey your parents. I I I as I was looking at that, um I'm not sure where else where else what's the other con uh Text is, but it says, Children obey your parents. Um that thy days may be long upon the land. Is that how it how it goes? Uh Dr. Heatwall said, You want to live long with your kids? So he said just fly then noise I always remember that. So you want to live a long life? He said, I guess you can do eat whatever you want. That'd be great. As long as you obeyed your parents. Fathers, provoke not your children to wrath, it said. Um Others notice. I my wife's always yelling at me for this. Well she is. She's um and that's something I need to work on. I I got uh I got called down on this not too long ago and uh It uh it really made me think and uh and I I'm really thankful for for that. But uh You know, that's uh you others notice. Others notice us and what we're doing and and the way we do things and um so our homes is is a a a place where where we need to keep Christ uh preeminent in in our homes. In the last place, uh the last thing I want to look at tonight is uh verses 22 and 23. Maybe next to last thing, I'm not sure. Practice the preeminence of Christ at work. Um you could I could get stuck here. Because I I I had dealt with it this week a little bit. But uh the the fourth place we looked at our homes, Christian fellowship, personal purity, and uh and and at work Here in verses 22, it says, Servants obey in all things your masters according to the flesh, not with eye service as men pleasers, but in singleness of heart. Fearing God. You know, we have uh as uh we have earthly masters uh down here on earth, just as we have a heavenly master. Um That word eye service there, um, you know, we we shouldn't just we go to work, shouldn't just uh just work while the boss is is watching us. You know. Um I think that's what a lot of people a lot of people do. Um because our that's our that's our earthly master, but there's someone who's watching us all the time. And that is uh Christ. And uh I think I think if if if uh if I or you could keep that in mind uh throughout our our daily lives, that Christ is watching us. I think we forget. I know I forget it. And uh I think if if that was in my if I kept that in the forefront of my mind, if and that goes into keeping Christ preeminent, keeping him uh everything we do. keeping him at at the top and and always in our sight and uh I think that changed our lives. I really do. Um just just remembering that simple fact that Christ is always watching us. And uh you know there's there's so much about about work, you know, uh that I I've heard pastors say here and others uh you know many times, you know. Um Christians should be the best employers, the best employees that are out there. You know, simple stuff. Go to work, be to work on time. You know, work. Work your eight hours, take the right amount of time for breaks, take the right amount of time for lunch, just that little stuff. People notice that stuff. And uh, you know, it hurts our testimony when we uh When we don't don't think about that that kind of stuff. Now let's go down to men pleasers. You know, we we're not we're not to work just to please men. Again, I I've I've said it probably I don't know how many times already, but uh instead of being men pleasers, we should be God pleasers. Um keep our eye keep our eyes on him and everything that we do. And uh Everything will go everything will go good. I I really believe that. If if if he's preeminent in our lives, uh I didn't want to get uh political, but with everything going on in the country right now with politics and and stuff. Uh I was thinking, you know, if uh if uh our country I was talking about I guess with a guy with a guy at work yet just yesterday and uh You know, you could talk forever about what's wrong with our country. But uh from from a Christian standpoint you look at it a lot different than than what's what it's looking like out there. But if if uh If our country would make about a hundred and eighty degree turn straight back towards God, because we're running full bore away from him right now, it seemed like. Um, you know, and I was that's what I was telling him, if we would turn around 180 degrees and run back towards God. fix the morals in our country, work on the moral issues, there wouldn't be any problem with our economy. You know people don't want to believe it, but our economy would be fine. Our job jobs are Well foreign policies and all this stuff that all that's all they want to talk about in these debates and stuff is and they they don't they don't even touch the moral issues. That uh that's that's what's really destroying our our country. But uh again I don't know how I got off on that. But uh let's move on to the next point here. Uh singleness of heart. There's a lot there's a lot in these this one verse here. Um I preached the whole message on just this verse 22 there. But singleness of heart, it carries with it the idea of not self-seeking, being fixed on one goal. Uh in singleness of heart, and our goal should be to honor Christ. And uh keeping him in a preeminent uh place uh will help us uh there. Verse uh twenty-three There it says, whatsoever you do, do it heartily as to the Lord, and not unto men. Again, he's he's emphasizing, whatever we do, it's it's it's it's for the Lord. And uh and put your put your heart in it. And uh in everything that we do. Um in closing, we're gonna look at verse 24 and uh verse 25. Um It says after all after this whole chapter, we've looked at uh preeminence and a personal purity, Christian fellowship, our homes. and in work and our work, keeping Christ first, keeping him preeminent. The last verses say, Knowing, because of all this, knowing that of the Lord ye shall receive the reward of the inheritance. For ye serve the Lord Christ. But he that doeth wrong shall receive for the wrong which he hath done, and there is no respect of persons. I don't know about you, but I you know, we we want praise. I think we thrive on I don't know if that's the right word. But you know, it feels good when people notice the things that you do and compliment you on on things. I mean doesn't that make you feel good? Anybody? I mean it does me, you know. If you sing a special or something, someone says they're a good job. It makes you feel good. You know, and and it's a In everything that we do, even in that. I I keep reminding myself over and over, I have to keep reminding myself. When I go up there to sing a special or the choir that we're not singing for for that, for the praise. We need to be singing uh singing to him. And um but but we we want we want praise, it makes us feel good, I think. And I don't think there's anything wrong with that. Um But God, what does God want from us? He loves us. He wants our praise and our worship, not the world's praise and worship. You know, you hear that word, I hate to even use those two words anymore because it it just makes me think of all the the you know the the contemporary movement of praise and worship. But he wants he wants our praise and worship. That's what he he asks of us. is uh is uh we praise him, we worship him. That's that's a lot of what what coming to church is on Sunday morning is about, is praising praising God and and worshiping him. And and the Bible says here just as plain as day, if we keep him preeminent, we keep him the number one goal and uh where he should be in our lives, and he'll take care of the rest. Uh he'll take care of making sure that we get the rewards that uh praise or whatever that uh that we deserve. And uh I don't know about you, but I'd I'd rather have the verse 20 uh 24 there than verse 25. 25 doesn't sound very good. 24 says we'll receive the reward of the inheritance. And uh twenty-five says that we shall receive for the wrong which we have done but he that doeth wrong. So that's pretty much it. Um you know that's I just asked that question tonight and I was convicted through through this studying this uh but is Christ preeminent in our lives? Is he first in our lives is maybe a better word. Um You know, he sh he should be. Our lives I said our lives will never be what they could be and I've said this already, but could be until we put Christ first in our lives. Um we'll get we might get by, you know, things will be okay. But it'll never be we'll never have the ministries. Our marriages will never be what they should be, our families will never be what they should be. The ministries in our church, our choir will never be what it should be Our Sunday school classes just uh everything in our lives, everything in our daily lives will never be what it should and could be. Um I put our personal soul winning, you know, will never be where it should be. Uh until we put Christ first. Our church will never be where it should be if Christ isn't isn't first. There's obviously some ways we can do that. One's reading your Bible You know, to keep that in reading your Bible, praying, spending time with God all keeps us keeps us on the right track. Um You know, we saw you you see where and Dr. Pat talked about this, you see where Paul uh where Paul came from and where he ended up. You know Th the first so some of the what we talked about earlier on there uh was Paul. But he put off the old man, he put on the new man, he put all this stuff aside, behind him, and he put Christ. If there's an example to follow, it would be Paul. He put Christ first. He was preeminent in his life. And I thought of another one, uh Christ himself. Um and I thought of a verse just tonight before we came up, John 4. 34. And I remember this distinctly. There's just certain things that stick out in my mind. Doctor, I always get John and Bob Hamlin mixed up, but uh Bob Hamlin was a couple years ago. I can just I can hear him saying this, this verse, and it said, My meat, this is Jesus speaking, Christ speaking, says my meat. is to do the will of him that sent me and to finish his work. Uh you know, Christ's passion was God, his God the Father was was preeminent. It was his that was his main goal was to uh to finish his work. I got one more quote from Wearsby here that I came across of and it was really I really liked it. We'll close with this. It says, What blessings would come to our homes if each member of the family said, I will live each day to please Christ and make him pre-eminent in all things. It says there would be less selfishness and more love, less impatience, less impatience and more tenderness, less wasting of money on foolish things. And we're living for the things that really matter. So that's that's all I have. I just just um urge you along with me to uh to work at making Christ preeminent in in our uh our daily lives. Let's uh let's pray. Uh Heavenly Father, we thank you again for all your blessings, Lord. Um I just ask, Father, that that you would uh Bless us, Lord. I pray that we would keep you first and preeminent, that you would be the preeminent one in our lives, Father. And Lord, we just uh thank you for all that you do for us. Lord, we thank you for your son uh dying on the cross, Lord. And uh Lord, we just pray your blessing upon the remainder of our service, Lord, now. Let's all stand together, uh, heads bowed, eyes closed. I don't know how the Lord might have spoken to you tonight. Um maybe uh maybe you just want to come up and pray that the Lord Lord will help you to uh to keep him first and and and preeminent in your lives. Maybe there's something something that has nothing to do with my message tonight at all, but you want to come up to the altar and and uh do business with the Lord. Whatever it is tonight you can move, just come up to the altar