I really didn't plan this this way. Uh I trust it's just the Lord's leading and directing. Two weeks ago I preached on prayer and um And then as I was preparing last week for the messages today and and kind of working ahead a little bit, and the Lord was directing. I wasn't really paying attention to uh the direction the Lord was leading in the in the messages. And uh this morning I got up and was reading over my notes for the day and I thought, I'm preaching on prayer again And so two weeks ago we preached on prayer. I just trust that's the Lord directing us, stir our hearts to pray. And uh this time of year with the weather the way it is, it's kind of tough to get out and really knock on doors, go through a neighborhood And so maybe the Lord's directed us to make that up and pray on these things. So I want to preach on prayer again tonight. And uh again, I'm just trusting the Lord that He's leading and directing us. And um that uh That will be helpful for us. Notice Psalms chapter 22. I just want to read the first two verses. The Bible says, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Why art thou so far from helping me and from the words of my roaring? Now look at verse 2. O my God, I cry in the daytime. Look at this, but thou hearest not. And in the night seasons, and am not silent, a little phrase caught my attention, and thou hearest not. I titled the message this. Is God not listening? Is God not even listening to me? Let's pray. Father, I ask, Lord, that uh you would help us in this matter of prayer. The disciples Pray that you would teach them to pray. I pray you would teach us to pray. Teach us how to pray. Teach us to keep on praying. And I ask that you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit and use this to challenge us tonight. Lord, I believe it's just a handful of us here tonight. If we could just get a hold of heaven. And really earnestly pray and understand what all is what all is it's about. God, you could do great things in our lives, in our community, in our world So we're looking to you and I'm asking for your help in Jesus' name. Amen. Did you ever feel like in your prayer life, did you ever feel like God had closed the doors of heaven? Does anybody know what I'm talking about? Uh you feel like uh you feel like uh y the sky is made of brass. Um I think of it this way. Sometimes I'm praying you get in this season And it just seems like your words aren't going beyond the ceiling. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You feel like I feel like I'm praying and all I'm doing is filling up a room with words. I'm not really getting a hold of God. It seems like God isn't even listening. You're praying, you're pouring your heart out, you're bringing these things to God, and it's like, I don't even know if anybody even hears me. I think that's true for a lot of folks. Um the thing that's most troubling for me. In my Christian life, one of the things that bothers me the most is when it seems like God doesn't hear my prayers. That's disturbing to me. Like God isn't listening to me. And uh uh that that bothers me. I want to I want to know that God hears me. I want to know that my prayers are getting through to God Psalm 22, if you look at the top there, the title given to this section, it's written by who? It's a psalm of who? King David. What do we know about David spiritually? What do we know about David? Yeah, he's a great man of God. A man of tremendous faith. Had his ups and downs. He had his made his share of mistakes and foolish decisions. But for the most part, King David was a powerful man of God. He's called a man after God's own heart. Some of the greatest, most powerful psalms recorded in the Bible were written by King David. And you notice he's the one that wrote this, and in verse 2 he says, I cry in the daytime, but thou hearest not. He's like he's saying, it's like he's saying to God, God, I'm praying, but you're not listening to me. Notice the whole verse. He says, I cry in the daytime, but thou hearest not. In the night season, and I'm not silent. It's like you're saying, God, I'm praying in the day, I'm praying at night, I'm praying and praying and praying and praying and praying, and you're not even Listening to me, God David knew what it was like to have seasons where prayers are not answered, where it seems like God is not listening. David knew what that was like. So for you and I, you say like, man, it seems like I'm praying and praying. I'm asking God to do this, I'm asking God to meet this need, I'm asking God to help me in this area, and it's like God isn't even listening. Uh, hey, you're in good company because David had that. David had that same experience. Now, there's something else about Psalm 22. Some of you Bible scholars maybe. What do we know about Psalm 22 also? Not just that David wrote it, but what kind of psalm is this? Anybody know? Yeah, this is a prophetic psalm. This is a psalm describing Christ on the cross. Did you recognize that first verse? Jesus Christ quoted this from the cross. And uh, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? This is a prophetic uh uh uh psalm, and this is Jesus in a sense speaking here, and it's when Jesus on the cross He's basically saying, God, you're not listening to me. And so maybe I'm talking to someone tonight. Maybe God has you here tonight, this specific service tonight, because there's something in your life you've been asking God to do. There's some need in your life you've been asking God to meet. There's some uh something uh situation you've been asking God to resolve, maybe. I don't know what's going on in your personal lives But maybe there's something there, and it just seems like God's not even listening to me. I've been praying this, I've been praying, I've been praying, I've been praying, and it doesn't change, the situation doesn't change, The need goes unmet Uh the either the there's no victory in this area I'm asking for. It just seems like God is not even listening to me I think this passage here, King David and Jesus, we can look at them and we can learn some things. Here's my first point. Number one, how do we react to unanswered prayer? How do we react when you get into a season of prayer and it's just like the sky is made of steel? And prayers just bounce right back down and nothing's happening. Well, we have an example here. I hope you'll write these down. I want to encourage you to jot these down. How do I react to unanswered prayer? What do I do? How do we respond to that? Number one, jot this down, would ya? Do not abandon your trust in God. Do not abandon your trust in God. You say, I've been praying, I've been praying, I've been praying. It seems like God's not even listening. What should I do? You just keep right on trusting God. Don't abandon that faith in God. Don't abandon that trust in God. Look again at verse number one. My God, my God. He was in a season of unanswered prayer. He's in a time when nothing's happening in his prayer life, but he had not abandoned God. He's still holding on to the Lord. He's still trusting God. He says, My God David did not abandon his God. Under no circumstances is it right to stop trusting God. Under no circumstances is it right to abandon my faith in God, regardless of whether those prayers are being answered or not. Well, regardless of how much it seems like God is not listening, it is important that you and I hold on to our faith in God and keep trusting Him. Just settle in your heart. I'm not going to abandon my trust in God. I'm going to keep trusting in God. You may have something you've been praying for for five years, ten years, twenty-five years Just keep on praying, keep on trusting God. Just keep on faith in God. God is true. Now, I may not know why God is not answering my prayers, but I do know this: God is good and God is faithful. And I can trust him in this, whether I have the direct and clear answer that I'm looking for or not. God uh not only can God be trusted, God must be trusted And so I need to settle that. Number one, do you have that down? Do not abandon my trust in God. When God doesn't answer prayer, when it seems like God is not listening, do not abandon my trust in God. Number two, put this one down Do not abandon my prayers to God. He says in verse number two, he says, I pray in the daytime, and in the night seasons I am not silent. I'm praying, I'm praying, I'm praying. God, it seems like you don't hear me, but I'm praying and I'm praying and I'm praying and I'm pra David refused to quit his prayers He just kept on praying and kept on praying and kept on praying. It is never right to abandon prayer. Just keep on praying. Just keep on praying. It is a great victory for A ten When he can get a Christian discouraged in their prayer life and get them to quit pray, that is victory for Satan And uh uh when a Christian abandons their prayer life, so you just keep on praying, I'm not going to give up on my trust in God. Seems like God has not answered our prayers. Kathy and I, uh we went probably six months ago or ten months ago, whatever. Well we were talking, we s we said where it seems like God's not answering our prayers. Remember we were talking that And we said, we're praying and praying and praying. It just seems like God's not even listening. God's not even answering our prayers. So you know what we did? We just kept right on praying. Just kept right on praying. And in the last five, six months, we've had some great answers to prayers And so don't abandon your prayer life. Don't abandon your trust in God. Don't abandon those prayers. God's not even listening to me, preacher. That's okay. Just keep right on praying. Just keep right on praying. Write this one down, number three. What do I do when God doesn't answer my prayers? When it seems like God's not even listening? One, don't abandon my trust in God. Two, don't abandon my prayers to God. Number three Be more ardent in my prayers and my trust in God. Or earnest, you could say. You say, well, God's not even answering. It seems like God's not even listening to me. Why would I pray more? Just pray even harder. Trust him even more. If I go over to someone's house and I know that if I go over I'm gonna go visit Brother Grant, Pastor Grant, I go over and I know they're in there, I see the lights on, I can hear sounds and stuff going on there, I can smell hot dogs cooking or whatever, and I knock on the door and no one answers the door, but I know they're in there. What am I going to do? If I knock on the door and nobody answers, what am I going to do? I'm gonna knock even harder. And nobody answers, I'm gonna knock harder. And if somebody answers, I know he's in there. I'm coming in, I'm coming in. That's the idea here I pray to God, I pray to God, I pray to God, and it's like He's not even listening. I'm not going to give up. I'm going to pray even harder. I'm going to be more earnest. God, I'm going to trust you even more. Now I've got biblical basis for that. Come with me if you would Keep your place here in Psalms, but come to Luke chapter 18. There is a neat story the Lord told encouraging his disciples to be very earnest, very ardent in their prayer life. Luke chapter 18, come on back there. I want you to see this. I'm going to begin reading in verse number one. He kind of sets the stage in Luke 18. 1, and then he illustrates what he's trying to tell the disciples in the following verses. Luke chapter 18 and verse 1. Look what it says. And he spake a parable unto them to this end that men ought always to pray and not to what? Faint. What does he mean by faint there? Just simple. What's he mean? Don't give up. Don't quit. You just keep praying and keep praying. Then he gives a little illustration here. about this woman. He says in verse number two, there was in a city a judge, which feared not God, neither regarded man. I mean this guy's a hard cracker, you know He doesn't fear God, he doesn't care about anybody. And uh there was a widow in that city, and she came unto him, saying, Avenge me of mine adversary. And he would not for a while So what's happening here? So woman gum, I need you to avenge my adversary. He doesn't do it. See answer again. Doesn't do it. Doesn't do it. Doesn't do it. Doesn't do it. Look what it says. He said, um, avenge me of Adversary and he would not for a while So that tells us she keeps coming to him, keeps coming to him, keeps coming to him. But afterward he said within himself, Though I fear not God, nor regard man But because this woman troubleth me, I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she weary me. What's he saying? This vow is wearing me out. She just won't let me be. She just keeps coming and coming. The more I say no, the more persistent she becomes. The more I refuse her, the more she does the more relentless she becomes in bringing this request before me I've had enough, I'm going to give it to her. It seems like my impression is here, the more this judge refused her, the more earnest she became in her request. Then he goes on, look what he says. And the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge saith. And shall not God avenge his own? Look at this. which cry day and night unto him, though he bear long with them. Huh. It's almost like he's saying they keep on praying, even though it seems like he's not listening Even though it seems like nothing's happening, they keep praying. I tell you that he will avenge them speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man cometh, shall he find faith on the earth? What's the Lord teaching us? The Lord is teaching us when we pray, and you get in those seasons where it seems like God is not even listening to me. One, don't abandon my faith in God, just keep on trusting Him. Number two, don't abandon my prayers. You just keep on praying. In fact, number three, ratchet it up a bit and start trusting Him more, and just be more earnest and more determined in your prayers. I have some things personally I'm asking God to do. So far, a couple of them, he hasn't answered them yet. And I've been praying, I've been praying, I've been praying, and my heart was stirred as I was preparing. It's God, I'm going to pray even more I'm just going to go after this even more. So how do we react when we get in those seasons Where it seems like there's n the nothing's happening. It seems like my w the prayers are just words coming out of my mouth and they're really not touching a God of heaven. Well, don't abandon your trust in God. Don't abandon your prayers to God. Become more earnest and ardent in my prayers and my trust to God. Old preachers years ago, the old Puritans used to say this cold prayers ask for a denial. But red-hot prayers prevail. Well that's a good statement. I don't care. I've said it this way over the years. I put it this way. If I don't care whether God answered my prayers, then He's not going to answer my prayers. If it really doesn't matter to me, I'll pray and pray a little bit. God didn't hear me, I'll abandon it. No, no, no. When I get to the point where it is absolutely vital to me, God, you have to answer this Then I start getting God's attention. Paul described his prayer life as striving in prayer. He said to, I think it was the Philippians, he said, labor together with me in our prayers. Paul's prayer life was earnest. It was ardent. He just kept at it. And when we have those seasons where it seems like God is not listening, just press the issue. You know he's there. Knocking on the door, he doesn't seem to answer, knock harder. He doesn't seem to answer, knock louder, and knock harder, and knock longer. And just keep at it and just keep at it and just keep at it So, number one, David says, uh, he says, that'll hear us not. God, you're not even listening. God doesn't even hear my prayers, it seems like. What do I do? Number one, that's how we react. Number two, I think the second issue is this. I need to look for reasons That there's no answer to my prayer. One, my reaction is, I'm going to keep on praying, I'm going to keep on trusting God. I'm going to ratchet it up. Now, while I'm doing that, I want to stop and say, all right, are there some reasons? Is there something here I need to look into? Is there something that's causing God not to hear my prayers? I know, hey, I know God answers prayer. There's absolutely no doubt in my mind. Two reasons I know God answers prayer. Because this book I hold in my hands here is the absolute, perfect, flawless, inerrant Word of God. And this book tells me that God answers prayer. But I know God answers prayer for a second reason, because God has answered a heap of my prayers. And you're in the same situation. You know God answers prayer. I like what Lester Roloff said. He said, God has answered enough of my prayers to keep me praying. I like that. We know God answers prayer. There's no doubt about it. We know God is home. Now I'm praying, I'm praying, I'm knocking, I'm knocking, I'm knocking, I'm ratcheting up, I'm knocking more, and there's Nothing happening, psyche's not listening. Maybe I need to stop, keep that up, keep that going, but while that's happening I stop and maybe do a little evaluation because I know he answers prayer. Let me give you some reasons maybe why God might not answer prayer. Number one Undealt with sin in my life might be why God is not answering prayer. Psalm 66, 18 is a very significant verse. We ought to be familiar with that verse. It says this. If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. So for a believer If there's unanswered prayer, I may need to stop and examine myself and ask the Holy Spirit to search me and try me, see if there's some sin in my heart and life You know what I found out, and this is true, we take Lord's Supper and everything, you know what I found out? When I sincerely asked the Lord to search my heart, show me if there's anything in my life that's not right, you know what I found out? Doesn't take the Holy Spirit very long. In fact, usually before I even ask that, I know what's up. You don't look at me like you're so pious. Can I get a witness? Amen? I know it is. And so we need to first, is there undealt with sin in my life? I wrote this: a holy prayer from an unholy heart will not be answered. What do I mean by that? This is what I mean. It can be the noblest request in the world. It can be the most scriptural, spiritual request I'm bringing before God. But if I'm harboring sin in my heart, God says, I'm not going to hear that. I don't care how wonderful of a request that is. You've got sin in your heart. I'm not going to hear that prayer. Our God is a holy God. And sin will hinder us from having our prayers. It'll cause God not to listen. So, number one, undealt with sin. May be what's hindering my prayers. Number two, write this one down. Unscriptural requests may keep God from hearing me. Unscriptural requests. God is a holy God, and He will not hear unholy requests. Um, how many of you kids how many of y'all raised kids and your kids ever came to you and you asked for they asked you for something that was absolutely ridiculous? Yes. And it's like, what are you an idiot? No, I'm not giving that to you. And uh they can be as sincere as possible. Oh please, I really want that. Oh, I really want a tattoo, please. Go in your room. You're going to get a spanking for even asking for it. So, unholy requests. Sometimes I need to stop and ask, alright, is this really scriptural? God will not grant a request that violates his word. And so I may need to stop and ask that. Let me back up this one with the sin in the heart. If I'm regarding iniquity in my heart, there's something in my heart in life I know it's not right, it's again it violates scripture It's sin against God, but I'm holding it in my heart. Might not be public, no, might be very private, but it's sin there. And God's not hearing my request. Do you know what God's refusal to answer that prayer? You know what that really is That is a form of chastisement. That is God holding back and saying, when you get that right, then I can step in and do that. It is God, it was one of the many tools that God uses to correct us when we get out of sorts with God And so unanswered prayer for a Christian who's regarding sin in their heart may be a good prayer request, may be very sincere and right But I'm regarding iniquity in my heart. God says, all right, I'm not going to hear, I'm not going to listen until you get that right. He's using that to correct me He's using that to chasten me and get me back to the place I need to be. So uh unho undealt with sin, number two, unscriptural requests. Number three, unknowledge uh unknowledgeable requests. Will go unanswered. What in the world do you mean by unknowledgeable? I use that instead of the word ignorant. Sometimes we ask for things that really aren't very smart for us to have. Some I I look back over my Christian life uh thirty-some years now, thirty-four one thirty-five years, and I look back over my Christian life and I've asked God for some things that were really pretty stupid Later on, I look back and say, what was I thinking? Why would I even ask God for that? Not necessarily sinful, but just not very smart. And sometimes we come and ask God for something, and God says, no, I don't think so Uh that's not the best thing in the world for you. That's not really a smart thing for you to have. And uh let me ask you this. Let's we're a little crowd, let's have some testimony time. Looks like you guys need some exercise here a little bit How many folks ever asked God for something, God didn't give it to you, and later on you look back and said, Praise the Lord, He didn't answer that prayer Yeah. Uh I could I I'm just thought of this. That'd be a great sermon. Um prayers I'm glad God didn't answer. And uh sometimes we ask for stuff, we're just, you know, it's like what are we thinking? And it's not bad, it's not sinful, it's just not very good. I'm glad my God is all wise He I'm glad he knows more than I do. And maybe when I'm praying, I'm praying, and maybe I'm asking for something that God just in his wisdom knows. That is not the best thing for you. Now listen, I'm not going to stop trusting. I'm not going to stop praying. You know what I found? If I ask for something that God knows is not the best thing for me, God ends up changing my request If I delight myself in the Lord, He'll give me the desires of my heart. In other words, God will affect the things that I'm desiring. He'll give me a desire for this and take away the desire for that. And he's able to do that, and he does that. So, uh what do we say? Number one, I need to look for reasons why my prayers aren't being answered, why God's it seems like God's not listening. Uh undealt with sin, unscriptural requests, unknowledgeable requests. I put this one down, unhealthy requests Will go unanswered. Maybe something, it's nothing wrong with it. It's not even stupid. But it's just not the best thing for me. It's not healthy for me spiritually. I want us to go to one more passage If you would come to 2 Corinthians, chapter number 12. This is a great prayer of Paul, and I've gone to this so many times. I found so much in uh inspiration and encouragement from this passage of scripture. And concerning prayers. 2 Corinthians chapter 12. And I want to begin reading in verse number 7. Now, when we get down to verse 10, I want you to pay close attention. To the wording in verse 10. But look now with me at verse 7. Alright, everybody there? Are you ready? Here we go. Look at verse 7. And lest I should be exalted above measure, through the abundance of the revelations There was given to me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan, to buffer me, lest I should be exalted above measure. So what's he saying? Saying God's doing a lot of things through his life. There's a real uh possibility of him becoming proud and lifted up. So um uh he was given a thorn in the flesh, some physical ailment, was very painful. Satan was using that. uh to uh buffet him and discourage him and he said uh lest I should be exalted above measure for this thing I besought the Lord thrice that it might depart from me. Verse number eight. What's he doing? What's he saying in verse eight? He's praying. He's asking God to Take this thorn in the flesh away. Says Lord, I'm asking you to change this situation. We don't know exactly what it was. I'm convinced it was a physical ailment that was extremely painful. Ever get a thorn stuck in you They don't feel good, they hurt. So he's a thorn in my flesh, that tells me it's physical. So he's some physical painful ailment And Satan's using it to beat him up, and uh God apparently is allowing it to keep him from getting too proud. And uh he asks God three times. Now here's the interesting thing in verse number 11, verse number eight, I'm sorry If you study that, when he says, I besought the Lord thrice, it has the idea of three extended periods of time. He's not just praying three prayers, God take this away from me, God take this away from me, God take this away from me, and then he quit. This is seasons of prayer. He has been praying and praying and praying. And then he kind of goes on. Then he comes back and he lifts this thing up to God. And it seems like God's not listening to him. It's like God isn't even here what he's asking. God, I'm asking to Take this away from me. I can imagine Paul was praying something like this. God, I could be so much more effective. I could travel so much better. God, it just, in my mind, I could do so much more for you Look what he says in verse number nine. And he, the Lord, said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee. Look at this. For my strength is made perfect in what? Weakness. Paul responds. God says to him, oh no, no. You'll be better off spiritually by me not granting this request. You will be stronger spiritually, though you may be weaker physically. Your faith will be stronger, your understanding of my power and my grace will be greater by me not giving you what you're asking for. Look how Paul responds. This is classic. Most gladly, therefore, will I rather glory in mine infirmities. Why? That the power of Christ may rest upon me. He would rather be physically sick and have the power of God than to be physically well, strong, and be spiritually weak. Look what he says there. Now look at verse 10. Therefore I take pleasures. I take pleasure in infirmities. In reproaches, in necessities, in persecution, in distresses. This is what all that thorn in the flesh was producing. It's all associated with this thorn in the flesh. I take pleasure in them for Christ's sake. Look at this. For when I am weak. Then am I what? Strong. Talking about spiritual well-being. Sometimes God doesn't answer our prayers. He won't listen to a specific crest. Sometimes, because he knows in us not having that, we will be stronger spiritually. We will be healthier spiritually. For whatever reason. And Paul says, in that case, I rejoice in it. Lord, I'd rather you not answer this prayer. and my faith and my spiritual uh life be everything you want it to be, then God, you give me what I want, and then me be weak spiritually and ineffective. So sometimes unhealthy requests where you and I just seem like, yeah, this would be best, this would go away. But God says, no, no, no. By not answering that, you'll be better off. You'll be stronger. So, man, I'm praying God, are you not even listening to me? David said that. You don't even hear me. What should I do? Well keep on praying, keep on praying, keep on trusting God, ratchet it up, pray even more. If it's God's, not God's will, if it's not healthy for me, if it's not his will, he knows better than I do. God will change the request. God will redirect my heart. There's no problem with that While I'm rationing it, while I'm praying, I need to stop. Wait a minute, is this really while I'm doing that, I've got to simultaneously say, is this scriptural? Is there something in my heart and life? Is it an unholy, sinful thing I'm asking for? And God will lead us and direct us. My dad had for years, I don't know if he still does or not, but he had for years hanging in his kitchen A poem. He had it just on a piece of paper and he had it framed. Now the poem's not directly about prayer, but it applies. It's just kind of a principle of life in general. Some of you are pretty familiar with this, and I'm sure I quoted it before. But it goes like this when things go wrong, as they sometimes will, when the road you're trudging seems all uphill, when the funds are low and the debts are high You want to smile, but you have to sigh. When care is pressing you down a bit, rest if you must, but don't you quit. Life is queer with its twists and turns, as every one of us sometimes learns, and many a fellow turns about when he might have one. had he stuck it out. Don't give up, though the pace seems slow, you may succeed with another blow. Often the goal is nearer than it seems to a faint and faltering man Often the struggler has given up when he might have captured the victor's cup. And he learned too late when the night came down how close he was to the golden crown. Success is failure turned inside out. The silver tint on the clouds of doubt. You never can tell how close you are. It might be near when it seems so far. So stick to the fight when you're hardest hit and when things seem worse that you must not quit And I thought of that verse here. When I think of God not hearing, it seems like God doesn't hear me. Don't give up on trusting God. God may be about to do something that we just never dreamed of. God may be about I prayed for five months. God please don't give up on me. God help me turn my life around. God please do something. And the day that morning I got up on May 7th, I had no idea that when I went to bed that night I'd be a new man. And God finally answered my daddy's prayers. God finally answered my prayers. It seemed like maybe he wasn't listening at all. So I don't know what you're praying for. I don't know why God may have directed me to preach this tonight But there may be some of us here tonight. We've got something we've got a little discouraged. We think, well, God's not even listening to me. Maybe God's telling us tonight, don't you quit on that. You just ratchet it up. Examine things. Make sure things are in line Boy, don't you quit. Don't you quit. Don't you quit. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us, Lord, to be faithful in our prayers, to not quit. And Lord, we know sometimes you and your wisdom You respond in ways we don't fully understand. And God help us to trust you. God help us to just keep on coming to you and looking to you. to meet our needs and to direct us and and to uh uh correct things in our lives and and work in other people's lives that we love dearly And help us, Father. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, and this is between you and God, I understand that. But you'd say, preacher, there's something in my heart. I'm real burdened for her. And I've been praying and praying and praying to God. And sometimes it just doesn't seem like he even hears that request And you say, preacher, tonight I'm just going to keep on trusting God. I'm not going to give on that up on that. I'm not going to back off. I'm just going to keep on praying. Is there any like that? Here tonight, preacher, there's something there. It's just been a burden for so long I'm not going to give up. Any God bless you, hands all around. This is just a little crowd tonight. Let's make this a little prayer meeting. How about that? And just gather at the altar and say, Lord, just individually, each one before God, and say, God Don't let me quit on this. God help me to stay at it. God, I'm looking to you. I'm going to trust you. And maybe tonight you make a decision. I'm going to ratchet this up a little bit. Maybe tonight at Alder just need to search my heart. God show me, is there something out of whack here that needs to be corrected? And God will hear us, I'm sure that God will help us. Father, bless our invitation, I ask, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together