1 Peter 2, verse number 24. We looked at this last week, but uh I want to look at the last phrase. Of 1 Peter chapter 2, verse 24. Notice the Bible says his own self, of course, speaking of the Lord Jesus Christ, talking, the whole context of this passage is talking about suffering. uh unjustly, and then Jesus being our example, then Peter leads into the greatest suffering that has ever been experienced was Jesus Christ's suffering for our sins, the just uh for the unjust, the innocent for the guilty. And so that's the context here. And it says, his own self bear our sins in his own body on the tree, that we, being dead to sin, should live under righteousness. Now look at this last phrase. By whose stripes we are healed? By whose stripes we are healed? Now here's the question I want to try and answer tonight. Is healing In the atonement. The atonement, of course, is Jesus Christ giving himself on the cross as our substance, burying our sins on the cross, being buried and rose again. Is is is healing in that. In other words When Jesus died on that cross, was he dying for our sins only, or was he dying for our sins and also our sicknesses? By his stripes are we healed, his healing in the atonement. Let's pray. I'll try and answer that as best I can. Father We thank you for a good day. Lord, my heart's full. You just blessed so much. You provided and gave us another day of life. Lord, the fellowship with other believers is so enjoyable. And now as we finish out this day, we go into a week, we're studying this passage, and a little Bible study here tonight, a little doctrinal. I pray you teach us and help us have a clear and accurate understanding of Bible teaching. And I ask, Lord, you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit. I don't want to be the teacher tonight, Lord. You wrote this The Holy Spirit's the author of this book, so I pray that he would teach us through me and speak to us and help us, give us understanding and knowledge on this subject Don't meet their spirit, I pray, Lord, as I present my body anew. In Jesus' name. Amen. Jesus' death on the cross, when Jesus died on that cross, rose again, that that event has a profound impact On a person's life who believes on the Lord, who trusts the Lord. I talked about that a little bit this morning. How many folks hear your life is different since you've gotten saved? Anybody here? Sure. Sometimes outwardly and inwardly both. Sometimes outwardly we you know it didn't change a whole lot. We uh you know maybe we weren't involved with a lot of stuff, but inwardly we changed But notice he says there, who bear our own sins and owns body on the tree, that we being dead to sin should live unto righteousness. There's a significant transformation. There's a powerful transformation there. But that last phrase, by whose stripes we are healed. Now if you watch Preachers, quote unquote, on TV much, or I guess now it's on the internet. If you watch them very much, sooner or later, you're going to come across some of these guys with huge crowds Faith healers and folks that follow that line of thinking and teaching. And they focus on that last phrase there. How many people ever was on TV or somewhere and you saw faith healers? Doing that. Anybody ever see that? Sure. They're they're everywhere. Huge crowds. We had a person in Indianapolis and they attended church um fairly regularly. I believe they were saved. They weren't real devout members, but they they were they were good folk and and the lady got real sick and of course we were praying for her and they were seeing the doctor and it got worse And she called up and said they're having a big faith healing meeting downtown Indianapolis, and uh I want to go down there. I want to see if they can help me Now, those people that hold these crusades and these big meetings like that, they'll focus on this passage, on this verse, in this phrase, particularly, by whose stripes we are healed. And what they suggest is that when Jesus died on the cross, he didn't just die to save us and cleanse us from our sins. But he also died to save us and to cleanse us from our sicknesses. He bore our sicknesses on that cross as well as our sins. And they will suggest things like this, that it is God's will. That you be healed, that a believer not be sick at all, that a believer be healed, just as much as it's his will that that believer be saved. It's God's will, let me ask you a question, is it God's will that a person be saved? Sure, absolutely. And they'll say, it is equally God's will that a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ not be sick, but they be healed from all sicknesses. They also go to, if you would, keep your place here. Come with me over to Matthew chapter number 8. They'll use this reference sometimes. Matthew chapter number eight, and also, and notice with me if you would, verse sixteen, Matthew. Chapter eight and verse number sixteen. Here, Jesus, it's the record of Jesus, says, and when even was come, they brought unto him many that were possessed with devils. And he cast out the spirits with his word, the power of God's word. And look at this. And healed all that were sick. Verse 17, that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by Isaiah the prophet, saying himself took our infirmities. And bear our sicknesses. Now, both of these passages in Matthew and back in Peter are actually quotes of Isaiah 53. So if you would, turn there. Now when you get to Isaiah, keep a marker in there. We're just going to read a verse right now, but we're going to come back in a little bit in the message. About 9. 30 tonight, we'll get back to that. Isaiah chapter 53, and notice with me, if you would, verse number 4. Isaiah 53 and verse number 4. In fact, you could put in the margin of your Bible there in Matthew and Peter, you could put Isaiah 53, 4, because that's what they're quoting. Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our and carried our sorrows, yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God and afflicted. Verse 5, I mean, and but he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him. Now here it is. And with his stripes we are healed. We are healed. So the idea is this. The suggestion by certain uh preachers and theologians and teachers is this that when Jesus died on that cross When he bore those stripes, when he was whipped and beaten, the whole process of his physical uh sacrifice, physically, his physical body. That on that cross our sins were laid on him, but also all the sicknesses were laid on him. And because he died on that cross is very regret. Very good, we ought to be healed. We ought to be sick less. Not sick sickly. Now, let me ask you this. Let me get a little input here tonight. Does God heal? Yes, absolutely. There's no doubt about it. Nobody that believes the Bible would deny that God can and does heal. God can heal. Amen? And God does heal. You read all through the Bible. We have experience in our church. That God can and God does heal all through Scripture. You have accounts of miraculous healings, Old Testament, New Testament We've experienced, folks here, I believe, have experienced the healing of God. In fact, in my mind, anyway, now I'm not a doctor or anything like that, but in my mind, all healing. Is mirac is a miracle of God. You ever stop and think about that? You get a gash on your hand, you cut yourself in your hand, and that That hand miraculous somehow will just heal itself back up and put it back. Now they now uh the unbelievers say, well, the body has these natural healing abilities. Yeah, but that's miraculous that it would do that. Without conscience, just do that and heal back up. And uh I I think my opinion is all healing is miraculous. All healing is of God. That is just an amazing and amazing thing But we have to be careful. And I'm getting a little ahead of myself in my thinking here, my outline, but we have to be a little careful. That if we get in our heads that because Jesus died on the cross, was buried and rose again, because of his atonement, that therefore I should never experience sickness. Because he took all this his sickness on himself. And if I do get sick as a believer, is because either there's sin in my life, not in fellowship with God, or I don't have enough faith in God To bring that healing about. Anybody ever hear that? Sure. There's sin in your life. In fact, just not too long ago, we were accused of preaching publicly We were accused of preaching that the reason people get COVID is because they're living in sin, and that's how why they got COVID. That's the case. Boy, there's a heap of people living in sin, good and night And so if we're not careful, we allow this teaching to go to uh conclusions that are unscriptural. Uh if we're not careful, um We tend to regard sickness as a result of personal sin or God's judgment on us. Now let me ask you again, is it God's will that people be everybody be saved? Yes or no? Yes, the Bible's clear he's not willing that any should perish God's will is that all be saved. Now the question I want to answer here now, is it God's will that everybody be healed, that everybody be s uh sick less? Does the Bible teach that Jesus' death on the cross and resurrection from the grave provides healing from sickness and ailments for believers? I don't think so. I'll give you a follow reasons why I believe this is not teaching that healing is in the atonement. Number one, here's my first reason why I don't believe that teaching is correct. Number one, it's be because it's an unscriptural teaching. How many people agree with me if something's unscriptural, it's wrong? Yeah, that's pretty much the starting point It's an unscriptural teaching. I believe when folks teach that there's healing in the atonement, that this reference is talking about physical healing from all sickness and all ailments. I believe they are misinterpreting what these passages are saying. Now we looked in Isaiah here in Peter, notice Uh notice uh here's let me give you a couple rules of interpretation. Number one, when I when I have a passage of scripture and I want to find out what it's saying, I do three things every time. Number one, I look up the meaning of the words If I don't know what that word means, I'm not going to understand what that passage is teaching, right? So I need to have a clear understanding of what the words are saying. And then number two, I want to look in the context. Alright, what is the context here? What are they talking about? Does my conclusion of what this is teaching fit in the context? If it doesn't fit the context, then my interpretation is wrong. Then the other thing I do is I want to look at other passages of Scripture and what do they say about the subject. Then I bring all that together, and then I can get a clear, accurate interpretation of what that passage is teaching. And so let's look at the context here. Notice here in verse number 24. Now I'm going to highlight some words. Who his own self bear are what? sins in his own body in the tree, that we being dead to sins should live unto Righteousness, then that phrase, by his stripes we are here. Then look at verse 25. For we are were as sheep going what? So we look at this and the emphasis and the context and the Subject that he's addressing is not any kind of physical illness. He doesn't mention anything about a physical illness here. He's talking about sin, going astray, unrighteousness, dying to sin. He's talking about sin. He's talking about a healing from spiritual, from sin. He's not talking about physical. Go back to Isaiah with me. Keep your place in Proverbs or uh flip uh where are we at? Peter, keep your place there in Peter. Come back to Isaiah 53. Did you keep your place there or are you looking it back up again? I hope you kept your place there. And um whoever laughed is the ones that didn't keep their place Look at Isaiah 53. Look at verse 5. Now notice what the context is. Notice what he's talking about, the subject. But he was wounded for our help me transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities The chastisement of our peace was upon him. Now here's that statement. With his stripes we are healed. But let's look at verse six. All we like sheep have Gone astray, we have turned everyone his own way. The Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. Come down if you would to verse number eight. The last part, for the transgression of my people was he stricken. Come over to verse number 10. Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him. He hath put him to grief, speaking of Lord Jesus. When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin. He shall see his seed and shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper his hand. Look at verse eleven. He shall see the travail of his soul and shall be satisfied by his knowledge shall My righteous servant, justify many, for he shall bear their what? Iniquities. Look at the last part of verse 12. He bare the sin of many. He made intercession for the transgressors. Sin, sin, iniquity, transgression. He doesn't mention pneumonia. He does not mention sicknesses, physical illnesses. He's talking about sin against the holy God. And so to take that phrase by his stripes where healed and pull that out of the context and the obvious subject that he's talking about, and then give it an application to physical illness, you're doing injustice to Scripture. So it's a misunderstanding or a misinterpretation of these passages. The emphasis clearly is salvation from sin, not from sickness. Now, can God heal sickness? Yes. Has he ever healed sickness? Yes. Does he heal sickness? Yes. But that's not what this passage is talking about. This is talking about a healing of sin, a healing of uh out of uh out of God's uh fellowship with God. Now You say, well, preacher, isn't sickness ultimately the result of sin? Yeah. Let me ask this. Before Adam and Eve sinned, was there sickness in the world? Was there pneumonia? Uh was there um what's other what's some other sickness going around? Uh There was none of that. And Adam Eve sinned, disobeyed, brought curse upon our physical bodies, curse upon this earth. And that produced deterioration and the breakdown of the body and breakdown of the world, and sin came into the world. So when Jesus died on that cross, he dealt sin a blow. He dealt with sin. How comes we're not healed then? If sin is a result, not of necessarily a personal sin, something I did and I get sick. Sometimes that's the case we'll see, but in general that's not the case. It's just sin, the presence of sin in existence. Take your Bible, if you would, turn to me to Revelation, and we find out that God will eventually heal us of all our sins. There is healing in the atonement in the sense that it will ultimately come. Revelation chapter number twenty-one Revelation 21, and look with me at verse number four. Everybody doing alright? Alright, good. Everybody healthy? Good. Look at verse 4. This is in the new heaven, new earth. This is after the great white throne. This is when you and I as believers, how many folks here you're saying you know it? Say amen. This is when you and I as believers have our glorified body. What a day that will be. Now notice what he says. And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes. Look at this. And there shall be no more what? No more death. Neither sorrow nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are passed away. In a sense, there is healing in the atonement in that because Jesus died on that cross, and you and I believe on him, we are ultimately going to receive a glorified body. Now for us in the church age, when does that take place? The rapture. Which may, by the way, may happen this week. How many people would be okay with that? Yeah. We get a rapture, we get a glorified body, no more sickness, no more arthritis. No more uh what? Diabetes, no more ammonia. We could go on and on No more cancer, no more heart disease. Kind of fellow we're praying for, if you would, remember Kenny Thomas here prayer has major surgery this week. Cancer. Yes, he he asked me to have the church pray. There's coming a day as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, I will never face that anymore because of what Jesus did on the cross But that verse is not teaching. Nowhere in the Bible does it teach that this side of the glorified bodies do we find healing in the atonement. We don't it's not there. It's not there. Come over to Romans chapter number eight real quick with quickly with me. Romans chapter eight Now I got stirred up studying this not because I not necessarily healing now, but because I look forward to a body Glorified body where there will be no more sickness or pain. Romans chapter 8, look with me at verse number 20. For the creature, you and I, all of creation, and you and I, as the creatures of God, created by God, was made subject to vanity. That's emptiness, briefness, brevity Not willingly, but by reason of him who is subjected the same in hope. Look at this. Because the creature itself now you and I would be included in that also shall be delivered from the bondage of what Corruption, this whole body is corrupt. Corruptible must put on incorruption. Shall be delivered from the body of corruption to the glorious liberty of the children of God, free from corruption Free from sickness and illness. For we know that the whole world, we know that the whole creation groaneth and travaileth in pain together until now. And not only they, but ourselves also Which have the first fruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves, waiting for the adoption to wit, the redemption of our bodies. Paul saying here under the inspiration of God, listen, we're in a sin-cursed world, and we have pain and we groan and we Deal with this the words he uses there, uh groan and travail and pain together until now. Man, we got sickness, we got aches and pains, we have death, we have uh disease and death But oh, we're longing for the redemption out of our souls. That happened when we got saved. Redemption of our what? Our bodies. Our bodies. And so there's a misinterpretation of these passages when someone says, Well, when you get saved, then it's not God's will for you to be saved You ought to be just as healthy spiritually, just as saved physically as you are spiritually. And that is just not the teaching of Scripture. That's an unscriptural teaching. Jesus' atonement provides healing ultimately for our glorified sinless bodies, but not in this. So it's an unscriptural teaching in the sense that it's a misinterpretation of these passages, what these verses here in Peter are teaching, but it's also an unscriptural teaching in that it disregards the biblical record. Now this is where, especially where this teaching breaks down. If you read through the Bible, you're going to find some great, great men, particularly of faith, that suffered severe sicknesses and illnesses and ailments. Can you think of anybody in the Old Testament that suffered sickness and pain and boils and Job? Job. Now, if you read chapter 1 and chapter 2 very carefully, you'll find out that Job was very, very sick, had boils. Not because of lack of faith, not because of sin, but because of great faith. And because he was righteous. Read the first few verses of Job chapter 1. God is bragging on Job. There is none As righteous as my servant Job, who is perfect and upright in all his ways. Yet he suffered tremendous physical ailment. Because of his righteousness, in fact, God was so confident in Job's relationship with him that God challenged the devil, said um uh and let the devil touch him and and uh bring this this ailments on him and god was confident that job would be faithful It wasn't because of his sin or unbelief. It was because of his righteousness and his great faith Every time I read Job, I think that's one time God had confidence in a man. God had faith in a man that Job would do right. And boiler, brother, the devil threw everything he had at him Job remained faithful. Now he struggled. He had his ups and downs through there. But when it was all said and done, he stood the test. He stood the test. So the biblical record we find that Job was sick because of his righteousness. And by the way, if you study chapter 1 and chapter 2 of Job real closely, if we had time, we would do it God not only, God gave his consent to Job getting sick. God didn't say, no, no, no, it's not my will that my my child be sick. Job said, God said, Satan, you can do whatever you want, just don't kill him. But I give you my consent to do what you want to him. Because he was righteous. Because of his great faith. And so it disregards the biblical record of Job. If we had time, we could go to I think it's Colossians, Philippians or Colossians, Philippians, where it talks about Epathroditus. And he says that he was sick, nigh unto death, and I'm putting this in my own words, because of his service for the Lord. It wasn't because of his rebellion against God, because of his unbelief in Christ. Wasn't because of his living in sin. Paul said to the church there, he says he was sick because almost died. Because he's serving your church so faithfully. He's just given us all to it. It took a great, great toll on him physically. It wasn't because of unbelief or sin. It's because of tremendous service to the Lord. Go with me, if you would, uh, to 1 Timothy chapter 5. Everybody still with me? I know this is kind of a teachy type thing tonight. 1 Timothy chapter 5 And notice with me verse number twenty-three Paul is writing under the inspiration of this young preacher boy, Timothy, who was a godly man. Paul has nothing but positive to say about Timothy. Not one time does Paul reference Timothy lacking faith or living in sin. Not once. But over and over and over, Paul commends Timothy for his faith and his service. And look at verse 23. He tells Timothy, under the inspiration of God, drink no longer water, but use a little wine for thy stomach's sake. And look at that last phrase. And thine what? Often infirmities. We get the impression that Timothy was a sickly young man. It often had infirmities, and Paul told him to drink wine, drink a little wine for his stomach's sake. Whatever his infirmities were, apparently had something to do with his stomach. Now, I know how some of y'all think that is not a justification to go out and buy a bottle of wine on the way home from church. Oh, I go to no no no no no none of that. This is medicinal purposes It's kinda like taking a little um night quail. You got a bag cold, take a little night quail. You don't go out and keep drinking night quail every night. God's people said Amen. So Timothy had often had firmities Turn with me if you would. Everybody still with me? Everybody alright? Alright. Go to 1 Corinthians. If you're hanging in there, we'll keep plugging. 1 Corinthians chapter 11. We're going to reference this. We have Lord's Supper here in a little bit, but there's an interesting statement here. 1 Corinthians chapter 11, look with me at verse number 30. How many people are glad our church uses the Bible? Yes, me too. 1 Corinthians 11, verse 30 Now they were taking the Lord's Supper unworthily. I mean, they were it was a mess. They were getting drunk and carrying on. And look what he says in verse 30. For this cause, because of the way you're behaving in the Lord's Supper. Many are weak and what? Sickly among you, and many sleep. The word sleep there means they died. Now, what that verse tells me is that some sins do bring on sickness. Sometimes we're sick because of how we're living our life, our lifestyle. There are certain communicable diseases that people get because living in fornication and sinful lifestyle like that And so there are some sins, yes, there are some sins that are a result of there are some sicknesses, I should say, that are a result of sin. Of a sinful behavior. But not all sickness is a result of unbelief and sin By the way, these people that teach that healing is in the atonement. It's not God's will for anybody to ever be sick or or have ailments, and if they do, they're either living in sin or they don't have enough faith Uh I found that every one of them ultimately dies themselves from something. Uh I've watched them on TV not lately, I quit years ago, but I used to watch them uh just see what they're up to. And um you know what I noticed? A lot of them were balding. And I noticed a bunch had gray hair, Stuart. You got both. Um I noticed a lot of them wear glasses. You know what all that is? That's the deterioration of the body, Wilbur. Though bodies are breaking down. Over time and age, ailments spring up and sickness, our immune system breaks down. Sicknesses come in over time. And if you take that teaching to its logical end, then if a person was right with God and had great faith, they would never die. They would never die. Because eventually we get sick and die. Eventually something something shuts down. And so it's a unscriptural teaching. I put these down. Glasses, arthritis, baldness. Here's another one. Cavities. That's a sickness, right? And uh I'm I've never heard of a maybe they've done it, I don't know, but I've never heard of a healing thing where they came in and people's teeth grew back. Well if they did, I'd be the first one there, I'll tell ya. Cavities, uh gray hair, deterioration of the body. Number one, it's a unscriptural teaching. That's why I don't believe healing is in the in the atonement. Number two, I put this down, it's an unhealthy teaching. It's an unhealthy teaching. And this is why I say that. It misdirects proper treatment for the ailments If I am convinced, if somebody convinces me that it's not God's will for me to be s sick And that the reason I'm sick is because of lack of faith or sin in my life, then if I want to recover from that sickness, what do I address? My lack of faith and my sin, right? If that's what's causing it, then I go to that. But that's not what always causes it. Sometimes it's because there's a tumor has developed. And they misdirect the treatment and say you've got to have more faith, you've got to repent of your sin, rather than going and getting chemotherapy for the tumor, and it ends up taking the life. Jesus said in Matthew chapter 9, verse 12, Mark chapter 2, verse 17, and in Luke chapter 5, verse 31, he said, They that are whole need not a physician. But they that are what? Sick. Jesus said, if you're healthy, you don't need to go to the doctor, but if you're sick, you need to go to the physician. You need to go to the doctor. Sometimes people tell me say and and I'm I believe you know, so people get skeptical of doctors sometimes. Um and people say to me, preacher, I ain't going to the doctor, I ain't taking that medicine, I'm just trusting God. I said, well, if you're sick, then you're not doing what Jesus said. Jesus said, they that are sick need to go to the physician. Amen? Because I don't think you ought to run every little thing. We ought to go to the doctor. And so this teaching that healing is an atonement is unhealthy because it can misdirect someone from the proper treat teaching what they really need. If Jesus, if there was healing and atonement, Jesus would have contradicted the Bible teaching by telling to go to a physician. He would have said, They that are whole need not a physician, but they that are sick need to have greater faith and repent of their sick. That's not what he said. He said, go to a doctor. 1 Timothy 5:23, Paul told Timothy, Take a little wine for thy stomach's sake and thine often infirmities. He didn't say exercise greater faith. For thy stomach's sake and thine awful infirmities. He didn't say you need to repent for thy stomach's sake and thy often infirmities. He says, take a little medicine. Treat it with medicine So it misdirects from proper treatment from ailments, and I put this down, it's unhealthy because it misdirects proper response to sickness. It's not a greater faith for healing, but a greater faithfulness in sickness. As I said before, God bragged on Job for his steadfastness and Job through his illness Through his ailments that God consented for the devil to put on him, Job grew stronger because of it I believe God allows sickness and pain and difficulty to come into our lives oftentimes so He can reveal Himself in ways we would have never learned about Him had we never been weak. What would Paul say? When I am weak, I am what? Strong. That I learned through physical weakness and physical ailments. We don't know what Paul's problem was. He had a thorn in the flesh. God said, I'm not a thorn in the flesh, that's a physical ailment. He sought the Lord three times to take it from him. The Lord said, No, no, no, I'm not taking it from you. And he says, More gladly, therefore, will I glory in mine infirmities Power of God rests on me. Paul didn't believe that there was healing in the atonement. In fact, he said, My weakness and my sickness has helped me to learn more of God and have better faith in God and understand him. So that God gets the glory. And last of all, number one, I believe it's an unscriptural teaching. That's why I don't believe it's correct. I believe it's an unhealthy teaching, misdirects proper treatment. misdirects proper response. And then last of all I put this down. It's an unwise teaching. I found that when people get caught up in this, it leads to further error. If I'm not careful in how I interpret Scripture, if I'm reckless and careless in my interpretation of Scripture on this subject, I'm going to be reckless and careless in other areas. And it leads to further error in our understanding. It's unwise, it leads to further error. It's unwise, it often elevates healing of our bodies over our soul. The salvation of our soul. I've watched these guys, and I don't recommend it, but years ago I used to watch them a bunch just to see what they were up to. Like I said, you know what I found out I saw huge crowds and all this sensational stuff, and they do this unbelievable stuff. You know what I found? Very little gospel preaching. Oh, they give invitations, come and get healed, but I saw very few invitations come and get saved. Come and trust Christ. Oh, they brag on all their healings, but you never heard a word about souls being saved. That is getting, that is convoluted. What good would it do a man if he's perfectly healed, but he's lost and he dies and goes to hell for all eternity? What good would that be? In fact, Jesus was confronted by that when he healed in Matthew chapter 9, verse 6, and Mark 2, verse 10, and Luke 5, 24. And I wish we had time to go to these, we don't, but there's a man in Jesus said to him, A man of the palsy, I think he had. And Jesus said to him, He says, Thy sins be forgiven thee Of course, all the Pharisees are up in arms. Oh, who can forgive sins but God only? It's a good statement. But their problem was Jesus was God. Could forgive sins. And he said this: so that you can believe that I have the authority to forgive sins, I say unto this man, rise up and walk. Man rose up and walked, he was healed. So, question: what was the priority in Jesus' mind? The forgiveness of the sins or the healing of his body? It's the forgiveness of his sins, salvation of his soul. Then he healed his body just to verify the fact, yeah, I've got authority to do that. And so this is an unwise teaching in that it often elevates the healing of the body, the physical over the spiritual the uh sickness over salvation. And I think another reason it's unwise, and this is my opinion here, is because it brings ridicule to the cause of Christ. Somebody says, oh yeah, God will heal me, God will heal me, God will heal me. God doesn't heal them. it it it uh it uh what's the word I want it negates the authority of Christ Confidence in Christ. I got some names here. I don't really know these guys a lot about them. But a charismatic writer who taught this strongly, and I'm not trying to be critical of charismatics, I think there's some charismatics that love the Lord very well very much. But charismatic writer Jamie Buckingham died in 1992. He taught that healing was in the atonement. John Wimber, 1997, very strong advocate of healing, is in the atonement. Kenneth Hagen 2003. What they taught was correct, then they ought not to have gotten sick. They would not have died. I think one of those fellows died of cancer Now, I don't relish anyone's death. It's a tragic word for that. But what the tragedy is, is they had an unfounded confidence in something that the Bible does not teach. And it did not bring them through. Let me bring it home personally. Years ago, a number of years ago. I did a funeral for a person. Known them, they'd come out a little bit. Got talking and they died of cancer. Eventually they died on I was visiting with them, we saw the end was coming. One day I was Morgantown sitting beside the hospital bed talking, just spending a little time with them and reading scripture and praying. The person began to weep Used to be in a different church, another church. And they said a number of years ago, diagnosed with cancer, it was just small. The doctor said it's treatable They'll let us treat it and take care of it. We can take care of it. You'll be fine. You'll live a good long life. They were going to a church, at the time, they were going to a church that teaches that healing is in the atonement. So they went to their pastor for prayer. The pastor advised them to not seek this treatment. Just have faith in God that Jesus had already taken their sickness upon him on the cross. And if they just trust God, they'll be fine. And they took the preacher's word, and I believe they sincerely were trusting God. But the cancer grew. Grew. Grew until they finally went back and said, something's not wrong, went to the doctor. The doctor said it's like you're eat up. There's nothing we can do. And I sat beside the person, they lay in bed and weeping. They said, This, Pastor Leatherman, I've made a foolish, foolish mistake Should have let the doctors do what they needed to do. Should have pursued that. Can you see where false teaching can be very, very foolish? Very, very foolish. So let's take God at his word. Is it God's will for us to be sick? Sometimes It's God's will for Job to go through that. It was God's, obviously God's will for Paul not to be healed of the thorn in the flesh. Is it God's will sometimes to heal people? Yes. Yes, absolutely. You know what I do when I go to the doctor? I go to the doctor and I say, Lord, please heal me before he gives me a shot Sometimes the Lord says, nah, you need the shot. And that's faith. Amen? I hope this was helpful. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask the Lord to help us to. Lord, I don't want to minimize faith in you, and I don't certainly don't want to minimize your power. We know you're all powerful, and we can have faith in you That sometimes and often it's your will to heal, but we don't want to be mistaken and think it's always You know you have a plan, and someday we'll get those glorified bodies. What a day that will be. To help us remain faithful, sickness and in health. Ailments and good times help us just stay faithful, serve you, and trust you. We'll give you the glory. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. I'm not sure how to give an invitation in this type of message, but Maybe it mattered, Lord, I just, you'd say, preacher, I just need to trust the Lord. Whatever direction he does, whatever I'm doing. Maybe there's some have illness and Say, preacher, I'm asking God to heal me, and that's good. Jaden said, Daddy, you're sick? Pray. Maybe it's just a matter of Lord, it's in your hands. I trust you. I want your will to be done God will do it. Is there any here say pray trying to learn just trust God? Sickness and in hell. Any like that uplifted hand? I just need that. I just need that. God bless you. God bless you. And we're going to give invitation. We're going to have Lord's Supper here in just a moment. We're going to go offline for Lord's Supper. I think it's a good thing, kneeling an old altar, before we gather. Take part in the Lord's Supper and just ask the Lord search our hearts and pray and do business with God