If you would turn there with me. 1 Samuel 19. And we're going to look at verses 18 down through verse 24. And I believe I got where we can Get through all these verses tonight, finish up this chapter, and move ahead a little bit on uh the life of David What amazing man. And I want to do a little more study on this uh and look, but uh I think I may be wrong, I'm just going off uh without really looking it up, but I think he He's, if not D, one of the most mentioned men throughout the Bible. Uh in one way or another, King David, the throne of David, David, David, all through the Psalms and uh through the New Testament, David is referenced. And I tell you, in the eyes of God, you you uh the more I'm studying him, in the eyes of God, David was an amazing, amazing man. The things that God speaks of David And uh think about this. I believe I mentioned this before, but if you would, think about this. Dave, I'm going to turn this mic on. And so, um, but think about this, the throne that Jesus will sit on is named after David That's incredible that the Son of God would sit on a throne that's named after a man. And so that, in my mind, elevates David to an amazing amazing level. Of course he's just a man, but um incredible man. Let's look at verse night chapter 19. Verse number 18. Now here's the setting just to remind us where we're at Saul has uh come out openly against David. He is out to kill David one way or another. And the whole reason he hates and wants to kill David is what? What's the one word? Jealousy or envy is the word we were using. He is envious of David's success. He's envious particularly of David's praise. David's getting all the attention. David's getting all the songs. David is getting all of this. Envy has taken over, and it is driving Saul to um uh almost insane, to ridiculous levels. And so he sent to get David. If you remember, just the background here, he sent his servants to go get David. He's at home with his wife Michael. Michael gives David a heads up. Hey, they're sitting outside the house in the morning, they're going to ambush you. She helps David out the window. He escapes. In the morning, David doesn't come up. They come up to the house, say, where's David? She lies, says, oh, he's sick in bed Uh they tell King Saul, King Saul com sends them back, go get them, bring the whole bed and everything they do. And she had put this image in there, made it look like David was laying in the bed Now Saul's really ticked. He goes after his daughter Michael. He was, what in the world? Why'd you do this? She lies about David, says that he was going to kill me. So that's where we end it. Now, David has gotten out of the window. This is where this picks up. He's out the window, and this is picking up what happens when he gets out the window. Look at verse 18. So David fled and escaped. And came to Samuel to Rama and told him all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and dwelt in Naoth. And it was told Saul, saying, Behold, David is in Naoth in Ramah, is at Naoth in Rama. And Saul sent messengers to take David. And when they saw the company of the prophets prophesying, and Samuel standing as appointed over them, the Spirit of God was upon the messengers of Saul, and they also prophesied. And when it was told Saul, he sent other messengers, and they prophesied likewise. And Saul sent messengers again the third time, and they prophesied also. Then went he, Saul himself, then went he also to Ramah and came to the great well that is at Sekku. And he asked and said, Where is Samuel and David? And one said, Behold, they be at Naoth in Rama And he went thither to Naoth in Ramah, and the Spirit of God was upon him also, and he went on and prophesied until he came to Naoth in Rama And he stripped off his clothes also, and prophesied before Samuel in like manner, and lay down naked all that day and all that night. Wherefore they say, Is Saul also among the prophets? Is Saul also among the prophets? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray now that as we uh uh study this and uh consider what's said here That you would teach us and help us not just know these facts about David and imagine what's taking place here. But Lord, I pray your Holy Spirit would apply to our lives. that we would be affected in our faith would be affected on our daily living, our witness, our walk with you. And so you promised us that your word is profitable for doctrine, reproof, for correction, instruction, righteousness. So we're asking you to teach us that, Lord, and make that true in our lives. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. I pray you'd fill me with your spirit and be our teacher. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Let me ask you a question. Let's go back to when David is a little younger than this, perhaps a couple years earlier. We don't know the exact time frame. But he has pulled out his The prophet Samuel's there with his dad and all his brothers. And Samuel's going by looking at each of his brothers one by one. And finally they run out and get David, they bring him in, and Samuel anoints David to be the next king of Israel. Now, use your imagination with me. What do you think? Try and imagine with me. What in the world went through David's mind As a young boy, when just a normal day, he's just doing his thing, and out of the blue, the prophet of God anoints him. to be the next king of Israel. What do you think he anticipated? What that would mean for him personally. What what would happen? I got thinking about that. I wonder, and you know, we speculate here, this is total speculation, but I wonder if, and maybe not with David, but I wonder if went through his mind uh there would be great fame I'll be famous. I'll be the king of Israel. Maybe the thoughts of great wealth. Kings are generally very wealthy. Maybe David thought in his mind, man alive, I'm going to be the king. I'll be famous, be wealthy, I'll have tremendous power, you know, the king. There's no checks and balances in that day. The king's word was it. He made the law. He enforced the law. Uh maybe the thought went through his mind, a just boy, all the pomp and serpent circumstance that would go with that and ornate, you know, a tapestry everywhere and everything. I'm not convinced David thought along those lines. Just the little bit we've been studying and what we know about him. I think David was probably humbled. Um would you agree with me? Maybe there was an element of fear, responsibility Whatever went through David's mind as that young boy, and this phenomenal anointing takes place on him, and this responsibility, his future is completely altered from what he anticipated. I mean, everything is different from that moment on in his mind So whatever was going through his mind, I'm pretty confident it did not include, I doubt seriously, David anticipated being hunted like a dog or like a fugitive. for years and years in the wilderness. How many people agree with me? That's probably not what he anticipated, being anointed a king But nevertheless, that's what's happening. And I've found in studying the Bible and observing in the Christian in the ministry all these years now. Observing how God works in people's lives and how things play out, I've found it a lot of times that when God gives someone, and I'll use this term, when God gives a Christian a great commission Or a great responsibility. Many times, almost immediately after that, there will be great trials and great testings I thought of in the Bible, I thought of Abraham. My mind always goes to him because man, God calls him to go out. uh to a land. He doesn't know where he's going. Abraham exercises tremendous faith, takes his family, he finally gets to the land where God wants to be, and the very first thing that happens is not a bumper crop It's not a great honey of milk and honey flowing everywhere. It's a famine hit. And the very first thing, Abraham's faith, when God commissioned him, he's going to be the father of the nation of Israel He's going to be the human father of the people of God. The very first thing that happens, his faith is tested severely, and he struggles. And you see that over and over. I've seen it with missionaries. Or God will call someone, maybe into the ministry or to the mission field or something, and man, it's exciting, my life has changed I'm going to be in China. God's called me to to uh Mongolia. God's called me to Kenya. And you're anticipating what all that's going to be and what's my life going to be like and what's going to happen And man, some trial comes and some setbacks and difficulties. How many times have we seen that with missionaries? They get to the field and they get hammered. Well, that's what's happening to David. And we've been emphasizing this from the moment that Saul started eyeing David. We pick up here that God's doing something in David's life. This isn't just coincidence. This isn't mistakes. This isn't God abandoning David. God is allowing all of this. This is part of David's training. This is part of David's preparation. So I guess just by way of introduction and the opening statements here is this. Listen, don't let trials berail us. Don't let just because things don't play out the way I anticipate, I'll take this Sunday school class, oh it's going to be something, it's going to, and then you have some trials, difficulties, it doesn't play out. That is not the time to quit. That is the time to learn. That is the time to let God teach me. Let God develop me to be what He uh is trying to make me into. And so I see that so clearly in David's life. Now let's look at this section here. The first thing I notice, particularly in verse number 18, is David's protection Saul's out to kill him. He's made several attempts. He's thrown the javelin. He tried to ambush him. None of that has worked. And look at verse 18. It says, So David fled And escaped to Rama to Samuel, to Rama, and told him all that Saul had done to him. So David's protection, the first thing I notice David does is he escapes. He escapes. That word there says, it's interesting how God words things in the Bible. He says, David fled and escaped. Now it looks to me, he could have just said David escaped. David got out of there, but he adds that little word fled in there. Now what does that imply to you? David fled and escaped. He was running. He was high tailing it. To me, I put this down. That implies urgency and haste. He isn't horsing around. He's not lollygagging down the road, kicking stones and whistling to the birds. He is out of town. And getting out of there. He gets away. Hey, for David, there's no more hanging around the palace. David's life has changed. He ain't playing no harps for the king, no mo. He ain't doing it. He is out of town. He is getting away from there. For David's well-being, for David's well-being, he has to get away from Saul. Um I think it's pretty obvious in David's case here, but sometimes We there are some people and there are some places that we need to get away from for our own well-being. Follow what I'm saying? How many people grieve me? It'd have been stupid for David to hang around at this point. Humanly speaking, that'd have been dumb. The right thing to do is now is very, very obvious, very obvious. The right thing to do is get out of town. Put as much distance between you and Saul as you possibly can. I want to suggest to you and I That there are times and there are certain people that the Bible tells us we are to put distance between us and them There are some people that we are to stay away from. There are some people, to use a Bible term, we are to separate ourselves from. And we see that through Scripture. Now, David's case, this is duh. Of course he's got to get out of here. This is so obvious it's ridiculous to even emphasize it. But sometimes it's not so obvious. I'm thinking again of Abraham and Lot. Anybody remember the circumstances where Abraham and Lot separated ways, parted ways? There wasn't enough room for the two of them. And they got fussing, and their servants were fussing. And my Bible says that the servant of the Lord must not strive. And so Abraham says, Listen, this isn't working. Our testimony is being heard And I want to suggest to you, Abraham and Lot had two different worldviews. They had two different sets of values. They had two different sets of priorities. Lot's priority was what can I get for myself? What's good crops for my sheep? What's placed for me? It was all about Lot. For Abraham, he's not even building houses. He's living in tents. He's building altars. His focus primarily was on the Lord, living for God, trusting God. And for Abraham's well-being and for the good of their testimony, they had to part ways. They had to go two different ways. And actually, the Bible tells us that there are people in the world that we are to avoid, if you would. Now keep your place here, and I want to do this as quickly as I can. And um When a preacher says that, just, oh, brother. But uh go to Proverbs chapter 22. And there's a bunch. I didn't pull them all out. I just pulled a couple out. But I think there is a I think one of the most neglected doctrines in the Bible is that of the doctrine of separation From sin and from wrong. Proverbs 22, verse 24. Would you turn there with me? Proverbs 22 and verse 24. Now these require wisdom, I know that, so um, you know, we just have to uh understand that. Verse chapter 22. And uh verse 24, I'm in 23, that's why I can't find it. Look at verse 22, verse 24, look at this. Make no what? Make no friendship with an angry man And with a furious man, thou shalt not what? Don't hang around him. Don't be around him. Don't be near him. Look at the next verse, tells us why. Lest thou what? Learn his ways. Look at this, and get a snare to thy soul. Can I just paraphrase that in the context of what we're talking about here? For your own well-being. For your own well-being. Stay away from somebody that is angry and is furious. They got a temper. They can't they're just mad at everything all the time. You just stay away from them. For your own well-being. Because it's going to be a snare to your soul. It is going to hurt you. And I'm going to suggest to you, just like David needed to be away from Saul, because Saul was going to destroy his own well-being, he needed to get away. And for your well-being, my well-being, we need to be very, very careful about the people we're going to hang around with and stick around with. And here God says very specifically, if a man is angry, if he's furious, make no friendship with that man, and thou shalt not go With a furious man now shall not go. You're going to learn his way. He's going to be a snare. Come over to chapter 24 of Proverbs. And verse number one Be not thou envious against what? Evil men, look at this, neither desire to be with them, for their heart studieth destruction, and their lips talk of mischief. Now here it says, listen, don't be with them. Don't desire to be with somebody that would fit the description, the biblical description, of an evil man. Now how many people understand we're all sinners? How many people understand we all have an evil streak in us? We're morally corrupt. We are. We understand that. That's why I said beginning, this requires a little bit of wisdom And knowing how to apply this and implement this. But the Bible is very, very clear. If a person would fit the biblical description of an evil man, But I need to get away from that. I need to escape. I need to run. I need to fli uh fled flee and escape. Exactly what David did from Saul. Now, what is an evil man? And just quickly, I did a little research on that, try to determine what he means by an evil man. I believe what he's talking about here is a morally evil man. They're morally evil. I put it, I defined it this way: a person, a man that is living a life that displeases God, but he's doing it openly, unrepentantly. Someone who is openly and unrepentantly evil, morally evil To this effect, I don't care what the Bible says, I don't care what God says, I don't care if it's right or wrong, I don't care, I'm doing what I want to do. That to me would be an evil man. Now we all fail. How many people agree with me? We all, we don't, none of us please God constantly, every minute, with everything we say, think, and do. So we all fall short of this. But he's talking about a very specific situation, and I would emphasize the term unrepentant. Because there'll be a snare. They're going to hurt us. That's not good. That is for our own well-being we need to get away. If you would turn with me to 2 Timothy 3. Brother Hummel preached on this Sunday, and there's a little Sunday night, and there's a little statement there in this passage. That applies, I believe, to what we're talking about. 2 Timothy chapter 3. I'm going to begin reading in verse 1. Again, Brother Hummel referenced this Sunday night But uh there's a statement there that I think needs our attention in this context. Look at what it says. This know also that in the last days perilous times shall come. Now he makes this description. Men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents. unthankful, unholy, without natural affection, truth breakers, false accusers, incontinent, means they have no self-control, fierce, despisers of those that are good Traitors, heady, high-minded, lovers of pleasure, more than lovers of God, having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof. How many people would think that sounds like he's describing evil men? That's referenced in Proverbs. Now look at the last phrase, the last statement in verse number six. From such what? Turn away. In other words, you hightail it out of there. You keep your distance from that, that type of person That's described here is somebody that is as harmful to you and I spiritually as King Saul was to David physically. If you would come back. Now this one here gets strikes a little close to home. 1 Corinthians chapter 5. Now we studied this in Sunday school. We've been in 1 Corinthians now for a couple decades and chapter 5 and verse number 9. 1 Corinthians 5 and verse 9. I'm going to read down through verse 13. 1 Corinthians 5. 9. Look what it says. I wrote unto you in an epistle. Look at this next statement. Not to what? Company with fornicators. In other words, don't hang out with them. Don't be around them. Don't keep company with them. Yet not altogether with the fornicators of this world, or with the covetous, extortioners, idolaters, for then must you needs go out of the world. He's saying, listen, you know, I'm not talking about the wickedness out in the world, if you don't keep company of them, you're gonna have to go to Mars because they're everywhere. You can't escape it. But, verse eleven Now I have written unto you not to keep company if any man that is called a what? A brother. What's he talking? Who's he talking about? A saved person. He's referencing a saved person that is living this lifestyle. Somebody that's called a brother. If any man that is called a brother be a fornicator, or covetous, or idolater, or railer, or a drunkard, or an extortioner, with such an one, knock to what? Eat. For what have I to do for what have I to do to judge them also that are without? Do you not judge them that are within? Now he's addressing the situation in the church there at Corinth that we Studied in Sunday school before. But look what he says. But then that are without God judges, therefore put away from among yourselves that wicked person. Now I'm referencing these passages to point out the fact that there is a principle in Scripture, there is a doctrine in Scripture. That Christians are to be very, very careful who we hang out with, who we spend our time with, who we associate with, even in some cases, a brother in Christ, another Christian. That is living disobedient. And we are to separate ourselves, we're to keep distance because they will influence our spiritual well-being Our testimony's well-being is hindered and harmed by that, just like David had to get away from Saul because it was uh his physical well-being was in danger. That same principle applies to spiritual well-being I wonder how many test Christian testimonies have been ruined because a Christian wasn't careful about who he associated with. And it hurt them. I wonder how many Christian lives have been ruined, have been destroyed Because they were not careful who they associated, who they identified with, who they hung around with, and their spiritual well-being, their lives well-being was put in jeopardy Because of wrong associations. Let me take it another step further. I wonder how many people, now this might apply to young people, but probably across the board, I wonder how many people lost their lives Because they were not careful who they hung around with. Wonder how many young people lost their lives because they jumped in a car with a bunch of kids drinking. They went out and there's a wreck and they lost their life. If they would just said, no, I'm not running with that crowd. Or how many would and again I'm addressing young people, I know we're Very few of us are very would qual fit that description here tonight. But um I mean I'm sorry, a lot of us would fit that description here tonight But um get out and they go to an innocent party, they know they shouldn't go there, they know there's garbage going to take place there, and a young lady goes, loses her purity. Or go and they're introduced to some drugs or some pornography or something. And their lives are destroyed. And God is saying We must be very, very careful. There are some people, some situations, some places where we have got to stay away from, get out of that flee and escape because our well-being is endanger. I think that's true, can I say this? I think that's true in churches. There are some churches that some Christians need to get out of. If they're not preaching that book, if they're not preaching the Word of God, if they don't believe the Bible, if they're teaching and preaching heresy What in the world are you doing sitting in there? You're putting your spiritual well-being in danger. You need to get out of there. I had just this past week I was telling somebody, I guess Pastor Matt was with me, but I had um I had uh I was at we were at a restaurant. I was with Brother Hummel Sunday and Brother Matt and Courtney and we had lunch together And I was walking out and a guy grabbed me and he said, Pastor Leatherman, there were two fellows and they pulled me over. And he says, um, introduced me to the other fellow. He said, I just want you to inter meet him. He says, I've been out to some of your different events, things you've had there. And he made this statement. He says, I love your radio station. He said, FBN is the greatest thing on radio. And then he made this statement to me. He says, we might come out and visit your church. I said, we'd love to. The other guy made this statement. We need to get somewhere where the word of God is taught and preached. I said, brother, you are more than welcome. We'd love to have you. Come on out. I look forward to seeing you. Now I'm not out trying to get people out of other churches. That is not, you know that's not what we're after. But if somebody's in a situation where it is spiritually false doctrine, it is spiritually they're neglecting them, disobeying the Word of God, and it's time to hightail it out of there. Amen or not? Yeah, then now we're certainly not perfect. You're never going to find a perfect church. And if you do find a perfect church, don't go to it because you'll ruin it. But there ought to be some basic things in place. There ought to be some doctrines, some Bible practices, and some biblical principles that are followed The church is going to be good for us and healthy for us. So, uh, so David makes his escape. Now let's get back here. All right, I got that off my chest. Now come back here. And notice not only did he make his escape, but this gets interesting. I put my second thought under this head, uh David um David's protection. First, he m he makes an escape. That's the first thing you need to do to protect himself, is get away from there. Second of all, he gives his explanation. Now look at verse 18. David fled an escape and came to who? Samuel to Ramah and told him all that Saul had done. Now I can't I don't know this, but I've got a sneaking suspicion. Samuel already knew what was happening. I mean, he's no dummy. He's the prophet of God. So I think he probably was aware. But what I think what I found interesting in that is David flees and escapes. And he goes to Samuel. Now here's the question that comes up. Why didn't he go to his family? Dad loves them. He's got a good family as far as we can tell what we studied about Jesse earlier. Jesse's a good man. And uh he's strong in faith. He's a man of character and integrity, a man of faith Here's a young man. He's probably at this point, we're just guessing in his 20s maybe. David might be 22 or early 20s, perhaps at this point. Why would he not go back to his family? Why would he not go back to his dad and say, Dad, this thing ain't working out the way I taught? He doesn't go to his family. Question, did David have any fans in Israel? People that thought he was something else? Good night, he sure did. The whole nation thought he was their hero. So why wouldn't he go to some of his fans? He doesn't go to his family, he doesn't go to his fans and say, look what the king's doing to me. Why need you we need to rally around and address this situation We need to resist. He doesn't do any of that. But he goes to Samuel. Why would he go to Samuel? Well, what was Samuel? Samuel was a what? Prophet of God. And he anointed David. Now, in that time frame, in that dispensation The prophet of God was about equal to the Word of God And they didn't have a completed Bible. They had the law, the Pentateuch at this point. They had perhaps some other scriptures. But um The prophet of God, this is what I'm getting at. I believe the prophet of God in that time frame would have been equivalent in our setting to the Word of God, and I believe the Church of God. By him going to Samuel, the prophet of God, he's going to hear from God. That's where the word of God was delivered. That's where the anointing of God came from. Samuel, as the prophet of God, was the highest spiritual, humanly speaking, the highest spiritual authority on the planet. At that point. That is who God spoke through. That is who God directed. That is who God gave leadership to the nations spiritually. And so what he's doing, what I believe David is doing, he's going to Samuel, the prophet of God, the spiritual authorities, God's spokesman. Would be like you and I when things fall apart and our world's collapsing around us and nothing is the way we anticipated and nothing is the way I would want it to be and nothing seems to be working in my favor Where should I go to when I'm in that type of situation? I should go to the Word of God and hear from God. And let God speak to me, and let God direct me, and let God encourage me, and let God reassure me. That everything's okay. How many people like to hear other people say, hey, it's going to be alright? Anybody like that? I like to hear that. How many people don't always put a lot of stock in that? I get a preacher, friend. He's a good man. I love him dearly, and I'll call and say, I got this. He's out, it'll be all right. Well, thanks, brother. I appreciate it. But I tell you, when I open my Bible, When I open my Bible and I'm reading and God speaks to me and there's a verse there and God says Brother Dennis God calls me Brother Dennis and um And God says, it's gonna be okay. It's gonna be alright. Tell you what, that's that's reassuring. And I believe that's what David's doing. He's going to the prophet of God. He needs to hear and know. He needs encouragement. He needs direction. He needs some edification. And the place he knows to get it is the prophet of God, which would be for you and I the Word of God today. And I think I'm going to throw in with that the church of God I tell you what, uh, and you know, people watch uh preachers on TV. I'm not a big fan of almost all of them. And I love our radio station. I listen all the time and God gives good stuff. But I'm telling you, nothing, nothing substitute for getting with the body of Christ. and fellowshipping together and hearing the word of God taught and preached and singing the hymns. How many people ever come to church discouraged and leave say, boy, I'm glad I went. And I think that's what David's doing. None of this is working out the way he anticipated. None of this is how an anointed future king is supposed to be treated, is supposed to experience. And he's at a point now where I need the Lord. I need the Lord. I need the prophet of God. He needed to receive wise counsel. He needed to receive spiritual encouragement. He needed some spiritual fellowship. Hey, when you and I are going through a time of trouble, the worst thing to do is leave that Bible closed. We need to get that book open, especially when we're going through tough times, and get in there. You say, well, what do I read? I'd begin with Psalms. Is a good place to find reassurance from the Lord and direction from the Lord. Anywhere is good. But I'm telling you, here's, I've seen it, I've been doing this long enough. Some of y'all have been around. Some of us have done this Things start falling apart. We're disappointed. We're disillusioned. It's not what I thought it was. And we push the Bible away and we just get frustrated and discouraged. When the thing we need to do the most is get that Bible out and open it up and get into it. And I've seen it over the years. Folks get hammered. Something comes, they get hit with a broadside, they get mistreated, or whatever, and they drop out of church, and that is the worst thing in the world to do I had a guy tell me years ago, he says, I'm backslidden. I can't go to church. I said, Well our whole church is full of backslidden people. Come on out. No, not really. I said, the most important place to go when you're backslidden is church. That's like saying, oh, I'm not going to the hospital, I'm sick. What are you, a knucklehead? And so when things are falling apart and we're disillusioned and discouraged and disappointed, stand alive, get to the house of God, get in the Word of God, run to it That's what David did. He fled and escaped to Samuel, the prophet. He's getting away from that situation. And he's getting to the man of God so he can hear the word of God and be with the people of God. And it's interesting, there's a school of prophets going on here. There's a whole slew of other people that love God and fear God he's with. And he got to the right crowd. Listen, thank God for family. I'm grateful for my family, but I'm telling you, there are some situations that my family can't help me with. I'm grateful for friends. I think God's given me some wonderful friends. So I'm so grateful. But I'm telling you, sometimes only God's the one's going to be able to help me. My friend. God can and will do for us stuff that our friends and our family could never do for us. That's what David's doing. His dad's not going to be able to help him in this situation. All the fans out there are not what he needs. He needs the people of God. And then I notice, first of all, he escapes. Then he gives his explanation to Samuel. He tells him what's happening I'm convinced Samuel already was was in the know. But then he finds asylum. Now what do we mean by asylum? If somebody comes to America seeking asylum, they're looking for what Refuge or safety. They're in a dangerous situation. I'm coming to America. I need asylum. I need security. I need a place of refuge. That's what he's doing Now there's an interesting word here, and I uh maybe I knew this before or I didn't I didn't remember, but it says um He told us told and told him all that Saul had done to him, and he and Samuel went and dwelt in Naima that Naioth. How many people know where that is? You know what? It's not a place. It's not a city. It's not a location. So I studied this and looked at I found out and I understand this is a type of building, the type of structure. And what it was, and the one historian I was reading about was describing this, they said they found in archaeology somewhere in the Middle East a place that in the inscriptions on it was you this term was used to describe it. And it was like a huge dormitory. It was like a big living space. And you know what I think it is? I think it was dormitories for the school of the prophets that Samuel was running at that point. Come down a little bit. Let me show you what I've got in mind. I'll come down a little bit and um Verse number uh Oh, where is it at now? And uh the prophets prophesying. Oh, verse twenty. And Saul sent messengers to take David, and when they saw the company of the prophets, the company of the prophets Oh om every Bible scholar I looked up and studied and other references at some sort of school that Samuel's running for prophets, probably Levitical priests, he's training them in the Word of God, teaching them the Word of God, training them in the things of God, and Samuel standing as appointed over them So the assumption we make, what we take from that, is that most likely what was taking place here, Samuel, after God rejected King Saul After he anointed David, you hear very little of Samuel from that point on. Later on he'll play some roles. But he kind of backs off the scene, and what is assumed by a lot of the Jewish scholars anyway, that Samuel came back. and took under his wing a lot of these young Levitical priests and began teaching them the things of God, the Word of God and established a school there, and apparently this nayoth was some sort of dormitory that they either built or used to house This school of the prophets. And David shows up, and they and Saul and Samuel says, Hey, come on in, you stay in here with us. You get in here. So he finds this place of asylum. And I would think. That they would think there's no way in the world King Saul is going to come into this Bible college, so to speak. And chase David down. He's going to respect the things of God. He's going to respect that. But what we're learning of Saul is that's not necessarily the case. Yeah. That's a g a good way to describe it. Some sort of Bible college. And uh and the the the various Jewish authors that I read, uh some of the commentators, they said that uh it was probably Levitical priests, young Levitical priests, they're gonna Serve the Lord in the temple. At this point, it's a tabernacle. And he's training them. And so what I take away from that, and I'm not going to I'm only going to get the first point, I knew that was going to happen. One verse. But what I take away from that is this. God believes in training people who will serve. But if the prophet Samuel is has a school and he's training the Levitical priests, the young Levitical priests to serve the Lord, I see all through Scripture, God's teaching, that when we're going to serve the Lord, we ought to be open to training and teaching and developing. so that we can serve and teach the Word of God to the very best of our abilities. Now I know there's colleges out there that are bad. And even in the good schools you got some knucklehead students And every now and then they got knucklehead teachers. But what I'm trying to say is this continuing learning and development of my spiritual gifts and my the way I'm serving God is something that every Christian ought to be. be involved in. We do here, we try to on a regular basis, have teacher training. How many ever how many people ever heard us talk about teacher training? We got one coming up in August. Brother Caldwell has a big one uh in September down in Westminster we're gonna try and get in on. Uh out in Ohio, the leader the the uh leading Loving and leading out in Ohio. We get out there, we get training, get teaching. That's a scriptural thing. Whatever your ministry is, whatever role you play. We must never think, oh, I've attained. There's nothing more I can learn. I can't be developed to be any better bus worker or choir member or whatever. We ought to constantly be working on that, working on that, working on that. And that's what Samuel's doing with these young fellows. And I gotta quit. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for David, Lord. And uh just so many lessons from these These events that he's experiencing that we can learn from, and I pray you'd help us, and all ages, myself included, help us to be so careful what we allow ourselves to be exposed to and what we allow ourselves to be influenced by. Help us to use discernment on what is dangerous to our well-being physically and spiritually and people. And so help us, God. Give us wisdom. And Lord, I pray that you would help us to come to you in your word in times of need and allow you to teach us and encourage us and protect us. And Lord, help us to continue to develop ourselves. And so we can be the best that we can be. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, as you're preaching, the Spirit of God spoke to my heart, there's some areas that I really need to give attention to that probably aren't the best for my spiritual well-being. Some areas in my life. Anybody like that? Say preacher, pray for me. There's probably some areas there. God bless you. A few honest folk. How about how many would say, preacher, you know, I need to make sure I get in that Bible? Probably when the least feel like it is the time I need it the most. How many people say, preacher, I need to get in the Bible more and get let God speak to my heart and help me and direct me. God bless you. And then how many as a Christian say, I need continually develop, I need to continually try to improve My service to the Lord, my walk with God. Any like that? Sure, of course, all of us. Let's ask God to help us. Father, as we now respond to what you've taught us, I pray you'd help us in Jesus' name. Amen.