Well amen. Good evening, everyone. Start saying good morning. We already did that, didn't we? All right, so it's good evening. And uh I am just honored to be here. I've had a blast. I'm telling you, this has just been wonderful. And uh thank you, brother, for that message. Amen. That will be preached again. I will preach it, yes sir. And uh there's nothing new under the sun, so uh I figure if it bless my heart it'll bless my people's heart. Amen. Uh but uh thank you Pastor for inviting me to come and I've had just a wonderful time and uh good to meet uh a lot of uh new folks and uh see some old folks, not old, old but I've known you for a while and uh God bless all of you and uh it's good to be with my brother over here. We get together occasionally, every now and then, maybe a time a year or a couple times a year. And um and uh I I I just always enjoy being around him. He just lifts my spirit and uh helps helps me um uh just helps me and encourages me and uh just being around me. I like to be around happy people, don't you? Yes indeed. And uh and Brother Fox is one one uh happy individual and loves the Lord and loves loves what he's doing and loves people and uh you can just tell that. I I'm I appreciate it, brother. God bless you. And uh you all pray for his ministry and uh if you would I know he'd appreciate it. And uh I um I told you this morning that uh that I had I had uh a spell there uh for a couple of years where I was really sick. Well it was actually 2006 through through twenty ten. Uh and um and uh during that time I I I um canceled uh had to cancel all the meetings that uh that I had, all the sword conferences um that I used to do with Dr. Smith and uh, you know, preachers would call and say, Can you uh come on this Monday and Tuesday and preach? for me. And um I'm um uh you know, I uh I I either have to go into full time evangelism or pastor my church And God will not let me go into full time evangelism. So uh so I have to s I had to say uh during that time, I'm sorry, but I I just can't come Uh I'm not well and I cannot travel and I cannot uh I cannot come. And so when you tell those preachers no, then they don't call back. And uh they figure you're you're you know, you got one foot in the grave and another on a banana peel, so there's no use in calling that guy And uh so so um uh for for a couple of years I've I've got to stay home and I've enjoyed staying home. And uh so uh about um About uh uh well first couple of years after that, uh after 2010, I I said, uh well thank you, brother, for inviting me, but uh I think uh until I really have peace about my health I'm gonna stay stay put. So I I kept saying no and didn't go out and travel very much. And um And then uh uh last year I started feeling better and and and preacher started calling again And so I started traveling. And um I'll be honest with you, I'm tired. I'm tired. I I don't you know, I'm I'm I'm sixty-two years old And uh uh and I got uh I got a heart problem. I I take four or five medications every day to keep my heart going And uh I got this thing on me. It tells me m tells me what what my heartbeat's doing. Right now I'm beating it fifty-three. Fifty-three. That's like a that's like an Olympic athlete. Huh? Well it's medication that's making it beat, brother. It's medication that's making it beat. Uh but I figure as long as long as I can get behind the wheel and as long as I can drive down to VWI, I'll just keep going 'til the Lord calls me home. But um but I love to preach Man, I love to preach. Preaching's the easy part. You know? And I love to preach. And uh I I I I just uh I can't get enough of it. If uh if I had my Drothers, I would preach uh every night of the week. But uh but I guess um s you know, I got a pastor in my church sometime And so uh but thank you for inviting me to come, preacher. Next week I'm home. I have a uh a deacon's meeting and then um And then the the week after that I I go to um uh Florida, uh Jacksonville, Florida I think it is. Then the week after that I go to I go to uh where do I go? New Jersey And then the week after that, I go to uh southern Ohio, and then the week after that, North Carolina, and then the week after that the rapture is gonna happen. So um Or I'm hoping it does. I'll be praying it does. But um but anyway, uh you pray for me that I'll stay healthy if you would. I'd appreciate it. Alright, how many of you got a Bible tonight? All right, let's open it to Matthew twenty-four. Matthew twenty four. You want to learn something tonight? All right, I'm gonna do my best to teach you something tonight that I hope will be a blessing to you. We'll tell you where this came from. You'll notice I don't have a note one. I'm winging everything. This is on the overflow, all right. This came when I was sick And when I I sat in my chair, in my recliner, and I read the Bible Over and over and over and over and over. And I saw something that I had never seen. It's been right here in the book the whole time. And so I started preaching it to my people. And I want to preach, at least get started tonight. If you wanna if if you want if you wanna hear more, you can go to our website and every sermon I've preached for the last I don't know, twelve years is on that website. And they're all free. You can download all of them. And you can go back to March. of 2010, and that's when I preached the first one. It was on a Sunday night. I think it's in uh uh did I say March? February. February 2nd, I think was the date. And the sermon is now the second chapter of Joel. That was the first one. So if you go on the website, you can see the first one. Start there. You can download them all for free. Alright, so let's begin. Verse 1. Matthew 24. And Jesus went out and departed from the temple. And his disciples came to him for to show him the buildings of the temple. And Jesus saith unto them, See ye not all these things? Verily I say unto you, there shall not be left here one stone upon another that shall not be thrown down. Now let me stop right there and tell you that the Lord Jesus gave this prophecy to the disciples. On the eve of his crucifixion. They are, they have just left the upper room. They're walking over to the Garden of Gethsemane. When they crossed the Khedron Valley and went up to the garden, they turned around and looked back at the temple And that's when Jesus said this. And he said in verse 2, There shall not be left here one stone upon another that shall not be thrown down. That prophecy was fulfilled in seventy A. D. Seventy A. So when Jesus was here, the temple was standing in Jerusalem. And they said, look at that. Isn't that amazing? That is a testament to you That was built for you. And they were all excited about it. And basically what Jesus was saying to them is this: don't get all excited in doomed things. That goes along with your message. Don't get all excited about doomed things. The day is coming when there will not be one stone left upon another. And in 70 A. D. , they they packed that temple full of timber. Put an accelerant on it, lit it, closed the doors, and walked away. And it sat there ensimmered And burned until all the oxygen was gone, and then it exploded like an atomic bomb. And today, if you were to go to Jerusalem, you can walk along the ramp that they have built that goes up to the western wall, and you can look over down below that ramp and see these stones, some of them bigger as big as that wall right there Just laying where they were blown from their foundation. So there shall not be And today there is still no temple there. Verse 3. And as he sat upon the Mount of Olives, the disciples came unto him privately, saying, Tell us. When shall these things be, and what shall be the sign of thy coming and of the end of the world? Alright now, if I were you I'd listen real carefully because Jesus is going to reveal something. Here's what he says He says, take heed that no man deceive you, verse four. And notice five times in these little in the in in his statement, five times he warns about deception. Take heed that no man deceive you, for many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ, and shall deceive many And ye shall hear of wars and rumors of wars, see that you be not troubled, for all these things must come to pass, but the end is not yet. For nation shall rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom, and there shall be famines and pestilences and earthquakes in diverse places. All these are the beginning of sorrows. Then shall they deliver you up to be afflicted, and shall kill you, and you shall be hated of all nations for my name's sake. And then shall many be offended and shall betray one another and shall hate one another. And many false prophets shall rise and shall deceive many. And because iniquity shall abound, the love of many shall wax cold. But he that shall endure unto the end, the same shall be saved. And this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations, and then shall the end come. All right, let's pray. Father, thank you so much for this conference. What a blessing it has been to our hearts. And Father, thank you for the Word of God that we hold in our hands tonight. The eternal word, inspired, infallible. And I pray that you will bless tonight as we look at your word. Give us understanding. Open our hearts to receive your word with gladness. And as we heard a moment ago, may this word be a lamp unto our feet and a light unto our path. Help us to see just how near we are to hearing that trumpet sound. Bless us, Lord. We need your blessing. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. For the first time in our world's history, all three of the monotheistic Religions in our world, for the first time, all three are crying out for the coming of their Messiah. When I say monotheistic, I mean religions that believe in one God. Mono one. Theistic God. Now, what are those three monotheistic religions? Well, I'll give them to you in the order in which They came into existence. The first one is Judaism. The second one is Christianity. And the third is Islam. Islam is a monotheistic religion. Now let me just say right off the bat here, I'll explain it later, but Islam's God is not our God. Please understand that. Allah is not Jehovah. Okay? Now All three are right now, tonight, crying for their Messiah to come. Now let's start with Israel. Israel is crying for her Messiah. I want you in your mind's eye to picture little Israel on the map. And I want you to look north. What is north, Muslims? Look east. What is east? Muslims. Look south. What is south? Muslims. Go across the creek into northern Africa. What is west? Muslims. No matter where you look, little old Israel sits here in the middle of three point six billion people who hate their very existence. Now, because of America And because of America's understanding of the Bible for generations past America has fortified Israel, and God has blessed Israel. Now I've been to Jordan and I've been to Lebanon and I've uh I've been to Egypt. And uh I was right at the border of Syria. I could look over the border and see Syria. And I'm telling you There is no place in the Middle East even remotely close to how civilized the Israelis are. It's amazing. It's just like being in America. And our country has given them armament, tanks, planes. We give them planes and they soup them up. Uh there's a t-shirt you can buy over there and it shows American F-16s and behind it are Israeli F-16s and they look like tanks flying through the air. And the the caption says, Don't worry, America, we got your back Don't mess with the Israelis. Don't mess with them. And the one thing that puzzles all of these nations around them who have since 1948 fought with them and attacked them over and over and over and yet have been soundly defeated what just They what they cannot understand is how they cannot defeat Israel But Israel knows there's eight point five million of them. And they know that they do not stand a chance against 3. 6 billion Muslims. So they're crying for their Messiah. They know that the promised Messiah is their only hope. Have you seen those Hasidic Jews? I know you have. You've seen them on TV. You've seen them in the airports. You've seen them in New York City. And they're the ones with the white shirts and the black coats and the black hats and little curly cues coming off their They're uh sideburns. You've seen them. They're called Orthodox, Hasidic, H-A-S-I-D-I-C, Hasidic Jews. And they are they are Pray. You've seen them pictures of them at the Wailing Wall, and they stand with the scriptures in their hands and they rock back and forth and they read the scriptures What are they doing? They're praying for their Messiah to come. They don't work. They are employed by the nation. And the nation pays them to do one thing pray for the Messiah to come. So the Jews are crying for their Messiah. Christians, we're praying for the Messiah to come. Even so come, Lord Jesus. Oh my, I wish it was tonight. I wouldn't have to drive home. Can I get a witness? We got a promise he's coming again. Could be today. Could be tomorrow. If it's not tomorrow, we'll look for him to come day after that. If not then, well we'll look for him to come Friday. If he doesn't come Friday, we'll look Saturday, but we're to always be looking. Because we got a promise that he's coming again. And then the Muslims, they're praying for their Messiah to come. You say uh Is their Messiah our Messiah? No. No, no, no, no, no. No, no, no. You know what the media tries to tell us? Do you know what Obama and his ilk try to tell us? They try to tell us that Islam is a Peaceful religion. Can I ask you what is peaceful about blowing people up? Can I ask you what is peaceful about slitting people's throats? Flying airplanes into buildings? What's peaceful about that? In 2001, I was preaching down in Beckley, West Virginia. My birthday was on the 10th. And September the 11th happened. Tuesday morning. And I got up, turned on the TV, and I had it on Fox. And I thought, what in the world is happening? And about that time, that second plane flew into that building. I could not believe what I was seeing. And then the spin machine started. Oh, it's a peaceful religion. It's a peaceful religion. And I decided I'm going to go down to the bookstore and I'm going to buy a Quran and I'm going to read it. So I did. It made absolutely no sense. I don't know if you've ever read one. I would not encourage it. It's a waste of your time because it makes no sense. But in the Drama of hearing peaceful religion, I was reading stuff like When You Find the Infidel, cut off his head. Well, well that's not very peaceful. Matter of fact, that's just not nice. And over and over and over and over it talks about killing the infidel. And then the Iraq War happened. And when the Iraq War happened, and several boys out of my church ended up having to go over into Iraq and fight. I picked that Quran up and I read it again. And I thought, man, I'm missing something. Something I just don't see it. And about that time, the uh I have a state senator in my church And he came through the door one day and he had a great big thick book, carrying it with two hands. That's how heavy it is. And he said, Pastor. I thought you might want this. And I said, what is it, Larry? He said, this is what they handed out down at the Senate today. And I looked at it and it was a study edition of the Quran. Now the head Pubs came and passed out study Qurans. You know how you do you have a study Bible? Huh? You have a study Bible? What do you got? That's Schofield. That's a study Bible. See, it has all these notes in it and all these cross-references and all that. Well they did the Quran that way too. And I started looking, reading that. I thought, well maybe this maybe I can get a little better understanding out of this. So I started reading it. It didn't help a bit. Same old foolishness. But then it started looking at those footnotes and it started talking about these things called hadiths. And I found out that the hadith are they're like commentary on the Quran. They're like additional stuff. And it it's sort of like Catholicism in that, you know, you've got the Bible, and then you've got the writings of the popes and and uh and all these hotshots and and over time what they wrote becomes the equivalent of scripture And so added on top of all of the stuff in the Quran is all this other stuff in the Hadith. Now they're not available, but you can go online and you can read them. So I did. When I was sick. I didn't have anything else to do, so I couldn't do anything else, so I just sat there and I started studying. What do these people believe? And I learned what they believe. Now watch. In your Bible, there is, now I'm going to throw a great big word at you, and I'm not trying to impress you, I'm trying to teach you. Alright? But there is in your Bible, there is an eschatology. Now, how many of you know what that word means? What's that mean, sir? It's a study of future things. Eschatos means the future. And ology is the study of. So in your Bible is an eschatology. God does not hide from us what he's going to do. Okay? I mean, all the way back in Genesis 3. 15, when Adam first sinned, God said that he was going to send his Redeemer And he talks about two advents of that Redeemer. The first one is when The devil, the enemy of man is going to crush the Redeemer's heel. Remember that He shall bruise thy heel. But the second time he comes is when the Redeemer is going to crush his head. So you've got a first Advent and a Second Advent. Now In your Bible, we have this book called the Book of the Revelation. That word revelation means an unveiling It is an unveiling of what is God's plan for the future. Folks, God is not done with this world yet. Far from it. Far from it. And let me just simplify this plan that God has. I'm going to give you God's plan in five quick points, and they all start with the letter R. The first thing and the next thing to happen on God's calendar is the rapture of the church You will find the rapture in Revelation 4, verses 1 and 2. And you have the church age in 2 and 3, and then you have The first are the rapture. And there is nothing that prevents the rapture from happening. It could happen tonight. So Revelation four, Rapture. Then Revelation six through nineteen ten Is the second R, and I'm going to call that ruin. That's the tribulation period. Chapter 6 through chapter 19, verse 10. So Rapture, chapter 4, ruin, chapter 6 through 1910, then return That's the second coming. That's the second advent. That's when the Lord Jesus comes back to this earth. He fights the battle of Armageddon He defeats the Antichrist. He defeats the false prophet. And He then sits down upon the throne of David in Jerusalem. The fourth R reign, R-E-I-G-N. And that's chapter 20. Chapter 19 is the return. Chapter 4, rapture. Chapter 6 through 1910, ruin. Then return, chapter 19, then reign, the millennial reign of Christ, and that's for a thousand years, and then at the end of the thousand years is the restoration. The new heaven and the new earth. Now that's God's eschatology. That is what God says is coming. That's what's going to happen Now nod your heads. Everybody with me? I haven't lost anybody, have a all right, you with me? Okay, let's have a test. You ready? First R is what? Rapture then ruin then return then rain then Restoration. And that's chapter four, chapter six through nineteen ten, chapter nineteen ten to the end of the chapters of return. Chapter 20 is the reign. At 21 and 22 is the restoration. Simple, right? Pretty much. Yeah, it's not complicated. All right, now, you ready? So I'm sitting there reading that Koran. And I'm running the references and I'm I'm reading about these Haddas. And then there was a there was a little note in there And he gave this guy's name in the forward. And he gave this guy's name, who is the pastor, the imam. of a church in Cairo. So I took my Google and I typed his name in, and there's his website. And it says for English, click here. So I click there. And here's this website in English. And it said, for last Friday sermon, click here. Oh yeah. Click right on that. And you know what? This dude comes up and starts preaching to me. It says in English, press here, so I press there, and I get subtitles underneath the sermon. And you know, just like your pastor gets up on Sunday and opens his Bible and preaches his lungs out, this guy gets up in his church, in his in his mosque every Friday. And he just lets a rip, man. I mean you talk about fire and brimstone, this guy can preach. Man! I sat there riveted, reading every word he said. And you know what he was saying? He was saying that they're coming. You say, Come and where? Here. I was shocked And I sat and I listened to that sermon. Then I listened to the one that was done the week before. And then the one that was done the week before that. And the one the week before that. And this God is just sitting there explaining Islam to me, and all of a sudden it I figured it out. Here, Christianity has an eschatology. And Islam has an eschatology. Now, here you want to see the fascinating thing? Watch. You can take Islam's eschatology And you can lay it right over the Bible's eschatology, and it is a perfect match. What the Bible says is going to happen is exactly what the Quran says and the Hadith say that Is going to happen when their Messiah comes. Just as God has an eschatology, the devil has an eschatology. And it's a perfect match. The only difference? The Bible's good guys are Islam's bad guys. And the Bible's bad guys are Islam's good guys. It's just all backwards. It's just like turning on the light for me. And I started reading that Bible, and I thought, wow. Wow. And I took sixty some Wednesday nights and Sunday nights and went back into my Bible and every prophecy that I could find on the second coming of Christ I preached on it. And you know what I found out? I found out that God names names. Did you know that? God names names. When you read this Bible, you read Ezekiel thirty-eight. And you read the book of Isaiah, and you read the book of Jeremiah, and you read Joel, and you read uh uh uh uh Haggai and all the I mean Zechariah, you read those books. Do you know what our problem is? We don't read the Bible. That's true. That's what our problem is. Now I guarantee you most of you you've never heard any of this in your life, have you? You know why? Because All we know is our own little world right here. Now, would you stop and think with me for just a minute? The Bible is Jerusalem Israel centric. Would you agree to that? When the Lord Jesus comes back, by the way, read Joel chapter two and Joel chapter three when you get home. And this reign or this return period, when he comes back, Joel said, We come with him. And Isaiah calls us mighty ones. He said when we come back, we'll be able to Jump from mountain to mountain. Man, it's all I can do to get up and walk to the platform right now Can you imagine a glorified body and we're going to be fighting in that battle? You say, well, preacher, what if I get hurt? Joel covered that. He said, if you get run through with an arrow, won't hurt you. Go home and read it. Oh, it's amazing, folks, what is coming for the people of God. And God names names. God tells you who's going to be at that battle. You say, where does God say that? All right, I thought you'd say that. So I'm ready for you. Turn to Psalm 83. Turn to Psalm 83 and I'll show you Look at verse 1. Keep not thou silent, O God. Hold not thy peace, and be not still, O God. Well I can tell you, he's not going to be. Oh, he's got some stuff up his sleeve. Verse 2, for lo, thine enemies make a tumult. Look here. Look here. Here's little Israel. Thine enemies make a tumult. Hey, did you see what my hand just did? What is that? A crescent. At the top of every mosque is the crescent moon. And isn't it ironic that little Israel is right here, and there is a crescent of nations around them seeking their destruction. Think about it. Read on. I uh I gotta hurry. For lo, thine enemies, verse 2, make a tumult. And they that hate thee have lifted up the head. They have taken crafty counsel against thy people and consulted against thy hidden ones. They have said, come and let us cut them off from being a nation. Bingo. Probably shouldn't say bingo in church, but Bingo Right? Let us cut them off from being a nation. Wow, that sounds like what I heard in coming out of Cairo. That sounds like what comes out of Gaza and what comes out of Lebanon and what comes out of Saudi Arabia. Let's drive them in the sea. Let us cut them off from being a nation. Ooh, watch. That the name of Israel may be no more in remembrance. For they have consulted together with one consent. Look here. With one consent How are they going to do that? Well, right here's the return, and the devil is going to have seven years, and that Antichrist is going to rise up, and he's going to rally them all together. They're all crying for Their Messiah. And when he comes, they'll all rally around him. Say, well, Pastor, I always thought the Antichrist was coming out of Europe. Well, isn't it funny that the Bible says Babylon and yet American pastors want to say Rome Now, how do you get Rome out of Babylon? And isn't it ironic that when you read Isaiah, Isaiah calls the Antichrist the Assyrian. He calls him the Pharaoh. He calls him Gog Of Magog. Magog is Turkey. There, you know, w this is Garrett County Well, there is a section in Turkey that is called Magog. It's a county, if you will. Amazing, huh? And so God names names. And God tells us who this Antichrist is. And let me tell you something, folks, this Antichrist is not going to be Out of Europe. The Bible is Jerusalem centric, not Brussels-centric. It is Jerusalem centric, not Berlin centric, or London, or Washington, DC. And let me tell you something else. In the Quran, here's what they say. Remember, the Bible's bad guys are Islam's good guys The Antichrist in the Bible is the bad guy. But in Islam, their Messiah is the good guy. He is called the Mahdi, M-A-H-D-I. The Mahdi. And then when he rises up, the Hannists talk about This uh uh uh the this this um the two angels bringing you ready for this Jesus. In Islam he is called Itha, I-S-S-A, but it's Jesus when you anglicize it. And the Hannes say that two angels will bring Esau and will lower him in Damascus. At the mosque there, and the Mahdi will be up speaking to the masses and rallying the troops and announcing himself. And these angels are gonna bring Jesus and put him on the platform and The Hada say that the Mahdi will turn around and bow and say, uh uh Jesus, you have come to help us. And Jesus will then say, oh no, and will pick the Mahdi up and go behind him, and Jesus will bow down to the Mahdi and say to him in front of the cameras of the world. You are our Messiah. Well, folks, that ain't our Jesus. That's not my Savior. But their good gu their bad guys, or Bible's bad guys, are Islam's good guys Read on. Gotta hurry. Gotta hurry. Look at this. The tabernacles of Eden, they're confederate against thee. The tabernacle now here's where he names names. The tabernacle Tabernacles of Edom. And the Ishmaelites. You know who the Ishmaelites are? The Arabs. Sure. Edom, that's Jordan. Moab. Moab, that's Saut uh northern Saudi Arabia. The Hagarimes, the Saudis, Gibel, that's That's uh uh uh Gebel is Lebanon. And then Amon. Uh uh the capital of Jordan is Amon. Amon Alright, the uh and uh uh Amalek and the Philistines, that's Gaza, with the inhabitants of Tyre. Tyre is in Lebanon. Asher also is joined with them, Asher the Assyrians. The the the Syrian people. They have hopen the children of Lot. They have helped the children of Lot. And then God says Do unto them as unto the Midianites, as to Sisera, as to Jaban at the brook Khison. which perished at Endor. They became as dung for the earth. You remember when the children of Israel were fighting the Midianites, and and you remember they they took a a hammer and a nail and they drove uh uh th drove the nail in uh into that man's temples and anchored him to the ground. Well that's what God said to uh to do here Then he said, Make their nobles like Oreb and like Zeb. You say, well, where do you find How how do you know that that w what that means? Well, if you go back to J uh to uh Judges chapter eight, you will you will read about uh uh uh or chapter seven you will read about these two. It says in uh in uh seven twenty-five And they took two princes of the Midianites, Arub and Zeb, and they slew Arub upon the rock Aub, and Zeb they slew upon the winepress of Zeb and pursued Midian and brought the heads of Oreb and Zeb to Gideon on the other side of Jordan. So God says basically here What he's saying is, hey listen, I'm naming names, I'm telling you who's gonna be there, and when Jesus comes back, there's not going to be any mercy We're going to do to the to the uh to the Muslim nations that have gathered against Little Jerusalem at the Battle of Armageddon. We're going to do unto them Just like Gideon did in the book of Judges, there will be no mercy. None Then look at the next verse. Verse 11. It says middle of the verse. Yea, all their princes as Zeba and Zalmuna. Alright, now go to Judges real quick. I gotta show you this and then I'll be done. Judges eight As you can realize this message goes on until lunch tomorrow. Judges 8. Let me show you what happened to Zeba and Zalmuna. Verse 21. Everybody got it? If you got it, say amen. Alright, follow along. Then Ziba and Zalmuna. Now we're talking about this is the story of Gideon. All right, you remember the story? Going after the Midianites. And God told Gideon, You got too many men. He had 32,000. God said, You got too many. Tell me anybody wants to go home, they can go home. And so like Good Baptist, twenty two thousand of them left. You with me? And then God said, Now you got ten thousand, but that's still too many. So take them down to the creek, get a drink, and everybody who just throws their face in, send them home. Everybody who walks down Kneels down, takes the water, and brings it up to their mouth, and 300 did it that way. And they put those 300 around the mountains, gave them a sword. Gave 'em a pitcher, gave 'em a candle, and then uh when it got dark they they uh uh uh broke the the pitchers and the light sh uh was shining and they blew the trumpets and the Midianites thought there were thousands upon thousands of them that lined the hills And they they went crazy. Well the battle went through the whole day, through the night and into the day. And in verse twenty one it says, Then Zeba and Zalmuna said Rise thou and fall upon us. So what happened was Gideon went after these two princes. These guys were head honchos Zeb, Ziba, and Zalmuna. And they got on their camels and they took off and and Gideon went after them. And Gideon caught them. I can't read the whole story, but Gideon caught them. And when he caught them, they got off their camels, turned around, showed their swords, and said to Gideon, Okay, big boy, let's see what you got. That's in the Hebrew. Alright, just making sure you're listening Look at what it said. Rise thou and fall upon us. Zeb and Zalmunas said to Gideon, Come on, buddy, show us what you got. For as the man is, so is his strength. And Gideon arose and slew Zeba and Zalmuna. Amen. Now does the sentence end there? There's a comma in there. Alright? Somebody with a good strong voice. Read the rest of that verse to me. You look at your Bible. Who's got a good strong voice? Sir, you look like you've got a good strong voice. Do you have a good strong voice? Yes. Stand up right there and read the rest of that verse. It says, and took. Go ahead and read it. throw away their ornaments that were on their camels necks. Thank you. Alright now I got a question. Isn't that weird Now why would you put that in there? I mean he's already killed them. Right? Why would you put a comma and add the little part that says That Gideon took away the ornaments that were on their camel's necks Isn't that weird? Am I the only one that's so weird in that So I I mean I thought, good grief. And then I noticed by the word ornament in my Bible My Bible is a um it's a um Cambridge, the cleanest text. I like it best And I noticed that there's a little eight beside the word ornaments. Anyone else have a little eight beside the word ornaments? Anybody else have that in your Bible? Am I the only one in here that has a Cambridge Bible? Seriously? You got it in yours? So y so you can verify that what I'm about to say is right. Okay. That's all I wanted was one. Thank you, sir And in my Bible there's an eight. By the way, the reason I use this Cambridge Bible is because The footnotes, the cross-references of the King James translators themselves are in this Bible, in this Cambridge text. That's why I use it And there's an eight. And it says, beside the word ornament, so I look over here and here's what it says. You ready for this? Ornaments like the moon. Is that what yours says? Ornaments like the moon Folks, I contend and I don't have time to prove it, but back here at the Tower of Babel The religion that came out of Babel and settled in the Middle East was the religion of Baal. Baal. Baal means the Lord. It ain't our Lord. It's a false Lord. And that Baal religion, God said, clear it out. Slay utterly. And they didn't do it. And eventually that religion, when Solomon got on the throne, And he married all of those Canaanite women who were followers of Baal. That religion became Israel's religion Now you imagine, how many wives did that man have? 700. How many concubines did he have? 300. A thousand mother-in-laws Wow. And his wife come in and say, Honey, we we need a mosque. We need a temple How are the grandkids going to have a Christmas program if we don't have a temple? Can you imagine how many kids that guy had? Can you imagine how many grandkids that guy had? And they're all tugging and pulling at his heart. And his heart went cold. Cold towards God. And I contend that that religion Kept on and kept on and kept on until the devil put it together in about 526 A. D. by speaking to a pedophile. Whose name was Muhammad. A pedophile. Are you listening to me? The guy was crazy. He was certifiably crazy. And he wrote that Quran inspired. Just as God inspired that book, the devil inspired that Koran. And it is nothing more than Christianity flipped upside down. That's all it is. One more thing. Revelation 20. Hurry. Hurry. You've read this verse all your life. Now you're going to understand it. All right. Look here. What's this? Rapture, right? Then what? Ruin? Then what? Return. Okay? Now what goes on right here in this ruin? Tribulation. That Antichrist rises up. That Antichrist rises up and multitudes are killed. Multitudes. Look here, look at verse 4. And I saw thrones. Where? Right here. Right here. When the Lord comes back. And I saw thrones. And they that sat upon them and judgment was given unto them And I saw the souls. Look at me. I saw the souls of all these people that were killed during the tribulation period And I saw the souls of them that were, what is the next word? Who beheads. I've read that verse my whole Christian life. Didn't really understand. But I do now. Because you see that Antichrist is going to rise up, and don't forget Paul said he's a miracle worker He's got the church gone, the Holy Spirit gone. He's got nothing holding him back. And he's a miracle worker. He does things and convinces the world. He's already got the world convinced. They're already convinced. And if the Lord does not come back and get us soon, man, I don't I don't know I think it's I think the trumpet is out of the case and Gabriel's warming up the mouthpiece. I really do. That's how close we are. You better get your house in order, my friend. Because today could be the day. Bow your heads with me. Father, we thank you for the Word of God. I I preached a long time tonight. But Father, I pray you'll help us to hear with our hearts and realize the soon return of our Lord. And Father, if we're not where we ought to be, I pray that tonight we'll want to get our hearts right with you. Oh God, do something in our midst tonight. We need revival And I pray your Holy Spirit will speak to our hearts and draw us to your side. Father, get us in the book. Help us to get in the Word of God, to read it, learn it, love it, study it, meditate upon it. And hide your your word in our hearts so we won't sin against you. Oh Lord, do something for us this evening, we pray, in Jesus' name. With our heads bowed and our eyes closed, would you