All right, now this right now we need to get to the Word of God, and we'll go to the book of 2 Corinthians. The book of 2 Corinthians. As I travel about uh especially in our area of the country and uh then I'll go to Texas and somebody will get up and say Uh turn to 1 Timothy. For those of you from Oklahoma, that's right before 2 Timothy. Ha ha ha ha. You know, so I come here and hear that's done to West Virginia. And that's the very reason I've always pulled for West Virginia and their sports programs. That's why. I've always pulled because they take the same kind of abuse that we often take in the state of Oklahoma. Alright, so anyway, 2 Corinthians chapter number 6. Chapter 5. I got off track there and couldn't remember what chapter is. 2 Corinthians and chapter number 5. If you don't mind, let's stand for the reading of the Word of God. And I'm going to begin reading In verse 12. Now, uh let me just say a word while you're standing. I promise you I'll give you plenty of time to sit. Alright So this is a fair deal here. Oh, by the way, uh I don't have a lot of rules while I'm preaching at at all, you know, you can't do this, you can't do that, but I'll tell you what I do like If in the course of preaching I say something like, Amen, or somebody help me, or is that right, nobody answers, I think. They don't get it. So we go back and start over. Now it's up to you how long this thing lasts, amen? Oh yeah, yeah, really. Vocal now, huh? Yeah So when I ask for an amen, just help me along. And it's not because I'm insecure in what I'm saying, it's because we're we start somewhere and we go somewhere. You would hope that would be the case in a sermon, wouldn't you? We're starting somewhere and we're going somewhere. You really don't want the preacher to get up and say, Hi. Random thoughts for the day. You know, that's not really what we need. So we're starting somewhere and we're going somewhere. And along the way, I just need to know you're going with me 'Cause that matters. That matters. And so if you help me out that way, that'll be good. That'd be a good thing to keep the service moving All right, now in 2 Corinthians and uh chapter number 5, in the whole book of 2 Corinthians, it's really kind of sad that Paul had to write this book. And the reason is because he had gone to Corinth, was there 18 months, and when he left, the church at Corinth was in existence. Many of the people that were there, if not all of them, were brought to Christ through the ministry of the Apostle Paul. And so that means that he not only introduced them to Christ, he calls himself their father in the ministry, not not elevating himself, but just that they are like his children in the ministry. And so the Apostle Paul brought them to Christ, began to disciple them and teach them, and then by the leadership of the Holy Ghost moved on. Now, they owed their awareness of and exposure to the gospel, of course, to God, but the human instrument was the Apostle Paul. Now, after Paul left, there were some that came in behind him. And he talks about them in chapter 13. And he says they claim to be apostles and are not. They preach another gospel, not the gospel. Is everybody with me here so far? They preach another Christ Not Christ, the truth of the gospel. And so some of these people come in behind Paul, and what do they do? They attack him. And they begin to make the claim that he as well as some other apostles are bogus. They are not authentic apostles. And they question his authority as an apostle. Now that's sad, but what's really sad is it turned the church of Corinth almost upside down because they they received the false teaching. And they questioned the authority of the Apostle Paul. They no longer had the confidence that he was an apostle. Now, it's not like Paul. You can tell from the first chapter of Corinthians, which we read Just a moment ago, it's not like Paul to make it about himself. It's not like him to do that. But he finds it necessary to defend his apostleship That he is an authentic apostle. He finds that necessary. Now why would he find that necessary if he doesn't want to make it about himself? All right, then you figure this out If the Apostle Paul came and brought them the truth in Jesus Christ, the truth of the gospel, which he did, then what's it going to do to the church if someone comes in with another gospel? And someone comes in preaching another Christ, claiming to be preachers of the gospel of Jesus Christ, but they're off. It's not true. It's not real. It's not right. Okay, if the church embraces the false teaching, where's that church headed? I said, where's that church headed? It's headed off into error. It's headed off into self-destruction. That's where it's headed. And so the apostle has to re-establish that he is, in fact, With apostolic authority and has given them the truth. Let's not forget this. I don't have time to dwell on it, but let's not forget this, that we still teach the day. Today, we still teach The foundation from the foundation that was laid by the apostles. Read Ephesians 3 and you'll see that. That we're still preaching today from the foundation that was laid by those that were indeed apostles And we wouldn't know truth from peanut butter if it wasn't for the preservation. I've never said that before. Where peanut butter came from, I do not know. But but uh without the preservation of the teaching of the apostles. Read Ephesians 3 and that will make that very, very clear. So it's very important to perpetuate the truth. Alright, now. As he reluctantly defends himself, let's begin reading in verse 12. For we commend not ourselves again unto you But give you occasion to glory on our behalf. I don't want to defend myself to you again, but he said I must. I want to give you occasion. to glory on our behalf, to understand that you have received from us the truth. That you may have somewhat to answer them which glory in appearance and not in heart. That would be the false teachers he talks about later on in the letter. For whether, now look at this, whether we be beside ourselves, it is to God, or whether we be sober, it is for your cause For the love of Christ constraineth us, because we thus judge that if one died for all, then we're all dead And that he died for all, that they which live should not henceforth live unto themselves, but unto him which died for them and rose again. Wherefore, henceforth know we no man after the flesh Yea, though we have known Christ after the flesh, yet now henceforth know we him no more. Stop right there so I don't have to bring it up again. Somebody says, what in the world does that mean? Well, before Paul got saved, he only uh evaluated this Jesus of Nazareth from the standpoint of an unbelieving or man in the flesh, a carnal man. But when he met Jesus Christ in salvation, he knew him that way no more. Now he knows him for who he is. Is everybody with me on that? Yeah, we've got to understand that. Because that can be a confusing verse if you're not, you know, if we if we don't uh make sure that there is clarity there. All right, now look at verse 17, a verse known by many in this room. Therefore. . If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature, old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. Now I'm going to stop right there, and we're going to finish the passage and the message tonight. So that's the neat thing about this. This is just the first part of a sermon. And so you have to be back tonight. Isn't that great? We have to be back to get the rest of the sermon. I found that Baptists don't appreciate somebody telling them they have to do anything. So anyway, I'd suggest you be back tonight. That'd be a good thing. And and this is a marvelous, marvelous passage in my estimation. All right, let's have a word of prayer and I'll ask you to be seated. Lord, I do want to say thank you in Jesus' name for the privilege to assemble with this congregation. And I want to thank you for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church and the lighthouse that it is in this city, this area And for not only the ministry that is done here, but through missions, missions giving, sending out Trying to be a blessing to missionaries affecting people in places of the world that many of us have never been, we'll never see And yet there are believers assembling just like this on the Lord's Day because of the care for souls and the Great Commission from churches just like this. So God, we're very thankful for that. I thank you for the good fellowship we've enjoyed together in song and in greeting one another, time in the Word, reading the Scripture, in prayer. God, we do thank you for your manifold blessings. And now I can't know what you know beyond any doubt. You know every man. Your word says that You know all men, you need not that any should testify to you of man, because not only do you know all men, you know what is in man So you are acquainted with where we are and our needs and our Dependence upon your sufficiency, you're acquainted with our lives far better than we would ever realize. You know us better than we know ourselves. In fact, we can't even know ourselves unless we see ourselves from the lens of your precious word. So I pray your blessings now upon this time, that it might be helpful and that it might be profitable. I pray that you'd remove hindrances and distractions, O God, that we might at least on this Lord's day for a few moments. Give undivided attention to your precious word. In Jesus' wonderful name. Amen. Thank you, and God bless you. Maybe see you I've uh, as Pastor mentioned, tried to be a preacher for the past 49 years and Not only do I have a few stories myself, but uh have sat with uh many and many a pastor in many a situation. in preaching and traveling and so forth, where there has been pain, there has been disappointment, there has been hurt And it came about as a result of someone that they had helped and loved and cared for, turning on them as though they were the adversary. That's where the church at Corinth had gotten to in their attitude and their relation to the Apostle Paul. Now, I have to say that that didn't feel any better to Paul than it would to you and me. It would have had the same effect upon him as it would anyone else. It it's like betrayal It's like uh somebody comes up and sticks you in the back. And uh almost anybody that's tried to serve the Lord, whether as a preacher or serving the Lord seriously in a local church, probably has a few s scars in the back, you know, where somebody has disappointed and somebody has betrayed. And and that's how Paul would have felt about this. Now I have to remind you of the Apostle Paul also, that this church wasn't the only disappointment that he had in his ministry. He was a man who loved his own nation. Brethren, my heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is that they might be saved. And yet if you follow his missionary travels, you'll find that he was constantly in trouble by the Jews of town to town to town, and how that they defied him, and as he would teach and preach in the synagogue, there were times that they conspired to kill him There were times that they conspired to imprison him or to turn him over to authorities for imprisonment. There were times he was stoned. and left for dead. He was beaten with rods. Go read 2 Corinthians chapter 11. And you'll see that this man suffered a lot in the process. Now listen to this carefully. In the process, not of being some kind of a hardhead Not trying to r lead some kind of a revolution, but loving souls and caring about the people that came to know Jesus Christ as their and giving himself completely to the furtherance and the propagation of the gospel, he had all of this opposition that came against him, and it was from people that he cared about Either his people of his own nation, his own race, or people that were false teachers and false prophets. You can read in Philippians chapter 1 that when he was imprisoned, there were some preachers That preached the gospel that were glad for his imprisonment. See, now that's almost beyond our comprehension, but that's what Paul went through. Now we might ask ourselves the question, uh, what kept him going? Because if you know anything about the life of the Apostle Paul, the man never wavered. You know, if you just kind of take this aisle here as a straight line that he walked Well that's where he went. I mean the guy was just straight ahead. He didn't turn this way, he didn't turn that way, he didn't waver, he was not an on again, off again guy He wasn't that kind of a person. He dealt with the things that anybody else who had dealt with uh would deal with, and the opposition only at an elevated rate And yet he never turned from one to one side or the other. He kept straight ahead for the Lord Jesus Christ. Now how can he do that? Somebody says, how could a man endure all that he endured? And we haven't even begun to cover it all, but how could they endure all that he endured and still stay true to God? And why is it he still cares so much about this Corinthian church? You know anything about the Corinthian church? They're a mess. They're a mess. I've driven around the country and throughout the South. I've driven uh in uh just this summer, I was on a long trip and I found three churches in rural South uh of our country called Corinth Baptist Church. And I'm thinking to myself, why would you call it Corinth Baptist Church? Because the church just had all kinds of problems and had it had uh problems with extreme selfishness and self-centeredness They had moral issues that are almost beyond description. They had some doctrinal issues, and so we're going to call it Corinth Baptist Church. Well, that's none of my business, but that's just what they did it. This church was a real problem. And why would you uh write them two letters? He wrote Thessalonians two letters, but a church that he really loved also was Philippi. He only wrote then one little short letter. I mean we have in the Bible record here two letters that he wrote to Corinth, and there might have been more And where he communicated with them. What was the deal with him? Why did he care about them and why did he love them? Because they made these accusations. of what they were had believed about Paul because the accusations against him was he's beside himself, over the top with zeal. And then another accusation was he's sober He's too serious-minded. He takes everything too seriously. Excuse me. It's not unusual for a servant of God to be accused on both extremes of a thing. And Paul states here in verse number uh thirteen, he said, Do you understand that if it seems in the eyes of my critics and even you there at Corinth that I am beside myself or over the top, he said, my zeal has to do with my desire for you to be where you're supposed to be with the Lord. And he said, if I get accused on the other extreme, it is unto God. He said, I I'm I do what I do is unto God for your sake That's basically what verse number 13 boils down to. He is simply saying, what I do. I do it as unto the Lord, and I do it as unto the Lord for your sake. Now that makes all the sense in the world when we understand that a local assembly is really the body of Christ Now you might listen to some uh radio preaching and TV preaching and stuff like that, and they talk about this universal invisible body, but the only way it finds definition in the New Testament, my dear friend, is in the concept of a local New Testament church. And since this is, hold on just a second, since this church is called the Body of Christ The body of Christ. Well, if this is an authentic, I'm saying if rhetorically, if this is an authentic New Testament Baptist church here, whose body is this? Huh? It's Christ's body. It's an assembly. Now but I'm thinking about the universal well that's not what he had in mind And that's what what the New Testament Revelation has in mind. It has to do with a particular individual congregation. And it doesn't mean the body of Christ as though this is the mystical body of Christ. No. This assembly is likened to a body, 1 Corinthians 12, Romans chapter 12. And this assembly is likened unto a physical body. And as the church assembles, and as this congregation assembles, saved and scripturally baptized and embracing the teaching of the doctrine of the Bible, then this assembly is a spiritual body or a body as well, and it is Christ's body. It's not his. I never pastored a church that was mine. In fact, I shied away from ever saying at my church, my deacons, my this, my that, because I realized it ain't mine I know ain't a good word for a Bible college president, but you get it? No, I'm just saying it's not mine It's not mine at all. Nothing is mine. I'm a servant of the Lord Jesus Christ. He is a servant of the Lord Jesus Christ. I don't own anything. I'm a servant of Jesus Christ. And that's where we're all supposed to understand. Servant is a body. Now why would Paul stay with them and keep showing them love? Write this letter, assure them of his love. Why does he do this? Alright, now look down at verse 14. Oh my, this is quite a verse. In verse 14, Paul said, For the love of Christ constraineth us. Now when he says us, he is meaning apostles. He's talking about apostleship in general. But this church is not necessarily worried about all the apostles, because all the apostles didn't come under attack. Paul did But to try to deflect some of the attention off of himself personally uses the term us. Now watch this in verse 14. For the love of Christ constraineth us. Now let's pause there for just a moment. The Apostle Paul said, the love of Christ, I am constrained by the love of Christ. Now, what does he mean by that? What does he mean by constraint? Well, I don't do sermons on word studies and stuff like that, but I do a lot of word study. And uh I did some uh research on the word that we have here, constraint. He said the love of Christ constraineth us. Now, I'm going to give you that definition just a little bit and an illustration of it But isn't it something to hear the apostle talking about the love of Christ? Because if you're a Bible student, all you gotta do is go back in your mind And remember Saul of Tarsus before he came to be Paul the apostle. Is everybody with me here? Come on, I don't get to sleep, you don't get to sleep. Come on, that's just the way it works. Alright? And so we all get a nap this afternoon. Alright, now listen to this. Here's the Apostle Paul. Paul the Apostle was first introduced to us as Saul of Tarsus Saul of Tarsus, by his own testimony, Philippians chapter 3, Saul of Tarsus was a Hebrew of the Hebrews. Now, what in the world does that mean? Well, Hebrew of the Hebrews means if you went up to a Jew in that time and said, Can you show me somebody that's a Jew that is what every Jew ought to be? They would have said Saul of Tarsus, because I mean he was more zealous than anybody else in being a Hebrew And a Pharisee, which was the most strict sect religiously of the Hebrews And so the apostle, that is, we know him, Saul of Tarsus, was first a Hebrew of the Hebrews, a Pharisee of the Pharisees. He was the Pharisees' MBP, if you know what I mean. Most valuable player. I mean, nobody was more significant than Paul. Nobody was more zealous for the way of the Pharisees. than the uh than Solomon Tarsus. Now I want to ask you a question. Do you ever read in your Bible about the Pharisees and say, what a delightful people? Not me. When I hear Pharisee, I want to punch somebody. You know, I mean that's the most despicable people you can possibly imagine the Pharisees are And and for Jesus to resort to calling the Pharisees hypocrites, liars, children of the devil, come on, for Jesus to talk to them in those terms, it was bad. That was bad. And so who was the top dog among the Pharisees? It was Saul of Tarsus. That was him. That's what he claims. And so there he was. Now, the Pharisees, you never read where they had compassion or showed love to anybody You will not read it. Because love is not what they were about. They loved themselves. Their self-righteousness, their emphasis upon self. They were lovers of their own selves. That's the Pharisees. And the Pharisees were known best for hate. They hated Samaritans. They hated Jews that were Sadducees or that were Herodians. They hated their own countrymen that were not just like themselves. They hated, let's see what, oh, Jesus of Nazareth Yeah, this Jesus of Nazareth when he came upon the scene. And and the Pharisees despised him and they hated him. And so Jesus had come then and died for our sins and rose again from the dead and ascended back to the Father in heaven. The day of Pentecost had come and he empowered that church that they might uh fulfill the great commission and go everywhere with the gospel of Jesus Christ. And so as the persecution came and they left Jerusalem and then independent Bible believing Baptist churches were going everywhere. I mean they were everywhere And uh the spread of the gospel was incredible. And there was a move to say we've got to stop this. We are losing Jews to this. We are Uh these people are gaining a foothold. We gotta stop them. And so the persecution was going on, and uh what would you do but persecute their leaders and And who was the first uh martyr that was among the believers? It was a man full of faith and of the Holy Ghost, a man by the name of Stephen, and and he is being stoned to death because of his witness and because of his testimony Uh Acts chapter seven is one of my favorite chapters to read because I mean oh Stephen gives them the whole history of their people and those people that hate Jesus and hate Stephen and hate the work of the New Testament church. What? They're listening to Stephen rehearse their history and they're sitting there. I can see them looking like some look on Sunday morning in Independent Baptist Church Sitting there looking like this and uh yeah, yeah, yeah. But as he keeps going and keeps going, he's telling everything just like it is. And they have to be sitting there saying, Yeah, he's right. Yeah, that's the way it was. Uh-huh That's what the Old Testament said. That's what the prophets did. That's what Moses did. Yeah, yeah. It's right, it's right. And he was doing great till he came down and said, Ye stiff-necked and uncircumcised You do always resist the Holy Ghost. He said, as your father did, so do you. He's doing fine until he made the application. And when he made the application, they fell under that conviction of their sin. And they took Stephen and stoned him to death. Who was holding the clothes of those that were casting the stones? Saul of Tarsus. Observing this. And watching this, assenting to his death that he might be stoned. Why? Because it was his mission To stop the work of the spread of the gospel of Jesus Christ. That was his work. That was his mission. You don't believe that Then you go read the book of Acts, chapter 9. And he's on his way to Damascus and he's got the authority in his hand so that he might go and and and shut down the believers. Here's what it says. Hail men and women And put them in prison. So he would take men and women and put them in prison, oppress them, hail them, oppress them, make their lives miserable, persecute them. And Paul was going to Damascus because the church there apparently was growing and thriving, and he's going to go shut it down by persecution. Hailing men and women. He's going to take men and women and put them in prison and make their lives miserable for one reason they believe in Jesus Christ. They believe that Jesus of Nazareth, the Son of God, and that He's the Savior and the fulfilling of the prophets And for that reason alone, they were going to go to prison by the authority of the Sanhedrin and by the authority of this man with authority named Saul of Tarsus. Yep, there he was on the way. If you'd walked up to him and said, Saul, uh there's a lot of talk still about that Jesus of Nazareth. What do you think about him? Here would have been his response. And he is spit on the ground to show his disdain and his hate for Jesus. There he is with his entourage on the way to Damascus. But suddenly there was a light that shone. The lights of which he'd never seen before. It made him blind. He couldn't see a thing He's smitten to the ground. He's off the beast. He's on that Damascus dusty road. And as he is there on the ground, amazed and astounded at the circumstances that have come upon him, there's a voice from heaven. And this voice that comes from heaven says, Saul, Saul. Oh, I'd love to have been there and heard the tone of voice, wouldn't you? Just the way that Jesus would have addressed him. I mean, come on. You know, it could have been like this. Gotcha now, Saul. But that wasn't Jesus, was it? Saul, Saul. Why persecutest thou me? It is hard for thee to kick against the pricks, which simply means I've been after you. I've goaded you a few times like an ox is goaded by its master. And when the ox doesn't like it, he's a stubborn ox. And he kicks against the goat. It only makes his pain worse. And so God has been making himself known. And that Jesus is the Son of God to Saul of Tarsus, but he's been fighting against pulling the shoulder away like a good Jew and a good Hebrew and a good Pharisee, and he didn't want to hear anything good. about it, but now he's on that Damascus road and he hears the voice from heaven like he'd never heard. Why persecutest thou me? And his response to Jesus was, Who art thou, Lord? And he said, I am Jesus whom thou persecutest. And Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? Now I don't know much how much of the story we have word for word, but I know this. There was a man that went from unbelief to believing. There was a man that repented of his pride and his sinfulness at that point and exercised faith that this Jesus that is speaking to him is the same man that he He's been persecuting the same one that he's been persecuting. And he says to him, Who art thou, Lord? What wilt thou have me to do? And he understood who he was and surrendered then not only to believe that he is the Savior, but to his authority in his life. And he went up from there, went on to Damascus, and you know how that eventually his eyesight came back after he was baptized, and then he goes from there. Now you know what Paul is saying in our verse right here? He said, Do you know what got me? Listen to this, please. You know what got me? It was the love of Christ. The fact that I hated him so bad and he loved me The fact that I only desired to take people that believed in him and put them in prison and stop the spread of the gospel so that more people would not believe in Jesus Christ of Nazareth So that they would be uh put away and we wouldn't have this contention uh with these believers and these Christians and all of that. And the Apostle Paul said, yet while I was in that condition of despite him and hating him and fighting against him the whole time he loved me He loved me. And came to me. I like that song. He came to me When I could not come to where he was, he came to me. And the apostle was aware of that. And he said, When I was lost, when I was dead, He came to me and he loved me. No wonder he wrote uh uh that when we were yet without Christ in due time, Christ died. God commendeth his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us I mean he just couldn't get over the fact that God loved him. Read all of his writings, and you'll see that it's like he not only was sorry about his past and had trouble getting over that, but he just He he just well he never did get over the fact that he was loved by Jesus Christ. And now he is saying, do you know what it is that keeps me going? In the midst of adversity and opposition, lies and slander and the whole bit? He said it's the love of Christ. constraineth me. Constraineth us, constraineth me. The love of Christ. That word constrain, really there's a lot of ways to define it. I'd spend a long time on the definition. But just to reduce it down to simplicity. It has to do with holding in. It has to do with keeping in space, keeping in line, not allowing to go out of the boundaries. And in the definition, I came across the uh explanation or the illustration of a headgate or cat. Now, I know I I don't live in an agricultural society like I came up in, but there are some people in here that understand this. My dad was a farmer and uh and uh we ran cattle as well, kept a herd of about D60 cows and then sometimes ran up to 200 and then you'd work the calves. Well I was an FFA, Future Farmers of America I would uh I I built I adored a weld and I built my dad a headgate as my project. Well a headgate is that uh contraption that is about yay wide and and uh you can put a calf in there when you go to work calves, you come in, you run the calf in, and you get his head through this little hole, and then you bring down the uh lever and it locks his head in And then it can compress from the side and keep him in there. Now what you're going to do is you're going to work the calf. In other words, you're going to de-horn, you're going to vaccinate, you're going to do whatever you're going to do in relation to that calf, and you got him in there where you can handle them, brand them and the whole thing They're right there in that head gate. And they they're not going anywhere. You understand what I'm saying? They can kick, they can try to kick, they can swalk, and everything small ball move whatever they do and they can do all of that. They're not going anywhere because they're kept in by that. And you know what the Apostle Paul said? He said it's the love of Christ. That's kept me where I am. It's not the approval of man, somebody say. It's not all favorable conditions Oh God delivers from the brand of Christianity. I'll go to church till something happens I don't like, till somebody says something to me I don't like, and then I'm out of here. This isn't the only church around, you know. I can find me another church And people hopping around like it's just a like it's going to Walmart or Kmart. What's the difference, huh? And they run around like that, my soul and body. The Apostle Paul said, I'll tell you what keeps me on straight and keeps me going and doing the right thing and what I'm supposed to be doing, is I never got over the fact that Jesus Christ loves me. He couldn't get over that, have you? I'm not accusing, I'm asking the question. Do we live with a constant reminder and a constant awareness that I am loved by Jesus Christ? Yeah, but he was against the church. He was a sinner. Look, I was just as lost as him. You were just as lost as he was. There's no more condemnation that was upon him than is upon you and me before we met Jesus Christ as our Savior We were lost. And there's only one reason we ever humbled ourselves and called upon Jesus Christ is because by the Holy Ghost He made us aware of His love for us. And that love was manifest when Jesus went to the cross and died instead of you. And took the wrath of God instead of you, and instead of you, instead of you, instead of me. And the reality is he loves me. And Paul said, that's what constrains me. That's what keeps me locked down. I haven't gone this way or that way or quit. I've stayed right on the course. Because I am kept in by the reality that I am loved by Jesus Christ against whom I sinned. Think about it. Think about it. Well, I got a lot on my mind. You better keep that on your mind. Or you'll be wandering around here and wandering around there and drifting off here and drifting off there. No, Paul said it's the love of Christ constraints me. Now look what the rest of the verse says. Pretty much what I've been saying. Look at verse 14. What's this? For the love of Christ constraineth us, because we thus judge that if one died for all, then we're all dead. I love this simplicity in the Bible. Hey, you can't understand the King James Bible. Oh, go away, please. Can we understand this? If we thus judge, we understand, we discern that if Christ died for all, and he did, I said he did, Christ died for all. No, away with this business. Well, there's a few people that he's elected, everybody else is already condemned to go to hell, and only the elect will be saved, and uh the those that have God predetermined, predestinated, that they would be saved, and the others Be saved. And you really don't know, and blah, blah, blah, and on and on. No, my Bible says what your Bible says, that if Christ died for all, then we're all dead. Christ did die for all. And all of you that are in this room, including me and the pastor, every one of us in this room that are now saved and know the life that God gives to us When he set abroad his love in our heart by the Holy Ghost, which is given to us, all of us here that are alive to God because of Jesus Christ, we're dead Well that went over good. But that's where we were. Why are you saying that? Because he said it. So it's important. To understand that all of us that are alive to God, we thus judge that if Christ died for all, and he did, that's how we got saved. If Christ died for all, then we're all dead. Dead in sin. Dead to God. No ability to commune with God. No ability to know God. No ability to fellowship with God. Dead in sin. Ephesians 2. 1. We memorize the verse. Ephesians 2. 8. 9, but that chapter starts. You have he quickened who were dead in trespasses and in sin. So we were dead. Now, hold on. Look down in verse number 15. Blood of Christ constrained us Because we thus judge that if one died, then we're all dead. Verse 15, and that he died for all. He did. He died for all. That they which live all right now stop there just a minute. And I don't mean to interrupt myself. I'm not trying to make this choppy, but we've got to be careful as we tread along here. And that he died for all, that they which live. Now how many of you in this room know you're saved? Let's just see your hands, you know you're saved. And and don't ever say, oh, you're no be glad about that. It's really a great thing. Let's try it again. If you know you're saved, hold your hand up, okay. You live. That he died for all. That they which live well that would be those that raise their hand. Hold on. And and it's no, you don't have to raise them now. But not only raise their hand, it really happened. It's not just something, I always raise my hand, because I don't know if I'm safe or not, but raise your hand or they'll come after you No, it's not that. But those that raise their hand and to d genuinely testify I know, I don't know everything, but I know this. I received Jesus to be my Savior, and whereas I was dead, I am now alive unto God. And those that raised their hand, you were dead, and now you're alive. You have the life of God. Now don't get excited about it, or anything. But you have the life of God To quote my old Southern preacher friend Sammy Allen, don't get revved up about it, don't get excited, don't get emotional. You're just gonna live as long as God, but don't get excited about it Save that excitement for touchdowns if your team can make them, which mine could not yesterday. Alright? And so save that excitement for when you get the big raise or some money comes in your way. Save that incitement then But don't get too excited about this. You're alive to God whereas you were dead. His life is in you. You're only going to live as long as God. You can't go to hell. As a believer in Jesus Christ, born again into his family, God's your father, you're his child, you cannot go to hell. See. Now that's not just a statement to make in passing. That is the teaching of the Word of God. Okay? And so he said that we which live now watch this. That we which live now can get back to our life and do what we always like to do. No Now that the matter of heaven is settled, I can go live and do my business and fulfill my dreams and find a champion in me. I can do all of this and still go to heaven. Isn't that great? No, that's not what the book says Look in verse fifteen. And that he died for all that they which live should not you mean it makes a difference Should not live, should not henceforth live unto themselves, but unto him which died for them and rose again. Now look, ladies and gentlemen, the scripture says that if we have received the reality that Jesus died for all, and we trusted the fact that he rose from the dead, and the day we confessed in our heart our sinfulness, repented toward God, and exercised faith in Jesus Christ, that that day we went, somebody help me please, from death to life. We went from darkness to light. We went from not knowing God to being a child of God. We went from no ability to commune with God to the ability to know God and know Him more and more. Yeah, that's where we were. And that's where we are. Okay, so what difference does that make Well it means you're going to heaven. That's a that's the big difference it makes. Uh well that's a great benefit of knowing Christ. But if you are reading what I'm reading Excuse me, it should have a major difference in our life now. That we henceforth, look at verse 15, that we hence that we should not henceforth, that means from this point on Why do we do it need new people say we need new translations because I mean just like this, henceforth, we don't use that word. No, but it would Now I'm about to get ugly here. I don't want to get ugly. But can we figure out what henceforth might mean? You think it means from this point and backward? Henceforth kind of indicates from this point and forward. Come on. That he said, from this time and forward. Now hold on. When did the big change take place in uh Saul of Tarsus life? When did the big change take place? From the time he met Jesus on the road to Damascus, from that point and forward, he was nothing like he was before. Nothing. Now why should that happen to him and not happen to you? Why should that happen with him and not have, he's an apostle. Well, you're a believer. You were dead. All were dead. And now you're alive to God if you got saved. Now hold on. He didn't make a big change because he was an apostle. He made a big change because he was dead to God, and now Christ lives in him by the Holy Spirit that he should. Now watch this that he should henceforth not live unto himself, but unto him which died for him and rose again from the dead. Would you agree with me we live in a selfish culture? Well you might not agree with this, but a lot of that selfishness is crept in under church doors. And there are people that sit in church pews every Sunday in Bible-believing churches that can't get it out of their head that they saidn't all about me. See, I don't know this congregation, so I can't be picking on anybody in particular. I'm just talking about a problem that uh look, this is a problem 1900 years ago, or you wouldn't have written it to this church. And the reason it lives in the Word of God is because that com problem is going to continue on and on. And here's how we're supposed to deal with it. We're supposed to know who we are. We're supposed to know that if we were dead and now we are alive to God through faith in Jesus Christ. And the fact that He saves us is not just to keep us out of the hot place, friend. The fact he saves us is not just to secure us a home in heaven. The reason he saved us has to do with why we are here right now, too. That we no longer live unto ourselves, but unto him which died for us and rose again. Now can I break this down into the most simple of terms and application where everybody can understand? And thank you. A pastor told me the other day Our church has grown. It's done well. But I tell you, our Sunday night service in relation to Sunday morning just makes me want to cry. So I get ready, I want to preach, I want to teach, I can help our church, and they don't show up on Sunday night. Nobody listened to this? Oh, well, that's the way it is everywhere. No, not really And it shouldn't be that way anywhere. Does everybody listen? Uh the Sunday night service is done. Seven o'clock. Oh, we did a good nap here. Seven o'clock. Seven o'clock. I don't go on Sunday night. Um You know, a lot of times Sunday night, well, it's just my night to you know, oh watch football. Yeah, because there are very few opportunities, I understand. There are very few opportunities to ever watch football. 'Cause the way things are you can probably watch about thirteen games a week. Well, Sunday night we are our family often the kids come over, grandkids, or or you know, we get my brother and his wife live around here and we go out to eat on Sunday nights. Just kind of a tradition, something we've always done. It's just that's just what we do. That's all about you. This isn't your day. This isn't my day. This is the Lord's day. And the decisions and choices we make should be weighed in light of this. Is this just what I want to do? Or does this fit within the purpose of God? Because I am no longer free to live unto myself, but unto him which, let's not forget the price that was paid, unto him which died for me. and rose again. Jesus died for me, but don't expect me to go to church Sunday night Jesus died for me, but I have my tradition. I go Sunday morning, that's the thing, I'll go, I'll put some money in, I'll put some money in. Okay, preacher, I'll put some money in. Well, what do you think? A preacher is supposed to say, well, whether you come or not, send the money and we're good A body can't function that way. Uh I said a body can't function that way. And a body uh Christ's body cannot function as long as members are more concerned about living unto self instead of him which died for us Literally died for us, took our penalty, died for us, and rose again from the dead. Now let's not hurt ourselves, patting ourselves on the back, because we show up on a Sunday morning, my friend. Our whole life, not just on Sunday, our whole life is to be unto him. No, I'm I'm serious. The way we approach the workplace, the way we approach our home life, the way we approach neighbors that are in our neighborhood that may not be neighborly, the way that we approach our job as citizens of this country I'm just talking about the way we approach matters of forgiveness and bitterness and the way that we show love. The love of Christ has been shed abroad in our heart by the Holy Ghost. That's not so we can hold it in there, it's so that we can show the love of Christ to people that are not lovable. Now some people aren't lovable. You were He loved us when we were what? Good enough to be loved? He loved us when we were what? Somebody say it. Sinners See. And so the reality is that if I've received the gift of salvation, I have received the love of God. If I was dead and now I am alive. I have this life. I have eternal life. Yes, I do have eternal life. But I'm living here in the here and now right now, and God has a purpose for my life. And what is that purpose for my life The purpose of my life is to make sure that I am not living unto myself. My will be done. That I'm not living unto myself, but unto him which died for us and rose again from the dead. See. Now if you look down in verse 17, and I'm going to quit in verse 17, but if you look down here, look at this. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away, and behold, all things are become new. Now, here's the way I've heard this preached almost all of my life, and have probably done it myself before. Uh if you're in Jesus Christ, old things are passed away, old things passed away, old things are become new, and so here's a list of things that shouldn't be in our life anymore. A list this long shouldn't be in our life anymore Drinking and cussing and uh movies and oh we could just go through a whole bunch of stuff. This shouldn't be in our life anymore. And old things have become new. This should be in our life. We'll make another whole list. We go to church, we read our Bible, we pray, we tithe, we do this and this and this and this. And there's a whole list. I'm not against list. I'm not But if we understand what he's saying here, Pastor, I love this passage. If you'll look at verse 17 with me, would you do that, please? Look at verse 17. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature Old things. What old things he talking about? Draw a line back up to verse 15 where it said, living unto themselves. That's the old man. Living unto self. Now look at me a second. The way it ought to be is when we know Jesus Christ is our Savior, old things are passed away. That would be living unto self. And all that list, that just has to do with living a self-willed life. Those are sub-points under the main point. The main point is, here's the main point. Old things passed away. The old thing is, I don't live under myself anymore Or let's put it another way, I don't call the shots of my life. Is everybody up here listening? I don't call the shots of my life Well, if you think I'm going to go to church, if you think I'm going to get serious, if you think I'm going to start giving money, if you think I'm going to start doing this, wh Why don't you do that? Well, the way I see it, that's living unto yourself. Instead of unto him who died for you and rose again. Because no longer is it, I will do what I want to do. You don't know me, man. I do what I want to do. That's the self-life. Well, I believe in Jesus. Well, you don't act like it. You don't act like a new creature. That's the old man. That's how the unbelieving world lives. Self. Self-centering. That's pride. P-R-I-D-E. That's what that is. The old things are passed away. The old things is I don't call the shots of my life. I'm sitting in church, 16 years old on a Sunday night, had gone to youth camp not wanting to go to youth camp, you know. My d I told my dad, Dad I'm not going to youth camp this year. My dad said, boy, you're going to youth camp I said, I believe we will. So I did. And I did. But it was one of those things I'm going to go but not go, you know, and I'm not going to listen to the preachers. I already know how they operate. I'm not going to go. I'm not going to listen because I had things I was going to do. to do my pastor would come up to me and say, Sam, what are you going to do with your life? What are you going to do with your life? And I'd summon him to play baseball for the St. Louis Cardinals. He said, no, no. Now it wasn't because he already understood my l lack of athletic ability, which I didn't understand, or I'm going to play for the Boston Celtics. That was my team then, not now. And so I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna do that, or I'm gonna farm. He w everything he would say no, no, no. I got to where I'd see him coming, at camp or around the church, I'd go the other way 'cause all I could hear was no no no That's not what you're gonna do. I'm sitting there in church about three weeks after a camp because that Wednesday night of camp, man, I got broken and God dealt with my heart on a message from from the book of Jonah and I didn't want to be a Jonah. That bale's whelly is not whale's belly has no attraction to me whatsoever. And I went down to that altar and I got right with God and about three, four weeks later I'm set in church Sunday night and I know it was the Holy Ghost of God said, Preach you. I'm calling you. It wasn't the devil. He wouldn't call you to do anything good. And it wasn't my flesh. I know it was God. And then I pulled my own little Jonas done a couple years later. I didn't want to be a preacher, didn't want to leave my girlfriend in high school, me go off to Bible college. She's my wife now. I didn't want to do that. I had all kinds of good excuses for not going. I was just flat running from God. God showed me, I'll spare you the story, but God show me in no uncertain terms, son. This is not your call to make I have already called you to preach and you have already surrendered. Now you will preach or, and I don't know how to fill in the blank there, because I never gave time. For the blank to be filled in, I just said. It's not th it's not up to me. I don't decide what I'm gonna do with my life. That's not my business. That doesn't mean everybody's supposed to be a Preacher. That doesn't mean men are not supposed to have careers like many men in this room have and women as well, I suppose. I it it's not like that should never happen. But I'm here to tell you this. We don't run things. We don't call the shots of our life. If we in fact have the life of God in us, what is supposed to pass away is that old part which says, I will do what I want to do. Well we no longer live unto ourselves but unto him which died for us and rose again. And new things, old things are passed away, behold all things have become new. What's become new is that very thing. He is Lord. He is Lord. You probably remember, Pastor, when there's a big fat discussion about Lordship, salvation, all of that kind of thing. And it was just a need. It's a bunch of noise and unnecessary nonsense. Because Jesus Christ is Lord. It doesn't mean when I got saved as a boy that I understood all about the Lordship of Jesus. Jesus Christ. But I tell you, you won't come to him in salvation denying, saying, I'll believe in Jesus to salvation, but I don't trust don't try telling me what to do That's not salvation. That's rebellion. Because Jesus Christ is Lord. That's his name. That's who he is. And when we were dead and now alive, we are alive so that we no longer live unto ourselves, but unto him which died for us. and rose again. Now you know what's happened to a lot of people? Look at verse 17. I'm done. I'm quitting with this. Verse 17. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. What's that next word? Behold. All things are becoming. You know what behold is there for? Well, I mean he could have said old things are passed away, all things are become new. But he didn't. He said, Behold. Why did he say behold? Look at this. Behold means wow. Uh-uh. Uh-oh, uh, okay. I think the reason he put uh behold was he was on the road to Damascus to make life miserable for Christians. He left Damascus with this burning desire to preach the gospel. Behold! The old man is gone. The new man is living under him and died for us and rose again. Behold, the change is made. Come on, you've seen somebody that was lost, haven't you? And they got saved? And two weeks later you're saying, Who is he? It's not even like the same person. I mean just incredible. I'm thinking of Louis back at Southwest and a bunch of guys at the job students on the job at a dock. where Hobby Lobby warehouse there in Oklahoma City. And they brought Louis, talked him into coming for a friend day. Amen. Louis is 55 years old. He wasn't about to come. Tattoos, ear, piercings. And so here it ain't coming. He came. He came the second time. Actually Sunday night or friend day. He came on Sunday night after coming Sunday morning. That Sunday night he got saved Two weeks later, I'm just telling you you don't even know the guy. Well you can tell him by the tattoos on his earlobes and all that kind of stuff. But that's what I'm talking about. His attitude. He came up to me and said, I'm gonna ask you a question I said, okay, Louie, what is it? Why is it we just have church on Sunday and Wednesday? What does everybody do on Thursday and Friday and Monday and Tuesday? Why can't we be doing this more often? I thought, oh boy, I believe he got it. You know what I mean? Yeah And Louis's still down there going on soul winning right now. Yeah. What happened in his life? Who's this guy that used to curse, tell dirty jokes, try to make our Students uh put the bad spot and everything and all of a sudden he's right with them and he's leading them in prayer and the job place and all of that kind of What happened to this man? He was dead and now he's alive. What's Louis's difference in his life? He didn't change occupation. He didn't change career, but he sure changed in who he lived unto No longer was it all about Louis. It became about Jesus Christ. And Louis's life was behold. And some of you are sitting in this room right now that when you got saved, the behold was there. Eh, but that was a long time ago. Yeah, well, several things have happened in my life Yeah, well something happened at church that I didn't like. Yeah. Well, you know, I just kind of get used to it over the years. You do? How? Unless you turn totally inward and again think about it's all about me. And live unto yourself. Because clearly the old that's passed away is no longer living to ourselves. That's the old man. The new, what has become new? Behold, look at this Would there be a life would there be a much of a difference in a life living unto self and a life lived unto Christ? I'm asking the question, should there be much of a difference in a life lived unto self and one lived unto Christ? Yeah, there's a difference, all right. And that difference requires a word like this. Whoa, behold, look at this. What a contrast. Difference between death and life Difference between light and dark. That's the difference. Now, Father, you know who's here. I'm not able to come into this place, nor do I have any desire. To come in here and try to say who's saved and who's not. That's not my business. Not able to do that. But I do know, God, that you mean to confront us by your word, so that we may see ourselves. And so we might deal with the question, really? I mean I profess to be saved, I raised my hand a while ago. But I really have no real interest. In surrendering my life completely to the Lordship of Jesus, Him mastering my life I I still have a lot of things I like to do, I want to do. Things that I have always thought important, wanted to be a part of I pray that you'd help us just to let that sink in a little bit. How dare we say Jesus died for me? And I receive that to stay out of hell. I receive that as a ticket to heaven. But I have no intention of living unto him And him calling the shots of my life. Help us to think about that a little bit. And there are some perhaps in this room, I don't know. But there are some perhaps in this room that would never utter those words, but live their life just like that. I believe in Jesus. Yes, everybody asked me. I know I'm saved. Yes, I can show you when it was I got saved and where I got baptized and all of that. I still go to church, some And but uh to live unto him instead of m well, what I always thought, what I like to do, w things that are important to me, oh God help us to see. Something is way off. Way off. That they which live should no longer live unto themselves But unto him which died for them and rose again. Old things passed away, that self-life. Behold, behold, behold, what a difference. Behold, what a change. Behold, what a contrast. All things will become new, living unto him who died for me and rose again. Now I pray that you bless this invitation. It could be some are here that don't know Christ and they've never received this salvation. I pray that they would come tonight and believe the gospel and trust Jesus to be their Savior. And I pray for believers that are in this room who lost their behold. It's no longer amazing to them that they are saved. It's no longer thrilling to know that Jesus loved them and sing the songs of Jesus love by rote without any feeling, any emotion, very little thought Oh God, I pray that you do a work, that there might be a stirring and a reviving. And a rekindling where it's needed. And you would know. You would know who, you would know where, you would know how many. I don't. I just pray you'd help us to lay hold on this incredible passage. And then I pray for the lost to be saved and the saved to be encouraged. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together.