Beginning we've begun, I should say, our series in the book of Ecclesiastes. And uh after I was all excited about I was praying, I felt feel like I have the mind of Christ on this, got things Started studying it in depth a little bit more and I thought, oh boy, what did I get into here? This is challenging. And so I think you're going to enjoy it. You pray and uh we'll uh work our way through this book Ecclesiastes chapter one. While you're finding it, um not everybody appreciates the little jokes I say before the service. I know that's hard to believe. But Mary gravely has taken it upon herself the ministry of helping me have better jokes. And um so she gives me, I think hers are as lame as mine, but um anyway Tom came in this evening and gave me 777 great clean jokes Says to Pastor Leatherman, here's some help. You need it from Mary Gravely. Wow. Wow, that hurts. Now if hers were better than mine I would appreciate it, but um So anyway, I'll have to study that also. Ecclesiastes chapter one. I'm going to start reading in verse three. We looked at verses one and two, and actually three also, but um uh I want to pick up in three. I'm gonna read down through verse number seven, Ecclesiastes Chapter 1, verse number 3. What profit hath a man of all his labor which he taketh? What are the next three words? Under the sun. I want to encourage you to look through the book of Ecclesiastes for that little phrase, under the sun. Sometimes it'll say under heaven. And that statement explains the book of Ecclesiastes. Now look at that verse again. What profit hath a man of all his labor which he taketh under the sun? If all I'm living for. If all I'm working for, if all I'm investing my life in is for what is under the sun, then verse number two is true. Vanity of vanity, always vanity. If all my life consists of is what's here and now, what I can see and feel, there's nothing to my life beyond what's below the sun, then everything is vain. So let's read on. So he says, What profit hath a man of all his labor which he taketh under the sun? One generation passeth away, another generation cometh. But the earth abideth forever. The sun also ariseth, and the sun goeth down, and it hasteneth to his place where he arose. The wind goeth toward the north the south, and turneth about unto the north. It whirleth about equally, and the wind returneth again according to his circuits All the rivers run into the sea. Yet the sea is not full. Unto the place from whence the rivers come, thither they return again. All things are oh let me stop there. Uh I want to take a phrase there. Uh what profit Verse number three, hath a man of all his labor which he taketh under his son. This is my question. This is the message. Is there any prophet in life? Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now our study of this book. Lord, I'll be first to admit it's very challenging what's being taught here. I pray that your Holy Spirit would be our teacher. I pray it'd open our hearts and minds to understand what you're saying to us here in this passage. I pray your Holy Spirit would apply to our lives the truths that are presented here, that our faith in you would grow. And I pray as we leave tonight and begin a new week. That our love for you and our commitment to you and our confidence and our relationship with you would be stronger, that our witness this week would be effective. Lord, I present my body anew to you this hour. I yield my will once again, as best I know how to you, and I ask you again with all my heart, dear Lord, that you fill me with your Holy Spirit and that you speak through me. And have your way. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. The Bug River runs between Poland and Russia. In the early parts of World War II, 1942, the Nazis built a concentration camp. I don't think they called it that. It was a little different. Later they changed over a concentration camp, but they built this I think they called it a death camp at the time, along the Bug River. In nineteen in October 14th, nineteen forty-three 700 prisoners mounted a revolt against their Nazi captors. They had dug tunnels. They had used pickaxes and different things. They were able to get some weapons, handguns and whatnot. They were able to steal And they mounted a revolt. Seven hundred Jewish prisoners attempted this escape. Surrounding the camp, as I understand it, as I read, surrounding the camp there was minefields, there was barbed wire. Of course, they had towers, guard towers. Of the 700 that broke out, 300 made it beyond That perimeter that the Nazis had set up. 300 survived initial break. The 300 that got into the woods, the forest surrounding the camp Of that 300 that made it, 50 actually survived the escape. The Nazis, of course, pursued them, found them, executed them on the spot Fifty of them actually survived the escape of the 700 that attempted it. Of that fifty, one of them was a young man, and I'm not sure how to pronounce his name. I believe it's pronounced Toy V. Jewish young fellow. He was one of this fifty that had survived. He told his story. He said when he got into the woods, he became disoriented. It was pitch black and everybody scattered. He had another fellow with him, and for four days and four nights They made their way. They would hide during the day and cover themselves up during the day. Then at night they would move and try to advance somewhere to where they could get away undetected. They had no way of they didn't know how to read the stars. They didn't know if they were going north or south. They went for four days and four nights. They made this attempted escape. Finally, late one night, in early morning hours before dawn, they could see silhouetted against the sky a large building. They thought, is this going to be safe? Is this somebody that will take us in? Or are we going to be captured and turned back into the Germans and executed? As they approached the building and they saw the silhouette They thought it looked vaguely familiar. And as they got a little closer, and as they stepped out of the forest into a clearing, lo and behold, For four days and four nights, they had simply made a gigantic circle. And they had come back to the very place they had escaped. He said all hope was gone. They quickly faded back into the forest, hoping they weren't detected. And he eventually, I don't know the rest of the story, he eventually escaped, but he said the one thing that kept us going for that four days and four nights was the hope that we would actually make it. He said, when we realized we had just made a big circle that everything we had done was in vain, we saw that tower, all hope was gone. I think that feeling that this young man had when he stepped out and realized that he had simply made a circle, had made no progress. was right back in the same danger he's in before, same situation before. I think that feeling that he must have had in his gut Is what Solomon is trying to communicate to us here. Is there any prophet? We go through life. We work and we work and we work And we scratch and we save. And we struggle. And we go through heartaches. We go through trials, and then when it's all said and done, we say, was anything accomplished? Was there any profit in this at all? We seem to be right back where we started from. Now, I got a little ahead of myself as we were reading scripture there. That phrase under the sun is so important in studying the book of Ecclesiastes. If we do not understand that phrase, you'll leave reading Ecclesiastes discouraged, depressed, and hopeless, and you'll say with the prophet, with the Solomon, you'll say, oh, it's vanity of vanity, oh, it's vain. If all we're living for, if all the my whole purpose and priorities in life are simply what is under the sun. Then it's there's no prophet. There's nothing there. Solomon had gotten so backslidden. Now this is hard for me to fathom. And I'll be honest with you, before I started studying Ecclesiastes in depth, I knew that Solomon had messed up and he had married all these women, he had got involved in pagan worship, and I knew all that, but I never I don't think I really grasped the depth that Solomon had fallen to spiritually. He had gotten so comp so backslidden that he had completely removed God from his thinking. He had completely put out of his mind spiritual, the truth of spiritual realities. And he had become so consumed with his prosperity and with the pleasures that came with the lifestyle he was living and all the the uh uh The uh abundance and the uh what's the word, just over the top indulgences That he had completely pushed God out of his thinking. He had gotten to the point where he was living for what was here and now. Today. He was living for it uh he was only living for what is under the sun. And his conclusion, as we see, and he states it throughout the book, is this listen, if all you're living for is pleasure and And temporal things, and what's understanding. If that's all you're living for, then everything is vain. There's no purpose, there's no meaning. Everything is empty. There's nothing to be gained. Take your Bible if you would. Now keep your place here because I want to look at these few verses and I want to try and do it pretty quickly. But go with me, if you would, to Ephesians and chapter number two. Of course, Ephesians is penned by Paul, God being the author of the Word of God, of course. Paul is writing here under the inspiration of God, and he describes briefly a life, what a life without Christ is like. I think some of us maybe that were saved a little later in life, of course I wasn't real old, nineteen when I trusted Christ. Some of y'all were uh much older than that when you came to Christ. Some of us that maybe were a little bit older in life We can testify what it's like to live life without Christ. What it means to live a life without any real spiritual substance to it at all. And Ephesians chapter 2, we'll look with me at verse number 12. He's writing to the believers at Ephesus, and he's referencing what their life was like before Christ. He says, that at that time ye were without Christ. Be aliens from the commonwealth of Israel and strangers from the covenants of promise. In other words, you don't know anything about the Bible, you know anything about God's dealing with Israel You were without Christ. Now look at this statement he makes here. Having no what? Hope. And without God in the world. You know what that is? That is vanity of vanity. No hope without God. I had an interesting thing happen a week or so ago, I think it was the week before our conference. So it would be about two weeks ago. Um Jackie was working in the office. We uh got oh we were doing fingerprints that day. Jackie was working in the office, the phone rang, and um She came in, she she came to me, I was working out there, and she brought a card out and she says, Here's a call from a lady would like for you to call her back. And she had the name there and I recognized the name but I couldn't picture who it was. And like often we get calls, people wanting this, that and the other will help with this, that and the other and You know, we try to do what we can. I had a lady call recently, wondered if we would put a new roof on her house for her. I said, uh No. Um we can't do put roofs on houses for you. I've had people call, ask if we would help them buy a house. Guy called me one time. This is completely off subject. But uh guy called me one time he says, I really need a new house. Could you guys help me get a new house? I said, Well and before I could say anything I said I need one with a an outbuilding to keep my lawn mowers in and I need a garage and he told me this whole list of stuff he needed. I said, well, I don't know the I said, we're really not equipped to do something like that. I said, maybe you want to call a realtor. That might be a little more in line what you're looking for Anyway, this lady called, she didn't want she didn't ask for anything. She was weeping and she said, Pastor Letterman, she said, uh you shop at Walmart. I said, occasionally. She said, um You've given me some tracks. She says, could you come down and pray with my husband and I? We just need God to help us. And she's sweeping. I said, I'll be glad to She told me where they live. I went by. Went down there. I slipped out and got in and her and her husband there were just eager in the kitchen. They invite me and I come in, they're just eager. And they told me a little situation on some health issues And I said, listen, you know, I'm going to pray with you about you have to have something a little bit more important than that that I want to address I got my Bible out and I went through the little Romans road as we do and I went through that. And I told them that they were all sinners. Wages of our sin is death, separation from God in hell Christ loved us so much. He died and suffered hell for us. He took responsibility for our sins and stood before God, taking responsibility for my sin and judging us. And they were glued to me. And she's weeping. And I showed him Romans chapter 10, and I got to verse 13. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And I explained a little bit what that meant. And I said this. I said, would you, Jesus Christ loved you enough to die on the cross for all your sins. Would you be willing to call on him, trust him as your personal Savior? Weeping, they both said, that's what we want. That's what we want. I was able to pray with them and have them call on the Lord and trust Him as Savior. You pray for them that they will grow. But when I was talking to them and they were so hungry, and you know, I thought of them as I was studying this. Here was a couple that was out was without God. And without hope in the world, and they were so hungry and they so badly wanted the Lord in their life. I encourage you to keep giving those tracks out at Walmart. Keep giving those tracks out. They have an effect. They really do. Ephesians here he says, before you knew Christ, you were without God. You're without hope in the world. There was no in your life. There was no meaning. There was no profit to anything you do. Charles Spurgeon said reference that sometimes people will talk about earth, they'll say, well, it's hell here on earth. Charles Spurgeon said the tragedy is a lot of times people go through a quote-unquote hell here on earth and then they die without Christ and then they go to hell for all eternity. If we don't know Christ, if all we're living for is under the sun, what profit is there? What benefit is there? It's all vain. And Paul references that there in Ephesians. If you would come back to Leviticus. And by the way, the devil will do everything he can to keep the Lord out of our thinking. He will do everything he can uh to keep uh did I say Leviticus? Um don't go to Leviticus, uh Ecclesiastes The devil does everything he can to keep the Lord out of our thinking. The devil does everything he can to keep the Lord out of our living. I was sitting back there about where Jody is during the youth rally and I was watching him praying while the guys were preaching and everything was going on and I just looked out at those hundred plus teenagers here Saturday and I thought, man, how the devil so badly wants to keep them from Christ. He would love, the devil would love for them to get to their end of their life whenever that is And have them say, Vanity of vanity, my whole life has been vain. It's all been empty, nothing. The devil wants to do that to people. So Solomon is saying here in uh Estes, he says, Vanity of any, what profit hath a man of all his labor under the sun. If you're just living for under the sun, what benefit is it? What good is it going to do me? And then he gives four examples. of how living a life independent of God, how living a life and just pushing out the will of God, pushing out the reality of the spiritual realities out of my life, and I'm just gonna live it up and I'm just gonna live here and now and do my thing and And I'm not going to worry about God. I'm not going to worry about the Bible. I'm not going to worry about heaven and hell. I'm not going to worry about judgment. I'm just going to do my thing and live it up and eat, drink, and be merry, and then worry about it when I die. And Solomon gives four examples here. of how living that type of life is total totally futile and empty and meaningless. So first one in verse number four, he references, and I tried to alliterate these a little bit, I'll see how it comes across. But this is the constant repetition of life. Look at verse number four. One generation passeth away, and another generation cometh. But the earth abideth forever. You know what he's saying there? He says here you have somebody, they live, they're born, they grow, they live, they die. Somebody steps in in their place, they're born, they grow, they live, they die, and apeth, and just the world just keeps on going. We look back over history. Thousands of years of human history we have, and we see people that have been born They lived, they built buildings, they did work, they struggled, they laughed, they cried, they died, and the world goes on. Kings and peasants born, lived, died, and the world. Rich and poor, smart and Not smart. Live, die, and the world goes on Red and yellow, black and white. Live, die, the world goes on. Forgotten The overwhelming majority of people who live in this world are forgotten. Go to cemeteries and there are thousands. Sometimes we were in Mongolia referencing and we went to a cemetery outside uh the city of Ulum Batar, just hundreds of thousands of gravesides Two uh little uh they didn't really have two suns they had these little things. Hundreds of thousands people lived and died, and now we have no idea. Just forgotten One generation comes, passes off the scene, another generation comes on. Solomon's looking that and he's excluded God, he's excluded his spirituality, he's excluded eternity out of this. Because all it is is up to the sun, and he says, What's the use? What profit is there to life? What they do is live and die, and that's it It's kind of like, as I was reading this and thinking over this verse, it's kind of like I enjoy fishing and back we haven't for a long time I used to go down to West Virginia where my wife's from in Nicholas County we'd fish uh the Cranberry River down there, great trout fishing river, and pretty good sized river and it's a lot of big boulders and stuff. And you know, you go up to that river and you pull a rock out of the river And it really doesn't affect the river at all, just keeps right on running. You can take another rock and throw it in. Doesn't affect the river at all, just keeps right on going. I think that's kind of what Solomon's saying. If a person's born, you take them out of this out of this earth and remove them, they die. Life just goes on. River just keeps flowing. And he's saying, what's the purpose of life? If all I am is a rock in the river, you take me out, nothing changes, has no impact, no purpose, no meaning. What is the purpose of life? Under the sun, there is none You listen to the atheists that deny the obvious that God exists. They have nothing to offer as far as purpose and meaning in life is concerned. It's just vain. Just a rock in the river. You pull it out, throw it away, the river's not affected at all. I've told this incident before, but I thought of this. Back when I was fur first when when I was first saved, I worked at the meepacking plant, and um uh there was a lady down on the end, an older lady. That uh worked all the way then on what we called quality control. The meat would come into the the floor there where we worked, it would come in quarters, hindquarters and four quarters and come in and we would my job, our job because we were very strong and handsome, uh our job was to break down the meat, we'd break it down into cuts and throw it onto a conveyor belt and it would go up and then it would go down this long table and there was people on either side of the table and they would pull it off the conveyor belt and they'd get the different cuts out and trim them off and do whatever you need to do and trim the meat off the bones and throw it all back on the conveyor belt. It would go down to the end. It's about the length of auditorium here. Then it would go to the right and it would go down this other conveyor belt. That was quality control. And there they would pull out the different cuts and put them in different bins and they'd if there was any trimmings that got on there and bones or grizzle or whatever, tendons something supposed to be, they'd clean it out. Then it would the rest of it would go down into the big bin for hamburger. And there was about four people there and they'd run that quality control. There was an older lady there, and I do not remember her name And one Monday I was just saved, just probably a few months at the most, and I was just learning about tracts and witnessing. I was wanted to witness. God put in my heart and Some reason this woman just impressed on my heart, I needed to give her a gospel tract. Not told this before And you know, such a bonehead I was. I struggled all day long with that, and the day went by, and I did not give her a gospel tract. And I felt terrible. The next day, that impression on my heart was stronger than the day before. I've got to give this gospel track. And I'm working away thinking, I've got to give that track to her. I've got to. And uh the the break would come and she's down there. The day went by and I did not give her a track. Why in the world? Wednesday was worse God to give that woman a track. I had the track. I had it in my locker. I had it. I need to give it to her. It's the end of the day, and we're cleaning up. And I need her to give her that track. And I went home and didn't give her the track. Thursday. I'm dying. What's wrong with me? Anybody er everybody know what I'm talking about? Man, I know I need finally it was Friday and it's the end of the day. She's cleaning up her stuff. And she's an older lady, probably in her 60s, uh, maybe mid-sixties or whatever, I don't know Finally, got the track. I said, I can't remember. I went up and I said, here's a little gospel track. I've been wanting to give it to you all week, and I didn't, and I want you to have this track. You know what she said? She said, thank you. I'll read him. I said, Good Now, why was I scared of giving a little gospel track with verses on to a little old lady? I was scared to death. I gave it to her. She goes, I'll read it, Dennis. I'll read it. Say, good, good, I think you'll like it. Monday morning comes. It's the weekend. Monday morning comes. I'm in there working away. I feel pretty good. I gave that tract. I'm looking for her. See if she read it. She's not at her spot And I'm working that morning and she's still not there and we get to lunchtime and I went down and uh Dave um Landis was the uh foreman of the floor and I went to Dave and I said Dave uh so and so uh It's always working here. Where's she at? He goes, Oh, didn't you hear? I said, No, she's she had a heart attack and died this weekend. I said, You're kidding I was glad I gave her the tract. I wished I'd have done it a whole lot sooner. And I made a vow to myself before God that I would give myself to never Not give someone a track if God impressed on me, if I had the opportunity. Now I wish I could tell you in these 30 37 years. That I never failed on that vow, but I tell you, I've sure tried to be faithful to be a witness for the Lord after that. I learned a lesson. But this is the point I'm trying to get to. Friday she was there working her spot, the conveyor belt's going by, the meat's going by, she's doing her stuff. Monday, she's in eternity. I hope she read the track. I hope she called on the Lord. I hope she's in heaven. But Monday, the conveyor belt is still going by, the meat is still going by. And somebody else is standing in her spot as if she had never been there. That's what Solomon is saying. One generation is born, they pass off the scene, another generation comes along. Under the sun, what's the purpose of that life? It's there, it's gone, you never know it was there before. You follow what I'm saying? And Paul and Solomon sees that and his mind is so messed up he's put completely out of it, and he says, I see no purpose in life. I see no profit in life. We live, we we were born, we live, we die and pass off the scene, and everything goes on. What is the meaning And under the sun there is none. Then he gives a second illustration here in verse number five. He says the sun also ariseth, and the sun goeth down. And hasteneth to his place where he arose. So we had, first of all, this is the way I put it, the constant repetition of life, one generation after another. Then he refers to, here it is, the continual rotation of the earth. He says the sun comes up, it goes down, this whole world spins around, the sun's right back where it was yesterday. The earth just keeps revolving around the sun. The earth just keeps spinning and spinning and spinning and it doesn't matter we have birthdays, we have graduations, we have weddings, we get our jobs, we get promotion at the jobs We get old, we die, they have a funeral, and yet the earth keeps spinning on and on and on as if there was no purpose for us being here. And under the sun, that's true. Under the sun, we're just a rock and a river. There's no God. There's no purpose. Then verse 6, he goes on and he says, the wind goeth toward the south. And turneth about unto the north, it whirleth about continually, and the wind returneth again according to his circuits. Now this is actually a fascinating verse, but I think here what he's referring to is the revolving currents of the wind. Now, a little aside here on this verse, there's some fascinating scientific statements being made here that the scientists, quote unquote, of that day were unaware of And that was the wind currents. Anybody here like to watch the weather? Yeah, I like to watch weather watch it, and they're always wrong, just about. But for some reason I'm fascinated by it. It's the only job I know in the world you can be wrong ninety-five percent of the time and still get a hefty paycheck. But they'll talk about the currents and this jet stream. Solomon was aware of that. I think it was supernaturally revealed to him by God. But he's referring to these currents of the wind, and he says the wind blows one way, then it blows another way, and the wind really doesn't care about whether I exist or not. I like to at our house we got the flags out there. I think those flags are beautiful. I like the American flag, I like the Baptist flag. I like the note out there, and boy, they'll be flapping in the wind and snapping I like to see that flag, and it'll be blowing this way, it'll be blowing that way, and if it's blowing out of the east, I can smell Luke, and I know there's a storm coming. You gotta live here to know what that means And then it's blowing north, and then it's blowing south, and it's just snapping that way, and it's snapping that way. You know what I found out? Sometimes I'll come out of the house and I'll come over here and my heart will be so heavy Sometimes I'll come out of the house and I'll be so happy and so excited. Sometimes I come out of the house, come over to work, and just another day doing my thing, what God's called me to do. You know what I found out? That woman could care less. Whether I'm happy or sad or what's going on in my life, my world could be falling apart, and that wind's just going to blow the way at once. And Solomon's saying, you know, if there's no God, if all you're living for is this life, life is completely menaced. No more than that wind cares about you, there's no more meaning to your life than that. And he's going through here and he's giving these different illustrations. Several years ago my nephew came down, he was pretty young at the time. It was about when they were putting the windmills up. Actually he was about twelve or thirteen, but Twelve or thirteen brains aren't really developed very highly. At least in his case. And he came down the females and there he goes, uh, what are those for? And you know, I don't I'm usually very serious, I don't jerk around much. But um And says, what are those windmills? I said, actually they're not windmills, they're big fans. And I said, we get a lot of snow here, and they develop this way across the ridges when a big snowstorm comes, so They turn those fans to blow the snow so it don't come into town so much. And they s millions of dollars. They don't have to plow as much and they just blow the snow over where there's no houses. You know what he said? Really? I said, Yeah, it's true. You know that wing could care less That wing could care less what's going on in your life. If all there is to life is what's under the sun, then there's no God that cares. There's no purpose, there's no meaning. If all it is is under the sun. He goes on here and he says, last of all, verse 7, he says All the rivers run into the sea, and the sea is not full until the place from whence the rivers come, thither they return again. Here's another, he's referencing the water cycle. I don't know that people back in the day fully grasped what the water cycle was about, but he's talking about rain comes down, it fills the river. The river runs down to the ocean. The ocean evaporates. The ocean's not filled. It just evaporates. They keep running into the ocean, running into the ocean, running in the ocean It just evaporates, goes back in the sky, the rain falls down again into the river, it runs, and this cycle just goes round and round and round and round and round And could care less about your life or my life. No regard for man. So he's ref he uses these four illustrations. The generations are born and die, born and die, born and die. The sun, earth spins around the sun, rises, goes down, the wind blows north and south, the rain falls and evaporates. And he says if the under the sun, if that's that's all there is to life, no meaning, no purpose. I was out years ago when we first moved here. I did a lot of squirrel hunting back in the day, and I uh I got Derek's attention. Derek and I have been talking about going out squirrel hunting. We did a little bit last year. And I was down uh Stoyer. Anybody know where Stoyer is? Back down past White Church, down in there. I was down in there, way back in there. I was Spent the day just walking around the woods and missing squirrels and having a good time. And uh there's a fellow I got talking to. He says, you know, there used to be a little town down in there. And he took me down in there and he showed me, well there's a building here and there was a building here and all this. And you look at it, you never know it was there. Just trees were growing up and you never know that was there. How many people know where Ben Bush is Kathy and I are thinking about taking vacation, go to Ben Bush and spend a week. Now I don't know, this is before my day, but I understand there used to be a market up there. There was a roller skating rink or something, a bowling alley or something up there, somebody was telling me. A big four-story mall, all kinds of stuff. Apparently back in the day it was quite a town. You go up now, there's a handful of houses. Few people living there down in that little town store. There's nothing there. And just one generation passes away. Just life goes on, goes on, goes on, goes on. And he says, under the sun there's no meaning, there's no purpose, there's no prophet. If there is no God This is what Solomon's saying. Listen, if there is no God, if there's nothing beyond what's under the sun, if that's it, then eat, drink, and be merry, because you're going to die. There's no meaning. There's no purpose. However If there is more to life than what is under the sun, if there is a God, and if there are spiritual realities, and eternity is what the Bible says it is, then that's a whole different story. And we do have purpose and we do have meaning, and I'm telling you, down in our heart and soul, we know that there is more to life than just what's under the sun. We know there is more to living than just making money to feed our gut so that we can work a job and make money, to feed ourselves so that we can work a job and make money. There's a whole lot more to this life than that. A whole lot more than just under the sun. I want you to turn to uh another passage here real quick, and I gotta quit. You say, Brother Lemon, why are you doing why are you pounding this and pounding this. So because the whole book of the vi uh whole book of uh Ecclesiastes just over and over he says this over and over and over and over Look with me if you would at lamentations. Find Jeremiah. At the end of Jeremiah, find lamentations. I want us to compare Jeremiah's perspective on life To Solomon's perspective on life. Jeremiah or Lamentations, chapter number three. Find Jeremiah, go to the end of Jeremiah, you'll find a little book of Lamentations. For those in West Virginia, chapter 3 is right after chapter 2. So when you find chapter 2 You'll chapter three will follow it. I'm sorry. Leviticus chapter 3, look at verse number 22. This is Lamentations chapter 3, verse number 22. Now this is Jeremiah writing. Now think with me here through this. Try and see what I'm trying to say here. It is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed because his compassions fail not. Look at this The Lord's compassions fail not. His mercy, they are, look at verse 23, they are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. When Solomon looked at the sunrise, he says, there's no meaning in life. It's going to come around, go down, tomorrow it's going to come back up. There's just nothing to this Jeremiah looked at the sunrise and he says, God is good. He's given me a new day with new mercies and new blessings and new purpose in life and a new reason to live. Two completely different perspectives on life. One was there's nothing to life. It's empty and vain and and no prophet. Jeremiah looks at And he says, God is good and his mercies are great. And I see his hand all over this. Life is a joy and it's a blessing. Now to add to that contrast, think about their two conditions. Solomon had everything. Solomon was the wealthiest king on the planet. He had everything he could possibly want. He had peace. What did Jeremiah have? Nothing. Jeremiah was rejected by his own people. God called him to preach. They wouldn't respond to his preaching. In fact, there's one place to make faces at him while he's preaching. If they had cell phones, they would be on their cell phones while he was preaching, watching videos. Solomon has everything this world has to offer. He has everything under the sun, and that's all he's living for. And he says there's nothing, there's no purpose to it. Jeremiah had nothing under the sun. In a prison, half the time he's starving. You're not feeding him, and he's rejected by his people. Solomon looks at the sun and says, all is vain. Jeremiah looks at the sun and says, God is good. Because Jeremiah had hope. He had an understanding. He had Christ in his life. He had a reason to live more than just this life. We're preaching on the Sermon on the Mountain. The Lord says, Lay not up for yourselves treasures on earth under the sun, but lay up for yourselves treasures in where? Heaven. Above the sun That's what it's all about. That's what it's all about. Colossians, we won't turn there, and I'm going to quit. Colossians 3, verse 1 through 4, I hope you read it. It says this: if ye then be risen with Christ, Seek those things which are what? Above. Live for this world. Don't live your life and invest your life for temporary things and stuff and treasures. That's later life for God. God created us spiritual beings. And without Christ in our life, there is a spiritual vacuum there. And nothing under the sun can fill that vacuum. Nothing in this world can give us purpose and meaning like Christ does. And so let's speak those things above. How many folks are saved to know it? Say amen. Let's seek those things above. Amen. It's sad, and Brother Grant could testify this, I'm sure, but it said, see, young people grow up and they know the things of God. They're taught the things above the sun. But they live their life under the sun. And they're just living for a good time here and now. There's nothing wrong with having fun. We have a lot of fun But I'm telling you, there's more to life than just having fun and getting stuff It's living for Christ and the fulfillment and the joy and the purpose that comes with that. I hope this made sense. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now. Lord, as we finish out this Lord's day, it's been a good day, Lord. We begin a new week. I pray you'd help every one of us, as your people, as members of this church, just to commit ourselves. to seek those things above and not get so caught up in the temporary things and lose sight of our purpose and our meaning here, our witness that we're to be. Help us, dear Lord. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many say, preacher, by God's grace, I want to live this life, this coming week. I want to live with my eyes on Christ. I want to remember My purpose and God's plan for me is beyond just the stuff of this world, but living for Christ and reaching others. Anything like that, preacher, that's my desire this coming week. God bless you. Now let's finish out, maybe let me finish out this Lord's day. An old-fashioned order say, here I am, Lord, take me and use me, lead me and direct me this week in your perfect will I believe God will use us. Father, bless our invitation now. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed