Amen. Again, it's good to see each and every one of you here this morning. I'm humbled to be here and and uh just counting a great honor. And uh I want to say first of all, I appreciate this church's support Uh my family and I uh a little over a year and a half ago went out on the road full time uh for FBN, didn't have a salary or anything. Uh uh the I was still on staff with FBN for a couple of months. Uh but after that that was gone and and uh Pastor Ebern said you probably want to find you a job until uh you get your support raised and everything. I've not had time to get a job Uh the Lord has kept us busy and I give him all the honor and the praise for it. And uh I thank this church for taking us on for support and being faithful and and uh I thank God for you, Pastor. He's been a dear friend to me and and uh just thank the Lord for him. Uh I'm um between two messages. Have you ever been there, Pastor? But I think I know where the Lord wants us to go this morning. Uh we're gonna we're gonna end up in 1 Samuel chapter number 17. Uh I thought the other one because of what the choir sang this morning about faith and and all that that I was going to be over uh in Hebrews this morning. Um but here at the last moment I want to turn to Isaiah chapter 64. When you get your finger there at 1 Samuel chapter 17, turn to Isaiah chapter number 64, if you will, as we read the Word of God this morning. We need help in America. We need God's blessings upon us This morning we we need his strength to carry on. Amen. There comes a time just like that woman that had the the child that was possessed by devil, she came to the point Where she just knelt down before Jesus and said, Lord, help me. And I think we need to cry out to God this morning and say, Lord, help us. We need you. And and I mean if you're here this morning and you've used him sort of like a spare tire, just take him out when you need him. Put that in the past, repent of it, get things right with God, and live for Him from this day forward. This is the day and hour we're living in. We don't need anybody sitting on the sidelines. We all need to be involved if America's going to be anything for God anymore Isaiah chapter number 64, if you found your place, the Bible says, Oh, that thou wouldst rend the heavens, and that thou wouldst come down, that the mountains might flow down at thy presence. As when the melting fire burneth, the fire causeth the waters to boil, to make thy name known to thine adversaries, that the nations may tremble at thy presence. That's the God that we're serving this morning. The same God that put this Bible in order, word for word, every job, every title. The same God is the God we're serving this morning, and he's not lost a bit of his power. He's more powerful than Satan. Amen. Jesus told us, as I said this morning in Sunday school, he said, In the world you shall have tribulation, but be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. Jesus is our Savior, He's our the one we follow in, the God of Israel Verse 3 says, When thou didst terrible things which we look not for, thou cameest down, the mountains flowed down at thy presence. For since the beginning of the world men have not heard, nor perceived by the ear, neither hath the eye seen, O God beside thee, what he hath prepared for him that waiteth for him Oh, we can read in Revelation, we read about the twelve foundations and how beautiful the new Jerusalem is going to be. All those colors coming down and And uh uh the New Jerusalem, how the street is of pure gold, as transparent as glass, and and uh the walls of Jasper being clear as crystal and and Jesus is the light, there's no more need for the sun because Jesus Is the Son, Amen. The S-O-N. He is the light. And I can just imagine that in New Jerusalem as it comes down. It'll look like a kaleidoscope with his light going out through those twelve foundations How beautiful it's going to be. But the Bible tells us right here, for since the beginning of the world men have not heard nor perceived by the ear, neither hath the eye seen, O God, beside thee. What he hath prepared for him that waiteth for him. Oh, we have no idea what's coming. Let's be faithful in these days. Peter had his day. The disciples had their day. Paul had his day. He spent a lot of his time in jail, in prison. They had their day, but they were faithful. This is the day that God has given us. What are we going to do with it? Verse number five says, Thou meetest him with rejoy and uh him that rejoiceth and wondereth and and worketh righteousness. Those that remember thee in thy ways, behold, thou art wroth. For we have sinned in those in continuance, and we shall be saved. But we are all as an unclean thing, and all our righteousnesses are as filthy rags And we all do fade as a leaf, and our iniquities, like the wind, hath taken us away. And there is none that calleth upon thy name that stirreth up Himself to take hold of thee, for thou hast hid thy face from us and hast consumed us because of our iniquities. But now, O Lord, thou art our Father. We are the clay and thou art potter, and we will we all are the work of thy hand. I want you to look at verse 7 right there. It says And there is none that calleth upon thy name that stirreth up himself. We need some people to be stirred up this morning. If uh what's going on in America doesn't stir you, then there's something wrong in our hearts towards God this morning. It ought to stir us what's taking place in our great country. Let's pray. Our precious Heavenly Father, I pray, Lord, that you'll just take hold of this Service, Lord, that you will just take control and Lord get Gerald Miller out of the way. Lord, empty me of myself, Father, before you and fill me with your spirit that I might be able to proclaim your word one more time This side of eternity. Lord help me to preach as a dying man to a dying people. And Lord help me to bring forth your gospel to those that are lost That they would that sinners would come and trust you as their Savior. And Lord, help me to give encouragement to you saints through your word, Lord. Thy word is pure. And Father, I pray that everything will be done to your honor and glory, and that Jesus Christ will be magnified in Jesus' name. Amen. As we looked at Isaiah chapter 64, I I my desire is to see God do a mighty work in our land today. We need it. uh today. I think about some other places in Scripture very quickly. Psalm 139 Before we go to 1 Samuel, and I'll be mindful of the time this morning. Psalm 139 says, O Lord, thou hast searched me and known me. This is David speaking He said, Oh Lord, thou hast searched me and known me. Thou knowest my downsetting, my uprising. Thou understandest my thought afar off. He said, Lord, you know everything about me You know every word that I've said, you know everything that I've ever even thought, and you have judged it, you've looked at it, you know Uh what is in my heart? Verse three says, Thou compassest my path and my lying down and art acquainted with all my ways. For there is not a word in my tongue, but lo, O Lord, thou knowest it altogether Thou hast beset me behind and before and laid thine hand upon me, and that's what we need today is God's hand to be upon us. uh this morning so that we can be what we need to be in this day and hour in which we live. Verse six says, Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. It is high. I cannot attain unto it The Lord told us, he uh God told us that uh our ways are not his ways and and uh his thoughts are not our thoughts Because we still live in this old flesh. We still live in these old carnal bodies. But our soul, we need to feed our spirit more than this old flesh Uh the Bible says in verse 7, Whither shall I go from thy spirit, or whither shall I flee from thy presence? For sake of time, verse 14, I will praise thee, for I am fearfully And wonderfully made, marvelous are thy works, and that my soul knoweth right well. My substance was not hid from thee When I was made in secret and curiously wrought in the lowest parts of the earth, thine eyes did see my substance, yet being unperfect And in thy book all my members were written, which in continuance were fashioned when as yet there was none of them. I I think about America today and I think about what happened this past week in the Supreme Court. But I think also about those fifty-eight million babies that have been put to death and murdered before they ever got to take the first breath. Fifty-eight million, that's the total, sum total of about fourteen of our states in the United States that are no longer there anymore because of murder and hatred In the heart of man. We say that life began at exception uh at conception. But the Bible says right here uh And in thy book all my members were written, which in continuance were fashioned, when as yet there were none of them. How precious also are thy thoughts unto me, O God! How great is the sum of them! Think about God this morning. He's thinking of us individually, not just as a church at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, not just as a country of the United States of America, not just the state of Maryland, not just the state of North Carolina, but he's thinking of each and every one of you. individually. That is an amazing God that we serve. And it says he's not just thought one thought about you. It says the sum total of them, there's thoughts and thoughts that he has towards you each and every day We were outside the other night and I was looking up. I had to take a piece of mail down to the mailbox and I looked up in the sky and I saw these two bright uh planets I knew they had to be planets, so I I went back and got on my phone and to see which ones they were, Jupiter and and Venus, uh up in the western sky there. how great it was and everything. So I had to go get my wife and I think Ryan and all the others were busy doing other things. So I got r uh Ryanna was in there and and my wife and we went down the driveway away from the trees where we could see them And it was just amazing seeing and realizing that God put those there. I mean, you know, planets probably line up and can be seen at other times and everything, but God put that there just at that time for me And my family to see that. Amen. He was thinking of us and and let us see that. And then we turned around and we looked up. And it seemed like we could see every star, every plant that had ever been made. It was there. I mean, it was just, the whole sky was just lit up I mean I thought it was pretty spectacular seeing those two planets over there, but when I turned around and saw that other, I thought, oh my God, how great and wonderful are you You created, you just spoke every bit of this into existence. And everybody might not be outside the house tonight looking up, but I am. And I thank you, Lord, for just allowing me just to see it. Just to see your creation. King David was writing all this as inspired by the Holy Spirit. In Psalm 131, it said, Lord, my heart is not haughty, nor mine eyes lofty. Neither do I exercise myself in great matters or in things too high for me. Surely I have behaved and quieted myself as a child that That is washed of his mother, my soul is even as a winged child. Let Israel hope in the Lord from henceforth and forever. That's my prayer for America. That's my prayer. We need to pray for the peace of Jerusalem. I believe the Lord is soon to return. I I don't believe it because of the signs or anything it says the Jews reci require a sign. We don't require a sign. But we can look at the signs of the times and see that we are as in the days of Noah, so are the uh is the day of the coming of the Son of Man be But I I I look at the things around and what's happening in America and it's not because of the things that are happening in America that makes me think the Lord's coming I look over in the Middle East, I see the things that are happening to the Israel, and it makes me think that the Lord is soon to return. But not even those things move me as much as what Jesus said. He said, uh, I am coming again. He said that he he told us himself that he would come and take us home to be with him. I believe he's coming because he said he would. Now back in 1 Samuel chapter number 17. We know the context of this scripture. Israel's lined up on one mountain and and uh the Philistines are lined up on the other mountain. There's a valley down here and there's a great champion comes down and he's been he does it for forty days And he comes down there and he defies the army of Israel. But he's not just defying the army of Israel, he's defying their God. We see this giant here. Verse number fifteen. We know that King David had been called of Saul. He lived in His house for a time, he was his armor-bearer, and and when that evil spirit came upon Saul, King David would play the harp and it would calm him down. But now it says in verse 15, but David went and returned from Saul to feed his father's sheep at Bethlehem. Verse 16 says, And the Philistine grew near morning and evening, and presented himself forty days. And Jesse said unto David his son, Take now for thy brethren and Epha of this part's corn and these ten loaves, and run to the camp to thy brethren Now if if you read back up here uh chapter uh verse number 12 you see that King David's older brothers, three of his older brothers are there. They're soldiers, they're in uh King Saul's army And they're there and and uh they're doing just like all the rest of 'em. They're hiding in their tents, they're they're staying on one side of the hill while the uh Philistines are on the other side and and uh So that means that there's five at home. King uh David, the shepherd boy. And four of his brothers. They're all still at home with their father Jesse. I wonder why uh his father Jesse sent David. I wonder why he would send the youngest one. You know, probably not apt to to do much. Uh Saul calls him a stripling. If you look up that word stripling, it means that he was full grown He wasn't in the military. He wasn't in the army yet. But he was full-grown and at the age where he could get married So Jesse sends David out. And Jesse said to David, his son, Take now For thy brethren and ephah just parched corn and these ten loaves, and run to the camp of thy brethren, and carry these ten cheeses unto the captain of the thousands, and and look now thy brethren uh how thy brethren fare, and take their pledge. What does that mean? Take their pledge. Does that mean it could mean that they would send a letter home to them letting their father Jesse know how they're doing? Uh it could have meant that some of them would even take a lock of their hair. History tells us some of them would take a lock of their hair and cut it and and send it by the courier to let 'em know their family know that they're doing okay Others would send some of the spoils of some of the war home with them and let them know, hey, we won. We were victorious So King David has been sent there. He said, Let me know how thou brethren Pharaoh and take their pledge. Now Saul and they and all the men of Israel were in the valley of Elah fighting with the Philistines, and David rose up early in the morning. and left the sheep with the keeper. And took and went as Jesse had commanded him, and he came to the trench as the hosts were going forth to the fight, and shouted for the battle. King David had some seal some zeal about him. He wasn't king yet. He was a shepherd boy. He was coming down, uh, doing as his father told him to do. What if King David had said, uh, okay, Dad, I'll do this, but I'm going to wait a while Uh I'm busy, I'm looking after the sheep. I need to get them to this other pasture and then I'll go. Now he obeyed immediately, but I want you to see that ki that David was responsible He was a responsible young man. He didn't just leave the sheep out there. It says right here, and David rose up early in the morning and left the sheep with a keeper. He was responsible. He had somebody else taking care of his responsibility while he was gone. And he didn't sleep till noontime or one or two o'clock in the afternoon and then get up and and wipe his eyes. It says he got up early and went. He wanted to please God. I believe he was a man after God's own heart. And he came to the trench as the host was going forth to the fight and shouted for the battle. He said, Get them, boys, go after them. Get 'em! Uh you got a you got a great cause here. You're fighting for Israel. For Israel and the Philistines had put the battle in array, army against army. It was in array, but that don't mean they were fighting Had one side on one side of the hill, the other side on the other side of the hill. And David left his carriage in the hand of the keeper of the carriage and ran into the army and and came and saluted his brethren. Again we see his responsibility there. He didn't leave the carriage over there with all those cheeses and the apha of corn, parched corn, and all those other things there for somebody to steal and take away And used as they saw fit, he left the carriage in the hand of a keeper. He was responsible. And what I want you to see this morning in these things is he was responsible in the little things He was responsible in the little things. Big doors swing on small hinges. He was responsible in the little things, and God was able to use him mightily because he knew he'd be responsible in the small things. So that he could be used in the larger things, the big things. So he left his ha uh carriage in the hand of the keeper of the carriage and ran into the army and came and saluted his brethren. I'd imagine he went up to him and said, Shalom. Peace, the peace of God be upon you. Shalom. He was respectful to his older brothers And as he talked with them, behold, there came up the champion, the Philistine of Gath, Goliath by name, out of the armies of the Philistines, and And spake according to the same words. And David heard them. And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him and were sore afraid. Here's this big giant. He's standing down there and he's he's defining his folk how he has before and King David is out there. And if David hadn't been responsible and gotten up early, he wouldn't have heard what Goliath said But it said, David heard them. He heard the words. And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him and were sore afraid. And the men of Israel said, Have you seen this man that has come up? Surely to divide Israel to uh is he come up? And it shall be that the man who killeth him, the king, will enrich him with great riches, and will give him his daughter and make his father's house free in Israel. Well that was quite a an expensive gift that would be given to to the one that would take Goliath out of there. First he'd get a wife Man and a woman. That's what constitutes a marriage. Man and woman. And not only that. But his father's house would be free. His daddy wouldn't have to pay taxes, tribute. It would be free Verse 26, and David spake to the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be done to the man that killeth the f the Philistine and taketh away the reproach from Israel, for who is this uncircumcised Philistine that he should defy the armies of the living God? King David I mean young David he's going around from soldier to soldier and he's he's turning this around on them. They have heard what will take place to the person what will be given to the person that takes Goliath away from there He has heard that, so he's going from soldier to soldier and saying, hey, uh are you going to do it? Are you going to go after him? Uh surely, surely somebody's going to stand up to this bully. Surely somebody is going to take a stand. And the people answered him after this manner, saying, So shall it be done to the man that killeth him. Now look at Eliah, Eliab there. In verse twenty-eight, and Elive, his eldest brother, heard when he spake unto the men, and Elibe's anger was kindled against David, and he said, Why camest thou down hither? And with whom hast thou left those few sheep in the wilderness? He's belittling his younger brother. He's saying those few sheep. He was saying your your tasks are just menial things. You just have a few sheep. Who'd you leave them with? You irresponsible. But it says right over here in verse 20, that he left the sheep with the keeper. He was responsible. You know, we live in a day and in churches today that that when somebody gets ready to go somewhere they go and they don't leave their responsibility on somebody else. They just have to figure it out Sunday morning We need to be responsible about the things of God. Not just our daily lives, but the things of God. We need to be responsible towards them. He said, Why cameest thou down hither, and with whom hast thou left a few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride and thy naughtiness of thine heart, for thou art come down. That thou may mightest see the battle. He's saying you're just coming for entertainment. You just come down here to see how chicken we are. That's what he's really saying Now we're not going up against Goliath, but you've just come down here for some entertainment. You know, this world, this country, and a lot of people are just built on entertainment anymore. We went by several trips. We've been down in Georgia and a couple trips to South Carolina. We go by Carolyn's amusement park And uh they've got the world's tallest roller coaster now and the world's fastest. It's 325 feet tall. It has to have lights on top so the airplanes don't hit it. And uh it goes 90 miles an hour downhill I used to ride roller coasters and and and uh my eyes have been opened. Amen. They were shut a lot, but but they're open now Amusement part. Muse. David used the word muse one time in the Psalms. It means to think. When you put a A before it, it means you're not thinking. Now I'm thinking, what was I thinking when I wrote those things? I wasn't thinking. I couldn't have been thinking, but to see those things now, 90 miles an hour, 325 feet high, entertainment. Entertainment. Nah, not me He says, I know thy pride and thy naughtiness of thy heart, for thou art come down that thou might see the battle. Verse 29, and David said, What have I now done? Is there not a cause? After what's happened this past week and and for the last few years, let me say, in America, there's a lot of Christians this morning scratching their heads and saying, What have I now done? We're just trying to live peaceably among all men as much as is possible. But now there's a cause. There's a cause and God is calling for recruits If you're saved, you're in the battle. Whenever we went to connect uh the Capitol Connection this past year with Brother Chuck Hardy and and Michael Creed There were people the senators some of them were saying it's about time the church got here And we talked to some of them and they were discouraged. Some of the senators and the congressmen they were discouraged saying, uh want ours, the the representative from our area in North Carolina, uh Richard Hudson Went in there and he said, I had no idea what I was getting into when I took office. He said, I didn't realize that Washington was this wicked He said it's not a physical warfare we're in. He said it's spiritual. You can just feel the evil up in this place. He said, but I want to tell you something you can go back and tell people. He said every morning before we go in to vote in the house Uh, we pray, we've got prayer meeting every morning that we're in session. And he said, Then we go and place our vote, and then we come back from making our vote and we're praying for the other side that God would change their hearts so that they would vote right. He said, There are Christians up here. We don't hear about them, but they're there. And there's more all the time. I remember we were getting ready for the Capitol Connection and and uh Uh we were having a conference call and Brother Harding and Brother Creed were on there and we were talking and all and they said uh sorry general we're gonna have to cut it short today. He said we led another uh senator to the Lord and we're going to disciple him. Amen. Did you know that fundamental independent baths, we're the only ones that have a church on Capitol Hill? Brother Brad Wells is the pastor. Graceway Baptist Church. None of the other denominations are even trying it. But we have God is using our movement today. It's not just a movement. This is this is God's word, his truth. And the independent Baptist. If I believed otherwise I go somewhere else, but I believe this is the closest to what God teaches in his book, and that's what I am. He says, they're not a cause. The cause was not Goliath. Just a big guy there standing in the way defying the army. The cause was that he was defined the God of Israel. And that's what's taking place in America today. The giant has risen its head and it's defined our God. He's defined Jesus Christ, our Savior. And the only thing that's going to get us out of it is the Lord helping us, giving us strength, praying. We need a revival. We need several revivals to take place in America. Amen. We need a revival of the family. We need a revival of the home where people know what home is. We need a revival of the church. We need a revival of individuals. We need a reviv In our country, we need a revival of prayer We need a revival of Bible reading. We need all these things because there is a cause, and the cause is great today. The cause is Jesus Christ. The cause is I saw a couple days ago that that banner flying out there. We are Baptists, the book, the blood, and the blessed hope. There is a cause. And King David, he he or David, the shepherd boy, he was Saying this to Eliab after all this that Eliab had said about him and putting him down and everything, David just answered him and moved on. He didn't try to belittle him. He didn't try to even take up for himself, really. He said, What have I now done? Is there not a cause? And he turned from him toward another. He didn't waste any more time with his brethren there. He went to another and spake after the same manner, and the people answered him again after the former manner. And when the words were heard which David spake, they rehearsed them before Saul, and he sent for him. We're up against the giant But we've got a a bigger God We've got a Savior that wants to save these people that are defying our God. He loves them. He hates sin, but he loves them. Wants to see them saved. Wants to see them turn to Jesus. Wants them to quit murdering babies. That'll happen if Jesus comes into the heart. Some of you may know that there was a need for revival in North Carolina. They were voting on they called it the bathroom bill down in Charlotte, Charlotte City Council. It's a sad day in our country when people don't know what marriage is. I like what um I believe it was uh Franklin Graham said yesterday in response. He said This is not about a law or anything. This is about sin against God. We're condoning sin in our country. It is sin Plenty of scripture to back it up, Romans chapter number one. Clarence Sexton said day before yesterday or yesterday one, he said, since when does the Supreme Court have authority over states' rights? They don't. I never thought in my life I would see things take place that I've seen just in the last few years of my life. I remember as a child uh being able to go out in the woods. I'd go out in the woods all day long. I'd come in just to eat. I'd look for airheads in the field across from the house and I'd stay down on the branch. I'd go fishing, I'd do all this. Mom and Dad Knew I was out there somewhere. Now we live on the same road and I can't let my children out of my sight because there's websites talks about certain people that are living in the area. I have to keep my eye on them. That's the day we're living in. Is there not a cause? It breaks my heart to see what's taking place in America today But I know we've got a mighty God. And I'm going to put my trust in him and I'm going to keep giving the gospel out. I'm going to keep telling people that Jesus saves. Jesus saves. Amen We're gonna keep broadcasting the truth over FBN radio. The King James Bible. So we know the rest of the story That David was able to conquer the giant. Our giant today seems like it's Washington, D. C. , but it it's not. It's wickedness. It's evil Satan knows that his time is short and he's he's unleashing everything that he can on on people trying to destroy God's people's testimonies, trying to close down churches, trying to do whatever he can. And we as God's children The Bible tells us that our time is short too, but what are we doing? Are we doing everything that we can to further the cause of Christ? Is there not a cause? So yes, there is. The cause is the honor and glory of God and to magnify Jesus Christ today In the darkness of this world. Father, I pray, Lord, that you'll take your word now. Speak to our hearts, Father, if there'd be one in our midst that's never trusted you as their Lord and Savior. Lord, I pray that they would come and get on this old-fashioned altar this morning. Pastor or someone take the word of God. Show them how they can be saved. Lord, you told us that the power of the gospel, you told us what that is. It's the death, the burial, and the resurrection of Jesus Christ. If we'll see ourselves as sinners, turn from our wicked way, repent of our sin, and turn to Jesus and be completely what He did for us on the cross of Calvary, who bore our sin for us. If we'll accept that free gift to Jesus Christ, the death, burial, and resurrection, then we can have eternal life. We can be saved. We can go from here with the weight of sin off our hearts. Lord, I pray that you'll work in our hearts. Encourage us, Lord. Father, help us in Jesus' name, Amen.