The book of Genesis tonight, Genesis chapter 22. There are few people in the Word of God that are so significant, so earth-changing, that they're actually introduced to us in an unusual way. I mean, I Elijah is introduced to us in an unusual way. The Bible just says, then Elijah. And all of a sudden he appears. But these are even more unusual. There are three men that impacted the entire world like no other three men impacted the entire world. Of course, the first would be uh the a man by the name of Noah. Noah is introduced to us at the end of a genealogy. So it's not just important for the Lord to tell us who Noah's father was and his grandfather was, but who his great, great, great, great, great, great grandfather was And at the end of that genealogy, the Bible ends with the birth of Noah, and Noah is introduced on the scene to be that man whose faith, their of the righteousness which is by faith, whose faith repopulates the earth and rescues mankind for lack of a better term. Another one that is mentioned at the end of a genealogy is, of course, our Savior. He's mentioned at the end of two genealogies. One, tracing his lineage through the life, uh through the ancestry of his uh of his stepfathers, the best term I could come up with. Joseph, by the way, if Jesus were Joseph's son, he could never be the king of the Jews. Joseph's line had been rejected in the book of Isaiah. But also in the book of Luke, he's his genealogy is traced through the life of his mother, uh, Mary. And so Jesus, of course, changed everything in the entire world. But these two men obviously impacted the entire world. But there's a a third man. In the book of Genesis, chapter eleven, as you go through this genealogy that is there, it ends with the birth of a man by the name of Abram, who's later to become Abraham, the father of many nations. Now please don't let people in the world tell you that he is the father of many religions. That is not what his name means and is not what he did. He didn't father any nation. God called him any religion, God called him to be the patriarch of the nation of Israel. But Abraham is the father of many nations and we'll talk about that here in just a moment. We talked the other day about about Abraham first being uh arriving on the scene there in chapter twelve, disobeying two of the three things that God has told him to do. But God still gives him that promise. I will bless him that bless thee, and curse them that curse him that curseth thee and thee. Shall all the families of the earth be blessed Shortly after that we find Abraham sojourning, moving on down to the nation of Egypt, and while he's there, in that place of lust and lying, Abraham stops trusting the Lord, stops trying to take care of his own self and his own and his uh his own self and not even worrying about his own wife, Sarah, that he loves. He's just concerned about what's best for Abraham because the longer you dwell in the world, the more you start to forget that God's going to take care of you. Abraham comes back, and we find throughout the scriptures that God has roughly seventeen conversations with Abraham. Seventeen times the Lord spoke. Some of them could be continuations of one conversation, but there's seventeen times that the Lord spake unto Abraham. And in those seventeen times, he basically talked about four simple promises. Do you realize every time until our text tonight that God spoke to Abraham, he either gave him a promise or reiterated and repronounced In other words, Abraham, until Genesis chapter 22, didn't have a single conversation with God that didn't include God telling him something good was going to happen Those promises, we can divide them into four simple categories. The first one is about his person. See, God had promised Abraham. He said that he would make his name great He promised that he would bless him. He promised that he would have a long life. He promised that he would die in peace. God had made Abraham some promises about his person But not just about his person. God made him promises about his protection. Remember those verses we just mentioned? I will curse them that curseth thee. He told Abraham, I'm going to be your shield and I'm going to be your reward. God has made some promises to Abraham about his person and about his protection. But number three, he made promises to Abraham about his possessions God has told Abraham that every place that the sole of his foot touches is going to be his. He has promised him all the land from the Nile to the Euphrates. After Lot leaves him at the end of Genesis chapter thirteen God takes Abraham up on a mountain. I'm sorry, Genesis. Yeah, this is chapter 13. God takes Abraham up on a mountain and says, Look to the north, look to the south, look to the east, and look to the west. Everything that you see is going to be yours He's promised him that he's going to have all the land of the Kenites, the Jebusites, the Hivites, the Perizzites, the Amorites, and the Canaanites. God has made him promises about his person, he has made him promises about his protection, he has made him promises about his possessions, and lastly, he's made him promises about his progeny or about his descendants God has made Abraham some pretty incredible promises about his descendants. In these shall all the families of the earth be blessed. He promised Abraham that his seed would be like the dust of the s a sand of the sea and like the stars of the heaven. He promised that Abraham's name would be great around the world. All those promises about his progeny that were going to take place. Now all of this is going to take place through the womb of Sarah. Abraham and Sarah, even as they uh he approaches the hundred And she approaches ninety, the promise is still there. But Abraham and Sarah began to question God. That's what we do a lot of times We begin to have doubts that God's not going to do what God said he was going to do. So Sarah gives her handmaid Hagar to Abraham, and Abraham and Hagar conceive a child by the name of Ishmael. Now understand this God had never made one single promise about Ishmael before Ishmael was born. Not one single promise, not one single guarantee at all. Ishmael is the product of doubt Isaac is the product of deliverance. Ishmael is the product of sin. Isaac is the promise of service. Ishmael is born out of lust. Isaac is born out of love. Ishmael is a mistake, and Isaac is a miracle. Ishmael is rejected, and that's been a problem now for 4,000 years on planet Earth. Finally, Isaac is born. Isaac, this promised son, this one that they've been waiting for now for twenty-five years. Abraham was waiting for twenty-five years before Isaac was born, and now He has his own son of his old age. It's at this time. Now, by the way, I realize that almost every flannel graph that you've ever seen and every uh Bible storybook that you've ever read in your life When they picture the events of Genesis chapter 22, always picture Isaac as an eight uh thirteen or fourteen-year-old boy That's just not the case here. As you read the passage, you read chapter twenty-one and chapter twenty-two, and then go on to chapter twenty-three, you're gonna find out that Isaac is most likely in his mid-twenties Matter of fact, he might even be nearing thirty years of age by the time Genesis chapter twenty-two takes place. And God is going to come and speak to Abraham one more time. This time, God is not going to give Abraham a promise. This time, God's going to give Abraham a test. This time, God is going to challenge Abraham. If you're going to test Abraham, how are you going to do it? I mean, Abraham is at the time of his life where he should be able to sit back on the front porch in a white rocking chair and just sit back and let Isaac take care of everything and ride off into the sunset and retire. That's probably Abraham's plan, but it's not God's plan. God's going to test Abraham in such a way that if you really stop and read it, it should make our knees just a little bit weak when we read about it. On one side, when I read about this test of Abraham, I am thankful to my very core that God never chose to test me the way that He's going to test Abraham in this passage of Scripture. But if you really stop and think about it biblically It actually should disappoint us that God's never chosen to test us this way. Because He will not allow us to be tempted above that which we are able. In other words, God knows we wouldn't pass, so he doesn't test us this way. He knew Abraham could pass, or he'd have never done it. How are you going to test Abraham? I mean, if you're really going to put this man now in his 120 years of age or more, if you're really going to test him if you're Almighty God, how are you going to do it? Well, I'm going to test him and tell him to leave his home. Nope, Abraham already passed that test. I'm going to test him with his finances and see if he's going to give I'm going to test him with his life and put himself in harm's way when Keterleomer attacks the The five kings there around Sodom and Gomorrah, and Abraham shows up with his servants and delivers them and defeats the king and wins the battle You're going to test Abraham about his his his life or about his fighting or about his finances. Understand this. He's already passed all of those tests. But God's going to test Abraham here in this passage of Scripture. And if you're going to test Abraham at this stage in his life, listen carefully, it's going to have to be a doozy. It's gonna have to be a big one. What you look at the passage with me, please. Genesis chapter twenty-two. We are gonna point out some things that it does say and some things that it just doesn't say as we go through it. Genesis twenty-two, beginning in verse one, please. The Bible says and it came to pass after these things This is after Isaac is born and has lived in the land, sojourned in the land for many days. We'll get to that word here in just a moment. And said of him, Abraham, and he said, Behold, here I am. And he said, take now thy son, thine only son Isaac. Whom thou lovest, and get thee into the land of Moriah, and offer him there for a burnt offering upon one of the mountains, which I will tell thee of. And Abraham rose up early in the morning, and saddled his ass, and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son, and claved the wood for the burnt offering, and rose up and went unto the place, watch this, of which God had told him. Then on the third day, Abraham lifted up his eyes and saw the place afar off. And Abraham said to his young men, Abide ye here with the ass, and I and the lad will go yonder and worship and come again to you. Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it upon Isaac, his son. He took the fire in his hand and a knife, and they went both of them together. Can you imagine how much Abraham has dreaded verse 7 for the last three days? And Isaac spake unto Abraham his father. And he said, My father, and he said, Here my son. He said, Behold the fire and the wood. Where's the lamb for a burnt offering? And Abraham said, My son, God will provide himself a lamb for a burnt offering. So they went both of them together. And they came to the place which God had told him of, and Abraham built an altar there, and laid the wood in order, and bound Isaac his son, and laid him on the altar upon the wood. Abraham stretched forth his hand, and took the knife to slay his son The angel of the Lord called to him out of heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham, and he said, Here am I And he said, Lay not thine hand upon the lad, neither do thou anything unto him, for now I know that thou fearest God, seest, seeing that thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son, from me And Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, behind him a ram caught in a thicket by his horns. And Abraham went and took the ram and offered him up for a burnt offering in the stead of his son And Abraham called the name of the place Jehovah Jirah, as it is said to this day in the mount of the Lord, it shall be seen. I want to preach you a message simply entitled this, Is Your All on the Altar? Is your all on the altar? Let's have a word of prayer before we begin. Dear Lord Heavenly Father, we thank you for this evening. Lord, we thank you now for our time together. We thank you for the privilege of being in your house. Father, I pray tonight that you'll bless the Word of God as it goes forth from this pulpit. Father, that lost people will see their need of a Savior tonight. Saved people will see their need of a completely surrendered life to you. Father, I pray that the Word of God will find fertile soil in the hearts of your people, and that, Father, your Holy Ghost will convict Father, have your will and your way. In Jesus' name. Amen. I want you to notice, number one, the first thing you see is the call to sacrifice. There's Abraham, and God wakes him up and says, Abraham, he says, Here am I. He says, Here's the plan, Abraham. I'm going to give you a test. Now I know the b the the word here says the word tempt, and some will run to this and take you to the New Testament and say that the Lord does it will not Well there's two different words there. One's in Greek, one's in Hebrew. The Greek word means to tempt to sin. The Hebrew word here means to tempt or to test uh to test their faith and so it's a completely different thing so there's no contradiction, no error there. And God is going to test Abraham in a special way. God is going to make number one, I want you to notice this, the demand. Notice what he says first. He says he wants something that he has provided for Abraham Something that's been provided. Please understand this simple thing. A hundred-year-old Abraham and ninety-year-old Sarah. It ceased to be with Sarah after the manner of women. She could not have a child. Abraham could not Conceive a child. It just wasn't a possibility. So every day that they spent with Isaac, they knew one thing for sure. They knew that God had given them Isaac. They knew that he was the result of the promise of Almighty God. They could not say, I am so thankful that medical science has developed a way so that ninety-year-old women can carry a baby. They could not say, I'm so glad that we had a good doctor and a wonderful hospital, so that we could have a a baby when my wife was ninety and the husband was a hundred. They could not say that at all Every time Isaac took a step, when he took his first step, they were reminded that God gave them this child. As he said, mama and daddy for the first time, they were reminded that God gave them them this child. They couldn't say this is something we earned. They couldn't say this is something we've accomplished. They had to say every time they saw him, wow, look what God gave us You notice that God asks Abraham to give him what God has given to Abraham. See, understand this, Christian We're oftentimes complaining about everything that God wants from us. God wants so much of my time. God wants so much of my talent. He wants so much of my Treasure. We start adding up and saying he wants this many percent and this many percent and this many percent and I'm given the missions and I'm giving I'm given to help people and I'm I'm g Given the ties Keep the church running and all that. I'm doing all of that. Boy, the Lord sure does ask a lot. Wait just a second here. The wonderful thing is he doesn't ask for it all. Every single dime of it is his. Everything that you have, and everything that I have, we have, by the manifold grace of Almighty God, it's all been provided to us No, no, Brother Harper, I'm the breadwinner. No, no. God's the bread provider, Christian. You're not the breadwinner. Notice carefully, please. The first thing in this demand is something that God has provided. But the second thing I want you to notice When when we if we all acknowledge that everything we have, we have because of the Lord providing it for us. But no one got up last Sunday morning. You got up and you said, I'm going to get up out of the bed that God has provided me, and I'm going to go into the next room where my children that God has provided me are asleep And I'm going to tell them, children, get up out of bed and put on the clothes that God has provided you, so that we can go to the church That God has provided us, and listen to the pastor that God has provided us, and we'll get in our van that God has provided us and use the gas that God has provided us so that we can go to that church that God has provided us. Nobody said that You got up out of your bed, you went into your kids' room, you woke up your children, you told them to get their clothes on, you get in your van so you can drive to your church. That's what we do, because when God gives us something as human beings, we take ownership of it, do we not? That's why God does not say, Abraham, give me that boy I gave you. No, no, no. He says, Abraham, take now thy son. Thine only son Isaac. See, God asked Abraham for something that he had provided, but God asked Abraham for something that was personal. It's mine. It belongs to me. Isn't that what we do, Christian? There are some things that we're willing to give. I'm here to tell you something right now. I am willing to surrender every single bit of your life to Almighty God. But there are some things in my life that I like to hold on to. There are some things in my life that I say, Lord, you can have just about everything, but you Can't have this. This is mine. This belongs to me. That's not what God says here. He says, I want you to give it to me. I gave it to you, and now it's yours, and I want you to give me your son, your only son, Isaac. Something that was personal, something that was provided, but also number three, it was something about which Abraham was passionate. Take now thy son, thine only son Isaac, whom Thou lovest. You know when you go to Bible college, they teach you a class called hermeneutics I'd never heard that word until I went to Bible college. Hermeneutics, it's the science or the art, depending on who wrote the book, of studying the word of God. There's some Some principles in there that help us as we study hermeneutics, some things that help us understand the Bible just a little bit better. One of those principles that we hear oftentimes is what's called the first mention principle. In other words, the first time something is mentioned in the Word of God, the story that goes with it or the circumstances that surround it influence everything about that through the rest of the Word of God. Give you a classic example. In Genesis chapter three, God kills the first animal, makes coats of skin from that animal, and clothes the nakedness of Adam and Eve because they realize this because of their sin. So the very first animal sacrifice ever in the Word of God was done to cover the sins of mankind. And throughout all the nation of Israel, up until our Savior died on the cross, the blood sacrifice was to cover the sin of mankind. Almost all things were by the law purged with blood. Without the shedding of blood is no remission. There are two first mentions in Genesis chapter 22 It's kind of a neat thing. The first one, and we'll get to the other one here in just a moment, but the first one is the word love. Do you realize that in Genesis chapter 1, all the way through Genesis chapter 22, the word love is never in your Bible? This is the first time whom thou lovest, the first time love is ever mentioned in the Word of God. is right here in Genesis chapter 22. I find it interesting that it's not talking about God's love when you read it the first time. It's not that God looked at Adam and Eve and said, Yes, I know you sinned, but I still Love you. It's not that God looked at the world and said, The world is incredibly wicked, but I still love the world, so I'm gonna have Noah build an ark It's not any of those situations. The first time love is mentioned in the Word of God, it's parental love. And as the Christian, understanding this Oh, first mentioned principle thing. Let me show you something that might be a blessing to you. Do you know all those times in the Word of God when it describes him as our Father and us as His children? Do you know what it's really saying? It's really saying, you know, I love you. Came into his own, and his own received him not, but as many as received him, to them gave you power to become the sons of God. I love you Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. That means I love you He says, I love you like a father loves his children. Understand carefully, please. That's the first mention of the word love. He says, I don't want you to just give me something that I gave you. I don't want you to just give me something that's yours I want you to give me the thing that is the nearest and dearest to your heart. See, Christian, that's where we put on the brakes. Give me your plans. Give me your ideas. Give me your life. Give me your family. Give me your home. Give me everything that you have. I want you to give me everything that you love. That's when we stop, right? We might say, All right, Lord, I realize everything I have you gave to me, so I'm going to give you back what you have provided in Lord. Even though I'm giving this back Some of this is mine. I'm going to give you this even though it's mine. I'm going to give you this even though it's mine. But then God says, I want that thing that is down deep in your heart that you love more than anything else in the world. I want you to give that to me. And we say, hold it now. That's a little much, Lord. That's where we draw the line. That's why God doesn't test us the way He tests Abraham. He said, I'm demanding what is personal, what has been provided, and that which you're passionate about. I want you to give me what you love the most. Notice, we see the call, the sacrifice first of the demand, but then I want you to know notice secondly, please, the duration. See, God isn't just asking Abraham for his son. You say, Brother Harper, wait, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. What do you mean? God isn't just asking Abraham for his son. No, no. God's literally asking Abraham for everything. He's asking Abraham for every promise that God has ever given. Everything that God has provided goes away when Abraham gives up Isaac. You think about this for a moment. How's Abraham going to die in peace, knowing that he took his son Isaac up on top of a mountain in Moriah, and took a knife and laid it on his juggler, and quickly separated his uh his juggler right there and watched his own son bleed to death and then set his body on fire. How's he gonna die in peace? How's he gonna live a long life? How long do you think Abraham lives after this happens Does it matter that Abraham owns all the grant all the land that his foot is touched, because he has no heir to leave it to? God's uh Abraham's name can't be great because there'll be no son to carry on his lineage. How can God bless the whole world? Bless them that bless thee and curse them that curseth thee if Isaac is dead. Every promise that God has ever made to Abraham Falls flat on its face at the death of Isaac. He's asked him for everything. Oh no, Brother Harper, that's not everything. He didn't ask him for Sarah. I begged to differ. Abraham's going to get up the next morning. He's going to take two men with him and Isaac. They're going to travel for three days. Maybe he kisses his wife on the cheek. Maybe Isaac says, Bye, Mom. And for three days they journey. For three days Abraham comes back after doing what God has bidden him to do. Sarah's gonna come out to see her husband that she has called Lord and to see that son that she's loved since she carried him in her womb. She's going to be so excited that they've come home from their six-day father and son journey to Moriah When she comes out, she notices that Abraham is there and the two servants are there, but there's no Isaac. Sarah's gonna ask the question, isn't she? Where's where's Isaac? And Abraham's going to say, honey, uh, Isaac's dead. To her tears, she's going to ask, What happened? What happened? And Abraham's going to say, Well, sweetheart, I killed him. Sarah's gonna say, Why would you do that? He's gonna say, because God told me to. Let me ask you a question, every woman in this room. How long is Sarah going to be able to trust Abraham? How long is she going to be able to trust God? How long before she dies of a broken heart? Knowing that God has now snatched away everything that He has given them in the last twenty-five years. No no no, make no mistake about it. This isn't just about Isaac. This is about everything. Abraham gets up the next morning. He sharpens the knife. I have to tell you something here. Let's stop for just a moment. I might have done a little Jonah here. Wouldn't you? Remember when God told Jonah to go to Nineveh, he went the opposite direction? Abraham could have said, you know what, Lord, hold on just a second. Let me let me just let me just let me just I'm just gonna fail this one Sorry, Lord. I passed so many tests. I've done all those things that you told me to do. I left when I didn't know where I was going. I was willing to fight for you. I was willing to give to you, Lord. I was willing to do all of that. But Lord, this is too much. I can't do it. I can't go through with this. Understand? this. Abraham would have still been a better servant to God than most of us in the auditorium if he'd have just waved the white flag and quit, wouldn't he? But he got up the next morning and he cut the wood and he sharpened his knife and he headed out. And Abraham takes that first step. He's leaving me behind. And maybe a bunch of you behind, isn't he? See, I see this duration, I see it starting with a sleepless night. At the end of verse 2, God says, I want you to go to a place that I'm going to tell you about I don't think Abraham said, okay, and rolled over and went back to sleep. I see a conversation that continues that the Bible hasn't chosen to let us read about at this point in time. And at night, Abraham, when God speaks to Abraham, he doesn't know where he's going. First thing in the morning, he goes to the place over which God had told him. I think Abraham continues to ask the Lord, and the Lord finally says, Well, I'll tell you which mountain it is. Wouldn't you have had a sleepless night, knowing what God has just asked you to do? He had a sleepless night, but I want you to notice this though. Think about the silent journey. Three days. A three days journey to Moriah. Can you imagine how heavy 120-plus year old Abraham's steps are as he walks? Oh, he can't tell his servants. He can't tell Isaac. You wouldn't tell Isaac either. Think about this. Isaac is a hundred years younger than Abraham. However old Isaac is, he's a hundred years younger than Abraham. I'm here to tell you, Isaac, if Isaac ran, I don't think Abraham could catch him Can you imagine that first day? Abraham can't get any encouragement from his from his servants He can't have any encouragement from Isaac. As a matter of fact, he probably doesn't want to talk to Isaac. As I mentioned as we read it, I think he's dreading with every fiber of his his being that moment that Isaac finally realizes that there is no animal there for the offering. Every single step. There's no rainbow in the sky. There's no manna falling. Nobody's singing in the hallelujah chorus. Nobody's shaking his hand and saying, Well, brother, you're doing a good job. There's no encouragement, there's no word from God, there's no compliments, nothing is going on. No miracles are happening, there's no bubbling water coming up out of the sand, water isn't coming out of rocks, nothing is happening Every day, every single moment of that day, as his foot hits the ground, he has to be praying what you and I are praying, would be praying. Abraham is a human man, just like me and you. Don't you think he's saying with every step? Is this far enough, Lord? Is this far enough, Lord? Is this far enough, Lord? Don't you think with every step he is praying that God is going to tell him to turn around and go home? How many steps did he have to take before he left you behind? How many miles did he have to walk? Before he left you behind. Would you have gotten up the next morning and packed up? Would you have sharpened the blade? Would you have walked that entire day? Imagine Abraham sleeping in his tent that night, or trying to sleep. Would you have been able to sleep? Knowing the task that's in front of you. Abraham can't even tell anyone. He can't even say, Y'all pray for me. It's second day. Imagine now how heavy his steps are. Another day that nothing happens. Another day with no rainbow in the sky. Another day with no no uh no miracles proving that he's doing the right thing. Another day walking further from Sarah and closer to the mountain. Another day The second to last day of Isaac's life. Imagine waking up that third day. A day's journey is seven miles. So from seven miles away, Abraham is surely able to see this mountain. With every step he takes, the mountain comes further closer and closer into view with every step. He's counting them now. Christian, I want you to understand something. He still didn't back down. He still didn't turn around. Just kept walking. There's the silent a sleepless night. There's the silent journey. But number three, watch this. There's the steep climb Now they're at the base of the mountain, and Abraham makes that statement, and I realized how sometimes we preach passages the way we want to preach them. But Abraham says, I and the lad will go yonder and worship and come again to you. And and preachers will say, Well, that means Abraham knew Isaac was coming back down. The Bible tells us in Hebrews chapter 11 that Abraham didn't know. He trusted That God could raise up Isaac even in the future. He didn't know for sure what God was going to do. See, there's a difference between trusting that God can do something and knowing that God will Notice how he uses that word because this word has become this trite thing in churches all across our our our country and our world. It's become this trite word used in ministry That means I closed my eyes and I rocked back and forth and I held out my hand and boy, that's worship. No The first mention of worship in the Word of God is when Abraham says, I and the lad will go yonder and worship. What is Abraham planning to do when he gets up on top of that mountain? He's gonna sacrifice the dearest thing in the world to him. Him. Worship is sacrifice. It's not just singing a chorus. It's not just having an emotional experience. It's being willing to lay it all on the altar. That's what worship is. Oh, praise is certainly something that is involved in music. Hebrews chapter 2 tells us it is Jesus Himself that stands in the midst of the congregation. and sings praises unto God. Yes, praise is certainly a part of our musical services, but that's not the only way to praise. And you can in fact work and study and practice a song or something like that and put your all into it in worship, but just standing there swaying back and forth That embarrasses the very use of the word worship if you try to do that. You know, in the New Testament you will not find worship You will not find worship ever associated with music one single time. Two-thirds of the time the word worship is used in the New Testament. It's coming with a sacrificial gift. Abraham says, we're going to go up on the mountain and we're going to worship. Then we'll come back. See, Brother Harper, he knew, he knew Isaac was coming back. No, he didn't know Isaac was coming back. What would you have said? Hey fellas, listen, we're going up on top of this mountain, and I'm going to take a real sharp knife and I'm going to cut my son's throat, and then I'll be back down in just a little while. Once again, Isaac could have outrun him. If you're Abraham at this moment, you know what you don't want more than anything else in the world? You don't want those two servants to try to talk you out of it, do you? You don't want those two servants to say, Abraham, wait a minute, are you sure? I mean, it was late at night. Maybe you misunderstood what the Lord said, Abraham. Let me ask you a question. As a human being, How many questions would it have taken for you to begin to question whether you're supposed to sacrifice Isaac or not? I and the lad are going to go yonder. Worship. We'll come again to you. Notice number one, there's the call for sacrifice. They climb the mountain. As they're climbing the mountain, Isaac asked that question. Hey, Dad? Yes, son. I see the fire. I see the wood. But where's the lamb? Now you will get all kinds of preaching on this next verse. My son, God, will provide himself a lamb. People will stop right there at himself God will provide himself a lamb. And then they'll quote John chapter 1 and verse 28. The next day John seeth Jesus coming into him and saith, Behold the Lamb of God See, God had provided himself as the lamb. But see, that's not what the verse completely says, is it? They'll make it sound like Abraham is speaking prophetically about Christ. That's certainly not the case. It's not that Abraham is speaking prophetically about anything, because as you study the verse, up on top of that mountain, God didn't provide a lamb. He provided a ram. Jesus is not being spoken of here. God will provide himself a lamb. Read the rest of the verse for a burnt Offering. Understand, Jesus was not a burnt offering. He was the Passover lamb. This is not talking about our Savior. It's a beautiful picture and there's no problem pointing it out if you want to point it out, but that's not what Abraham is saying. Abraham isn't saying that someday there's going to be a savior born in a manger that's going to die on an old rugged Cross and God will step down from the portals of heaven and provide himself as a lamb. That's not what he's saying. Son, God will take care of it. What do you want him to say? What do you want this dad to say to the son that he loves with all of his heart? Son, listen, I can't wait to get up on top of this mountain so I can kill you No. Every every single thought of his heart is, Lord, I hope you're going to give me some way out of this. Well that's number one, there's the call to sacrifice. Number two, there's that complete surrender. You got on top of the mountain. There has to be a moment. Abraham is fixing the altar, he's preparing the wood, he's laying everything in order. There has to be that conversation, doesn't there? There has to be the moment, because Abraham is not going to rodeo tackle Isaac and tie him up so he can lay him on the altar. The Bible says he bound him and laid him on the altar. Abraham's not going to be strong enough and fast enough and young enough to tackle and tie up poor little Isaac. So there has to be a conversation between dad and son. Abraham is going to look at his son and say, son, I have to tell you the whole story now. Son, you're you're the sacrifice. Isaac would be just like me and you, wouldn't you have asked the question there? Wouldn't it have crossed your mind to say, why? And Abraham's going to say, well, it's what God told me to do, son. I heard a preacher one time preach on this passage of scripture, and he said, obviously Isaac surrendered. Obviously, Isaac willingly let his father tie him up and lay him on the altar. And he said this, I'll never forget it. He said, I bet that made it easier for Abraham. I'm going to tell you, I don't think it made it easier for Abraham at all. Can you imagine Abraham saying, son, now listen, here's the thing. God told me to sacrifice you on this altar. You imagine Isaac saying, Well, Dad, you better tie me up. I'd hate to struggle. If it's what God wants, then go ahead and bind me, Dad. I don't think that made it easier to you. How hard would that be to tie the hands of your son knowing that he willingly was willing to make himself a sacrifice, submit to your will. By the way, that's where Isaac most pictures are, Savior, when our Savior said, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but thine be done. Isn't that what Isaac says here, Dad? Tie me up, Dad. I'm willing to submit, Dad. If it's what God wants, it's what I'm going to do. Wouldn't you have said, wow What a boy. What a son God gave me. I think it made it exponentially harder. that Isaac was willing. I think Abraham deep down would have rather he had to tackle Isaac, don't you? Notice number one, there's the call to sacrifice. Number two, there's that complete surrender. But number three, there's a comprehensive solution. Now think about this for a second. There are no words just thrown in the Bible to make it more exciting. So everything that's in here is in here for a reason. But I do think there is an extra word. I think there's a word that wasn't Necessary. Now you understand this, please. Again, in spite of all the flannel graphs that are out there, and I hate to do this to the poor flannograph people, which by the way, you ever notice that in every flannel graph, every single person has a beard It doesn't matter if they're seven years old, they've got a beard. Have you ever noticed that? And in every flannel graph, Isaac is laying there, and Abraham has his hand way up like this. That is not how an offering was offered Abraham would have laid the sharpened blade right on the throat of Isaac, and with one quick slice, Isaac would have laid there and bled to death. Imagine there's Abraham, the knife in his hand, like this. And then all of a sudden, God says, Abraham. Abraham. Here's why I think there's a word that isn't necessary. I don't think the second Abraham was necessary. I think it went like this. Eh? Yes, sir? Don't you think Abraham's been begging in his heart that God would stop him, even though he's willing to offer his son? Abraham, don't kill the boy. By the way, Isaac is a picture of our Savior in some areas, but not in others. It's Isaac that's being offered here, is it? God never intended for Isaac to be offered. It's Abraham that God wants on this altar. Not Isaac. But all of a sudden God says, Stop, Abraham. And then God is going to provide something. He's going to provide a ram that we weren't expecting. I had a heard a preacher one time, I thought it was a exceptional message, but I don't know if it's exactly accurate or not, but he was describing that as Abraham and Isaac are walking up this side of the mountain, the poor Ram is walking up this side of the mountain. That may have been how it happened. I kind of think that the Ram's been there for three days at least. Because our Savior was the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world. I think the Ram's been there since the moment God woke Abraham up in the middle of the night. I want you to notice this comprehensive solution that first off the offering was prompt. At the exact moment. One second later, Isaac would have been dead. One second earlier, you and I would never have known if Abraham would have gone through with it or not. The offering was prompt. At the exact perfect moment, God stops Abraham. God does everything he does at the exact perfect moment. Hebrews chapter 4 and verse 16. Let us come bold therefore boldly before the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find grace to help in time of need. You will notice it doesn't say to find grace to take all the pain away. Grace to help. When? In time of need. There's an old song that goes like this: Just when I need him most, just when I need him most, Jesus is near to comfort and cheer. Just when I need him most. The offering was prompt. It was offered at the exact time. At the appointed time. How many times in the Gospels did Jesus say, Mine hour is not yet come? At the appointed time he was going to die on an old rugged cross, fulfilling every single Old Testament prophecy about the sacrificial lamb. At the appointed time it was going to happen. Not one minute earlier, not one minute later. That's why he was in charge of the moment he died. That's why he gave up the ghost. He didn't he he didn't have his life taken from him as he said, No man taketh my life. I lay it down The offering was prompt. Not just that. Notice secondly, please, the offering number two was provided. It's there. Abraham didn't have to bring it. It's already there. This ram has I don't know if Abraham just didn't hear it or if God just held its tongue so it didn't say anything. I kind of leaned toward that God just held his tongue Because as our Savior was as a uh as a lamb is dumb, as a sheep before shears is dumb, so he openeth not his mouth The ram sitting there in complete silence, waiting for the moment he's going to be the sacrifice. Notice the offering was prompt. The offering was provided, but watch this one. This one is huge. Once again, there are no just extra words. There are three words in this passage of scripture that if you take them out, the whole picture falls apart It just completely collapses. Notice what it says, please. Verse twelve. And he said, Lay not thine hand upon the lad, neither do thou anything unto him, for now I know that thou fearest God, seeing thou not withheld thy son, thine only son, from me And Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, a ram behind him a ram caught in a thicket. Watch these words. By his horns. Do you realize if that said caught in a thicket by his neck? Caught in a thicket by his shoulder, caught in a thicket by his by his legs, caught in a thicket by his by his uh thigh, caught in the ticket uh thicket by his stomach. If it had said anything else, caught in a thicket would have scratched him, would have marred him, would have put a Spot on him. It would not have been a spotless sacrifice. Understand this. The only possible way that ram could be a picture of Jesus Christ and be caught in that thicket is by his horns. See, because our sacrifice doesn't have a spot. Doesn't have a blemish. Once again, Hebrews chapter 4 and verse 15, we have not a high priest. Which cannot be touched with the fillings of our infirmities, but was at all points tempted like as we. Watch this. And yet without sin. Hebrews chapter seven and verse twenty-six and such in high priest became us who was holy, harmless, undefiled, separate from sinners, and made higher than the heavens. Hebrews chapter 9 and verse 14, how much more shall the blood of Christ who through the eternal spirit offered himself without spot unto God. Second Corinthians chapter 5 and verse 21. He has made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, so that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Or first Peter chapter one, verses eighteen and nineteen. For as much as you know that you're not redeemed with corruptible things, such as silver and gold, received by tradition from the vain conversations of your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. You say, Brother Harper, of course you would say that, of course, of course Abraham would say that. Of course every preacher would say that. It's not just Preachers, it's also lost people. You think about this. It was a lost Pontius Pilate that walked Jesus out in John chapter 19 and verse 4 and says, Wherefore I bring him forth to you that ye may know that I find no Fault in him. It's that thief on the cross. Remember that? In Luke chapter 23, beginning in verse 39? And one of the malfactors which were hanged railed on him, saying If thou be the Christ, save thyself and us. But the other answering rebuked him, saying, Dost not thou fear God? Seeing that in the same condemnation, and we indeed justly, for we receive the due reward for our deeds. But this man Hath done nothing amiss. The thief on the cross, watching him die for crimes he did not commit, shedding his blood for you and for me, saw him and watched him in the most agonizing moments of his life. life and still never saw a single sin. Here to tell you, this offering was perfect. Caught in the thicket by his horns. That's the only way he could picture our Savior The offering was prompt. The offering was provided. The offering was perfect. Then the offering was presented. Think about this for just a moment. Abraham could have said, no thank you, Lord I realize that sacrifice is there. I realize it's there to save my son. I realize it's there to solve this entire problem. But you know what? I think I'm going to figure something else out on my own Isn't that what we do? When we're told about a free gift of salvation from a Savior who died on a cross, we say, well, I better get busy. I'd better start working. I better start doing the right thing and going to church. I better start putting money in the offering plate. I better start cleaning up my life a little bit because I I want to go to heaven and God's way just sounds too simple. What would we have thought of Abraham if he just said, oh no thank you, I'm just going to kill my son anyway No, no, no. He presents the sacrifice that's been offered. He takes the free gift that God has given him in the stead of his son and offers him right there. Listen, I don't know where you are in your life. I don't know what's going on in your world, but I do know this. If you don't know Christ as your personal Savior, He'll save you right now, just like that. Say, Brother Harper, I'm not good enough to be saved. Join the club. Nobody's ever been good enough to be saved. You don't know how bad I am. I don't need to know how bad you are. God does, and He's willing to save you. If he died on the cross for that thief that mocked him, don't you think he loves you? If he was willing to save that thief that finally, after hours, finally spoke up and said something, don't you think he'd save you? Doesn't matter how wicked you are, how bad you've been, the Bible tells us whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Well, the real picture of our Savior is the ram caught in the thicket. Now, for Christians, let me point this out. We look at this passage of Scripture. Because of this passage of Scripture, by the way, the book of Romans tells us, because of this exact story right here, that Abraham is known as the friend of God. What a title. You know, you and I sing, what a friend we have in Jesus. Abraham, God sings, What a friend I have in Abraham. Can you imagine Having that title given to you by God Himself, the friend of God. When Abraham goes home, Sarah is going to be happy to see Isaac. I want you to think about this for just a second. We look at this and we say, Whoa, I'm so glad the Lord doesn't test me that way. Listen, God doesn't make himself rich by taking all your money from you. He doesn't make himself, uh, he doesn't make himself have fellowship by taking all of your friends away. God doesn't benefit by taking everything away from you. You benefit by being willing to surrender everything to God. Think of this for just a moment. I could never do that. I could never go up on that mountain. I could never be willing to offer Isaac I could never do that. And we look at God in this passage of scripture, we almost make it sound like he's a a giant bully up in heaven. How far can I push Abraham? How much can I make him do? How bad can I make his life? How terrible can I make those three days? We look at God and we interpret this passage of scripture just like that, don't we? Now you watch me carefully. Don't miss this. Abraham And Isaac walked down the mountain together. God didn't take Isaac But Abraham had to put his all on the altar. Is your all on the altar? Abraham and Isaac walk down the mountain together. In other words, when this story is all said and done, God took nothing from Abraham, but he gave him the opportunity to be the friend of God. You're a Christian tonight. How many things are there that God could ask you for? You would say, no, no, no, you can't have that. It's mine, and I love it. Lost person tonight. The Lamb has already been offered. He's already died for your sins. The wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. God holds out the gift of salvation for you to take. What are you gonna do? Spow our heads and close our eyes, no one looking around