And uh sometimes the people that complain the most about my jokes are the first one to say, how come you didn't say a joke Sunday? Or whatever Verse 6 is where I'd like to start reading, 1 Chronicles 29, verse 6. Then the chief of the fathers and the princes of the tribes of Israel And the captains of thousands and of hundreds with the rulers of the king's work offered willingly. And gave for the service of the house of God of gold 5,000 talents and 10,000 drams, and of silver 10,000 talents. And of brass, 18,000 talents, and 100,000 talents of iron. And they with whom Precious stones were found, gave them to the treasure of the house of the Lord by the hand of Jehaiel, the Gershonite. Then the people rejoiced for that they offered willingly, because with perfect heart they offered willingly to the Lord, and David the king also rejoiced with them, with great joy. We're looking at uh Israel's response to David's challenge. Now just to get everybody up to speed, some of the I think master clubs workers and stuff are just getting in here. We're st of course we're studying the life of David But we're down to the final days of David's life. After this passage that we read here, a couple more events take place, and David uh lives maybe a few days, possibly a few weeks after that, but it is not long. He is about to cross over Jordan into the presence of God, go out and to uh uh pass away. And so He makes these final challenges. The first one that we looked at was the Solomon, his son. Solomon is going to follow David on the throne. And that's ordained of God. God has anointed Solomon to be the third king of Israel. It's God's choice. And David made that clear. It wasn't my choice. I'm not pushing this. God chose him. And so, so to speak, David is handing the baton in this relay of kings He's handing the baton off to Solomon, and he makes a series of challenges. He gives him a series of challenges, which were profound, powerful challenges he gave to Solomon. As soon as he finished that, the beginning of chapter 29, he turns to the nation of Israel. And they're gathered together, no doubt tens of thousands or more. It's a huge crowd. is gathered here, the people of Israel, uh I'm assuming, and um he gives a challenge to the nation And he makes a series of important statements. He references the youth of his son, the inexperience of his son He references in this challenge to Israel the fact that Solomon is going to build a temple, and David has been preparing for years The materials needed for this temple. If you remember, David wanted to build it, God said no, Solomon will. And so David prepared for the temple he could not build But so his son would have the materials. So he challenges the nation of Israel concerning that. And he's challenged them to get on board. He says, I want you to support my son, and I'm challenging you to support the building of the temple. And so our text tonight is how Israel responds to David's challenge to them as a nation. And that's where we picked up in verse number one, where or verse number six, where the chief fathers and the princes they respond. And that's what we're looking at tonight. Obviously, David is very concerned for the future of Israel. He doesn't just walk away from his post. He doesn't just say, well, you know, I've done my time. uh and uh leave it up to them to figure out how Solomon's going to get in there and what they're gonna do. He's concerned for the future of Israel and so he lays out what he believes the agenda should be for their future, particularly concerning the temple. David has invested heavily In the spiritual well-being of his nation. If you'll remember, one of the most profound things David did was bringing that ark into the city of Jerusalem, into the smack dab middle of the city. in the middle of the nation. And I think, and as we said at the time, that had a significant impact and a clear message to the nation of Israel Everything we do is going to revolve around the worship of Jehovah, Almighty God. And so that was significant. He was concerned for the well-being of Israel. Of course he had his failures, and we've studied them in depth. And uh he made horrendous mistakes, but nevertheless he loved his nation and he was concerned for the spiritual well-being of it And he was concerned also, it's pretty obvious in this passage particularly, that he's concerned for the future of his nation. It wasn't just, you know, my time and whatever happens, happens. No, he wanted to put things in place so that they would stay close to the God. The future generations would stay close true to the worship of Jehovah, would stay true to the Word of God, and so he's doing all he can to put all this in place to establish uh the the their continued relationship with m uh with Jehovah. And one of that is preparing these materials for the to build the temple He issues, with that in mind, he gives this direct challenge to the nation, and his challenge consists of this to construct the temple. And that's what he's challenging them to do. And I think David was very effective in his challenge, as I think we're going to see here in a bit, and you probably picked up as we read that He was very effective in challenging the nation of Israel to support the temple and to give sacrificially to building of the temple. And the reason I think he was so effective in that, number one, because of his passion for building the temple. They saw in their leader a passion for God And I'll tell you, uh any and you I've said this numerous times, I'm sure you've seen it, anger is contagious. Somebody gets angry, don't take very long at all. Everybody around them is angry, right or wrong It's highly contagious. That's why the Bible says don't make friends with an angry man, because you're going to be angry all the time. And so, anger is very contagious. I want to suggest to you, probably not as contagious, but passion. Can be very contagious. You get somebody fired up about something, and a lot of times if they are appropriate and it's an appropriate thing, they're stirred up about it. It's not long till People around him are stirred up about it and they get fired up. And so David, what I'm trying to say is this, David was very effective in influencing the nation to want to build this temple also because of the passion he had for it. They saw that in him. Um I tell you, it's going to be hard for any ministry, the nation of Israel or a country, I guess, like the United States, or a local church. It's hard for them to be passionate about it's hard to get the people to be passionate about the things of God if the leadership is not passionate about the things of God Uh we promoted for years we promoted uh um track month. I just think it's a tremendous thing. I tried to get other churches on board and we've had a big push there for ten years or so trying to get other po uh other churches on board and uh brother smith this past winter ran a five series five part series on the sword on having track month And I told everybody that talked to about it when I was performing, I said this, you need to get the pastor stirred up about it, because if the pastor isn't fired up about it, the church isn't going to be fired up about it And so David was very, very passionate, and that spilled over into the nation. And when he challenges them, they respond in a positive way because they saw his passion about it. A pastor needs to be passionate about the things of God if he's going to have a church passionate about the things of God. A Sunday school teacher has to be passionate about the Bible and living for God if they're going to have a class of students. that are passionate about God and living for Him. And it's true in any capacity, in a whole. And so David was very, very passionate. But they also, another reason he was effective in influencing the nation the way he did was because of his pattern. And what I mean by that is his example. He gave himself to the building of the temple. He sacrificed out of his own bank account uh tremendously to purchase materials and provide the materials. He wasn't sitting back as king and asking the nation to do something that he was not doing himself. And I'm telling you, that is a key ingredient in leadership I've always said this, you cannot lead people somewhere where you're at not at least going yourself. He didn't just sit back and not give a dime to this and then bark at the nation and say, come on, y'all, get behind this, support this thing. He never gave a thing to it. And uh so they knew what he had sacrificed. They knew the investments that he had made in that temple. And that made his appeal, his challenge to them, very, very effective. Because he was stirred up about it and he had a vested interest in this, and they got on board with him. And I think those are two vital ingredients. in having an influence in any capacity. Jesus said that we in the Sermon on Amount, he said that we're the salt of the earth And by we, he is talking to his disciples, you and I. How many folks here tonight? You're saved to know it. Say amen. How many people here would like to consider yourself not just saved, but a disciple of Jesus Christ? How many people I'd like to think that I'm a disciple. I'm trying to follow the Lord. I'm trying to live by His instructions, His principles. I'm trying to be obedient to Him. We fail a lot of times. Paul said things I don't want to do I end up doing, and things I do want to do, I find I don't do. But nevertheless He was committed to be a follower of Jesus Christ. He said his disciples, Jesus said, his disciples, we are the salt of the earth. And if we're going to influence this world with the Word of God and with the gospel and for the Lord Jesus Christ, if we're going to influence Mountain Lake Park and Oakland and McHenry and Friendsville and Grantsville and Davis. If we're going to influence these communities, I think we've got to number one have a passion for the Lord ourselves. Stirred up. Not wildfire, but a genuine Uh love and zeal for God. And number two, we got to have a pattern. They gotta see that we live what we preach. Amen or not? They get to see that we have a vested interest in the things of God. We don't just get up here and run our mouth, but we sincerely are giving ourselves To the things of the Lord and to the Lord Himself. And that's what I see in David. And I'm studying, we're working our way through here, and I see how Israel responds in such a positive way And by the way, they responded the same way when he introduced the idea of bringing the ark into Jerusalem. Man, they got behind that. Why? Because they saw his passion and he had set a pattern. And that was the influence. And by the way, that's true in the home The kids got to see in the parents a passionate love for the Lord. They got to see. Don't you ever say this to your kids. You do as I say, not as I do. You know what you're calling yourself? You know what you're declaring yourself to be? A hypocrite. That's exactly what it is. And so Tremendous, tremendous example on David's part. Passion and pattern. Passion and pattern. Um uh So are giving so they respond. Look what it says there, last part of verse five. Who then is willing to consecrate his service this day unto the Lord? And so they he that's his challenge. And then verse 6, look at the last two words of verse 6, they offered willingly. They offered willingly. Just a couple more statements here. I want to give you a few thoughts real quick. But I put this down. Our giving to the Lord, they offered themselves willingly, they gave willingly, our giving to the Lord is affected very greatly by what we believe about the Lord. What I believe to be true about God will very much affect my giving to the Lord. Did you ever notice that when churches start to go liberal, and I mean dry, liberal, denying the Bible, denying the blood of Christ, denying heaven and hell, when they start doing that, what happens to their attendants? drops off. You look at all the mainstream denominations that have walked away from the Word of God, walked away from the doctrines, fundamental doctrines of the faith Their attendance drops off and their giving drops off. Because what I believe to be true about God will affect my giving to God. If he doesn't exist or he's just non-involved in my life and he's a non-entity, I have no relationship with him, why in the world would I give any amount to that concept? No no, don't even believe it. But I tell you what, you get somebody that believes in God, they believe God is alive, God is active in their life They see the Lord doing things changing their life. They see God answering prayers. They see God working in their life. They sense the presence of God in their heart. And I'll tell you what, that person gets stirred up and says, you know, I want to invest in the things of God. What we believe about God affects our giving to the Lord. David wasn't asking them, challenging them to give to David. He wasn't asking them to give to Solomon. He says, I'm challenging you to invest in the Lord, the things of God. I tell you, I couldn't help but think about our faith promise. When I was going through there and how these people respond, we'll see here in a few minutes. But man alive, when we give the faith promise, we're not given to Dennis Leatherman, we're not given to the deacons, we're not given to people, we're giving it to the Lord. It's our promise to God between God and I. God, I will invest in your great commission. And then it goes out onto the field as God directs us. And so Israel was convinced that Jehovah was their God and that he was a good God and that he was worth investing in. And they gave, we'll see here in a bit. They gave tremendously. David believed that the Lord was worth giving to. Over and over in the Psalms, he says that, declares how good God had been to him. God had been awfully good to David. He says, you know, he's worth investing in. I don't know about you, but God's been awfully good to me. And there's no way in the world, there's no way in the world I could ever give back to God one one thousandth of what he's given to me. So I can invest in a God like that. And I can give willingly and joyfully and generously to a God like that. Because He's worth investing in. And that's how Israel responded. We'll see here in just a minute Not only should when we are is our giving affected by what we believe about the Lord, but it's also affected by what we believe about that cause. Built in this case, building the temple. The belief people believe that that would be a good thing for their nation. That that would be a good thing for the people of Israel to have a temple. That they could go and perform the ceremonies that God had instructed, a permanent structure where they could come and be a testimony to the coming Savior, the Messiah, and the love of God for the world. And they said, yes. That's it worth investing in. Tell you there's all kinds of stuff you can give to out there, right? Anybody here get any phone calls, people asking? I mean like within the last hour. No joke, I think the church gets four to five a day to something trying to get the money from our account into their account Um, there's all kinds of stuff we can give to out there, but not all of it is worth giving to. You with me? A heart used percentage of it isn't even legit. It's a scam. Can I say this? A huge percentage of these yardbirds on TV proclaiming declaring themselves to be preachers are scants. I don't trust them as far as I can throw them And so when we give, we gotta know we can love the Lord and say, yes, God is worth giving too. But where we direct that giving, we need to be very, very careful that that cause is legitimate That it's biblical. Just personal testimony, my wife and I, we give very, very, very little to anything outside the local church. I'm telling you, 99. 99% of my giving is through Mountain Lake, my charitable giving is through Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. And I don't apologize for that. And people hit you up, you know, in different stores. They'll go, hey, how about giving to this? And I always say this, I'm sorry, I give all my giving through my local church. And there's a few other things that I give a little bit of money to occasionally. One or two ministries outside the church I give a little bit to. 99% is through the church. And I feel confident with that. Here's the reason. The church is established by God. It's the pillar and ground of the truth. That's where I want to invest in. I believe a good fundamental Bible preaching, my preference, Baptist church. is better for a nation than a whole lot of these organizations out there. Now I'm not saying they're all wrong and I'm not saying they don't play a role, but I'm simply saying for the spiritual well being of our country You can't invest in anything better than a Bible preaching church. I'm convinced of that. And so, number one is What we are who the Lord. Has the Lord been good to me or not? What I believe to be true about God is going to influence my giving to the Lord. And then what that cause is that I'm directing my giving to, I need to be sure it's legitimate. I need to be sure it's biblical. I need to be sure it has some integrity to it. And so we need to be very, very careful about that. And so both of these were the case. God had been good to Israel. And these people gave. They responded to David's challenge. And what they were giving to, building the temple, they were convinced that was good for their nation. That was a legitimate thing to give to. If Israel was going to go forward after David's passing, they were going to have to start giving. They're going to have to invest in this temple. They're going to have to invest in Israel's future. And I just wrote this down, and I believe we have a giving church. I think that building over there, the fact that it came in under budget, out of debt, is a testimony to the fact we have a giving church So don't misunderstand what I'm saying, but I'm saying this. A growing church has to be a giving church. You're not going to find a church growing where people are not giving of themselves time, resources, talents, abilities. That church isn't growing. So there has to be investment, and that's what Israel is doing. Now, said all that, I noticed some characteristics about their response. They gave. A first thing I notice here real quickly is they gave comprehensively. Now this is what I mean by that. Look at verse 6. Then the chief of the fathers and princes of the tribes of Israel and the captains of thousands and of hundreds with the rulers of the king's work. So that covers all the leadership of Israel. Nobody's left out. All the leadership, every department, every uh area of leadership in the church, they're all investing in this. And then come down to verse 9 And look at the first part of verse 9. Then the people rejoiced, for that they offered willingly bec uh Because of a perfect heart, they offered willingly. Then the people, the congr the citizens of Israel. So you had the whole spectrum of the population of Israel, from the leadership, including David. All the military leaders, all the princes, all the economic leaders, all the leadership of the nation of Israel, and then all the people of the nation of Israel, they're investing in the temple. Everybody's included And I want to suggest to you, let's apply it to a local church. I believe everybody that's a part of church ought to have a part in supporting the church. Everybody say, well, those rich people ought to give their fair share. Yeah, well you know what? The poor folk ought to give their fair share too You know? Everybody's involved in this. God had been good to the whole nation. The rich, the poor, the elderly, the young. Again, I can't help but think of faith promise, but I love it. I love it, love it, love it. When we're taking up those faith promises, and there's a little card comes up and it says 10 years old, 50 cents a week. Praise God. And you get one hundred and forty-three years old. You know, five dollars a week. Praise God! The whole spectrum. And so they gave comprehensively. Everyone was involved in this. Not just a select few. From the rulers to the people, the wealthy to the poor, the young to the old It's a unified involvement. And I see that same thing in our faith promise. And that's what's happening here. Number two, I noticed they gave immediately As soon as David made the challenge, boom, they started giving. And no dilly dallying around. Well, one of these days, one of these days I'm going to give to that thing. Nah, they gave right away. No delay, no no indecision. Well, you know, we need to think about it. Now I'm all for praying. If God stirs your heart or if there's an appeal made I'm all for praying about it first, but sometimes we use praying about it as an excuse to avoid it. And I don't see any of that here. They just, boom, they jumped right on board. Not flippantly, not impulsively, but deliberately. They jumped right on board. He gave immediately. Number three, I notice there, they gave willingly. Look at the last part of verse 6. Offered willingly No coercion. David wasn't threatening them. Well, you better give, or this is going to happen. Something that God's going to send a store. He doesn't, none of that nonsense. Years ago there was some TV preacher, he made an appeal, he said, God told me that if I don't raise if y'all don't give a million dollars to some something stupid, if you don't give a million dollars, God told me he's going to take me home to heaven. You know what that is? That's extortion, that's uh that's a that's uh that's that's uh that's bad None of that here. These people said, no, we we want to give. They gave willingly. No coercion, no twisting their arms And by the way, this isn't the tithe. They're already giving their tithe, all right? They're giving willingly, but it's it's not the tithe. This is over and above. This is towards the building fund So to speak. Put it in our terms. It's exactly what it is. Take your Bible, if you would, turn quickly with me to first second Corinthians chapter nine. 2 Corinthians chapter 9, Paul addresses the church at Corinth and he makes us, he challenges them along the same lines. It's not to build a temple, it's to advance the gospel. And he makes a statement right along with what Israel did. Look at 2 Corinthians 9, and look with me at verse 7. The first part. It says, every man according as he what? Purposeth in his heart. That simply means is uh as as he made the decision. He willingly thought this through and said, this is what I want to give. That's exactly what Israel was doing. They gave willingly, as they purposed in their heart. No coercion. And by the way, this verse here, these verses in this little section here in 2 Corinthians, is not talking about the tithe. It's talking about giving over and above to advance the gospel. And he says they gave as he purposed in his heart. So they gave willingly. Number four, I put this down, they gave generously Now keep your place in Corinthians here if you would, because I want to come back one more time, but come back to 1 Chronicles 29. We're going to jump back and forth here a little bit. And look in verse 7. It says verse 6 says the all the leaders offered willingly. Then verse 7, and gave for the service of the house of God, and he gives an inventory of what they give. And they gave, this is the leadership, they gave for the service of the house of God of gold 5,000 talents. Now I looked that up, and the best I can figure, that comes to about $1. 7 million. Then they gave 10,000 drams I looked that up, and that comes to, if I'm if I'm going off the top of my head here, if I remember correctly, that was somewhere around $40,000. And then of silver 10,000 talents, and of brass, 18,000 talents, and 100,000 talents of iron. And the best I could figure, and don't hold me to these numbers, but just the figuring I came up with was between two and three million dollars They gave to this thing here. Would you agree with me? That's pretty generous giving. That's pretty generous giving Then on top of that, you have all the people, what they invested. And then notice there in verse 8, and they with whom precious stones were found gave them to the treasure. I have no idea what those are worth. So it was extremely generous. It was sacrificial. I venture to say, now I doesn't say this, I can't prove it, but I venture to say some people went without some nice things because of what they invested in the temple. Let me put it this way. I'd venture to say probably some people didn't go on vacation that year because they invested in the temple. Some people didn't buy the new car that year. They put it off a year or two. Some people had to wear their clothes a few years longer. Because they invested in things. Here's the thing. What we value, we invest in. Right or wrong And they saw the value of this. Now don't this this isn't a rebuke or anything at all. Like I said, I believe our church gives phenomenally sacrificially, and I praise God for it. But I'm just saying These folks here gave and they invested phenomenally. Maybe they some of them had to do without some nice things because they invested. I have a l uh I'll tell you something Little pet peeve I have, it just kind of gets under my skin every now and then, and even every now and then some good guys will say it. They'll say, Well, if you give to the Lord, you'll drive a nicer car You give the Lord, you'll live in a bigger house. Now that may or may not be the case, but that is not God's, that's not promised thing. God, I know folks, I can tell you Fur firsthand, flat out, I know folks who could drive a nicer car if they didn't give to the Lord so much. They could have a nicer house. They could maybe do some other things if they didn't invest so much in the Lord. Because they don't care. It's not like, oh, I gotta give it up. No, no, no. They're glad to do it. It's a value of theirs, it's an investment of theirs. And so these dear folks responded to David's challenge by a generous sacrificial giving to the temple. Number five, they gave honorably. Look at verse 8. They with whom precious stones were found gave them to the treasure of the house of the Lord. If it's a precious stone, what does that mean? It's precious. It's very valuable, and it also means it's very it's very rare These are not stones you just go out in your driveway and pick up, right? Those wouldn't be precious. These are very rare. Now to a five-year-old boy, they're very precious, you know, stones But these are rare. These are uh these are these are the best that they have. They're not given little chunks of sandstone. They're not just picking up little uh what do you call the stone uh ten? What's the number for the stone chester you put on the parking lot? It has a number to it What is it? Fifty sevens. Yeah, you know do you have any idea what I'm talking about? I don't. But um But anyway, it's not just some stones you're gonna pave your driveway with. This is what I'm trying to say. They gave very honorably, they gave the best of what they had. Now we laugh about this and it doesn't happen a lot, but every now and then somebody comes along, I got this old suit, and there's holes in it and it's all worn out and I mean it is shot and so I just want to give this to the Lord Praise the Lord, but when's the last time you bought a new suit and gave it to a missionary? You know what I'm saying? Talk to missionaries, they'll tell you stuff people give. And we're thankful for anything anybody gives, but you know I think the Lord deserves our best, not our leftovers. My opinion. A lot of times we give, well, offering time, well, let's see what I got left over. That's not what they did. They gave the precious stones. I remember uh Lou Rossi was holding revival here years ago. This is early on, one of the first times we had him, or early on Lou Rossi was here. And he's a hoot. We have a blast. Powerful preaching. Man, God met with us. We had a lot of visitors, and I do not know remember, I couldn't tell you their names. They attended for the pretty much just the revival I I don't even remember where they're from or anything, but I remembered this, they didn't have a lot. They drove a pretty beat-up car. And on the last night we're staying about, just about everybody was going And they came back in, as folks were leaving, they came back in, and the wife pulled me aside, and she said, We didn't have any money to give in the offering for the preacher this week. She goes, but I went home and we had I had in my jewelry some nice rings that had been given to me a long time ago. She says, I'm not sure what they were, but I think they're pretty much. And she says, I want to give this to the preacher that was here this week. And I said, ma'am, he understands. I said, you don't need to do that. I said, God knows. And she was adamant. She goes, I want you to give these to the preacher. I said, okay. Put them in a little envelope. I have no idea. Passed them on to Brother Ralsi. I have no idea what they were worth or what it was. But you know what that was? They said, we want to give our best. We want to give our best, our precious stones. God stirred our heart. God met a need. God did a work in our life. We want to give our best to the Lord. Isn't that something? That's what these guys are doing. That's what Israel is doing in response to David's appeal. And then last of all, what you'd expect, they gain cheerfully. And I get that from verse 9. If you still have 2 Corinthians 9 there, and look again at verse 7, the first part says they gave according as they purposed in their heart, every man did. And then it says this. So let him give, not grudgingly, that's not Israel didn't do that, they gave willingly, nor of necessity, nobody's twisting their arm. But look at this, for God loveth a what? Cheerful giver. I put in the margin of my Bible there, attitude. My attitude in giving. God's been good to me, and I know it's good here you go. Huh? God says, nah, now listen, you give it grudgingly, we'll take it. We'll use it. But um God doesn't love that. You know what God loves somebody that says, man, yeah, yeah, I get to invest in the things of God. I get to express my love to the Lord. I put a few things down here. Giving is an expression of love. It's an expression of love. You can give without loving. I think Amy Carmichael said this. You can give without loving, but you cannot love without giving. Remember a birthday I had years ago, the boys were just small, and of course I enjoy fishing, and they had bought me his gift. And was and Kathy had a little cake and we had a little birthday party there for me and uh and the boys kept saying there was about four or five gifts there and the boys kept saying open this one open this one I said, well let's open this other one first. They wanted me to open it so bad. And um so finally I went to I said, All right, let's open this one, see what it is. They're so excited they can't already stand it And I pull a little bit off at a time. Dag! And I pull a little bit off. And I open it up, and here's a fishing vest. And I said, oh man, I love it. I put it on. I said it's perfect. I put all my stuff. I'm telling you, I wish I had a picture of those boys' faces. They were so happy. Cheerful doesn't even come close. They got daddy something that he really liked. And they were ecstatic. They couldn't contain it And I think that's what's happening here. These people gave to the temple of God, they gave to the Lord. In our context, New Testament context, we give to the advancement of the gospel. And we understand this is our God and we want him happy. And we're so ecstatic to be able to give. to see other people saved and to please our God. That's the idea behind this verse. They gave cheerfully. Giving is an expression of love. Giving indicates that my possessions are not my master. Some people are controlled by money, right? The love of money controls everything Do not let money be your master. Jesus said, let manna or money be your friend, not your master. And we need to be able to use it. So when I give, I said, nope, money, you're not controlling me. I'm controlling you. And then giving is an act of gratitude. Somebody does something for you, you feel obligated, you say, I want to do something back. I want to give you something. I'm grateful for what you've done. Somebody rescues your life. You're going to drown. They save your life. You say, man, I want to give. I'm grateful for what you've done. I want to give. Giving is an act of gratitude. A little a mother wanted to teach her daughter about giving to the Lord. So before they went into Sunday school She gave her daughter a dollar, and she gave her a quarter. And she said, Sweetheart, you can choose which of those two you give to the Lord. Whichever one you don't give, you can keep for yourself. And she wanted to just give a little test to her daughter. So her daughter went in. Her mother was anxious, the whole church service. Wonder what she did. I wonder what she did. I wonder what she gave and what she kept. And she came out. And she noticed she was holding the dollar bill. And she said to her, she goes, What did you give to the Lord? She says, I gave the Lord the quarter. And she goes, what was your thinking? Why did you give the quarter instead of the dollar? She goes, Well, mommy, you always say that God loveth a cheerful giver, and I'd be more cheerful with a dollar than with a quarter. So I gave the quarter. Kinda hits home a little bit, huh? I'm afraid sometimes, but that is exactly not the way Israel responded to David. Now remember, David was passionate about this. He loved God dearly, passionately. And he set a pattern, he set the example he was doing. He's saying, hey, y'all come on, get on board with this. And man, they responded. They responded. Let's pray. Father in heaven. I ask, Lord, you would help us to understand this matter of giving. And we see what Israel did and how they responded to David's challenge, his appeal. I pray, Lord, as you stir us, and Lord, as your Holy Spirit speaks to our hearts. You'd help us to give, not financially all the time necessarily, but Lord of our time. And of our resources, our abilities, anything we have that we can invest in the advancement of the gospel. And Lord, as we come to Bible time In a week or so, I pray that we would give of ourselves to reach these young people, teenagers and children with the gospel. And so help us, stir us, I pray. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, God stirred my heart tonight? God touched my heart. about giving, not just finances, but just my life. As a lifestyle maybe. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God stirred my heart. I know my heart was stirred as I prepared this I was challenged. Father, bless our imitation, I ask in Jesus' name, Amen