No it's always uh it's always a uh challenge to uh under changing circumstances to discern the Lord's will. And uh The truth of the matter is that uh all day I've been c you know pondering what message to preach, because I I knew the crowd would be down. And the question is, uh, do I do you get the whole load or do you just get a a little bit, you know? And uh I guess you're just gonna get the whole load. That's the only thing I know. I haven't got any other uh any other discernment. So uh that's what we're gonna go for. Uh we're gonna turn to John chapter 19. John chapter 19. And I wanna we're gonna read uh verses twenty-eight through thirty-seven I'm going to ask you if you will to stand with me and do reverence to the Word of God as we read His Word. John 19, 28 through 37. After this, Jesus, knowing all things were now accomplished, that the scripture might be fulfilled, saith, I thirst. Now there was set a a vessel full of vinegar, and they filled the sponge with uh vinegar and put it on hyssop and they put it in his mouth. When Jesus therefore had received the vinegar, he said, It is finished. And he bowed his head and gave up the ghost. The Jews, therefore, because it was the preparation that the bodies could not uh remain upon the cross on the Sabbath day, for that Sabbath day was that high day. besought Pilate that their legs might be broken, that they might be taken away. And then came the soldiers, and broke the legs of the first, and of the other which was crucified with him But when they came to Jesus and saw that he was dead already, they broke not his legs. But one of the soldiers, with a spear, they pierced his side, and forthwith came there out blood and water And he the salt bear record, and his record is true, and he know he knoweth that he saith true that you might believe. For these things were done that the scriptures should be fulfilled, a bone of him shall not be broken. And again another scripture saith, and they look on him whom they pierced. Back in verse in verse uh 30, the Word of God says, When Jesus therefore had received the vinegar, he said. It is finished. And he bowed his head and gave up the ghost. Let's pray. Father We're here in small numbers, but I I believe, Lord, that uh your spirit is here as strong as ever doing the work that uh uh he's uh supposed to do and and that's what I'm here for. I'm here to do the work that uh I've been called to do and that's to preach the gospel. I pray that you'd bless this uh chalk drawing and as we show it in a little bit. And especially, Lord, as uh we uh attempt to preach your word, I pray that you'd uh bless it in a special way to our hearts. Help us to appreciate once more the lifting up the Lord Jesus Christ. For if I'd be lifted up, Jesus said, I'll draw all men to me. I pray for that one who may be here that's uh just not uh not where they ought to be with the Lord. Or maybe Lord there's uh those here that uh just need to Once again, look at the work that was done on Calvary and appreciate it with a new appreciation. Do a work, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen and amen. Some people have a way with words. I know through the years I I've been one that uh uh I knew how to sweet talk my wife, but I didn't from that, uh beyond that, though I uh I didn't have much uh as far as the eloquence was concerned. In high school I didn't uh didn't like to give the world book reports just simply because I was nervous and I just didn't you know, it just scares me to death to get up in front of people. So But you know there's those who who had that gift, the gift of gab, some people say, and uh certainly there wasn't anyone that had the gift of gab like the Lord Jesus Christ had. Certainly he was the epitome of of uh eloquence and and uh he knew how to to turn a phrase and it's just something about the way he spoke that people uh made comments about it. No man ever spoke like this man and so forth. You you see that throughout the scriptures. We know that being the Son of God, uh he had perfect control of everything that he said and was very careful about it. But uh there's many of the phrases that he used in the scriptures that uh uh Could go down, I guess, as his greatest praises. But I believe that that uh the one that we read there in that that verse thirty Where it said uh it is finished probably as the greatest greatest words that he ever spoke. And it's basically because Those words, the gospel hinges on that finished work of Jesus Christ. And that's what we want to talk a little bit about tonight. Uh I feel like that we need a new appreciation of the work that Christ did on the cross of Calvary. We uh s sometimes uh I think we go through the motions of Christianity or religiosity and and uh and that's just about it. We go through the motions, but there's there's nothing uh from the heart that reaches out to God and and appreciates what what was done on Calvary. So I want us to look at uh several things here tonight and we're not going to take long with I'm sure everybody would like to curl up in front of their fireplace and and and enjoy uh an evening at home. But uh It's important that we we see the work that he did uh and and if we can just grasp uh a portion of the importance That phrase, it is finished. Perhaps we can go away from here tonight and feel like that was not a total loss, but rather it was a blessing in disguise. Before Abraham was, I am, Jesus said. That's one of his phrases. I and the Father are one. That's another one of his comments. He that hath he that has uh seen me has seen the Father. That's pretty You know, each one of these things are a message within themselves And each one of these phrases, you know, uh are are uh you know you could you could just t uh fill a uh fill a book up with uh the the uh The truths in it. I will come again and receive you unto myself, he said in John. Surely I come quickly. Each one of these promises means something that is so important Verily, verily I say unto you, he that believeth on me hath everlasting life. These are the words of Christ, and yet it is finished is the one that pulls them all together because Jesus was here and um on a mission The words it is finished have been used by different different groups of people. Servants have used that. It's been used by by um uh Masters when they uh or servants whenever they complete a task, a servant's word, is finished. Means that whatever it was that the master had said is completed now. A priest's word has been used. It is finished. Used as a sacrificial animal as it was found to be worthy to be sacrificed. A farmer it's farmer's words used when a perfect specimen has been born into the flock. It's an artist's word. I've used it myself many times as I've completed a painting uh oils or uh acrylics and sometimes even chalk drawings. I'll look at it and say, uh it's finished. I couldn't say that about that because there was a little thing there that I had to do something about. But Uh it is finished as used by different groups of people. A merchant is used when a deal is struck between two people who have been haggling over price and so forth. And they finally the two of them have come to an agreement And the merchant would say, it's finished. We've we've completed it. I'm satisfied, you're satisfied, and uh that's uh uh so Uh that term is something that's uh is used for a specific reason. When Jesus used it on the cross of Calvary He was talking about several things. One of them was the pain of redemption is finished. The death that Christ died on the cross was one of absolute torture. Now we always we see the pictures and I've I've certainly painted enough uh crucifixions and Christ on the cross and so forth. Uh and I always uh you know, s so many so many pictures you see him hanging there and it's just sort of a limp body and And with maybe a little a little little dash of red here and maybe one there and and uh that's that's about it. But there was more to the c crucifixion than just a few scratches, like some pictures uh portray it There was a torture that went on there that uh was supposed to account for the the sin and the the uh the suffering of mankind Or sin. So it was more than just a little red scratch. He was scourged in Matthew 27-26. He was scourged with a cat of nine tails. And you've I'm sure you've heard the heard explained, but the cat of nine tails had uh nine tails, nine pieces of leather that was on a a solid handle And at the end of each one of those thongs was a hunk of metal or glass or something that would cut deep in the flesh. Uh some have said that those thongs were were threaded with uh with steel and and pieces of glass and st and s sharp instrument s sharp objects that that would dig into the flesh when they were whipped with them. And every stroke that he took that was taken on his back was a stroke that uh uh cut nine slashes across his body. And it came to the place where where it it almost it sap almost sapped the strength out of him, for he fell b uh beneath the weight of the cross on the way to Calvary. He was uh beaten, according to Luke chapter twenty-two, and he was beaten, uh slapped Uh he uh he was spit upon in uh Matthew 27 verse 30. He was mocked, made fun of, ridiculed, uh nailed to the cross And I don't know about you, but there's there's just something about that. I visualized a picture that I saw once. that I've thought many times to try to depict it somehow in a chalk drawing and I never never could just get it together to where I I wanted to use it. But it was a picture of a young man that was dressed in today's clothing, and he's kneeling at the foot of the cross. And in one hand he has a spike, and the other hand he has a mallet. His head is bowed and the tears are running down his cheeks because he realizes that's exactly what we've done We're the ones that nailed Jesus to the cross. All the Roman soldiers, they they're the ones that get the blame. But uh the truth of the matter is, uh you and I, our sin is what nailed him to the cross. So the the he was nailed to the cross, and then he was stripped naked, uh uh Of course before that. Uh stripped naked and of course uh that uh the embarrassment was uh as bad. Uh his beard was plucked from his face Each one of these things you could go over and talk about, but I think you kind of get the picture that this was the crucifixion was not to meant not meant to be over quickly. It was something that was supposed to last for a period of time and and uh uh they did everything to prolong the agony, to make the suffering worse, and Jesus Jesus suffered it more than any other man You say, well, there were many people who were crucified. Then why was his worse than anyone else? Well, one thing was that uh uh who he was. He wasn't just a man. He was the Son of God. That makes a big difference. Because when Jesus died on the cross Excuse me When he died on the cross, the Bible says that that that uh uh I'm trying to think of that verse that uh He became sin for us who knew no sin that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. In other words, Jesus on the cross of Calvary literally became sin. Don't understand that, do you? I don't think we were meant to understand it, I just meant I believe we were meant to believe it And understand that what he went through was not just some some little thing that that he had to go through in order to buy man's redemption. It was a tremendous thing for him, the Son of God, to go through the suffering of death for every man, woman, boy, and girl that ever lived or ever would live. The e the the um How can I say it? The quality, the uh that's not the word I want. Uh his death was the equivalent to everyone's death in hell. Think about that. Say, well, well, let's think about it. He's talking about not just this, I mean what I gave you here was physical pain. And that in itself was bad. But there was more to it than that. Because on the cross the Bible says he became sin for us who knew no sin. That we might be made the righteousness of God and Him. He became sin for us. He became sin. Whoa, wait a minute. Wages of sin is death. And it's not just the physical death, even though he suffered that and he paid that penalty. But he's we're talking about a a death that would satisfy a holy and righteous God in whom we've all sinned against. That's what he's talking about. And so when Jesus literally died on the cross of Calvary, there was a period of time where he became sin for us. Became sin for us and paid the penalty of sin to satisfy his Heavenly Father. Pain of redemption. It wasn't just the physical death. It was that spiritual death when he became sin. And there was something else that was even added to that. And that was the fact that when when when he became sin, God the Father had to step back and say, Whoa, wait a minute. I cannot accept sin. And sin separates between us and God. And so there was a separation that took place there, between the Father and the Son, that had never taken place in eternity past and never had ever taken place. We can't we can't grasp any of the we can't grasp the the the the terribleness of of that thought The only way I can even equate to it at all is I think about my wife and I. As close as we are, we love each other and we've been married for a long time. And when we're separated this past week we I was out at Charlie's and doing some deer hunting while she was at uh Betty's uh for uh several days there uh and I don't know what they did. They piddled around there all day long and shopped and all that good stuff while I was working. But when we when we we came together at the end of the week, uh she said she looked me in the eye and she kissed me and she said, I missed you. And you know something? I miss her too. There's something about that that separation there. And and multiply that by, how can you multiply it? Multiply it by billions and billions of times and realize the agony that Jesus must have gone through. When he uh experienced the separation from his Heavenly Father and the Holy Spirit. Think about that. The pain of redemption was finished. When he said it is finished, must have been a relief. But also it the not only the pain of redemption is finished, but also the plan of redemption was finished. You see, the the plan of redemption goes uh farther back than just uh 2,000 years ago. That's what we think about. But uh it goes back to uh I'm reading in Revelation chapter 13, and I'm reading in verse 8, where the Word of God says, and all but excuse it. All that dwell upon the earth shall worship him, whose names are not written in the book of life of the lamb slain. From the foundation of the world. See there? The foundation of the world, the very beginning. Jesus, the plan was set up way before. Way before Calvary. God the Father, when He when somewhere and you know, you can't even speak when you speak of God, you can't even speak of eternity past or any because there was no eternity past with God He's always been and always will be, and I don't even understand that. But I do know this, that somewhere in the in the our past, some way, way back there. God had a vision where he was going to t take a handful of dirt and form a a body and breathe into his nostrils the breath of life and man would become a living soul created in his image. Where he could fellowship with them. But he knew that fellowship was going to be broke in the Garden of Eden. He knew that ahead of time. Yet he went ahead and did it. Why? Because he loves us. And I don't understand that either. You say, well, brother, you don't understand a lot. That's the truth. That is the truth. I don't understand a lot. But I tell you, I under I I I uh I accept a lot by faith. Whatever it says in this book, I believe it. And that's that's the end end game on it. So the plan of redemption, God had it planned way back in the beginning. Well, the Old Testament sacrifices, when you stop and think of all the things that point to this moment in time. Where Jesus said, it is finished. When you think of back in Adam when he'd sinned. And God had to slay the animal in order to, that's a picture of the death of Christ. I I think of uh Abraham and Isaac and his sacrifice of his son and the substitute of the goat. You know, if you go through all the sacrifices, think of the thousands of sacrifices that were made all a picture of the Lamb that took away the sin of the world. All of that. Now, everything God requires to make men righteous and to take away their sins is found in the blood of Jesus Christ. There is just one means of salvation. And regardless of who you are, you must be washed in the blood of Jesus if you expect to see heaven. What can wash away my sins? Nothing but the blood of Jesus. We all sing that song. And we sing it so glibly sometimes and And uh we rejoice in the fact that his blood has cleansed us from our sin, but we just haven't quite grasped the depth of the love that God had to take care of that. So we've seen the pain and the plan of redemption. But now let's look at the payment of redemption. was finished, the Bible says in verse 30. When he said it's finished, he's talking about also the payment of redemption. was finished. As I mentioned in the introduction, this this phase of Jesus uttered was a was a business term. It was used when uh a deal had been reached between two parties and both were satisfied When Jesus said it is finished, it meant that God the Father in heaven was satisfied with what Jesus did on the cross of Calvary In 1 John, it says, and he was the propitiation for our sin, and not for ours only, but for the sins of the whole world Wow, propitiation, boy, that's a nice word. And we don't use it much here in today's vernacular, but propitiation just simply means a satisfactory sacrifice. God the Father looked down, saw the sins of man, and his his son was given the the job of paying the sin debt. And when Jesus said it is finished, God the Father looked down and he said, I accept that sacrifice. His blood was shed. Without the shedding of blood, there is no remission of sin. And I accept that sacrifice as the sacrifice, perfect sacrifice for sin. And so that takes care of the of the purchase or the price. What was it I said there? The payment. There we go. The payment. I knew I'd get it eventually. That's good news for you and I. It means that uh if salvation's plan has been finished If when Jesus died on the cross of Calvary, He died and rose again the third day, if that finishes this matter of salvation, it means that you and I don't have to worry about Working our way to heaven. Or paying so much in order to get to heaven It means that it's it's not through our efforts and our good deeds and our works that we're going to get there. Not by works of righteousness which we've done, but according to his mercy. He saved us. So we have redemption because of what Jesus did on the cross 2,000 years ago. And he completed it there and made it available to us free for asking. All we have to do is come to him. As many as believed on his name, as them gave you power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. Have you have you trusted Christ as your Savior? Do you know beyond a shadow of a doubt? And I realize that I I mean I I look at in my mind I'm saying saved, saved, saved, saved Save, save. Yeah. But I, you know, I can't look into your heart. And I don't really know. I don't know. But God knows. He's provided the plan and he's presented the invitation. And it's up to you to receive it. As many as received him, to them gave you power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. Let's show this chalk drawing. The thing that is to me is is a blessing about the work that Jesus did on the cross. The work of redemption was finished. When Jesus died on the cross and rose again the third day. That's all accepted in the gospel. But the wonderful thing that I like about the salvation that we have is that that he is Is like a well I guess she he's like the like the mother. She had a child that was like seven or eight years old. And he walked to school each day, or she had to walk him to school, and so she finally hired somebody, a young lady, a girl. To walk with him to school every morning and and pick him up at school and bring him back. And she would give her like a quarter a day to do that. And the son came to her one day and she said, Mom, I'll be really careful to say I'll just Y give me a nickel a day and you can keep the twenty cents and we can save money that way and and I'll be really, really careful and I'll go to school and I'll watch the streets and And I'll make sure I don't talk to anybody and I'll just go straight to school and I'll come straight home. And so she smiled, she said, Okay. And so she she gave him the nickel and she kept the 20 cents and told the girl that she didn't need her anymore, and the little boy All that school year, walked to school, straight as a line, kept his head, you know, never talked to anybody, and then End of school, he'd come out, he'd come back home. And he did that all school year. And every day, while he got a nickel for walking and coming back, Years later, they were in a family gathering and the boy was talking about how independent he was as he was when he was just a boy. How he walked to school every day. And his mother began to chuckle. And when he asked her why she was chuckling, she said Well, you wasn't exactly alone because every day that you left I followed you. I just kept hid and I'd tell you, make sure you got to school and went School was over. I was back behind a tree waiting for you to come out, and then I followed you home to make sure everything is all right. That's what Jesus is doing with our life. He just keeping tabs on us. When he says it's finished, he's talking about the redemption, the work of redemption is finished. But The preservation and and the keeping of the saints and and the the loving care that a shepherd has for his sheep, that's ongoing all the time, working. For you and I. Isn't he a wonderful Savior? Heavenly Father, I pray that uh You might take some of these truths that we've talked about tonight. God I I realize I'm very inadequate and getting all across all this good stuff, but I just pray that these young people, especially, will grasp some truth there that will help them in a time when they need that special help. Lord, we thank you. For the plan of redemption that you worked out eons ago that we're enjoying today. Bless our time now as we go into invitation time in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Let's all stand to her feet