I'd like to begin reading verse number one. Pastor took me down to the um I forget the name of it. It's down there with the Oakmar Hotel S. What is it? Third Street. Yeah, that place is great. We had a I got my first turkey dinner so far, at a turkey with dressing and all that, so I'm sure I'll have many of those between now and Thanksgiving day. And praying much for your and will be praying much for your Thanksgiving dinner. That's a great opportunity to bring bring people to church, get 'em in, get 'em saved, uh give 'em something to eat, minister to them. And uh what a what a wonderful uh just opportunity for people. Joel chapter two. Let's look at verse one. Let's stand together for the reading of the Word of God. Verse one. Blow ye the trumpet in Zion. And sound an alarm in my holy mountain. Will all the inhabitants of the land tremble? For the day of the Lord cometh For it is nigh at hand. A day of darkness and of gloominess, a day of clouds, and of thick darkness, as the morning spread upon the mountains, a great people and a strong, there has not been ever the light Neither shall be any more after it, even of the years of many generations. A fire devoureth before them Behind them a flame burneth. The land is as the Garden of Eden before them. Behind them a desolate wilderness, yea, and nothing shall escape them. Verse 1 is our text. Blow ye the trumpet in Zion, and sound an alarm in my holy mountain. Sound an alarm in my holy mountain. I'd like to speak tonight on the subject. It is time to sound the alarm. It is truly time As where we are in time and space in eternity, it is time for God's people armed And as alarmed people sound the alarm. Years ago, a British writer, his name was Leonard Ravenhill, used to write books on revival. One of his books, one of his chapters, he spoke about the lack of alarm. And one of the things he said that's always stuck with me, he said, I am alarmed At the lack of alarm. I'm alarmed at the lack of urgency and just uh unction that's on people's lives when it comes to this matter of the coming of Christ, the day of the Lord And the fact that we have opportunity to reach people with the gospel. It is time to sound the alarm. Father, help us tonight. May we hear from thee. May the Word of God have a free course tonight and every night this week. I pray you'll put the urgency in parts to to attend the meeting. I know we're di in busy times. I know we're all busy people. It's an extra effort But I pray that you'll just put that in men and men and women's hearts and then bless each one that go the extra mile. I pray for those watching my live stream. May you speak to their hearts, even in their homes. And God, we thank you that you are able. We give you the praise. We give you the glory tonight. It's in Jesus' name we pray. Everyone said together. Maybe seated. Thank you for standing for so long. The prophet Joel was a man of God and a great prophet. That was used to speak to the southern kingdom of the people of Judah. He was one of the earlier prophets, some believe as far back as to be contemporary with Elijah the prophet. all the way back to somewhere around 835 or 830, somewhere in that range BC. His very name Joel means Jehovah is God. And every time you said the name Joel, you made a statement that Jehovah is God. That's a good statement. You say, why is that? Because he is God. The Lord is God, say amen. The one true and living God. In his prophecy, he begins to look ahead. It's some very disturbing and dark days that will come to the people of Judah. He first of all sees a devastating plague of locusts in chapter 1, verses 1 through 4 Then he looks ahead and he sees a great famine as a result of the locusts coming in and eating the crops. And in verses chapter one and verse eight through twelve He sees this great famine. And then toward the last of chapter number one, he sees a great drought. But will give way to a great fire. And the land is burning up, the land is on fire There's a drought in the land. He sees ahead. He sees these locusts destroying the crops and everything there. And he sees this great famine. And he begins to cry out to the people of God. In chapter 2, he says, blow the trumpet in Zion. In other words, get out your trumpets and start blowing them. Sound the alarm. On my holy mountain. And he begins to give them throughout this prophecy a grand overriding theme about a day. This is called the day of the Lord. A day that is going to be a devastating day for planet Earth. In fact, the book can be divided into three primary themes There's a picture of devastation, chapter 2, verse 1 through 11, and the land is destroyed and the people are destroyed. There's a plea for intercession. Chapter two verses twelve through seventeen and he begins to call on them for the priests and the ministers of the Lord To weep between the porch and the altar, and let them say, Spare thy people, O God, and give not thy heritage to reproach. And then chapter two, verse thirteen Joel offers up a promise of restoration. He said it's not all going to be bad, because one day if we will turn to God, God indeed will turn back to us, and God will restore Our land. Here in chapter 2 in our text tonight, he says, Blow the trumpet in Zion. Blow ye the trumpet in Zion. Sound the alarm. In my holy mountain. He said, I want you to turn on the alarm bells in the land of Judah. And understand, study your Bible, and you'll find that these alarms were normally trumpets, and they were used for several reasons. The people of God would use trumpets. First of all, they would use trumpets for worship They would gather around the temple, they would stand on the temple mount and call the people of God for the holy feasts and the convocations, and they would begin blowing trumpets, and the people of God would assemble to worship the living God. They were also used for walking and their journey in the wilderness. Whenever it was time when God's people Wandered forty years in the wilderness, they would uh take the tabernacle and put it all back up. It was a portable place to worship God And they would put it all back up, pack it all up, they would blow the trumpets, and they would start walking again in the direction of the pillar of cloud by night or by day and the pillar of fire by night. When the cloud stopped, they would stop. When the cloud moved, they would move. And they would blow trumpets to let people know it is time to go. The trumpets were also used for walking, but for warning. They would warn God's people of things that were coming, of bad things that were going to happen. They would blow these trumpets, normally rams' horns, and they would blow them during these peace times and give indicators of what to do. Remember they didn't have cell phones. Young people, guess what? There was a day when there were no cell phones. There was a day when there was no computers. There was a day when there was no no TV. There was a day when there was only three channels. How many remember those days? And at eleven o'clock everything went off and in the middle of the night it was just that far fuzzy look and a weird noise in the middle. If you watch TV in the middle of the night, you had some serious issues, amen? Sitting there woo watching that. There was all those days. And then of course uh they used their trumpets and they blew these trumpets for warfare. They would sound the charge, they would sound retreat, they would sound And use trumpets to communicate to the people of God. Here he says, Blow ye the trumpet in Zion. There's a famine coming, there's a plague on the way. There's a fire that's going to come and destroy. There's going to be a drought in the land. He says, blow ye the trumpet in Zion and sound the alarm. In my holy mountain, and and Joel saying, I want you now to begin sounding the alarm. Now I was a kid growing up in the city of Baltimore And I lived in a small suburb called Parkville, somebody know where that is, northeast Baltimore. And uh we were members of the St. Ursula's parish of uh the Roman Catholic Church. I went to uh Catholic school from first through sixth grade. My parents I was the last one that went to Catholic school, all the other ones went uh through eighth grade and then they went to high school at Loyola, my brothers, my sisters went to uh Merseith and then my brothers, two of them even went to college at Loyola. My parents ran out of money after seven kids, so uh and my little sister and me, we ended up I went to public school in the seventh grade. But I remember in the uh there over there at St. Ursula's Catholic school, uh we would have certain times where we'd have uh fire alarm and we'd go out and And all the alarms in the school would go off and everybody go out, follow the teacher, we'd line up on the parking lot, fire trucks would And they go through the drill of what would happen if there would be a fire in the school. I used to look at those alarms on the wall, and I was not the best child. I was a little troublemaker. I got in trouble for various things. I got uh uh you know it was never mind. But anyway You know, it's it's not a good idea for a Boy Scout troop uh to throw a a hammerhead or an M eighty into the latreen. Your Scoutmaster is in there, say amen? That's all I'm gonna say. But anyway, uh and I and I got in trouble for stuff and uh I remember uh these alarms. I'd go by those things. I thought man what would it be like just to pull one of those things? And uh it's before they had dye and all that stuff on them and could find out who did it. And I I wanna just I wanted so badly to pull that alarm I'll never forget in the sixth grade. Sister Mary Daniel Kane, she was the head nun over the uh over the school. Some of you kids think your parents are strict You think uh your teachers are strict at school, you don't even know. We had a sister who would come in in the fifth grade, she would hit you with a stick right in the hand, I mean smack you right in the hand. She would walk by, sneak up behind you if you were doing bad And she would take her college ring, turn it upside down, and thump you right on the head. And uh I mean she'd say, You're a brass monkey with a cabbage head. I could see her right now. I woke up in the middle of the night in cold sweats. My wife said, What happened to Sister Teresa St. John? I saw her. She came back and it was awful. But I'm saying that uh Sister Mary Daniel came Came in our room, she said, uh, Louis Rossi, come with me down to the office. I thought, oh man, what did I do now I'd already done a million things. I could get caught for any one of them at any time. And I thought, oh man, she must have found out I was ready to go make full confession, sit in the office, and I was so worried she sat down She said, Young man, you got straight A's on your report card. You got general excellence in all of your classes. You are going to be the one today who gets to pull the fire alarm You know it wasn't as fun when I was allowed to do it, say amen to that. But she said, You're gonna get to pull the fire alarm. Man, I couldn't wait. I said, Okay, so wait, wait, wait We have to wait for the police or the fire department to get here. And uh she said, I'll tell you when. Man, I got so antsy. I said, Now? No, no, you just sit right there You wait and I'll tell you exactly when to pull the fire alarm. Don't forget, uh the fire department came in, they called into the school, Sister Mary Daniel answered, and now it was time. She said, Go ahead, young man, it's time to pull down the alarm and I pulled that thing, it went off, you know, all over the school. Everybody started lining up. I thought, man. I got to pull the fire alarm. I can definitely get addicted to this. But anyway, uh that was fun. And I'll never forget, uh I got to pull the alarm Well wait a minute. That was just a little alarm. How many remember the old days and one o'clock in the afternoon every single day without warning? the air raid signals would go off in a lot of communities. It didn't mind. We had friends, they even had uh air raid shelters in the backyard. It's a good thing we never had one Because we go in there and eat those rations and all. They were terrible, but they just tasted good because we weren't supposed to do it. And so uh we go in there and Hang out, we get out in those air aid shelters and just hang out. It was the it was a cool place for us. And uh I remember uh those alarms that used to be a part all over our society. If I was a terrible Russian or one of these bad people, I would attack at one o'clock in the afternoon Because nobody would take it seriously, but uh that was just I don't know why I think that way, but it's just I'm glad how many are how many are glad you're saved How many are glad I got saved? I'm glad I got saved. But understand, uh these are the things that we would do. It was time To sound the alarm. I believe it is time for God's people to sound a lot of alarms. There's some things we need to get involved in We need to get stirred up about the things of God. In the last 20 years, I have watched spiritual pacifies settle in in the house of God. We used to be militant soul winners. We used to be stirred up about things. We used to be for the gospel and against everything else. Amen to that. We used to preach against stuff that nobody preaches about anymore. Well, we don't want to offend people, Brother Rossi. A church is not a uh a session with Mr. Rogers' neighborhoods. Amen. A church ought to be a place where we come and get preached to, hear the word of God. Get stirred up, yes, have our toes stepped on a little bit. It's a time where uh we would come into the house of God and yes, have some of the blankets pulled off and thrown some cold water on us to say, hey, time to wake up Time to get it ready. Time to realize the fact the Lord is getting ready to come back. I think about some alarms tonight. I think of course in our text is a fire alarm. He said, It is time To sound this alarm, blow the trumpet in Zion, sound the alarm in my holy mountain. He begins to deal with them. about this destructive fire in chapter one and verse number nineteen he said uh the the Lord will or chapter Yes, chapter one and verse numeteen, he begins to say that this day, O Lord, to thee will I cry, for the duh the fire hath devoured the pastures of the wilderness, the flame hath burned all the trees of the field. Verse twenty, the beasts of the field are also unto cry unto thee, for the rivers of water are dried up. and the fire hath devoured the pastures of the wilderness. So understand, he was warning God's people about an impending fire that was on its way. It was going to destroy them. It was going to uh literally uh ruin their lives. I can say this to you. Uh we need to be warning people to flee the wrath to come. We need to let people know there is still a hell to shun, a heaven to gain, and underneath the veneer of this life There is flames there are flames that are burning, there is darkness, there is weeping, there is wailing, there's gnashing of teeth. How many still believe that hell is real? The Bible said in Revelation 20, 15, Whosoever was not found. Written in the book of of life shall be cast into the lake of fire. It's amazing how many well known uh big name contemporary supposed preachers uh have denied the existence of hell. They no longer believe in the reality of hell. How could one even believe in heaven unless we believe in hell? Jesus spoke about hell much more than he did about heaven. And so we must warn this generation of a destroying fire or destructive fire, and we must warn this generation of a diminishing fire. What I see everywhere I go is that a lot of God's people have turned cold. They turn lukewarm. They've gotten indifferent to the things of God. I don't know because we've heard it so many times. We've had evangelists so many times. We've listened to preaching so much that it's almost like uh water uh falling off the duck's back I heard about uh three hunters went out in the woods with a guide. He set them all down. He said, just sit right here. He said, do not Fire at any animal until I tell you, I promise all three of you are going to get a deer. Guaranteed, a big deer. And I'll tell you when to shoot one at a time A big buck walked out, all three simultaneously. They shot right then at the same time. Uh uh literally simultaneously. He said, I told you not to do that. Put your guns down, stay here. He went out, looked at the animal, came back He said, Well, you all shot it once, but the good news is I know who killed it. And uh they said, Well, how would you know? Well, the same gun same time. They all had the same rifles and equipment. He said, I know who shot it. He said, how would you know? He said, sir, what do you do for a living? He said, I'm a I'm an accountant. He said you didn't shoot the deer He said, Sir, what do you do for a living? He said, I'm a I'm a lawyer. He said, You didn't kill the deer. He said, Sir, what do you do for a living? The third man said, I'm a Baptist preacher. He said You killed the deer. He said, Well, how would you know? The bullet went in one ear and out the other. I'm saying Is it not possible? That we've heard sermons so many times we've just gotten used to it all? Is it not possible that we've heard about hell and the judgment and eternity and the second coming of Christ, that we've gotten uh used to it all? Is it not possible that that song we sang a bit earlier set my soul afire, Lord? That's not just a good song. That's a dying need of this generation of this hour for people to get stirred and saved and get their life on fire for the living God. We my wife and I joined the church years ago We were all stirred up, came out of Bible college. He said, You just came out of Bible college, did you? I said, Yes, sir, man, we're excited. He said, You're an excitable fella. He said, Don't worry, hang in there This will all you'll simmer down in a few years. In other words, just hang in there, you'll be just like us. And I'm saying that God wants us To glorify him. I go to churches where if you want a blessing, you better bring one with you. Amen to that? I go to churches where They ought to have a sign out front. Welcome to the first church of the North Pole, uh where Dr. Jack Frost is the pastor. Many are cold and a few are frozen. Amen. I mean, I go to churches where You might want to wear ice skates in so cold just to get down the aisle. People are breathing and and their breath, you can see, just like standing out in the cold and were Or they're smoking. But anyway, I mean I'm saying I've been in churches like that, uh where it was just dead and there was nothing there I'm not suggesting g getting on wildfire and uh w handling snakes and drinking poison. I'm sure you have enough of those around. Uh some of those unusual churches, but I'm saying for God's people and to have that fire of sacred love kindled on the mean altar of our heart where God Himself has a hold of us and so we need uh the this great desire for the fire of God to return to his people one more time. Years ago My son came to me and said, Dad, he said, I know what I want for graduation present. I said, okay, what do you want, son? He said, I'd like to have a Jeep. I said, I'm sure you would. And I I liked that one myself. I said, All right buddy, uh yeah, I'll get you two of 'em. What you know, the little H O uh you know, Tonka toys. And he said, No, uh he said, Daddy, there's a man uh at one of the girls in school her daddy has a a jeep and it's a thousand dollars and I said well you're getting closer to my budget and I said uh I don't know uh a thousand dollars I'm sure it's not a great jeep he said Dad He said he put a brand new engine in it two years ago. It's been sitting behind his barn. The body's great. Everything's intact. It's the 1988 Jeep Wrangler. I said, Well, I'll look at it. I looked at it. I mean, Pastor, this is a nice G. I was shocked how nice it was. And I talked to the gentleman, I said, You're sure this wor Oh yeah, it's a new engine. The brand new six cylinder, straight, in line. He said it the thing it runs like a top. I said, why are you selling it so cheap? He said, Well I'll give it to you for that. I wouldn't sell it to anybody else that cheap. I said, Okay. So I gave him the money and he was gonna pay me back half of it through the summer, my son. And uh we got it home, fired it up, drove it home, ran great. I got it home, changed the oil, cleaned it all up. Getting it all ready. We worked on it in all afternoon on Friday afternoon and into the night and it got it running. Sounded great In the morning I got up and worked on it some more and I thought I don't put a new uh fuel filter on this. So I'm putting the fuel filter on. Susan came out in the garage And said, honey, uh I made pancakes and uh for you and the kids. You have to leave this afternoon for a a meeting. And I wanted to get it running so you could get it all entitled and everything that week while I was gone I said, okay, I'll be right there. I came in, hurriedly tightened up everything, left it running in the garage so it would warm up and all. I went in Went back out, drove it up to the dump and local dump and got filled it up with gas on the way to the dump. Brand new gas. There I am in line at the dump. Uh folks are throwing their trash and And a man said, Hey sir, uh you know you got smoke coming out from underneath of that jeep in the front. I said, Really? I looked down and another man said, Hey, your jeep's on fire, but he's got flames coming out from underneath I said, what? I I got out, went to open the hood, couldn't even put it up. It was just uh scalding hot. And I then I saw under the wheel wells flames were coming out on both sides. Another man gave me a fire extinguisher and I tried to put it out But there was oil on the block and it was all catching fire and there was no putting it out. People said, get away from that thing. Hey, hurry up. They were pulling their cars away I said, get away, mister, you better move away from there. It's on fire. I got away from the Jeep, went over about maybe fifty yards away on the other side of a fence, and we're standing there, this thing is just flaming. I mean it's going straight up, straight up out of the Jeep. Smoke's coming going straight up in the air, a big black plume of smoke. The tires melted off the rims. All the upholstery met just burned up. There were just springs and seats there. A man said, Hey, I'll give you five hundred bucks for that Jeep. I said, Yes, sir. Right, uh sold. When I said sold, the Jeep exploded. Now I'm not talking about a little poof I mean, boom, I mean a fireball. I felt it. I mean it was like a blast went off and uh you can just feel it and this Big fireball shot straight up when that uh that fifteen gallon tank, whatever it was, it was full. In high test in fact. It all exploded and uh man the whole Jeep said, Hey, never mind, I don't want that Jeep. I'm standing there and a lady walked up said, Hey, it's gonna be all right, honey. She's down in the south, everybody's honey and sugar and all that. It's gonna be all right, honey. I said my son's jeep, I bought it for him for for his graduation. He saw it safe She said, it'll be okay. Put her arm around almost put my hand I said, wait, hold on, I don't know. You would say, Man, I was about to cry. It was so discouraging. I mean it was really upsetting. Just then The I realized we're standing next to the Almaville Volunteer Fire Department. I looked and here comes one of the trucks. It pulls up A woman gets out in full turnout gear and she says, Where's the fire? I said, You've got to have blonde hair underneath that helmet. And I said I said, it's right oh, I see it. She said, Well, that's not gonna go out, honey. I'll tell you that right now. That thing's uh we just gotta let it burn to the ground And uh we'll call a tow truck and they watched it and kept the hose just in case they needed it. And I mean, it just burned to the ground. You know what I found out? Nobody even thought Nobody even thought about it to call the fire department. Nobody even thought to sound an alarm or something. I'm not sure what difference it would have made. But it burned to the ground. God was good. Uh they gave me the insurance settlement on the Jeep. It was almost five thousand dollars. I bought my son another Jeep that was nicer than that one. Uh the whole community heard about it. I'll tell you in a at a later message about that. But uh I mean I got him another Jeep and it was a much nicer one than the one we bought. So if you have an old car you need to get rid of right here. For a small fee. Amen. But same It was unbelievable. And there was no fire. There was no alarm. They just showed up and it was burned to the ground already. That thing was burned to the crisp, everything was gone. They hooked it on a tow truck finally after it was all out, and they they just put it on a you know, a rollback and just put a winch and just pulled it up. There was no tires left. It just hurt it. And it's were taken over the junkyard and they did. And I don't know what they did. I never saw it again. And I'm saying to you That there is a fire that's burning in this generation. There are people right now that are in dire trouble who do not know it. We have family members that are lost We have friends that are lost. We have neighbors that are dying and going to hell. And it is a time right now to sound the alarm. We're ever going to have revival, it needs to happen right now. There's a fire alarm Secondly, I think about a flesh alarm. It is time for us to start ringing the bell about the flesh that has taken over this generation. Romans 4 13, 14, the Apostle Paul was speaking about the end of the age. He said it was high time to wake up out of sleep, for now is our salvation nearer than when we believed. And in that same context, in chapter 14 of Romans 13, he said But put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make not provision for the flesh to fulfill the lust thereof. We are a fleshly generation. We have catered to me, my, and I long enough. Let's try that again. We have catered to me, my, and I long enough. It's time we serve it up. I remember when I got saved. People would say things like, I'd say, How you doing? Say, well, pray for me. I was in the flesh today. How many remember that? I remember it said, well, uh something happened at work and I got in the flesh. You know what that meant? meant that we got a bad spirit, a bad bad attitude. We forgot about gratitude. We forgot about contentment and thankfulness. We forgot about uh giving God praise and glory for all things that come our way, and we got a big case of the pooch lip and started murmuring, getting angry, and responded in the flesh. Now we call it a bad hair day Now we call it, well just had a little meltdown. We call it a lot of other things that don't sound quite so bad as saying My Lord Jesus died for me. He died to pay the price for every one of my sins. And today I dishonor him by living. in the flesh. Galatians 5. 16, the Bible says, this I say, walk in the spirit, and you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. For the flesh lest flesh lusteth against the spirit, the spirit against the flesh. These two are contrary one to the other, so that you cannot do the things that you would. You might not know this even. You, if you're saved and you love God You're in a battle. It's the old nature. It's me against Adam. It's me against the old Adamic nature. We live in a generation that most sentences begin with the words me, my, or I. We have iPads. We have iPhones. We have selfies. We have taken pictures of ourselves. We have Facebook that's all about me, MySpace, Twitter, all these social platforms, and I'm not even against a lot of them, but I'm saying to you, we gotta be careful with that stuff lest we become obsessed with imaging and making people think something that we're really not. Do you have an amen? I mean, I've seen them. Um I met Starbucks I'm in line ordering. I order a karma macchiato, two pumps of sweetener. Yummy, one thing after another. As if anybody really cares. What I want to say is Glad to hear it. I hope you get me one. Say amen to that. So but but everybody's looking for their own thing, doing their own thing. Selfie. Imagine this, you know. I don't have my phone here, but man I'm preaching here. Timeout You're looking good, dude. Man, you look great. Hey, let me get one with the pastor. Yay! And so a selfie, it's all about Me, my, and I. And I'm saying that's not a bad thing. I love taking pictures of my kids and my grandchildren and all that. Grandchildren are amazing. How many believe we should have had them first? And so uh they're they're the best, but understand. We must look away from ourselves. At some point in our life, do you realize there's a whole world out there that has nothing to do with you? And do you know that most of the problems in our life Our personal problems of living in the flesh, of giving ourselves over to selfishness or pride, or things that dishonor God In fact, when's the last time you did this? Try it with me. Take your hand. Ready? Try this. Put it over your head. Just try it. Go ahead. I won't hurt you, I promise. Just put your hand over your head. Why don't you say this? I acknowledge most of my problems. Hey, wait a minute. Some of you have your hand over your spouse's head. Most of my problems are directly under my hand. And when you'd say amen to that. Most of my problems come right out of the guy I look at in the mirror. And I'm saying that by the grace of God, we used to talk about dying to self. Dying to pride, dying to sin, dying and living unto God. I remember Dr. Bobby Robertson, I've heard him tell the story numerous times. I know your pastors heard him, where he The road with Brother Roloff and Brother Bobby said, Hey, have I offended you? You hadn't said much to And Brother Roloff said, Oh Bobby, no, uh I didn't offend you, you didn't offend me. And he said, If I was offended, that'd be my fault because I'm not dead to self And understand, we live in the hurt-feeling generation. Oh, you understand, Brother Rossi? I got I got church hurt when I was fifteen and somebody said something mean about me. Welcome to life. Say amen. Welcome to living and trying to do anything for God. Listen, I'll tell you how to Get along really great. Don't do anything. Don't try anything. Don't have anything. And everybody will But if you try to do anything worthwhile, or if you work hard and you're successful in any realm of business or in life, somebody somewhere is going to get jealous And they're going to lie about you. And at that moment, it is time for us to say, I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live Yet not I, for Christ liveth in me, and the life I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. Listen, when somebody uh punches you, the first thing you want to do is what? Punch them right back. Somebody says something about you. What do you want to do? You want to say something back. Hey, hey, brother also don't like the way you preach. Oh really? Hey, does your face hurt Uh it's killing me. Amen. I mean, you've been eating crackers? You're crummy looking. I mean we want to say something really nasty and mean and hurt their feelings. Whatever happens saying, I'm sorry, brother Hope I didn't do anything to offend you. And if I did, I ask you to forgive me. And I I like to work this out. That's saying I'm dead yourself. I've been to a lot of funerals and conducted them and attended many And it's an amazing thing. They have the they have the disease laying out there. The casket is there. If it's open you go by and You pay respect, which is a good thing. And normally you go by and say, Oh, she looks so so nice, he looks so good. If you walk by my casket, would you would you not do this He never looked better in his life. I might sit up. Hey, what are you talking about? I mean And but you know you can walk by that casket. Oh, he was such a blessing. You can walk by and say, I never liked you anyway. You know what they're gonna do? They're gonna lay right there, with that little smile that they put on her face, hands folded, little New Testament stuck in there, whatever they have. A s a six shot revolver in his hand, laying there. I thought I'm not telling him anything bad. I've had guys, you know, laying there with a Budweiser in their hand and all the I've seen it all. But not one time has ever A corpse sat up and said, I don't like it. It's cold in here, it's too hot. Hey, get it over with. This sermon's way too long, preacher. Come on, hurry. They never complain. They never murmur. They don't get upset. You know why? They're dead. And you know what God wants us to be? I know this is crude, but God wants us to die He wants to get to the place where we quit getting our feelings hurt so bad and be so sensitive and and touchy and oh that nobody even said hi to me tonight at church and and nobody shook my hand and Nobody gave me a birthday present and on and on. These are petty things when we think about eternity. We think about God at work. Most people don't leave churches over doctrinal issues or good things that uh reasons that are that are good in the eyes of God. Most people leave because they got their feelings hurt. And a lot of times they leave because the pastor preached and hit them right between the eyes. Do I have an Amen? Well you throw a rock into a pack of dogs and the one that howls is the one that got hit. And I was in the flesh today, a flesh alarm. In the In Noah's flood, of course they traveled in the ark for many, many days. And they stayed in the ark, and finally the ark rested on the mountains of Ararat. And when the ark rested, they sent out a bird of prey, a raven. It never came back. And then he sent out a dove And the dove came back, couldn't stay out there. You say, well, there was no place to land. I wonder if that dove wasn't landing, because there were so many corpses and carcasses floating around The dove couldn't land on that flesh. Those other animals, they land on that carcass and start eating it. The dove said, I don't I don't want anything to do with that. Finally one came back with an olive branch in his mouth And he knew it was now time to leave the ark. You know, I wonder if the Spirit of God wants to do a work. And sometimes he can't land on us, and he can't use us. Because we're living life in the flesh. Is that fair to say? I'm sounding alar the alarm. It's time for us to get victory over our flesh. Why? This and I wanted to buy that and he wouldn't let me buy this or she wouldn't let me get that. I want to go deer hunting tonight and she wants me to clean up the house because folks are coming over for Christmas or Thanksgiving Hey, we don't always have to get our way. Do I have an amen? I wanted to watch the game. I'm gonna lose anyway, so listen. Uh understand Just why are we so obsessed with having to have our own way? There's a flesh alarm. I'll hurry on the other ones. There's a family alarm. The devil has his rights fully, completely on our family, on our marriages, our homes. Our children, our heritages, he hates. He hates the family Do I have an amen? He hates everything about it. He hates your family. He hates mine. He hates your children. Well they'll be fine. They're just kids. They're only fifteen. Let 'em have some fun and I heard a man say this in a church, you've got to let him sow some wild oats. I said, wait a minute, sir. The Bible says whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. Can't just let 'em go out and sow wild oats. That's a a ridiculous worldly philosophy. And the devil hates everything about our life Against their family, there is a war that is raging against fathers, mothers, children, and yes, the nuclear home Psalm 127, God says, lo children are an heritage of the Lord, and the fruit of the womb is his reward. Children are not a curse They're not a bother. They're a blessing. Amen? And God wants to take time to love them and care for them and raise them and train them up in the way that they should go. Now The Devil's Crowd, man, I was in Glen Burney, Maryland. I got news that they were having at our local library Drag Queen Story Hour every Tuesday at 1 o'clock. I said, are you kidding me? Yes, paid for by uh the government, by the local government, the drag queen story hour, and a drag queen would sit down with children and read to them as if a drag queen is a normal person. Nothing normal about a drag queen. Hate to burst your bubble. I know that's upsetting. Nothing normal about a man dressed up like a woman. Amen. Thank you, brother. I'll need you in a moment. And I'm saying that by the grace of God, we must get to the place where we get our senses back. our sense of right and wrong and not be afraid to tell our children what is right and what is wrong. I was leaving my home a few months ago now Walking out and our little neighbor girl was out there, second grader. I said, Hey, how are you? And I said hi to her, said her name Hey, Mr. Rossi, I said, how's school doing? School's good, she said next week I have my reveal party at school I said, what's that? A reveal reveal party where they go and make up their mind what they are, what gender. I said, well you're already she said I have to make up my mind. I said, well you're a little girl She said, Well I have to make up my mind whether I'm a girl or a boy or one of the other uh genders that they have come up with, a whole bunch of them, a whole list. I said, no. I said, Bree, you are a little girl. You will always be a girl. You will always be a female. You can take drugs. You can take Uh have operations, you can have surgeries, you are going to be a girl all of your life. That is exactly how God made you. Do I have an amen to this? Well, I'm just I've got bad news for you, man. Young men. If you're a young man You will always be a man. You can do whatever you want, the surgeries you want, all kinds of stuff, but you're still going to be A man. You will be a dude for the rest of your life, whether you like it or not. That's how God made us. And he in the beginning, he made male and female female, he created them. But this lie of transgenderism and all that goes along with it is ruining our and destroying our nation from the inside out. I don't want some little boy playing Or some little girl playing against our boys and our boys playing against little girls. We were had our boys played football and pop warner and I was the coach and um Man, this kid kept hitting the corner and just going. I mean in number 20 on the other team, the yellow jackets, and I said, uh they were the Georgia Tech yellow jackets, our kids were the Georgia Bulldogs. And I said, now that kid That yellow jacket, that number twenty, I said, son, you gotta take that kid out of this game. You've gotta hit him. You've got to stop him. He's hitting the edge every time Your job, I said, your defensive end, what's your job? Containment. What's your job? Containment. What's your first job? Containment. Yes, sir. I said, you need to contain. Man, he hit that kid the next plate, boom. I mean textbook just knocked him asunder. The kid was on the ground, his little leg, so The kids crying and stuff, the coaches are over there, we're over there, Shit him again, yeah, yeah, yeah. And uh we're fired up. I think he got his leg. Hit him again on the leg but I I mean so uh that's not right, but we did it and hey. Winning is good. Participation trophies don't exist in my home. And and I remember the kid, they they walked him off The field, all the kids, you were all clapping, took the helmet off, and it was a blonde-haired, beautiful little girl. I looked at my son, he said, Daddy, I just hit a girl. I said, Man, I'm sorry, buddy. I said I said, I don't know what to tell you, but if that girl comes back in, you didn't knock her out of football. She didn't never came back in the game. But how different it is today. And we must save our families. We must hold on to godly values and what is right. We must train up our children the way they should go. Ephesians chapter six says, And you fathers, provoke not your children to wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord God gave a role for women, a role for men. No one's better than anybody else. Men are not better than women. Women are not better than men. We have function, we have uh and and in God's sight we have equality, but we have function and we have role, and God wants us to grasp those and do the best we can with those. Why? Because we're losing these battles on so many levels. I'm sounding alarmed about the family alarm. I only have two more. I've gone longer than I wanted, so bear with me. I want you to come back tomorrow night. What about a faith alarm? I'm alarmed about faith. God said, Now the Spirit speaketh expressly. In the latter times, some shall depart from the faith. In 1 Timothy 4, giving heed to seducing spirits, doctrines of devils, speaking lies in hypocrisy, having their conscience seared. God said there would be a day when people would unhook, they would uncouple, they would depart From the faith. Pastor, if all the people have been saved and baptized and were once a part of this church, if all the people that did that And all the ones that went off to these newfangled, ridiculous churches that are not churches, by the way, and or they've left off or they just quit out on church altogether, if all those people who departed from the faith If they were here tonight, we couldn't fit them in this building, the new building. We'd have to use the bus barn, we'd have to use the field outback. We wouldn't have room on the property for all those people. Do I have an amen? But God said there's going to be a day, there'd be a falling away first. And he made it very clear. He said to us That that day of the Lord so cometh as a thief in the night. But he said there's going to be this falling away first Then shall that wicked be revealed, that man of sin, in Second Thessalonians two, and verse three. Jesus said in Luke eighteen eight, When the Son of Man cometh, shall he find faith On the earth? How many say when Jesus comes, you want him to find faith at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church You want to find people that are putting scriptures together and sending them out around the world and supporting missionaries for the glory of God and getting people saved and running buses and bringing kids and having Thanksgiving dinner For people that won't come to church any other time and giving out the gospel. That's what he's looking for us to be doing when Jesus comes and I'm telling you the faith is under fire even tonight. Finally, I want you to know that we must sound a future alarm. We're closer to eternity than we've ever been before. When you look at what God said in 1 Thessalonians 4, About the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, with the trump of God, the dead in Christ shall rise first. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught together in the clouds to meet the Lord. Next three words. Help me, to meet the Lord where? First time he comes. He's coming for the church. Seven years later he's going to come back, not for the churches. He's coming back with the saints. Great difference. And we're going to come back riding white horses, clothed in white raiment. Had a man tell me, you think those are really horses, or maybe they're white Harley Davidson's? I said, I don't know, brother All I know, I'm gonna be riding one of them, say amen to that. And and this future alarm, it's all happening. I've been studying recently This newfangled stuff, ChatGPT. It's very popular. Just a short time ago, less than two years, it has evolved from ChatGPT To ChatGPT 5. 0. It evolved very rapidly. 2. 0, they said that it would be 10 times exponentially smarter than the original version. We're on 5. 0 now. ChatGPT, it's something you can use. I wrote a staff member at our church a reprimand and I used it. I said, Chat GPT, write a letter of reprimand. This young man missed his assignment that I gave to him. Man, seconds later, beautiful letter, well written. And uh carefully written. I sent it to him. Man, I thanked him for doing a great job, what a blessing it was, and all this. And I sent him this letter. He sent me back a response. He said, Pastor, that was one of the nicest things you've ever said to me. He said, Thank you so much for handling that so well. Man, this will not happen again. I appreciate it so much. I called him, I said, Well, I've got to tell you something It was chat GPT. He said, Oh, so was my answer. And then and uh and it was amazing. And my son and I were sitting around and I said, Watch this. Go go ahead, try this and he wrote his wife a little just a love note. They were in the next room. And I and he sent it. We heard her crying in the next room. I said, what do I do? I said, well don't ever tell her. I love you. He said, man, this is great. Do you understand that ChatGPT is artificial intelligence AI? AI is evolving so rapidly, there's a new system that's coming. It's called quantum computing. There is Microsoft is putting out what is called a uh Majorana. It's a new microchip. It's called a quantum chip. The problem is cooling them off and keeping them stable. They're building nuclear reactors, small reactors to have gigantic data centers. with quantum computing so that every person on planet Earth can play pass right through that. Every algorithm, every thought you have, everything you do goes just like that in seconds everything about your life. That's happening. It's not going to happen. It is happening as we speak. And AI is going to give way to what is called AGI, artificial general intelligence, meaning that it knows everything about everyone that has ever been at once. I only take a second, but data right now programming, you have uh you know, ones and zeros basically. You use those in sequences. But this is flatline, linear straight up, no zeros, no ones, it can think all at once. And I truly believe, just reading it, some things some information I have to longer. I'll preach about it one night. There's information now that shows this is definitely going to give way to the system of the beast that's found in Revelation chapter 13. A system where you won't be able to buy or sell. Except you receive a mark in your right hand and in your forehead. I wonder if he's talking about Neuralink. One of the latest gadgets is coming out from uh Elon Musk and others. Wait, when you have Neuralink and some of this, you are no longer human. You become transhuman. And that's what's going to happen when all men fall down and worship the beast and the false prophet. And all that that they get they do in Revelation 13. The good news is that we won't be there. We're going to be in heaven. That's the middle of the tribulation. The bad news is What they have planned, what AI has planned three and a half years from now into 2027 or 2030 is a full blown takeover of a world system. You can ask the AI on on any internet and it'll give you that answer. It's all coming. By 27, uh quantum computing will be a real reality in this world. Everything we're doing is heading that way. And our president is the world leader in all of it in developing all these things. Understand. What does that mean? Let me close. It means this. Jesus is coming and judgment is on its way. I said Jesus is coming. He's coming. Behold, he cometh with clouds, every eye shall see him. Them also which pierce him, all kindreds of the earth shall wail because of him. Revelation 1:7. He's going to come. And he's going to come very soon. And when he comes, everything will be ended. It'll be too late to get people saved. It'll be too late to have revival. I'm saying to you, it is time. The sound, the alarm. I had a long illustration. I'll give it another night. But I want you to know tonight. He's coming back. And he's coming soon, and we need to be ready. We need to be alarmed. We need to be stirred up. Game face on. And ready for the second coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Let's bow our heads, please, our hearts together for prayer. The Apostle Paul would write to the church at Thessalonica. They were concerned. They thought Christ had already come and they'd missed it. And he put their fears at ease, but then he said, Yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so cometh as a thief in the night. For when they shall say, peace and safety, then sudden destruction cometh upon them as travail upon a woman with child, and they shall not escape. It's coming. We hear it every day in the headlines. Peace. Peace in the Middle East. Peace in Taiwan. Peace with China. I heard it this morning on the news, our president. He said, I just ended a war. In over in the Far East. And on and on. Peace, peace, peace. We'll never have peace until the Prince of Peace comes And you'll never have peace until you accept him into your heart and into your life. Christ our Savior, he died for you. How many of you say tonight, Brother Rossi, I believe that we must get stirred up. We must get alarmed. Could I see your hands, please? It is time to sound the alarm He said, let the priests, the ministers of the Lord, weep between the upportion and the altar. And I'd like for some just to come to the altar tonight as God is dealing with you. And just find a place to pray. And say, Lord God, we ask you for revival before you come. Help us to warn our friends, our work associates, our loved ones, our neighbors, the people around us. Help us to get stirred. About what's about to come in this world. How many believe that the Lord's coming soon? Could I see your hand? Might not be today or tomorrow. I will never set a date Never gonna set a time, but it's gonna come quickly. And around the auditorium as Our sister begins to play whatever she has selected. Won't you find a place to pray here and pray for your loved ones and pray for others? Pray that God would stir our hearts up. Let's all stand together, please.