Eighteen first Kings chapter eighteen and I don't consider myself a long-winded preacher uh last night I probably couldn't have uh proved that to you. But anyway, uh we had uh got a little bit longer and I don't want to kill the meeting. I appreciate your faithfulness and thank you for being in the house of God I know it's a bit of an effort, but and uh the Lord will bless you for it. And I don't know who who is responsible for this cold weather. But um somebody needs to get right. Amen. Uh man it got cold out and so it was unbelievable today. And uh what a crazy place. I mean, I've been already in at least three seasons in two days. And Got in Saturday afternoon, it was beautiful, little bit bald. I said, Oh man, it's the sun came out. It's great. By Saturday night it was cold Yesterday again it came out a little while, starting to cheer up a little bit, freezing it's just up and down. Anyway, uh it is great to be around here that uh Oakland gets a lot of snow And uh we used to come up here, I guess we were a lot younger and skied whisp a time or two and seven springs and all that, but uh those days were over. But anyway, after one uh broken shoulder and collarbone and five ribs later, uh no more skiing for me. All right. First Kings chapter 18. First Kings chapter 18. I'd like us to look tonight at verse number 21. 1 Kings chapter 18, verse 21. Let's stand together for the reading of the Word of God. I won't make you stand long. My wife a lot of times while I'm talking while people are standing, I'll see her go Have people sit down. I forget. But you know, I've got to stand up while I'm preaching, so you might as well have to stand up too. 1 Kings 18, verse 21. And Elijah came unto all the people It said, how long halt ye between two opinions? If the Lord be God, follow him. But if Baal, then follow him And the people answered him not a word. Then said Elijah unto the people, I, even I only, remain a prophet of the Lord. But Baal's prophets are 450 men. Let them therefore give us two bullocks, and let them choose one bullock for themselves, and cut it in pieces, lay it on wood. And put no fire under. And I will dress the other bullet and lay it on wood and put no fire under. And call you in the name of your gods, plural. And I will call upon the name of the Lord. That's singular. And the God that answereth by fire, let him be God. And all the people answered and said, It is well spoken. The God that answered by fire, let him be God. I preached last night on its time to sound the alarm. And might sound like a bit of a contradiction, but tonight I'd like to preach when it's time to set the church on fire. It's time that we get on fire for Christ and love him with all of our heart and soul And mine. You don't have to command a young person that's in love to try to seek out the one they're in love with. You don't have to say you better call them and talk on the phone for two hours tonight. You don't have to make them do that. You better uh go out with that girl and stay out later than you're supposed to, even though you know you'll be in trouble. You don't have to tell them to do that. They're in love. They're on fire. They're excited. They're stirred up. And man, it's all we can do just to keep them in the right place until they get married and all that, and it's all good. I had a young couple that Man, they waited for the first kiss in their marriage. Never a kiss one time. They came to the marriage altar and when they kissed It looked like two goldfish colliding in a bowl. I mean they had no idea what they were doing and they kissed and I said, That's enough, stop. Uh go home, all right? And they were both blushing, man, they were just red. You could see their faces all the way in the back of the auditorium. They were so uh just uh you know embarrassed and uh I mean they were on fire. They couldn't wait, uh 'cause they just loved each other. And you know it's time for the church, time for us to get on fire. And to have that fire of sacred love kindled On the mean altar of our heart. Time to set the church on fire. Father, help us tonight. Thank you for what you will do to give you the praise and the glory For all that you'll accomplish in our midst. It's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. You may be seated. Thank you for standing for so long. Our text tonight is a great event that occurs in the life of a man whose name was Elijah. He's one of the dominant Old Testament prophets, and if you know much about him, you know that Elijah was a prophet of God to the northern kingdom and the people of Samaria. He had a famous relationship with an evil king whose name was Ahab. Ahab was so bad that the Bible tells us in chapter 16 of 1 Kings that Ahab did evil above all that were before him. And then God said, If that were not enough If that were not a light matter, he took the wife, a woman whose name was Jezebel, and who was a a queen or a princess of Zidona of the Zidonians. She was a Zidonian princess. She was also, if you study her life, Jezebel was a priestess of Baal. She was the one Who brought Balaanism into uh the kingdom of Samaria? She brought this little Syrophonician uh God, this false entity introduced Baal to people and and to use vernacular terminology at the time of Elijah uh Baal was trending all across Israel. Everyone had a Baal statue in their home. Many were fail and because of that God brought judgment upon them. He speaks to Elijah and Elijah goes to the king, uh Ahab And he says to him that there shall not be dew nor rain these years, but according to my word He brought a three and a half year drought on the people of Samaria. They didn't see dew on the ground. They didn't see rain. I've been I've been in places where it's very dry, but not where there's not even dew on the ground. Uh a little bit when you go out and get the paper and your feet come back wet, even during a drought, there was no dew, there was no rain Everything dried up, the crops died, the grass died, the livestock was dying, and because of that, they were in an awful place. All because of Ahab And Jezebel. If you study the life of Jezebel, she was one of the most notoriously wicked women the world had ever produced. Uh how many of you know that uh to call somebody a Jezebel is not a nice thing And you say, Well she's a Jezebel. Amen. And uh that girl uh uh you know son, uh when you're when your mom mama meets the girl you're seeing, and she said, I don't know about her, I believe she's a Jezebel, and mom will know exactly who that girl is. and tell you to get away from her. I used to or I do still, I like to look at little baby carriages coming into church. I was looking to little babies inside, little blue one in there, little blue blankets, a little boy and little girl in there with pink blankets. So what's her name? And mamas will always say, Well, this is Sarah, this is Rachel, this is Rebecca. If they're newer, maybe more modern people, this is Aspen or Willow and they're give their little names, you know Uh I've never one time in my experience had a woman say, This is our little baby, her name is Jezebel. And I've never had not too many Hillaries anymore either. Amen. So understand that this was a A bad woman. And together they took God's people into a very bad place. The drought is over now God speaks to Elijah. He has been down in Zarephath, and before that he was down by a brook where God had fed him and uh and kept him hidden and fed him with the ravens day and night Gave him bread and flesh. Then he went to the wit widow house home in Zarephath, and God met every need for this great man of God. Now he comes to k to the king. And God says, Show yourself to King Ahab. He comes to the king, and he begins to appear before him. Ahab looks at uh at uh Uh Elijah, look at verse number 18 and or verse 17. It came to pass when Ahab saw Elijah, that Ahab said unto him, Art thou he that troubleth Israel? He said, You are troubled. the troublemaker. Have you noticed when there's bad things going on, it's always the preacher who gets blamed for it. It's never the world, it's never the flesh, it's never the devil, it's always the pastor or some preacher that the world will blame or somebody that's standing up for what's right and even for our country. I'm surprised they haven't blamed Donald Trump for starting World War One. Amen? I mean they started they blamed him for everything else You can imagine, and I mean if he cured cancer tomorrow, it wouldn't make any difference. They would hate him anyway. They hated Elijah They hated everything about him, and uh boy, they just accused him of great evil. Elijah answers in verse eighteen. I have not troubled Israel But thou and thy father's house, that you have forsaken the commandments of the Lord, and thou hast followed Balaam. Now therefore sin Gather me all Israel and the Mount Carmel, the prophets of Baal, 450, the prophets of the groves, four hundred which eat at Jezebel's table. They weren't even they weren't not only compromising, they were sitting down with this wicked woman and became these little spiritual chaplains, little house boys, who were working for a little payday on Sunday instead of being a man of God and call out his people for their sin. Now he calls them all together, and in our text that we just read from, he calls them to Mount Carmel And he calls them to basically a great test or a showdown. He said, We're going to cut these two wild bullocks in in pieces, one for me and one for all of you. And he said, You call on your God And I'll call on or your gods, and I'll call on my God, and the God that answereth by fire Let him be God. Now they knew good and well he was calling for a real test to see whose God was the living God. He said, the God that answereth By fire. Now they do that. They cut up their bullock all day long. They pray. They jump up and down from morning till noon in verse number 26. They cry out, Oh bail! Hear us But there was no voice, nor any that answered. And they leaped upon the altar which was made. So they jumped up and down, did all kinds of uh spiritual gymnastics and tried to make everything go But no voice, no movement, no fire. Elijah begins to mock them in verse twenty seven. He says, Cry aloud For he is a God. Either he's talking or he is pursuing or he's in a journey or paradureth and cannot be awake. He makes fun. He said, Maybe your God's on vacation Maybe your God is asleep. Maybe your God can't hear. He knew that his God neither slumbers nor sleeps Our God is present everywhere. Say amen. Our God is always available as we call on him. And so there they are in this big uh showdown. They cried after the after that manner They caught themselves with knives, verse 28, and until the blood gushed out. And it came to pass when midday was past. They prophesied, but the Bible said there was neither voice Nor any to answer. Now in verse number thirty, Elijah said to the people, Come near unto me. And all the people came near unto him and repaired the altar of the Lord That was broken down. That's vital. He fixed the broken altar. What a telling thing. There they were, supposedly serving God, supposedly called the people of God And the altar had been destroyed. The altar was broken. How many family altars tonight can we look to across this country? And see their altar somewhere along the way got neglected and fell apart, and now tonight it's broken. If you want revival, we're gonna have to start repairing some things. I need an amen right there And if we want revival, we need to start repairing some things. If we're gonna have revival, we need to start repairing some things. And I need people to respond because you know what I'm saying is true. And they repaired this altar that had been broken down. And he took stones according to the number of the tribes of the sons of Jacob, took twelve stones, and he began to, in verse number thirty-two, he built the altar with the stones, made a trench about it And then he could put the wood in order, cut the bullock in pieces, laid them on the wood, and the Bible said, but he did it they said, fill four waters with barrels with water And three times he pours water all over the sacrifice. He wants them to know that this is no David Copperfield trick. This is no Harry Houdini trick. He is not about to do a great illusion and this is no counterfeit. He wants them to know absolutely that there's nobody around that's going to flick a bick And start a big fire, he said, This is going to be the real thing, and the God that answereth by fire, let him be God. Now the Jewish people When you spoke to them about fire, they knew what he was talking about. He was referring to the Old Testament fire They used to burn continually on the altar when they went through the wilderness and uh and they had the pillar of cloud by day and that great pillar of fire by night. That sat on the tabernacle, that was a visible sign of the pre not only the presence but the pleasure of God and the uh the very goodness of God in their midst They had fire uh going up from the tabernacle continually, and those Hebrew men, they could take their little boy at any time. Daddy, why are we traveling out here in this wilderness? What are we doing out here in this tent? Why don't we stop somewhere? You can say, You come with me, son, come to the flap open the flap of their tent. You see that fire right there? That's a visible sign of the presence of God. We're following him You see that cloud by day? We are following that cloud. We are under that cloud because we are the people of God and we know that our God is in our midst He was saying that God is going to consume this by fire, let him be God. If you study the Bible, God has a lot to say about the fire of God. First of all, the fire of God If you study it, it's very convicting. Wherever there are people uh that are uh around that fire, they are aware of the presence of God and their own sin. I believe conviction is more than giving moral assent to God's commandments and God's truths. I believe genuine, deep-rooted conviction is a response to the presence of God in our light. Where we're no longer comparing ourselves among ourselves, but comparing ourselves with the one true, holy, and living God. Do I have an amen? The fire of God is Convicting. And when God shows up, the power of God is there. Revelation 1:14, Jesus, the Bible said, His head and his hair were white like wool, as white as snow, and his eyes. We're as a flame of fire. Man, his X-ray eyes look right into your heart. He knows exactly who we are. He knows exactly what we've done. He knows exactly where our spiritual condition truly is. If you study this out, there are at least three people in each one of our lives. You say, what do you mean by that? There's the one that we think we are, and we might be deceived. How do you know it's possible to be seived de deceived? You say I've never been deceived. How many ever bought a used car? Case closed, right there. And so it's possible to be deceived, to think you have something and you don't. There's the one number two that other people think you are, and they might be deceived And then there's the one that God knows that you are. When you see those eyes of fire, when the fire of God is in our midst, it begins to reveal who we truly are And show us where we need to change. I was preaching uh for a pastor and he had they had just gotten a new youth pastor and his wife, and uh man the church was really excited about the youth pastor and his wife and great people and People kept asking me, have you met the youth pastor's wife? I said, No, I haven't. And I met her after service. She said, Hello, brother. God bless you. Amen. She was very effervescent, outgoing. Man, that was a great sermon, Brother Rossi. It was just so life-changing. Oh what a sermon. I said, Oh thank you, I appreciate that Next night, same thing again. Brother Rossi, what a sermon. Oh, praise the Lord. She was very spiritual and gushy and all that and So by the end of the meeting, my wife and I drove down the road. She said, Well, how'd you man, how'd you like the church? So it was a great church, great time. She said, How'd you like the youth pastor and his wife? I said, Great people, they're wonderful. How'd you like his wife? I said, Well Ah, she was great. And she said, that's not very convincing. I said, Well you know me, honey, I have I have the New Testament gift of suspicions. Amen. When when people are too spiritual like it I get suspicious. Listen, if you mash your finger in a car door, you start saying, Praise the Lord, glory to God, open the door, please, hallelujah. I'm gonna wonder what's up with this guy. I mean but I mean Uh I I'm sorry, but uh but man, I said, Oh, she this she's fine. Well, a couple of weeks later the pastor called me. He said, hey, remember that youth pastor and his wife? I said, yeah, he said, brother, I've got a problem. And I said, what's the problem, brother? He said, well, I don't know what to do. He said, listen to this. And he played something over the phone And it was a fight that they were in, an argument that this youth pastor and his wife were in after church on their way to the restaurant. While they were fighting, one of the kids in the back hit a play and tell tape recorder and recorded the whole thing. How many of you know little children are God's little spies? I mean they'll snitch on you in a heartbeat And man, they were just at it. You could hear them fighting, screaming at each other. And uh he said, Shawnee, she said, Fonderosa I want to eat a shonies. I want to go to Ponderosa. You always get your way. You always get your way. They were going back and forth. I mean having at it, and in the middle of the argument, the youth pastor, I could hear him, he went, ow Oh, you bit me! She leaned over there and chopped him, man. I mean, grabbed him right on the arm And uh the pastor said, What do I do? I said, I don't know, brother. I'm glad I'm an evangelist. God bless you. I hung up the phone. Amen. And uh man, I couldn't believe it. It and it wasn't Pastor Matt. But anyway, I'm just just chased this in case you're wanting or his wife. And I'm saying that um man, uh I was uh I was just wondering. You know, a couple months later I preached in their youth camp and there it was. And there was the youth pastor. There was his wife Brother Rossi, oh Brother Rossi, what a great sermon. Oh, praise the Lord. Same old thing. Now I kept a muzzle in my pocket just in case I needed it. But man, we uh she's just we're just having a time. And uh I mean Thursday morning. Had a knock on the trailer door, I opened it up, and they were crying. She said he said, Hey, preacher, you have a minute, because you talk with my wife, she wants to talk to you. I said, sure, we went to chapel, about this size, nice building. Went inside front row over here. And he said, go ahead and tell him. She said, Brother Rossi, I'm not sure I'm saved. She said, I've been in a preacher's home. I lived in a preacher's home all my life. I've been in church, Sunday school, all of it. I'm not sure I'm saved. She said, preacher, I get so mad about things. I just get upset. There's times where I don't read my Bible for weeks at a time and I come to church and so much of what I do is is so everybody will like me and think I'm spiritual. I mean this girl's confessing everything and she said that we got in a fight a while back. She said, I started screaming. We screamed at each other. She said, I reached over and bit my husband right on the arm. I'm just sitting there going, oh man. You don't say. No. She's she says, yeah, I did What? Look at this. She pulled up the sleeve. I've been wanting to see this all week. Brother, I mean she had there was big teeth marks on his arm. She said it through blood. I didn't even know this. It had drawn blood. It looked like a coyote or something got a hold of him. And And I'm looking at it, she said, I can't I I just need to get saved. I said, Well let's pray. And I showed her and we knelt together and the youth pastor said, I'm not right with God. I'm not right. I'm I'm not a good husband and I don't take care of her and she's not the only problem in this marriage. And by the way, it's usually not just one. Do I have an amen to this? And he had issues and and together They got on their knees and she folded her hands like a little girl and she prayed and asked Jesus to save her She said, Lord, I don't even know if I've ever really put my faith and trust in you alone to be my Savior and my God. I've trusted everything else, even in my own righteousness. I ask you to forgive me. And man, she got right with God. She got saved. You know what happened She got down to the one that God knows that you are. The fire of God had fallen on that camp. We were having revival. Kids are getting right all over the place and Something happened in her heart and the fire of God is convicting. The fire of God is cleansing. It's there that we get right with the Lord God Himself. Jesus said in Revelation 3. 18, I counsel thee to buy of me gold. Tride in the fire that thou mayest be rich, and white raiment that thou mayest be clothed, that the shame of thy nakedness do not appear. You know what Jesus said? He said, if you get to this holy fire, it'll cleanse your life from the inside out. I can tell you this, the the cleanest place on earth is right in the center of a real hot fire. No germ can live there, no bacteria can live there, and uh and that's the place where you can truly uh find revival and relief. And so the the fire of God is cleansing God is consuming when the fire fell on that altar, it licked up the dust, it licked up the water, it licked up everything, it consumed the sacrifice, and uh I mean everything uh immediately was burned up. How many of you just feel like God just needs to burn up some dross out of your life and get you cleaned up real good and get you to the place where you can say, I am consumed with Christ? He said, My our God is a consuming fire in in the book of Hebrews. We find that the God we serve wants to consume everything that we have And the fire of God is consuming, and the fire of God is contagious. Where God's fire is There's going to be a stir. Things are going to happen. I love what happened in Acts chapter two You know the account? They were all the in the day of Pentecost, they were all with one accord in one place. Man, that's a that's a picture. No more me, I, my. They were in one accord. Their eyes were on the Lord. They were praising him. They were giving him glory. And suddenly there came from heaven the sound as of a mighty rushing wind. Much has been taught, much has been preached about Pentecost, much of it uh missed the point altogether and falsely interpreted the Word of God When Pentecost came, there were languages, thirteen languages. They heard them speak in their own tongue, the wondrous works of God. It wasn't gibberish. It wasn't wildfire. It wasn't craziness. They heard from all over people foot in for the Feast of Pentecost uh following uh the great Passover that year. They heard the word of God. And many were saved. That's what happened at Pentecost. But when they saw what had happened, the Bible said in Acts chapter 2 and verse number 6, when they saw this, the multitude ran together And they said, What meaneth this? Man, they didn't put out billboards, they didn't have an advertisement, they didn't have the internet, they didn't have loudspeakers. They said something's going on At First Baptist Jerusalem, then what is happening? Those disciples are on fire for God. They've been snibling and crying up in an upper room for uh for several days now Holding a prayer meeting, confessing sin, getting right, but the fire came, and now they're all out on the streets and telling people about Jesus and getting people saved, and the multitude ran to them And God said that they ran together. They wanted to hear what God was saying. I believe the greatest need of America is for churches to get on fire For churches to get stirred about the things of God. For God's people to get once again madly in love with Jesus to the place where he's the only thing that matters in our life. Please say amen. And God wants us to know. He wants us to be on fire. I heard the story of a church and it was supposed to be a true church, a true story. But I heard the story of a church that burned to the ground. It had been their church for years and years. People had been members for that church for fifty and sixty years. The church caught fire in the middle of the night Burned the ground. And all the people of that church gathered in a circle all the way around it. Many were weeping. They'd been married there, baptized there, saved there in that building. And uh just uh had their babies and brought them in. I mean it was a a very really moving thing for the see their church burned down. And while they're standing there, one of the members turned to a man next to him And it was his neighbor that lived in his neighborhood. He looked at him and said, I've never seen you in church before. He said, I've never seen the church on fire before. And I can say that might uh be a physical thing But that in reality that's what the world's looking for. They're looking for some people that are stirred up that don't need me to hold this sign during the preaching. I don't even need to hold it up Not even one time. I don't even say one thing. I don't need to pull my ear or anything else and you just stir it up ready to say, Amen, and can't wait uh to go soul winning. You can't wait to be involved because Jesus has a hold of your heart and God has taken reign over your life. Now understand that there are a lot of fires out here That are in churches and that we don't need. There's the no-fire crowd. There's some churches that don't believe in the fire of God They have reacted to Pentecostalism or some other wildfire group, and so now they're so worried about anything, they've just gone into freeze mode, and they don't want anything uh to get them stirred up at all. It's a it's a crazy thing. My brother called me today and said, Lou, you want to go to the Ravens game on Thanksgiving night? I said, No. I he said, Well why not? I said, 'cause I plan on staying happily married. Say, amen to that. We're getting our whole family and our kids there uh for uh Thanksgiving night, everybody's gonna be there. He's got and then he started telling me, I've got box seats inside of the buffet where you sit inside uh in this uh luxury suite They've got steak, lobster, turkey, they've got all this there. And uh and then he said, by the way, I've got uh sideline passes to go down on the field before the game, meet all the players. I said, Well there's some things worth giving your marriage for. But anyway, I said uh and I said, No, I'm I'm not going. I I can't do that. And uh we got the kids in, you can have a big time. I can't. I sure would love to go, but that's That's not gonna work out. And they're and he said, All right, I'll give them to somebody else that said, Okay man. Listen, if I go down there there's Some crazy people they're stirred up about the Ravens. Come on, yeah screaming and carrying on about Lamar Jackson or whatever their favorite team is. I know where I'm at Uh I'm a lot of people in Maryland have uh they're somewhat uh gone treasonous and they're Steeler fans, but I'm sorry for ya God bless all of you, everyone. But I'm saying that uh the the squealers are over there in Pittsburgh and uh so uh and you get Pittsburgh fans and they're over there carrying on and then you get people in a ball stadium and now everyone in the stadium, please be quiet now. Uh Terry Bradshaw's about to throw the ball. Everyone's still. Great. Lindswan made a very nice catch. I see everybody staying there. That was quite well. I loved the way that he went up in the air about three feet, turned three hundred and sixty degrees around, caught the ball with one hand. The defender hit him, but he held the ball, and Lin Swan has done it again They don't do that. They see him catch up catch the ball, or they see Jack Ham or uh Jack uh Jack Lambert, you know, sack the quarterback or get him with a clothesliner. I mean Those guys were some bad dudes I couldn't stand 'em. We used to play 'em with the colts every year. The steel curtain two times a year. We couldn't stand them. And those Pittsburgh stan fans would go crazy with their terrible towel. I'll go nuts all dressed in yellow, crazy weirdos, take their shirts off in ten degree weather and with stripes on with yellow and black. They're more fired up about that than a lot of God's people are about the fact that we're saved by the blood. Washed in the precious blood of Christ, on our way to heaven. Oh don't get too excited. We'll never die. Say amen. We'll we're devil proof, burn-proof, we will never spend eternity in hell. Don't get too excited Your sins are all under the blood, and you'll never meet him again. Everything you ever did before you got saved, as far as the East is from the West, so far if he removed our transgression from us, don't say, man. Don't get excited. Folks, this is a wonderful theological truth. Dead truth dead churches. Dead. Intellectualism. There's the there's the other fire crowd, the false fire crowd of emotionalism. That's the other side. Going crazy Ho and us, I mean losing their minds and coming to church and thinking if we work everybody up emotionally, certainly We're going to have a revival. I won't go through that. And then of course there's the new strange fires of modernism. We think if we can just uh black out the ceiling, put up some rock and roll lighting We'll bring in a big drum set and get somebody who doesn't have a whole lot of sense and get behind that drum set. Everybody wants to have that big plexiglass thing in front of their drum set now. And then uh Bring in a rock guitarist and people up here, bring up a praise team with girls hand thrust and standing up there swooning and dr and dancing and call that worship. And I certainly have to have a smoke machine to mimic the presence of God. I can tell you this right now, uh God's no more involved in that than the man on the moon. Say amen. It's emotionalism, it's strange fire And that's what Nadab and Abihu did in the Old Testament. They offered strange fire on the altar of God and the in Leviticus ten one and two and they both died. How many people today pretend to be on fire? They're emotional and this and that. But it doesn't last, it's not real. What we need is the holy fire of God burning in our life that comes from meeting with Him and the precious word of God. His word burning in our heart like a fire shut up in our bones. That's what we need in this generation in which God's people live. Now we have a nation that's on the verge of judgment tonight. We have a generation that's on its way to the lake of fire, to the worst fire that a man can even think about God said the wicked shall be turned into hell and all the nations that what forget God in Psalm 9 verse 17. We are heading towards judgment. And we are heading toward the tribulation period. The world is heading toward Arngeddon. And I can tell you this tonight. that what the world needs is a big stopgap between them and hell of churches on fire that love God with all their heart You might be thinking you're on your way, but we're a roadblock for you. We want you to get saved by the marvelous grace of God. Now how to set the church on fire, a few things before we go home tonight. Number one There must be deliberate arrangement. That's what Elijah did before the fire fell. He called everybody together, repaired the altar of the Lord, and he took stones according to the number of the tribes of the sons of Jacob. The Bible said in verse 32, with the stones he built an altar in the name of the Lord. This was not just haphazard. Verse 33, the Bible said he put the wood in order. And so there was arrangement here. He set it up. This was not just let's together get together in swoon and let's start singing 7-Eleven songs. That would be seven words eleven times and just keep swaying to the music and we keep singing the same song over and over and the beat is loud enough and the smoke machine is big enough and the music is bright enough and everybody's cool enough We'll finally get into a swoon state and we're gonna have revival. No, that's not revival. That's emotionalism. Everything has to be set in order. Deliberate Arrangement. Our life must be set in order for the glory of God. You know 2 Chronicles 7:14. Are we living there? God said, if my people, which are called by my name, shall what? Humble themselves. That's the first thing. And what? Pray. And then what? Seek my face. And then turn from their wicked ways. He said, Then will I hear from heaven Why does he do it that way? Because as we humble ourselves before God and say, Lord, I just acknowledge that you are God And we are not. We need you. We need your presence. And to say we humble ourselves and we seek you We're calling on you to seek my face. And then when we start seeing him, that reveals how wicked we are. Turn from our wicked ways. How many of you think tonight If God showed up, there might be something in your life that would be that would appear less than pleasing. Let's put it like that. I mean if I mean you believe that. We were driving through uh way out in the the west of the of the of the United States coming home And we had been on our way out to California years ago and our kids noticed a big flock of sheep way out on the hill. Look at those beautiful sheep, Daddy We were on the way home and it had snowed on that same hill and the sheep were out there laying there. And one of my kids said, Daddy, look how dirty those sheep are. Why'd they get so dirty? I said, They were always dirty. That fresh snow showed how dirty they are. I mean you think about a sheep with a beautiful animal, you ever get up close to one? They stink and they're not there They're almost as bad as Zoe. I mean they're awful and they they don't look good and they they smell and they got all kinds of dirt on them. They're not that clean and understand, but when we put a new backdrop, they suddenly didn't look so good That's how God is. When we start to see him, our sin is no longer acceptable in his sight. We no longer say, Well, I just had a little personality flaw, just had a little problem Well, I was kind of born that way. Well, that's my family, you know. Uh understand we quit making excuses and we see ourselves the way God sees us tonight. There must be deliberate arrangement. There needs to be devotional activity. Verse 30 Through thirty-three. He got involved in this. One man against eight hundred and fifty people. Do you understand that If the fire didn't fall, can you imagine if a little flame struck and it just went out? Elijah would have been in a lot of trouble. He said the God that answered by fire. I'm not talking about a firecracker. He's looking for an explosion to fall on that sacrifice. And he said the God that answered by fire. And so he gets everything arranged And now he's getting involved in this devotional activity, getting it all ready for the glory of God. And the Bible said in verse 33, he put the wood in order. Cut the bullock in pieces, laid them on the wood, and said, fill four barrels with water, pour it on the burnt sacrifice on the wood, do it the second time. He said, Do it the third time And the water ran round about the altar, and he filled the trench also with water. I mean, he's digging this trench. He's getting everything ready. You know what he's doing? He's getting ready For the fire of God to fall. It's a devotional activity for you to get up, put your clothes on, get yourself ready, get in your car. And drive some of you 15, 20 miles to get to church. That's a devotional activity, say amen. It means you're going to be there. It means you've decided some of you years ago, when that door is open, I plan on being there And when uh the the pastor has an activity, I plan on being there. When something's going on down the house of God, I'm gonna be there. Why? Because if the fire falls down the house of God Revival comes, you don't plan on missing it after being here all these years. Say amen. Sister is ninety years old on Thursday. I don't know how long you've been here, sister, but I guess it's been a little while. Uh that's a little wall. Say amen to that. And we should make you uh I don't know what you call it. But anyway, what was that, Deacon? Deacon Emeritus, maybe member emeritus, or whatever, but you've been here a long time. Let's not quit now. Say amen Might be that God will come through. You never know what's going to happen down at the house of God. There's devotional activity. Acts two forty two. They said they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship, breaking of bread. in prayers. Acts 4. 33, when they had prayed, the place was shaken together where they were gathered together. It shook the house. God said, uh Acts 6. 4, the apostle said ourselves continually to prayer and to the ministry of the Word. They were saying, We're going to stay in this thing. We're going to be involved in this. We're going to be active in the things of God. Dear man picked me up in the airport up near Plymouth, Massachusetts. And the pastor had called me. It was near Boston Airport, actually, I flew into The pastor called and said, Brother Rossi, a man's going to pick you up. He'll be there at the gate holding a sign. And so uh back in the day when you could meet somebody at the gate. Remember those days? And I got off the plane, he was standing there, and he said Lou Rossi right on there. Amen, whatever. So uh I came up. I'm Lou Ross. Good to meet you, brother. My name's Cal. I said, good to meet you, Cal. He said, no, my name's Cal. I said, well, good to meet you, Cal. He He said, Well, my name's Cal. I said, Well Would you spell it? Yes, C-A-R-L. Oh, Carl. He said, no, it's Carl. And so I we just went back and forth. I said, whatever your name is, great to meet you. And uh he had that heavy New England accent, man, it was I needed an interpreter or something of that guy. And uh we get in the car, he had a nice Cadillac, he said Brother Rossi, uh the pastor asked me to be your host. He can't be here to to meet you, and he said he wants me to host you for the next few days and take you out to eat and that sort of a thing And he said, Brother Rossi, this is the joy of my life. I like hosting preachers. And he said, By the way, I'm wealthy, I'm very rich. And he said, I'm a single guy, I'm a bachelor, never been married My joy is taking care of private preachers. And he said, I'll buy you whatever you want. If you want me to buy you some clothes and stuff. I said, Man, I like you already, Cal, whatever your name is We went to Boston. Let me get you something to eat. What do you want to eat? I said, man, I don't know what to tell you. He said, get something nice. I said, listen, uh, I said, you get so how about seafood? That'd be fine We went to the harbor. They said, What do you want? I'm looking through I said, You know, it looks like lobster is one of the cheapest things on the menu. I said, I've never had lobster in my life. I've had crawl dads, but I've never had lobster And uh so he got me a lobster. Man, it was great. We went back to the to the to the apartment. He said, I I'm taking you to some people's house. I can't host ya He said, but they they're gonna host you a couple. I said, it's great. Man, this will be a good meeting. I like Carl already. He's gonna take we're going out. We had great fellowship together. It wasn't just the meal and the food and all. Really a great guy So he drops me off. All right, brother, I'll pick you up in the morning and take you up to breakfast. I said, I'll see you at eight. Uh he drops me off. I walk in. And when I walked into that condo Everything changed. I walked in, it was a man and his wife with their back to me watching TV. They could watching Jerry Springer or one of these awful TV shows. And they had their back to me. They both had big bags of potato chips Great big old big gulp uh drinks, both big easy chairs, both of 'em, and they were both smoking. They were sitting there and they said, Your room's down the end of the hallway on the left. They didn't say hi, how you doing All right, God bless you. I went down. I came back. I said, I'm Brother Rossi. They said, Well, yeah, we know who you are. I said, Oh great. He gave me his name. She gave me hers. Hope you don't mind if we smoke, because we do. I said, okay, well God bless you. Probably have a cat too, amen. But and uh and so uh we we were just oh this is gonna be a long week And uh they said, Well we guess you met met Car Cowell. I said, Yeah, Carl Cow, whatever his name is. I guess you met him. I guess he already told you how rich he is. I said, Yeah, I actually did I said, guess he took you to some fancy restaurant. I said, he did. It was great too. I said, yeah, guess he just uh told you he's gonna buy you stuff, probably get you a pair of shoes or something. I said, yeah, he really did. I said he's an exciting guy Yeah, yeah. Did he tell you he's a deacon? I said, no, didn't tell me. He's a deacon in the church. And I guess did he tell you he's leaving Tuesday morning, leaving the meeting, and going to a roller coaster convention I said, a what? Yeah, he's a writer for roller coasters. He does reviews. And he's going to miss the whole meeting. Some deacon. He's never here. He misses everything. He's not faithful. And man, they start running Carl into the ground I'm feeling real uncomfortable at this point. I said, let's uh well okay, anyway, I'll be meeting Carl at eight o'clock in the book, yeah, Carl won't be here. That's even if he shows up to get you. I said, okay I said, he's leaving Tuesday. Yes he is. I said, well he didn't tell me that. Of course he didn't. He didn't gonna tell you. I said, well what about if Carl changes his mind? And the woman said, that ain't gonna happen. I said, I'm gonna pray that God changes his mind. Not gonna happen. I said, I'm gonna pray that God will change Carl's mind. And that he'll stay for the meeting. I said, not only that, I said, here's what I'm gonna do. If Carl stays for the meeting, Uh uh if Carl doesn't stay and he leaves, I'll buy both of you a dinner anywhere you want. Oh that sounds good. They were all excited about it. Those big monster stuff, it was showing big time. That's all I'm gonna say. And I said, however, if Carl does show come to the meeting and he cancels his trip How about this? How about if you both apologize to Carl? They said, we'll do it. I said, not only would I like you to apologize to Carl, I'd like you to apologize publicly before the whole church. No problem, we're home safe. No, no issue. We'll do it Man, Carl and me had a great time. He did take me out, bought me some nice clothes on Monday. He took them with me. He took this couple with us and bought them a pair of shoes too. I can see them over there murmuring, just complaining, mad about Carl bought me something Monday night, he drops me off. He goes, Well Brother Ross, I hate to tell you, but I gotta leave. I'm going to a roller coaster convention. I already bought the tickets. I said, man, I'm sorry to hear this. And he said, yes, sir. He said God's been dealing with me. I don't know if I should leave. We're going to have revival here. I said, I don't know, brother. I can't tell you. I promised I wouldn't try to influence them. I said, I'm praying for you, okay? They said, yeah, he said, I'll see you, man. That's been a great couple days. Man, I looked forward to seeing you again. And we say goodbye. Well, Tuesday all day. I prayed. And I'll never forget it, Tuesday night service started. I'm up on the platform with the pastor, and service had already begun. I see them sitting there just shaking their heads and waving at me. And the back door opened and in came Carl. He was crying. And uh Carl came in, he was came in for a minute, and then he walked up on the platform and said, Pastor, could I say a word? And the pastor said, Yeah, okay, what do you need? So the song finished and he stands up, the guy starts crying. He said, Folks, forgive me. He said, I've been so unfaithful. I haven't been doing right. He said, I was going to a roller coaster convention and God just wouldn't let me go. I knew I had to be in church. I knew I had to be here for the revival. He said, I've been so unfaithful. And he said, Pastor, I resign as a deacon. Uh give me another chance. I'm going to be faithful. I'm going to show myself a good man. You can reinstate me someday if you'll if you'll have me. He said, I'm going to serve and do right. He said, I've been convicted about this. Please forgive me. And the whole church started crying, we forgive you, Carl. And two folks stood up. It's okay, brother. Thank you. God bless you. We appreciate it. I mean God was starting to work. Carl sat down. The pastor got up and said, All right, well let's sing. I said, hold on, sir, hold on. Next I said somebody else needs to say something. And those two came up on the platform, of course the woman, I'll go first. Of course. And so she uh she started. She said, Brother Cow, please forgive me. I said the worst things about you. I preached, told to this evangelist what a bad guy you are. She said, I've talked to everybody about you. The whole church knows how I am. And she said, uh this one over here, I talk about you. And this one over here, I talk about you. And then she said, and she turned around and said, Pastor, I've been talking about you too And she said, I've been so wrong. Please forgive me, Carl. Carl said, I forgive you, sister. He came up on the platform. He's a pretty excitable kind of guy. He hunted her. It's okay. Her husband got up. Same thing He started weeping and said, please forgive me. And man, we had all I can tell you is that heaven came down. And God moved. As the old song, Heaven now came down our souls to meet and glory crowned the mercy seat People started getting right, people came to the altar. I said, Why don't we just have an invitation right now? And instrumentalists played, folks came weeping God people were meeting each other across the aisle and getting right with God. I found out people hadn't spoken to each other in in months, some even years, and they got things right, they got things settled. You know, we didn't get out of church that night till after twelve o'clock. And nobody complained, nobody looked at their watch, folks were getting right testifying, God was moving. You know it is, last night at youth camp Uh we wait for youth camp for all that to happen. Why don't an adult camp get right with God? Say amen. Why don't we get things settled and get things on fire? And that church was set on fire because one man said devotional activity is the priority of my life. You're watching my live stream, God bless you. I'm glad you are, and I'm glad we have this, especially for those who can't drive at night. And you've got issues just riding in this cold. We understand that. However, if you're watching and you're able to, and you're able to do so, Pastor would probably get mad at me, but you ought to be in the house of God You ought to come to church. Don't forsake the assembling together of yourselves, which is the matter of some. And COVID-19 has killed church attendance across the nation, and it killed the invitations. We're afraid to come forward. People quit coming to the altar during COVID nineteen. Last time I checked, the altars are still open and the fire is still waiting to fall if we'll just get in. Say amen to that That was for the crowd listening by on stream. God bless the rest of you. And I'm saying to you tonight, there's devotional activity. There's desperate Acknowledgement. I'm nearly done. He comes before the Lord, one man, before eight hundred and fifty others, and he cries out to God. And verse number 36, he begins to say, He came to pass at the time of this offering of the evening sacrifice, Elijah the prophet came near and said, Lord God of Abraham, Isaac, and of Jacob. Let it be known this day that uh that thou art God in Israel. And he says, Let it be known right now, here, this day. That thou art God in Israel. And let it be known this day that thou art God, that I am thy servant, that I've done all these things at thy word. Hear me, O Lord, hear me, that this people may know that thou art the Lord God. He said, I'm praying that you'll turn their heart back. And the next verse, there was a dependent appeal to God. And there was divine. Approval. The next verse says, Then the fire of the Lord fell. The fire of God fell. It consumed. The burnt sacrifice, the wood, the stones, the dust, licked up the water that was in the trench. And when all the people saw it, they fell on their faces and they said, The Lord He is the God. The Lord, he is the God. Could you imagine if suddenly Without warning, without text messaging or a prior Twitter or a tweet or anything else Could you imagine suddenly Oakland, Maryland, Deep Creek Lake area, all the little towns around here suddenly were sensed with the presence of God And they knew that God was at work in their life. That's happened before. It has happened in history, in church history, times of great refreshing and awakening. And that's my prayer. You have seated this community. You've given out tracts, Bible verses. You've held Rallies. You've gone down to the big day in the summer and given out Bibles. You have given out the Word of God in this community. You've had radio broadcasts for many years. You have uh loaded this community down with the gospel of Christ. And how many believe it's time for a harvest? How many believe it's time for the fire of God to settle on this crowd, to settle on this community, to settle on This area for drug addicts to get set free and sobered up, drunkards to get sober, for marriages to get restored, for lives to be changed. For men and women to get saved, for teenagers to get right, all that happens when the fire of God will settle down upon our life. It's time To set the church on fire. I'd like us to bow our heads, please, our hearts together for prayer. No one is looking around the room. And for just a moment, as our sister comes and plays the hymn of invitation. I wonder how many of you just come to this altar and say, Lord, set my soul afire. Revive me again. Do a work in my life. Fill me with the Holy Spirit. Use my life to be a torch. A flame for you. I mean, like that. Can I see your hands, please? Like the Lord to start something in your life tonight. When's the last time you just got before him and said, Lord, you're able, God, I've trust that you can do this. Trusting you for whatever's going on in our life, we just meet that need. And I'm asking you, does this slip out right now from your seat as our sister plays?