Romans chapter eight. And again I want to thank you, Pastor, for asking me to preach tonight. Um I get excited every time he asks me to preach. I love it. And also it's very, very uh humbling, again, to stand behind his uh pulpit like this, and it's just uh man, what an ex what an experience that's very humbling. You know what I'm saying. Romans chapter 8 And I'm going to begin reading in verse 25 and read down through 29. Most of our time will be in 28 and 29, but I want to start reading verse 25. So Romans 8, verse 25. You'll have to excuse me in advance if I mess up uh uh tonight. My left contact got a cut right on the center of our contact lenses, it got a cut right on the center of the contact, so I am going half blind tonight So uh just bear with me. Uh if I misread something, it's because I can only see halfway. So uh verse 25 says, but if we hope for that we see not Then do we, with patience, wait for it. Likewise, the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities, for we know not when what we should pray for as we ought. But the Spirit itself maketh intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered. And he said that he that searcheth the hearts knoweth what is the mind of the Spirit, because he maketh intercession for the saints according to the will of God Verse 28, and we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. For whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. Very famous passage of Scripture here, verse 28, we quote often. We know that all things work together for good. And that is usually when we quote this verse, that is usually where we'll stop it. We know that all things work together for good. My intention tonight is for this just to be a simple study of these few verses, 28 and 29. And my goal is to be an encouragement is to be an encouragement to you tonight. So we'll pray and then the the message tonight that I've entitled, It'll All Work Out. It'll All Work Out. Heavenly Father Lord, we love you Lord, we thank you for loving us. We thank you for being good to us. We thank you for sending your Son to die for us. Lord, I ask now that you would fill me with your spirit as I deliver these thoughts that you've placed on my mind and on my heart, Lord. Lord, I ask that you would just completely take over And and use this service tonight. It's in Jesus' name. Amen. As I said, very famous verse. I have a life verse and it's in the book of Romans, but it's not this verse. But I've noticed it's one of the more famous life verses. You'll see Proverbs 3, 5, and 6 a lot that people will claim for a life verse. But this is up there towards the top uh of verses that people will claim for their life verse. We know that all things work together for good. And it's an encouraging thing. Because a lot of times, well most of the time we have no clue what's going on. And so this is a verse that we can go to for in encouragement. Many heroes of the faith, one of my heroes of the faith, General Thomas Jackson, claimed this is his life verse, and it was a great influence on his life, and it's been a great influence on many people's lives alike I've heard sermons on this and no doubt you have heard many as well growing up. This is a verse I remember memorizing in Iwana as just a just a young guy, a little kid there. Of course I was never really that little, but you get the point But um this verse is often quoted in negative circumstances, is it not? Um we we lose a job And someone will come alongside and quote this verse. We lose a loved one, and someone will come alongside and quote this verse. And that's that's good. That's good. But I've noticed that usually whenever this verse is quoted or when it comes up, it's always in a negative situation. Um again that that's good, but we use it as encouragement for that. Um like I said, you lose a job or you lose a loved one or something terrible happens or or or, you know, we we you know, we have a a virus that hits or something like that, and we'll say, well all things work together for good. So my my plan is just to look at this uh this verse tonight and kind of break it down a little bit and study it, look at some definitions, look at some words and This might not be too preachy, I guess you could say, but it'll be more like a like a study, like a Bible study. But it does bring encouragement to know that all things do work together for good. It does bring encouragement. But I don't want to get too far ahead of myself, but it's not not everybody can claim this verse. Not everybody in the world can claim this first, and we're going to look at some parameters for that here shortly. So I'm going to point out a few observations, seven in total observations, and I'll probably go pretty quickly through those And then I have three applications to take home tonight. So the first thing, first observation is the word all. The word all means all. We know that all things work together for good. All means all. It's very self-explanatory. It means everything. Sometimes we say, well, there's no way something good could come out of this. Well, no, something good could come out of this. It means all. All means all. It means there's good things. And again, a lot of times we see this verse, we hear it quoted in negative circumstances. But can I say that good things work together for good too? It's not just bad things that work together for good You know, it's not just, oh, well, we lost the job, we lost this, we lost whatever. Well, you know what? God's going to use that for good. He will, but he also uses good things for good We we've heard some good news the past few weeks with our building project. That's good news. And some you understand what I'm saying though. We look at this verse and say, oh man, times are hard, times are negative, bad things are happening. Well God will make something good come out of this. He will, but he does that with the good things too He does that with the good things too. We had a great mission Sunday this past week. God is going to take the the increase in our missions and use that for good. And and we can see that all of these things God is going to use for good. And we believe that and we see that. I mean I'm just thinking with the building project alone, you said that the meeting lasted like fifteen minutes. Man, that's phenomenal. And God is going to use this for good. And we see that. We see, all right, so we're going to move forward onto the building, and that's going to go up, and it's going to be an outreach tool. And we can see God is going to use all this together for good. And it's easy to see how good circumstances work together for good. And I want to challenge you, start quoting this verse in positive circumstances, what we think are positive. Don't just use this verse when something catastrophic happens. Don't just use this verse when something negative happens. Use this verse all the time Good all God uses all things together for good. He uses good for good, and also he uses bad things for good, which is what I'm going to look at now. Now, uh again, I don't want to get too far ahead of myself, but bad things aren't good. But he knows how to use them for good. I don't know how he does it, but he does. He does he does it. He does it. But bad things. We have good things that happen all the time. Just recently, like again, the the Mission Sunday, the building project, people have have trusted Christ. What what blew my mind is when we first um um uh canceled the in-person services back in March, I guess that was. We we were having people getting saved. And we were noticing people are still getting saved whether w w Whether whether there's a virus or not, people are getting saved. God's work's going forward. And we see good things, and we can see God working in those good things. But bad things happen too. This is part of life. And actually they happen frequently Again, I mentioned some things just uh y you know you could have financial struggles, you could have um struggles in the in the home, in the family. Um death could come unexpectedly in the family. Um maybe there's some sins that are going on and and that that you didn't even know about were going on in the home and they're they're there. Um it could be something totally unrelated. Any of that. But we know that bad things happen. Now, when we see the building project go through quickly, and when we see missions go up, and we can take on more missionaries, we can see how these things will work together for good But it's harder for us with our little finite minds to see how God will use bad things for good. But he does. He does. He uses our own mess ups. He uses other people's mess ups. He uses what bad things, he uses them for good. I and and and and I don't know how, and I don't know what and I don't know why, but I know he will. I know he will. Obviously the very first uh character in the Bible I think of is Joseph when I think of this. And it's such a perfect picture. You know the story of Joseph. He his brother sold him into slavery. I mean that that was not good. That was bad. That was bad. And then he was bought by Potiphar, and Potiphar's wife did some bad things and lied about him. And he was thrown in prison. That was bad. That was not a good thing. But God used it anyway. So so all things means all things. It means good things. It means bad things. It means things we know about. It means things we don't know about. Now, whether there are good circumstances that come up in our life or bad circumstances that come up in our life, those are things we see, right? And we see, alright, we know this is happening, we know God's going to use us somehow. And we see a lot going on. But there are a lot of things that we aren't even aware of. All things does not mean all things that I can see. All things means all things. There are things that are going on in the background of my life I have no clue about. I have no idea most of what's going on in the background of my life. You understand what I'm saying? I don't know what's going on But God does. And God is working together all things that I'm not even seeing. God's working together things in the background of your life that you're not even seeing, you're not even aware of, and there's things in the works that you're not even aware of. And God's working things together for good. Those are the things we don't aren't even aware of. They're things behind the scenes. And to me this is encouraging. Because I can know that even life might look we might get in a spot in life where it looks dark, it looks grim. And we know somehow God is going to use us together for good. But it's encouraging to know that there's more to my life than what I see. There are things that God is doing behind the scenes I'm not aware of. And he's going to work those things together for good. To me, that's encouraging. Now, the second thing I want to point out here is that they all work together for good. Together. Now, not all things are good. There's a lot of things that aren't good. There's a lot of things that are bad. Right? Not all things are good. It is not good when somebody Does something wrong to you. It is not good when somebody lies to you. It's not good when somebody makes fun of you. It's not good when someone steals from you. It's not good when someone hurts you. So on. That is not a good thing It is not a good thing when you sin. Sin is not good. It never can be and it never will be. What's bad is bad. What's wrong is wrong, and what's right is right. And that's just the way it's always going to be. So, a lot of times someone will say, Well, I know I shouldn't, but I know all things will work together for good. I've known people that will use this verse as an excuse to go ahead and sin. Now, that is very dangerous. Because he's not saying you can do what you want. Because what's sin is sin and what's wrong is wrong. Period. Not all things are good. Not all things that happen out in our society are good, and we can see that. There is a lot of filth in our society. There's a lot of bad. From from I mean from the I mean the riots going on, uh lies just all over the internet and media and just I mean it's just bad. It's just wrong. It's and that is not a good thing. It's not a good thing So this verse does not mean that all things are good. Not at all. Because what's wrong is wrong. Sin will always be sin. Now, that means that everything going on in your life, your private world that no one else knows about, that that doesn't mean that all of that is okay. It's not. If there's sins going on in your life and you're hiding them, that that's wrong. That's sin. And it's you can't say, well, all things will work out, all things will work together for good. Well, you're really misquoting the verse here, because what's wrong is wrong, and what's sin is sin And what's going on in society. Don't don't just sit on the back row and say, oh, well it'll all work out. It'll all work together for good, so I'm just not going to worry about it. That's not the way this works Yes, all things work together for good, but what's wrong is wrong. And what's right is right. We need to get make sure we get involved spreading the gospel. We need to make sure we work on what's in our own lives because this verse is not meant to be a a crutch to just let whatever slide. That's the point I wanted to make. It is not good when something bad happens. Bad things can never become good. Bad can't become good. You cannot justify sin with this verse. Wrong is always wrong, right is always right. But this is what this is where it gets really surprising. God He is so good because he will take something bad. He will take a horrible thing, a horrible mess that we've made, and still make something good out of it Now, it's not to justify, say, oh, we can do whatever we want because God will fix it. No, no, no. That's not the way we should look at it at all. I think about David. Man. That was he he messed up. He sinned adultery murder. That was not good. There's no way you could say that's good. But but God still took something bad and brought something good out of it. And He can do that. He can do that. And I think about I think again about Joseph. The bad that happened to him and the good that was brought out of it God does not say, all right, well, I'm going to take something bad and make it good, but rather I can still work through these things, and despite your fallings, despite your shortcomings, and despite the the brokenness of society, I'm still gonna make something good come out of it It's an amazing thing because we we are so sinful, we are so wicked, we are s uh uh us as individuals and as a society But God is still so good that He will make something good out of our mess. It's an amazing thing. And it shows how much God loves us. But then all things, uh the next thing I'm looking at is all things work together for good. When I say that, I mean each in each instance is not to be looked at as an isolated instance. We tend to isolate our circumstances and dwell on them in an isolated manner. By this I mean when something comes up, whether it's good or bad, whether whether you get a new car If you get a new car for the next little bit, that's all you're thinking about. That's all you're isolated on. It's where your attention is, it's where your mind is for a little while. Or if something negative happens, you get fired. That's all you think about. You lost your job. That's your whole mind. That's your whole focus. We tend to look at things in an isolated manner. But when I look at this verse, all things working together, all things work together for good I'm trying to not look at things as such an isolated instance. Does that make sense? God is working things together. Our minds are so finite, our minds are so small, we'll focus on one or two things, and God is looking at the big picture of our life. You might not know why something has happened to you. But God is looking at as just one part of the life, one circumstance that He's working together for the overall good. Does this make sense Uh uh I'm I'm trying to make sure I say this correctly, but God is is not isolated in one thing. God looks at the big picture. And when all we look at is the one isolated instance, we might miss something that God's trying to do. So God looks at the big picture. All things work together for good, meaning all things. So as different things come up, come together, um maybe uh as we see in our eyes we see things falling apart. Look at the overall big picture. God has taken all these circumstances, positive, negative, things we know about, things we don't know about, and all of these are fitting together for good. Now here's an observation I want to make. This verse can only be claimed by certain people. Not everyone in the world can say all things work together for good. Because you see, the verse doesn't stop there. That's what we normally quote, but the verse doesn't end there, of course. It says, all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are called according to his purpose. Not everyone can claim this verse. I wish they could. I wish they could. I wish that we could say, yeah, uh er every uh uh everybody in the world could claim this verse, say all things work together for good. I wish we could, but we can't So the first parameter we see is those that love God. All things work together for them that love God. So the question comes up. If this verse can only be applied to those that love God, the question comes up is do we love God? And being in this setting, I think that we would say, yes, we love God. But understand there's a lot of people who don't. There's a lot of people in our world who don't love God. And so they can't claim this verse. They can't claim this verse. The good news is they can. They could come to know the Lord as their Savior. And you understand they have a choice. Just as we did. You have a choice to accept Christ as your Savior. But then even beyond that, go to John. Hold your place here, but go to John Is it possible? John chapter fourteen Is it possible for me to claim this verse if I don't love God? The answer is no. So John chapter 14. Verse 15 says, if ye love me, keep my commandments. Verse 24, He that loveth me not, keepeth not my sayings. And the word which ye hear is not mine, but the Father which sent me. So we say we love God, but a real test is what are we doing with what He's told us? You know, you seek to to please the ones you love, right? I want to make my wife happy, I want to please her because I love her. I want to make my family, my parents. I want to make people that I love happy. I want to please them. So if they ask me to do something, I do it. When when the Lord tells me through his word to do something, am I keeping his commandments? It's a good test of whether or not I love him. So all things work together for good to them that love God. Ask yourself the question: do you love the Lord? Do you love God? Do you love God? Then the next part is to those who are the called according to his purpose. Verse 28: to them who are the called according to his purpose. So God calls God calls first of all, God calls everyone to be saved. That's the first call. And if you have not answered that call. Then you can't claim the verse. If it God is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance, and if you have not accepted Jesus Christ as your Savior, then you cannot claim that all things in your life are working together for good. You just can't Again, I wish you could, but you can't. Again, the good news, you can trust the Lord as your Savior so that you could claim this verse. A lost person, someone who has rejected Christ, can't claim that all things work together for good. And why would they? Right? If someone has rejected Christ, It says and then they they rejected God's word, then why would they even expect to be able to claim that God works all things together for good for them if they've rejected them, right? So um they could not everyone can claim this verse. So then after God if you accepted Christ as your Savior, after God called uh has saved you, He's called you to do some things Again, the most basic thing, and I don't want to sound redundant, is just by doing what he says in his word. We look sometimes and say, you know, I want to know what God's will for my life is. Well, he's laid 99% of it out for you. Uh just just open the Bible and read it. He's told you what he wants you to do. And if we would read the Bible, we would know what God wants us to do. We get so caught up in the future, I think, sometimes, especially especially working with with younger people. What is God calling me to? What what what what am I going to do when I get out of high school, when I get out of college? What's God calling me to Well, most of what he's already called you to is just written down. And he's already told us. So are we doing what he has called us to do? If you love God, you're going to keep his commandments. These go together. So you see, all things work together for good to them that love God. To them who are called according to his purpose. If we can't say that we love God and we can't say we're doing what he wants us to do, Or we can say that we're clearly not doing what he wants us to do, we're not following his calling, then why would you expect to be able to claim the verse? Now, I want this to be encouraging because If you love God and you're in the will of God, you're doing what He wants you to do, man, this is an encouragement. To know that no matter what happens, God is going to use this for good. Man, I'm in uh my my my life's in a wreck right now, Pastor Matt. You don't understand what's going on at home. Hey, do you love the Lord? Man, just trust him. Just trust the Lord. He is working things together for good. I don't know how, I don't know when, I don't know what. But I know he's doing it because he said he is. All things work together for good. Now here's another catch here. I have this written down, according to his definition of good. Sometimes what we think is going to be good isn't necessarily what's good. Sometimes we get in our mind exactly the way we think think things should go. And and we have it all planned out. And so we expect God to work things together for good the way we see it. But our definition of good is not the same as his. And let me say it this way: He knows what's good for us. We don't. And we need to trust him on this. We need to trust the Lord on this. His definition of good. Is good. Ours isn't. So just because we think something is good doesn't mean it is. Just because we think something should go a certain way doesn't mean that's the way God wants it to go. But our heavenly fathers, I mean our heavenly father knows what's good for his children. Our heavenly father knows what's good for his children. You have a you have a kid or you have a child and and um My little brother used to say things like this too. Um my little brother he loved butter. Ross loves butter. I think he might be listening too. Ross he loves butter. And um not so much, but when he was younger he would he would used to just eat it right out of the the the dish there. But um and he would he I remember him making the comment once, it's good for me. Well hey, I I I don't want to disagree. I love butter too, but it might not be good for you. But um M mom and dad knew what was good for him. You understand the point there, kind of silly illustration, but the point is that the kid will think something's good for him when it's not. Sometimes we think something's good for us and it's not. God knows what's good for us. Anyway, everything that happens is according to his definition of good. Now, what is that? Look at verse 29. For whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his Son. God wants us to look like Jesus. The word Christian means Christ-like. He wants us to be conformed to his image. This is what's good. This is what's good in the life of a Christian: looking like Christ. So sometimes we wonder why these circumstances are happening? Because it could be that God is trying to get you to look more like Christ. And when you we look more like Christ, that's good. That's good A lot of times our definition of good is a nicer place to live, an easier uh easier way to live, or um uh standard of living, I guess you could say, or less problems. That's not God's definition of good. I'll tell you what's good is when a Christian looks like a Christian. When a Christian looks like Christ, that's good. And so many times in our life we think, well, I know all things work together for good, but what's the good that's going to come out of this? Is it going to make you a better Christian? Because that is what God is trying to do. A lot of times in our life, He allows things to come. We don't know why, we don't know when, we don't know what's happening, but He is using that thing. Whether it's good, whether it's bad, whether we know about it, whether we don't know about it, he is using that thing to make you more like Christ. And that's good. And that's good. Everything that happens to us, God uses it. To make us better Christians, to make us more like him. Because verse 29 there, that's the key. Verse 29, that's the key, to be conformed to the image of his son. That is the good that God is trying to accomplish in our lives. It's called sanctification. Big word there, making us more like him. So God uses everything, good, bad, things we know about, things we don't know about. A couple applications here, and I'll be done. The first application, all this being considered, I would like to encourage you: don't let circumstances overwhelm you. Don't let circumstances overwhelm you. Why? Because he's in control. And he is going to use, good or bad, those circumstances, and he's going to work things together. Don't no w when something horrible happens, a big tragedy happens, I'm not saying don't let things hurt you. I'm not saying don't let things upset you. But don't let that overwhelm you to the point where you can't control, you can't even function, because you have to understand God is working things together. God is working things together. We might see it, we might dunno, we might not see it. Think about Job, he didn't see it. He said, I look ahead, I look to my left, look to my right, I go before me, and look backwards. I can't I don't know where you are. I'm paraphrasing there, I know, but he said, but I know that you know. I know you know the way that I take But um don't let circumstances overwhelm you. Another application here is look for God's working in things. If we understand that God works all things together for good, that means He's working in things, in all things. Look for God's hand in your circumstances. Again, good or bad. Look for God's working. Because He is. We know He is. So look for it. Then the third application is just this: just trust God. Trust God. He knows what he's doing, he knows what's going on. And then don't get mad at God. Don't get mad at God, because he's working things together for your good. A lot of times we'll say, God, why would you do this? Why would you let this happen? Well, for good. For good. He's gonna make something good about it. You're gonna you're the goal i is to be conformed to the image of of Christ there. So, familiar verse, you've probably heard it many, many times, but to me this is just so encouraging because we see A lot of negative circumstances going on in the country right now. A lot of weird things. We don't know what's going on. We don't know why. We don't know when. We don't there's things we don't know But God is working things together for good. To them that love God. And if you're if you're listening, if you're watching, you don't know the Lord is your Savior. I'm sorry to say you can't claim this verse But I'm happy to say that you can. You can accept Christ as your Savior. He's not willing that any would perish, that all come to repentance. You trust Christ as your Savior. He died. For your sins, to forgive you for sins, you don't have to go to hell. You can go to heaven. You trust him, he'll save you. And then you too can say, I know and I am confident. That word no mean has some confidence there. I'm confident that all things So I hope that was encouraging tonight. Just a few questions in closing is are you trusting God? Are you trusting God through your circumstances and then are you thanking him for working really behind the scenes and we don't even see it for your good? So Heavenly Father, Lord, we thank you for the day you've given us, Lord, and Lord, again, there's so many things going on in our life we don't we aren't even aware of. Lord, our minds are so small, they're so finite. We don't know what's going on half the time, but we know you know. Lord, and not only do you know, but you're you're working in these things. You're working in these things together for good. In order, again, if there's someone that's listening that has not trusted you Lord, I pray that they would so that they too could share in this promise that we can claim. And it's in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen.