Psalms 126. You know what I'd like for us to I'd like for us to read this whole chapter together. It's six verses. I know Brother Matt read a little bit ago. But um let's just read this together in unison. You got it there, everybody got it. Uh let's read together. Verse 1. Ready? When the Lord turned again the captivity of Zion, we were like them that dream. Then was our mouth filled with laughter, and our tongue was singing. Then said they among the heathen, The Lord hath done great things for them. The Lord hath done great things for us, whereof we are glad. Turn again our captivity, O Lord, as the streams in the south. They that sow in tears shall reap in joy. He that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing precious seed, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him. I've entitled the message this morning, It's Like a Dream. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, Lord, it sure is a blessing to be able to be in church with your people. And to actually be a church, assembled, a body assembled together. So I ask now you'd bless our time in your word. We're in extraordinary circumstances, Lord, and pretty confusing times, but Lord, you are God And you're bigger than all of this. You're unchanging. And I just pray that you would reveal yourself to us anew this morning through your word. And I pray you challenge us in our faith and and uh and uh help us, Lord, to stay close to you and and uh just just have your way in our lives. I yield my will to you, Lord. I present my body anew with all my heart. I ask, dear Lord, you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit, and that you would be the preacher this hour. You would speak your word through me to each of our hearts and lives and minds. And help us, we pray, now in Jesus' name. Amen. Past Wednesday, uh uh Jennifer came in and helped get a mail out, and we sent a mail out, and we were planning on having a drive-in service in the parking lot. How many people got a a letter in the mail about that? A lot of people did went out and uh I was excited about that. We get to see people sitting in a car But um by the way, I kind of suggest that some folks look better with mass, and so even after we don't need them, maybe uh encouraged But uh I thought it'd be nice to uh be out in the parking lot and uh and uh you know we'd have church department. Then about 530 we got word that they had lifted the restrictions and that churches could have church together, of course under circumstances, and uh we get a church together. And uh uh this passage came immediately to mind. I was so happy when I heard that. It just Blessed my heart so much. It was such an answer to prayer that we could do something together. And this passage came to mind. I was like a dream. It was like, man, I didn't expect this. It came out of nowhere And now logistically it's a little challenge doing this and satisfying everybody, but this passage came to mind. Psalms 126 is uh is a tremendous passage, one of my favorite. Actually, whatever I happen to be studying at the time usually is my favorite passage, but uh Psalms 2026 over the years has uh has uh meant a lot to me. If you would look at it, let's give a little background of this and of this chapter here. If you notice right above verse number one, there's a little statement there. What does that statement say? A song of degrees Now I got looking at that. If you look at the chapter before it, chapter 125, notice what's above verse 1. Song of Degrees. Look at the chapter after it, Psalm 128, uh 127, a Psalm of Degrees of Solomon. In fact, from Psalms 120 to Psalms 134 Every one of them is titled a song of degrees. Now, sometimes it'll put a song of degrees of David, or like verse chapter 127, for Solomon But all the chapters from 120 to 134 title the chapter A Song of Degrees. Now, I got looking at that and trying to figure out what exactly does that mean, a song of degrees. The word degrees there has the idea of ascending Like going up an elevation. Did you ever look at a topographical map and it'll give the lines of elevation, how it changes? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Do you ever see them? And I'll have that different elevation be identified on the map. That's kind of the idea behind that word degrees, a song of climbing, a song of going up. Some refer to it as a song of ascent. I thought, what in the world is that? And I got looking around, and to be honest with you, nobody knows for certain what exactly that title means or why that's given to them. The assumption is what they believe it is, and I think it's probably very accurate. is that these are psalms that were to be sung as Israel came, as the Israelites came up to Jerusalem to go into the temple to worship. They would sing any one of these psalms here, 120, 134. They would sing any one of these psalms as they were ascending, going up the degrees up to Jerusalem. Jerusalem's on a hill Up to the temple to sing. And so that's important to understand here in just a moment. So on a regular basis, they would be singing these songs as they came up To the temple to worship. Up to Jerusalem, then into the temple to worship. Now what's the context behind this song Well, does anybody want to take a guess? You look at verse 1, and we have the we pick up that it's what? It's following a period of what? A captivity following a period of time when they were being held in captivity. Now there's one primary period of time that Israel was in captivity for 70 years, Babylon. They were in captivity in Babylon. The Assyrians had come and taken the northern kingdom. A little later they took the southern kingdom, and they were in captivity. That was a result, that was God's chastisement of Israel. They had uh fallen into idolatry, they had fallen into wicked sin. God's people living in terrible sin. God chastened them God corrected them. God dealt with their spiritual rebellion. And he took them into captivity. He took away their freedoms. He took away their liberties. Can I put it this way? He turned their world upside down. And for 70 years, they could not go where they wanted to go. For 70 years they could not work the jobs that they were used to. 70 years in captivity So we believe that is probably, you know, it doesn't say expressly, that's probably the account, is when at the end of that 70 years they were free and allowed to come back to Jerusalem. But we don't know for sure. If you would take your Bible and turn back to Ezra Chapter number one. You say, where in the world is Ezra? Well, your Psalms, if you go backwards, four Psalms is Job, before that is Esther, then Nehemiah, and then Ezra. I said that to impress you that I can say the verse books of the Bible backwards. Y'all are quiet this morning. You're allowed to talk. You're allowed to laugh. You're allowed to respond. It may be a little muffled behavior thing, but um Look at Ezra chapter 1. To me, this is an exciting day. To me, this is an encouraging day Cyrus was the king of Babylon at the time. He was the one that was in authority. He was the sole authority. What he said went And notice Ezra chapter 1 and beginning in verse 1. Notice what it says, now in the first year of Cyrus, king of Persia, In the first year of Cyrus, king of Persia, that the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah might be fulfilled. Now look at this. The Lord did what? stirred up the spirit of Cyrus, king of Persia, that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom And put it also in writing, saying. Now Israel has been captive. They've been slaves. They've been held captive in Persia and Babylon for 70 years. Now, out of the blue Cyrus, the king of Persia, makes this proclamation. Look what he says. Verse 2. Thus saith Cyrus, king of Persia. The Lord God of heaven hath given me all the kingdoms of the earth. He hath charged me to build him a house at Jerusalem, which is in Judah. Who is there among you of all his people? His God be with them. Look at this. And let him go up to Jerusalem, which is in Judah. And build the house of the Lord God of Israel. He is the God. This is a pagan king saying this. I mean, this guy worships false gods, uh, perverse But look what he's saying, which is in Jerusalem. And whosoever remaineth in any place where he sojourneth, let the men of his place help him with silver, and with gold, and with goods, and bree, and with bees Beside the free will offering for the house of God that is in Israel. Did you catch what's happening here? Out of the blue. Unexpected. Now Jeremiah had prophesied it, but it just all of a sudden out of the blue, the king of Persia Says, no doubt, to his advisors and his counselors around him. He says, you know what? We're going to let the Jews go back to Jerusalem. We're going to release them from their captivity. Now I would imagine the the uh counselors have said, why would we do that? And he says, I don't know. I just think we should. Now why did Cyrus let that go? Why did Cyrus Release them from their captivity. What does it say there in verse 1? I highlighted as we went through. Something happened that prompted him to change his mind and let him go. God stirred up his heart. God changed his mind. I'm telling you this morning, uh our governors and our Our government may uh exercise great, great authority over us, and they can may try to dictate to us things we can and cannot do, things we must and must not do. But I'm here to tell you, God rules over the governors of our land. God rules over the kings and presidents and prime ministers of our nation. God is still king of kings. He is governor of governors. And God can turn their heart and change things in a moment's time. I'm glad God is God, aren't you I'm glad that we have someone we can go to and trust that we know is not limited by the decrees of man And that just stirs my heart when I look at that and hear King Cyrus had no, humanly speaking, he had no motivation for letting the Israelites go, but God stirred in his heart and changed the whole situation and let them go back. What a mighty God we serve. What a mighty God we serve. Suddenly, unexpectedly, miraculously, the Israelites are free to return to Jerusalem and worship at the temple. So that is what I believe is the background and the context of this Psalm. To me, Israel finding out in Babylon, in captivity, no freedom And they find out, out of the blue, they find out, hey, you're free to go back to Jerusalem, free to go back to your home, free to go back to your jobs, free to go back to your worship at the temple And that then that explains to me verse number 1, 2, and 3. When the Lord turned to captivity of Zion, we were like them that dream. Our mouth was filled with laughter, our tongue was singing. Then said they among the heathen, The Lord hath done great things for them. The Lord hath done great things for us, for whereof we are glad. Now the other question I want to look at before we dive into this is who was the penman? Who did God use To record this down. Sometimes that's a factor. Sometimes that helps us get some insight if we know who it is. What name is given at the top of this for who penned this? This no Psalm 126. What name is given at the top for who penned this? Nobody. And you read down through there, there's no reference to any human penman of this And so somebody says, well, who is it that penned this down? And our answer is, we don't know. We're not told Um the likely penmen and what most Bible scholars and uh tend to go with, and I have no idea, I can't say whether they're right or wrong, I have no idea, but they suggest that maybe Ezra was Who was given the task of God to rebuild the temple once they were free to come back to Jerusalem? So was it Ezra? Maybe. We don't know Was it some other unmentioned prophet uh in history that penned this down? Uh we don't know that. So, but regardless of the context, whether it was when they were released from Babylon, which seems the most uh in my mind that's probably the what what happened whether it was when they were released from babylon whether I I Ezra was the uh uh penman or hagi other names were suggested maybe somebody we never heard of Did that, regardless of the context, regardless of who the pendant is, we do know this. God gave us this chapter. This is inspired of God, and He has preserved it for you and I today. And that is significant. This is given to us by God. That means there's something for us. Now, this is a great chapter. As I said, it's one of my favorites. Of the Psalms, this is one of my favorites. I probably have five or ten Psalms that stand out in my mind And this is one of those. Verses 1 through 4, you have this great blessing, this great rejoicing. Verses 5 and 6. You have this great challenge of showing when we're weeping and showing in tears and going forth with weeping. What a challenge that it is there. So I want us to look at this. Now last week, if you're tuned in online, and I I know a lot of you are able to, not everybody is able to, but um, we looked at our memory verse, Micah 7. 7. I gave you three words, just three words that I got got out of that passage. Today I want to give you four words from this passage. The words aren't necessarily found in here, but four thoughts that I'm going to express in in a word. So I'm going to encourage you to jot these down And I think they're helpful. I think they're important in our Christian, our spiritual life. Four words from Psalm 126 that I believe will help us. Here's the first word. Write this down. Number one, remember. Remember. Notice with me verse number one again. When the Lord turned again the captivity of Zion, we were like them that dreamed. Then Was our mouth filled with laughter? What is the tense here of these words? They're past tense This is something that Israel was looking back and remembering. This is something God had done for them that they were recalling to mind. They were rehearsing it in their mind What God had done and how happy they were and how God had blessed them. To remember, I believe it is important for God's people to remember the things that God does for us. I don't know about you, but the older I get, uh the the the harder it is for me to remember stuff. Can I get a witness? Let's see, I forget what I was talking about right there. My forgetter is getting better, but my rememberer is broke To you, that may seem funny, but to me it's no joke. For when I'm here, I'm wondering if I really should be there. And when I try to think it through, I haven't got a prayer Oftentimes I walk into a room and say, what am I here for? I rack my brain, but all in vain. A zero is my score. At times I put something away where it is safe, but goodness me, the person it is safest from is generally me. When shopping, I may see someone and say hi and have a chat. And then when the person walks away, I think, who in the world was that? Yes, my forgetter's getting better while my rememberer is broke. It's driving me plum crazy, and that is not a joke. The older I get, the harder it is for me to remember. The older I get, the more I need things to prompt me and help me remember things. Well, Israel is no different. And you and I as Christians, it is important for us to not forget the things that God has done for us in the past. This psalm was sung on a regular basis. As we said, remember the song of degrees, the song of going up towards Jerusalem, up to the temple. They would sing this over and over and over again. And the purpose was to help the Israelites remember, I think particularly two things they needed to remember. One is that God had given them a great deliverance. They had been in captivity, their freedom was gone, they lived under fear and bondage for 70 years. God set them free. God delivered them. As I was studying this, I couldn't help but think, and you've heard me say it uh probably a thousand times, but I couldn't help but think the night that God set me free from sin. And God forgave me. And all across here, probably, hopefully all of us could stand and testify, there was a day when I trusted Jesus Christ as my Savior. And God forgave me of my sins and set me free from the judgment I sin and gave me a new life and uh an eternal life. Can I get a witness? Anybody could testify to that I'm telling you, it's important that we remember when God saved us. I think we ought to rehearse that in our minds over and over and over. Now you might not be able to remember the exact day and the exact time the date, what it was. You might not remember all that, but you sure enough ought to have a day and a time when you trusted Christ. If there's not that day and time there, then you need to really make sure you've trusted Christ. For me, May 7th 1979, 1030 at night, right after Lamerne and Shirley went off, yeah. Uh now my wife, uh my wife is saved. How many people are glad to hear that? The preacher's wife is saved. But she don't remember the exact day. She don't remember the exact date. She knows the year. She knows what time of year it was, the revival meeting. Uh she can remember that, but she can't put the day and time down. But what I'm saying is this we ought to uh it ought to be fresh in our mind when we got saved. When we got saved. Yeah. Yeah. And so every time these Israelites would go up to the temple to worship on a regular basis, they would sing through these songs and they would sing, Oh, don't ever forget when God set us free, don't ever forget when God set us free. My daddy, of course, he's now with the Lord now for almost two months, but um uh his song was only a sinner, say, not have I got him, but what I received Grace hath besowed it since I have believed. He would sing that over and over again. We'd sing it here, tears roll down his ears. You know what? He's remembering back. When he got saved. When he got saved. You know, we might forget a lot of things, but we ought never to forget the day God saved us. And if you don't know Jesus Christ as Savior, if you don't have that settled in your heart and mind that your sins are forgiven, you have a home in heaven, I'd say that why don't you make today the day you trust Christ as Savior? And make May 17, 2020, the day that God saved me and set me free from the judgment of sin and set me free from eternity in hell. I have eternal life, and I know I'm going to heaven. And from here on out, always remember back to this day when you trusted Christ. So they would sing this song as they'd ascend up to Jerusalem, to the temple, to worship Jehovah God. And they would recall to mind what God had done for them. They'd recall to mind how great their deliverance was I think there was something else in this psalm here that they recalled to remembrance as they would gather, and that was this: that God overrules kings and turns the kings' hearts according to his will. I got ahead of myself a little bit a while ago about God being governor of governors and Jesus being the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. And I think we should never forget that God rules over the affairs of man. God is still sovereign. How many people anybody here in the last couple months been aggravated with our government? We're not being monitored, I don't think. Yet. Yeah. Anybody I gotta be careful. Anybody here hear something and say that is the stupidest thing I've ever heard in my life? Anybody? And if we're not careful, here's what I'm getting at. If we're not careful, we'll get all bent out of shape Over what the authorities over us are saying to them, and we'll forget that God's still in control. God's still in control. Listen, I'm telling you this. Uh a a president, a king, a governor, anybody, nobody can do anything except that God allows them to Now it may not necessarily be what God wants them to do, but he allows it. And if God allows something to happen, then I'm confident he can bring, and he will bring some good out of it if I'll just trust him and wait on him Are you with me? Are you with me? God. And every time they come up the temple, every time they come up to Jerusalem, they sing the song. And it was reminding them, hey, whether we're in captivity or we're home, God is still in control Would you take your Bible with me and turn to Proverbs chapter number 21? Now you're at the end of Psalms, so you just go towards the back of your Bible. You come to Proverbs. And Proverbs chapter 21. And look with me at verse number one. Now I would, this is an important verse. Of course they're all important, but this is as significant in differing circumstances, and perhaps in our circumstances Important to remember this. Psalm 21, verse number 1. Now I have it underscored in my Bible. I have a number of notes in my margin beside this. Notice what Psalm 21, verse 1 says. The king's heart Is in the hand of who? The Lord. Look at this. As the rivers of water, he turneth it whithersoever he will. Huh. You know, the king can plan and say and do this, but God can still, and when he needs to, he will turn that heart whithersoever it He will. I'm telling you, we have a great and powerful God. We have a God that we can trust in any and every circumstance. And what we have to do, and Pastor Matt and I have been talking about this and praying about this, is something I'm working on, making sure I do, what we need to do is look beyond man and see God. And look beyond our circumstances and see the hand of the Lord. I want to remind you this morning: God still loves us. God's still in control. God is still all-wise. And we can trust him as he leads us and directs us. And so every time the nation of Israel gather for worship at the temple to worship Jehovah God, they would sing these songs and they'd be reminded That God delivered them from bondage, that God rules and turns the hearts of kings according to his will. We should never ever forget those two things. One, God saved us from sin in hell. And two, God is in absolute control. And we can trust Him. Never forget the great power of God and the great goodness of God. James 1:17 says, Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above and cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. God is good to us. God cares for us. We have on a regular basis, and I'll tell you, as soon as we can do it, we're going to have Lord's Supper. But the Lord's Supper is given to us, designed for us. The primary purpose is so that we remember the price that Jesus Christ paid for our sins. It's given to us to remember the price of our salvation, the cost of our salvation. And God has it designed that the church on a regular basis recalls back to mind The death, burial, and resurrection of Christ, the shed blood and the broken body of Jesus, to keep that fresh in our memory. Fresh in our memory. And so my first word is this this morning. Number one, remember. Number two, let me give you this couple here real quickly. Number two, rejoice. Rejoice. Look at verse number two of um of uh Psalms 121. Then was our mouth filled with what? Laughter. Then, and our tongue with what? Singing. Then said they among the heathen, The Lord hath done great things for us. The Lord hath done great things for us, whereof we are what Glad! Singing! Laughter! Glad. That word laughter means a good, hearty, joyful laugh. Do you ever get something where you just have something that's so good and so happy? You just have this heart how many people know what I'm talking about? A hearty laugh. Anybody know? Two. We're gonna have to work on that. But um uh brother uh you ought to hear brother uh Matt laugh Brother, he's got a good, hearty laugh. And um a thing I like about him is he laughs at my jokes, and so I praise the Lord for that. But the idea then he says uh then was our mouth filled with a good hearty laughter. Oh man And then it says singing, the word singing there means loud, joyous singing. I mean they are singing out And then the word glad means a heartfelt joy. One of the definitions for that word glad, I thought was interesting, means a visible joy. How many people are saved and you know it? Say amen. How many people are glad you're saved? Say amen. Can I give you a tip? Tell your face. Let other people see the joy of the Lord in your life. They were glad. They were laughter. They were singing. God had delivered them. I'm telling you, if anybody on this planet has a reason to laugh, a good hearty laughter, it's people who have been forgiven of their sin and saved from eternity in hell. If anybody has a reason to laugh on this planet or to sing on this planet, if anybody has a reason to sing, it is not the perverts in Hollywood and the rock and roll rebels, it is the child of God. Who's been saved from hell and has eternal life given as a free gift? Amen or not? Singing and laughter, joy, gladness. Visible joy. I wonder if this whole world looks at us as Christians and says, man, there's a happy lot. Man, there's a joyful crowd. Those people are glad. You know, I think the world says half the time, man, those people are mad. They're miserable. They're unhappy with everything. Uh, you know, I praise God for preachers. I praise God anybody that's preaching the word of God, but some preachers, uh I hope I'm not one of them, but some preachers kind of get on my nerves. Uh you know, they'll just kind of gripe and complain about sin and every time it's just whining and crying and graving about how terrible everything is You know, there's a world of difference. I told my wife this because she No, never mind. I told my wife this. There's a world of difference between griping about sin and preaching against sin. We ought to preach against sin, amen. But just go around whining and complaining and griping about it all the time. That's not spiritual. And we ought to take a stand against sin. But these people were glad. These people were happy. How many folks God's been good to you? Man, we've got every reason in the world to rejoice. I think every Christian ought to remember that God is in control in the things He's done for us, and every Christian ought to rejoice In the goodness of God to us. Will you think of it this way? Every minute I'm not in hell, I'm getting something I don't deserve. Every time I take a breath. Did anybody see that sunset last night? Beautiful. I'm telling you, our God is good. We have every reason in the world to rejoice. I wonder if we broke down, uh right now they got all these charts, percentages, and oh how many people are this, how many I've got thinking about that. What if we had a pie chart? of how much time we spend griping and how much time we spend rejoicing. What would that percentage be? What percentage of my time is rejoicing compared to complaining? I wonder what percentage of my time is singing compared to graving. I wonder how much percentage of my time is gladness compared to anger. Here's a statement, I think it's an important statement. A spirit-filled Christian is a happy Christian. Let me put it this way, a spirit-filled Christian is a singing Christian. Have you ever been around a Christian that they just sing all the time there's a little song there, you listen to them? Joy, joy, joy, joy, down in. They're just working away, going about their day. Oh, what a wonderful, wonderful day. You know what that is Read Colossians. Possian says, when we're filled with the Spirit of God, there's a song in our heart. A song in our heart Christians ought to be rejoicing Christians. In Acts chapter 5, verse 41, the apostles rejoiced in that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for the name of Christ. What in the world? In Acts chapter 16, verse 25, Paul and Silas beaten in stocks and bonds. Their feet are in bonds in the inner prison, the worst prison they could come up with back then, and at midnight. They prayed and sang praises to God. That's a spirit-filled Christian. That's the normal Christian life. Is rejoicing. Save people should be characterized by rejoicing. Redeemed people should be characterized by singing and lifting our voices up. When people look at you and people look at me, do they think, boy, there's a happy person? Boy, there's a person that has the joy of the Lord. How do they see us? One, remember. Number two, rejoicing. Let me give you the last two real quick. Number three, put this down, rely. Relie. Look at verse 4. Turn again our captivity, O Lord, as the streams in the south. You say, wait a minute. I thought they were already delivered from captivity. They were But they want God to keep up that freedom. They wanted God to do it again. You know what I found? God will do something for me. God will help me answer a prayer. God will deliver me from something And if I'm not careful, I drift back into that same condition. Anyone know what I'm talking about? I drift back. Anybody here ever come to a revival service or a revival service? Man, God stirs your heart. You make some important decisions You make some changes, and a week or so goes by, and you find yourself drifting right back to where we were before. Anybody? Can I get a witness? You know what I'm talking about? You know what they're saying? They're saying, listen, I'm going to trust you, God, to keep me on the on the winning side. We want to trust you, Lord, to keep me close to you. How quickly we forget God's goodness, how quickly we turn back again to doubt and fear. I hate to admit this. I don't know that I've ever mentioned this. I'm gonna I'm gonna get your attention now. I never said this, and I think it's true, I never said this to anybody ever before, but as I was studying this and thinking about drifting back. I got saved May 7, 1979. I'm telling you, overnight, God changed my life. He took drugs and liquor and nastiness and fornication and everything. God just changed changed my life so instantly. It's miraculous. But about six months into my Christian life, I got bent out of shape. My head. I I just I just got in a bad s I got in a bad frame of mind. I still remember it was October of 1979. I went down to the corner store and I bought me a pack of cigarettes. I said, Philly, I was all bent out of shape about something. I got that pack of cigarettes. I came home. I've been saved clean for six months. I will still remember the house we were living in. I come there. I was by myself. I got that pack of cigarettes. I got a cigarette out. I'm telling you, the Spirit of God pierced my heart. And I thought, what in the world am I doing? What in the world am I doing? I took that thing, I crushed it, never put it in my mouth, crushed it, threw it away. I said, God, have mercy on me God have mercy on me. Help me never, ever go back. I think that's what Israel is saying. Saying, Lord, I'm trusting you. I'm looking to you. Don't let us ever get in the condition again where we have to go back through that again. Oh Lord, turn again our captivity. Oh God, don't let us ever get into idol worship. God, don't ever let us get into a position where you need to chastise us to that degree. Again, God, help me stay close to you. Turn me again. Turn again. There's only one person that can keep me in line, and that's God Almighty. Trust him, rely on him. You say, I've had people say this to me, preacher, I can get saved, but I can't live the Christian life. I said, Welcome to the club, man. None of us can live that life. What we need to do is trust God to give us victory Trust God to help us. Rely on the Lord. Are you with me? Follow what I'm saying. So don't tell anybody about that cigarette thing. I'm really ashamed of that, but God taught me a lesson. We need to trust God. We need to stay close to God to stay on the winning side. Let me give you the last word, real quick. Number four, remain. Remain. I get that from verse 5 and 6. They that sow in tears shall reap in joy, sowing in tears. He that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing precious seed, their hearts broken, their weeping. But they're staying at the task. They're staying after it. Regardless of their circumstance, they kept showing the gospel. Regardless of their broken heart, they kept serving God. Regardless of the tears staining their cheeks, they're still investing in others, showing the Word of God, reaping souls. Tell you. Say, well, you've got to wear a mask. You know what I found out? You know what I found? Where did I put mine? I found out I can still share the gospel even through a mask. How about that? I found out you can still give gospel tracts out, even social distancing. Make them into little airplates. Right. I found people are taking tracks. I found people are taking tracks and thanking me for them And what we can do, we can still keep giving the gospel. I I can't I can't I can't uh thank Jamie enough for what he's doing back there in that sound room. You know, we got people tuning in and listening to the Word of God that we've worked on for years to not get to church. But now every Sunday morning and Sunday night they're listening to the Word of God. You know what that's sowing in tears That's going forth and weeping. I don't like this any more than anybody else. And I hope you understand, because we're doing this distancing and everything, we're not doing it because I like it Doing what we got to do and trying to sort it out. But I'll tell you one thing, we've got to keep on doing is showing the Word of God. There are still people dying and going to hell. There are still people captive by sin. In fact, probably with liquor unbelievable that liquor stores would be allowed to be opened and a church can't be. God have mercy on us All that tells me is that there's people still need Christ. There's people still need Christ. He that goeth forth and weepeth Bearing precious seed. I don't like it. It's hard. It breaks my heart. But I'm going to keep sowing. I'm going to keep sowing. I'm going to keep sowing. Amen? D. L. Moody, great evangelist, millions saved as a result of him, and he was having a service. After he was finished preaching, I mean there's thousands, these unbelievable crowds would come and hear him, and he finished preaching and he Sat on the platform and as they were finishing up the service, a policeman that was used to help with the crowds and everything, he came up, he had a young boy with him And he came up to D. L. Moody on the side of the platform and he said, Mr. Moody, we found this young boy. He's wandering around. He doesn't know where his parents are. And he says, um uh we're not sure what to do. Moody says here, he took the boy by the hand, put his arm around him, and he interrupted, as they were closing out the service, he interrupted and he brought the boy up on that platform in front of the whole crowd. And he said this. Let me tell you what he said. He says, he says, uh he says, this little boy's been found. He ca he he's uh wandering around. He uh he can't find his parents And Murdy said this. He said, one thing I am sure of, the father is more anxious to find this boy than the boy is to be found. And then he said this: so it is with our Heavenly Father. For long years he has been following you. For long years the Lord has been seeking you. At that moment, the father came out of the crowd, came running up onto the platform, and grabbed his boy, weeping and laughing. And he said, the whole crowd stood up and broke into a mighty cheer. And Moody said this, that is how God will receive you. You will come to Him and trust Him. There's somebody unsaved, maybe in the audience or listening in. There's somebody unsaved. I'm telling you, God wants you to be saved worse than you want to be saved. God's been working in your life and God's been moving in your heart and God wants to give you a new life and he wants to forgive your sin and give you eternal life. If you'll just come to him and trust him, God will receive you. And he'll save you. Maybe there's a Christian away from God. You forgot what God has done for you. You've gone back, maybe, and you've gotten away and gotten cold in your Christian life. I'm here to say, God wants you to come back. Come up, come back. Remember what God has done for you. Rejoice in His goodness. God will receive us back. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to take these thoughts this morning and challenge us and help us. Lord, we have every reason in the world to rejoice as a child of God. Lord, those that are away from, that are unsaved, I pray you'd save souls today. So thankful for the two in the last couple weeks have been able to lead to Christ. Pray you'd help us stay after this and win souls, share the gospel. Lord, if there's any Christians out of fellowship away from you, I pray that today would be a day of returning. returning. Jesus' name. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved. But I let the things of this world just get me so bent out of shape And I need to get my eyes back on the Lord. And I need to get that joy and that shout and that song back in my heart and life. Is there any like that here this morning? Preacher, pray for me. I need to get that back Is there some here this morning say, preacher, I'm saved? I know I'm saved. I'm not living for the Lord like I should. I know that. You say, God's been working in my heart, and I want to just renew my commitment to Christ. I just want to get back in fellowship with God. And you say, preacher, pray with me that God would help me to get back to where I know I need to be as a Christian. Is there any like that? The uplifted hand. God bless you. Hands around. God's more eager for us to come back than we are. God's more eager to forgive us than we are to confess our sins. One last question. There's someone here this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure when I die I'm going to heaven. Say, preacher, I don't want to go to hell. I want to know for sure I'm forgiven and saved and have eternal life. Or anything like that, preacher, pray for me. I need to be saved. I need Christ. Come in my heart and life. Be my personal Savior. Any at all? Any at all? Now Father in heaven, I saw hands. You know our hearts. I pray you'd help us to respond now in faith. In Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stand in the