Genesis 49, verse 28. The Bible says, all these are the twelve tribes of Israel. This is it that their father spake unto them and blessed them, every one according to his blessing, he blessed them. And he charged them and said unto them, I am to be gathered unto my people. Bury me with my fathers in the cave that is in the field of Ephron the Hittite. In the cave, it is in the field of Makpalah, which is before Mamre, in the land of Canaan, which Abraham bought with the field of Ephron the Hittite for a possession of a burying place. There they buried Abraham and Sarah his wife. There they buried Isaac and Rebekah, his wife, and there I buried Leah. The purchase of the field and of the cave that is therein was from the children of Heth. And when Jacob had made an end of commanding his sons, he gathered up his feet into the bed and yielded up the ghost and was gathered unto his people. I've entitled it the final words of Jacob. Let's pray together. Father, we ask you to bless now or time in this portion of Scripture. Lord, I know that you have Given this by inspiration, you've preserved it for us here in our day. And so I believe there's lessons for us here. There's some principles and truths that your Holy Spirit can bring out and apply to our lives. And that's what I'm asking you to do tonight. Help each of us in our faith and our walk with you to glean something from what takes place here and apply it to our lives so that uh we can please you and serve you more effectively. I yield my will to you and I pray, Father, tonight that you would please fill me with your Holy Spirit And that you would speak through me your word and do what we're asking here in this hour. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Of course, we're studying the life of Joseph. We're coming down to the end as daddy. We have the final words of his father Jacob as he there you get to the end of the chapter he passes away. He has just finished uh addressing all twelve of his sons And by the way, we pointed this out last week, and I just want to reiterate it here. We have a more detailed account of the death and burial of Jacob than we do of Abraham or Isaac combined. In fact, the only person in the Bible I can find that we're given more information, given more detail about his death and burial than Jacob is the Lord Jesus Christ. And so there's a significance here. God obviously has something in these final words, these final days of Jacob, that are helpful to us as God's people. And so he makes these final words, and we noticed just last week we noticed that he has peace in his heart. This is almost uncharacteristic of Jacob as we studied his life previously. He complained a lot. He fussed. He was very dishonest in a lot of ways. He uh was a swindler, was a sneak most of his life. And uh but now he's coming to his final days and there's a peace in his heart we really didn't see before. He is um uh uh he is uh uh approaching his death in a very peaceful manner. I don't see any fear. I don't see any tension, anxiety. I see a man at peace with God. Now he's at peace with his family. He said his speech. He's given his speech to the boys, his final words, and he's at peace with himself. And um he uh if you remember I made this statement last week, Jacob was more noble in his death than he was in his life. And so he's at peace. He has peace in his heart. Then we notice that he had a place of honor. And that's what we're going to look at tonight. We picked it up as he addresses the boys about where he wants to be buried. And I noted two things here that were very, very important to Jacob. Number one was this that he be buried. And if you remember, we spent a little bit of time talking about The fact that all through the Bible, God's people were always buried, as opposed to cremation or other some other form of disposing of the body. They were always treated with honor, they always treated with respect, and without exception the people of God were buried. Um and we talked about that. Now listen, I would never I'm not gonna fuss with anybody about cremation or anything like that. All I'm saying is this. The Bible pattern is for the body of God's people to be buried. And you can study that out, and if you're interested, I can give you a little bit more on that. So, nevertheless, he mentions being buried five times In his final statement, buried. I'm going to be buried in the burying place. And so apparently that was very important to him. The Egyptians would had various ways of disposing of the bodies uh of the Egyptians and and Jacob's very, very adamant that he be buried. Now there's second thing, and this is what I want us to look at tonight. First of all, it's very important to him that he be buried. And number two It's very important to him where he is buried at. As we work our way down through here, you're going to notice he is very concerned that they bury him in a very specific place. It's important that he be uh it's important to him where he be buried. Now a couple things I notice here as I study down through here. First of all He gives detailed instructions as to where they are to bury his body. Look with me at verse 29. And he charged them. And that word charge there, as we said before, is a very, he's not asking, he's not making a request. He is insisting that they do this. He charged them and said unto them, I am to be gathered unto my people. Interesting phrase. We'll look at that here in a little bit. Bury me, now look what he says, with my fathers in the cave that is in the field of Ephron, the Hittite In the cave that is in the field of Makpalah, which is before Mamre, in the land of Canaan, which Abraham bought with the field of Ephron the Hittite for a possession of a bearing. Then he goes on. That's where they buried Abraham and Sarah, Isaac and Rebekah. That's where I buried Leah. And then he mentions the purchase of the field, of the cave that is therein from the children of Hat. So he gives this tremendous detail about where he's to be buried, who the others are that are buried there, and who they purchased it off of. Abraham purchased this burying place and he names the people and uh where it where it's at. He gives these detailed instructions that he wants them to follow, where he wants to be buried. Why would he be so specific on this? Why would he go into such detail where this is exactly at? Well, I think there's several reasons. They've been gone from the promised land for a long time. They've been down in Egypt now, perhaps upwards to 20 years. They've settled in. They've as far as we know they've not made any journeys back uh to Canaan. They've kind of settled in there in Egypt. And I'm I and I don't know the definite answer. I can't can't be dogmatic, but we would speculate that maybe he's being so specific on where he wants to be buried, maybe the boys don't remember where it's at It's been a long time. They may not have paid close attention. And he wants to be sure that they know exactly. He does not want to be buried in the wrong place. He does not want to be buried in just some haphazard cemetery someplace or some burying place. It's very specific. So he goes into tremendous detail just in case maybe the boys forgot where this is at. And this way they know exactly where they can get back, and if they don't know, they can ask a few questions about these names and these people and these fields And they can narrow it down right to a very specific place. So he gives tremendous detail in his instructions as to where he wants to be buried But then he does something else. Did you notice that he rehearses with them the fact that Abraham bought this area? This plot, this land, this field, and this cave. Abraham bought this, and he names the fellows that Abraham bought it off of Now, I don't know what would be the necessity of that. Why would you need to explain uh who bought it and uh when they bought it and who they bought it off of. Anybody, w what do you think? Why would the maybe that he'd have to explain all that? Uh-huh. It's been a long time. Like we said, they could show up back there with uh Jacob's body and they get in there and the Canaanites, the local folks, say, hey, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, what are you doing? Uh who do you think you are just burying your daddy's body in here? And he wants to make sure the boys know exactly what the transaction was, who was involved in it. So that we assume when they get there, there's no issues. They can answer any questions or concern that the locals might have and uh and take care of this. So Jacob has thought this through very carefully. He's put some uh thought into this and he wants to make sure the boys get to the right spot and that they uh and that they uh if there's any issues They can verify the fact that, yes, this is our land. Now remember, they haven't lived there. There's been no family there. The entire family moved to Egypt twenty years ago And so they're coming back into a lot of these, they may have been strangers, and so he wanted to make sure there was no issues there. So he gives details instructions as to where he's to be buried. He gives uh rehearses the fact that it was purchased, he mentions who Abraham purchased it off of, and uh gets all these details down to him. Then he mentions something that caught my attention I thought was interesting. Notice what he says at the end of verse 31. Now, let me back up. How many people here are somewhat familiar with Jacob and his life and particularly his engagement and his marriages? Alright, so we we know a little bit. We'll we'll rehearse shortly a little bit, but notice what he says at the end of verse 29. He mentions there's uh buried Abraham, Sarah's wife, there they buried Isaac, Rebekah. his wife, and there I buried who? Leah. He mentions Leah here. Now here's my question. Why would he not want to be buried with Rachel? Why does he say, that's where I buried Leah? Rachel, if you'll remember uh died while she was trap while they were traveling back from Laban. They're heading back, going back to Bethel. They got there. They're going home. And Rachel gives birth to Benjamin And she dies in giving birth while they're traveling and while they're coming back. So Rachel is not buried in the family burying ground. Leah is, but Rachel is not. So my question was this, did he not love Rachel? Did he love Leah? And he wanted to be where Leah was buried, and he did not love Rachel? The answer to that is no. He loved Rachel. Rachel was the love of Jacob's life. And he she was the one that he intended to marry. He never in a world intended to marry Leah. Now, we're not going to take time to discuss these multiple wives in the Old Testament. That's not God's design. For whatever reason, God tolerated it for a period of time in the Old Testament. But he's married to Rachel and Leah, but he wants to be married with Leah. Does he not love Rachel? Yes, he loves Rachel. Keep your place here and come back with me to Genesis chapter 29. And here we have Jacob meeting and falling in love and seeking the hand of Rachel in marriage Genesis 29, verse number 15. And Laban said unto Jacob, Because thou art my brother, He's actually like a nephew. Because thou art my brother, shouldest thou therefore serve me for naught? Tell me, what shall thy wages be? Look how Jacob answers. And Laban had two daughters. The name of the elder was Leah, and the name of the younger was Rachel. Leah was tender-eyed, but Rachel was beautiful and well-favored. And Jacob what? Loved Rachel and said, I will serve thee seven years. For Rachel, thy younger daughter. And Laban said, It's better that I give her to thee than I should give her to another man. Abide with me. And Jacob served seven years for Rachel And they seemed unto him but a few days for the what? Love he had to her. Jacob fell in love with Rachel. It was love at first sight. And he wanted her to be his wife, he wanted to marry her, and he worked for seven years for her, uh, to ha earn her hand in marriage. And then of course we know the story, old Laban pulls a fast one on Jacob. And uh here he gives her Leah. Of course she's in her wedding makeup and her uh uh uh Veil and gown and all whatever they wore, she's in that. And he doesn't the next morning he gets up and says, Whoa, who are you? Can you imagine And so he ends up, for lack of a better word, he's stuck with Leah. And by the way, Jacob took his marriage vows very, very seriously. This wasn't the woman he wanted. This isn't, she wasn't, he wasn't attracted to her at all. In fact, it was an issue throughout their marriage and throughout their life. But he respected his wedding vows And let me say this: wedding vows are the most sacred vows a human being will take in their entire life. There's no other vow I make to anybody anywhere else. A wedding vow is between me and God. Those are the most sacred vows a person can make. And Jacob, to his credit, Didn't refuse, didn't say, wait a minute, this isn't what I wanted, this isn't what I answered, this isn't what I was looking for, I was expecting, this is what I asked for, I'm out of here. He didn't do that at all. He stayed faithful And he honored those vows. Then he worked another seven years and he gets Rachel. Now I said all that to say this. Why When he says, listen, I want you guys to bury me, he loves Rachel dearly. She's the love of his heart. In his mind, I think, she was his wife. Whatever the others were, she was my wife. But he doesn't ask to be married where Rachel is. He has to be married where Leah is. Buried. Not to be buried. Buried, married, you know. I just I can't believe I said that after just what I just said. So did did he end up loving Leah more rather than Rachel in the end? No, no. I think there's several reasons. Jacob wanted to be buried in the land that God had promised his people. Regardless of who was buried there, this was the land that God had promised his people. And his commitment and his, now get this. Now you've got to hear me out, because I could be easily misunderstood what I'm about to say. His love and commitment to his Lord was greater than any love and commitment to a human being. In fact, we talked about this a little bit Sunday morning in the Sunday morning's message on discipleship. Jesus said, if you hate not your father, mother, brother, sister, wife, your children, yea, your own life also you You can't my be my disciple. Now if you were in on that Sunday morning and if you're awake, um uh What the Lord meant by that wasn't that we should be hateful and unkind and rude and uh discourteous to our family, treat them hatefully. It's not saying treat them hatefully But what he is saying, my love for the Lord ought to be superior than all other loves. And here's the thing: as deeply as Jacob loved Rachel, He's going to be buried in the land that God gave him. And his loving commitment to the Lord was far greater. By the way, there's another factor in all of this also, I think. The Bible doesn't say this, but I think it's implied. Where Rachel's body was buried, that's not where Rachel was Right? That was her body. It was long decayed, it was long deteriorated, his ashes to ashes, back to dust. She wasn't there In fact, we could, what we know from reading the rest of the scripture, he's going to see Rachel again here in not too long. He's going to be gathered to his fathers, gathered to his people, gathered to his family again. And so, but I found it interesting that he mentions, there is where I buried Leah. That's where I want to be buried in this very specific very particular place. He believed God's promise concerning Canaan. That his people, that's their forever home. Now, again, if you would, come with me to Genesis chapter 12. This was a covenant that God made with Abraham. Abraham was Jacob's grandfather. And this covenant had been passed down. God had repeated it to Isaac, and then he later repeated it again to Jacob. And Jacob believed God's word for all his ups and downs, for all his faults and absolute failures Nevertheless, he believed God's word. And look with me at chapter twelve, verse number one. This is God speaking to Abraham Now the Lord had said unto Abraham, Get thee out of thy country and from thy kindred and from thy father's house unto a land that I will show thee And I will make of thee a great nation. The implication is in that land. I will make of thee a great nation. I will bless thee. And make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing. And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse him that curseth thee, and in thee shall all the families of the earth be blessed. He's saying, Jacob, you go, you trust me, you have faith in me. You've never been there before. You've never laid eyes on this. In fact, you're not even really certain where it is. But Abraham, you trust me. And you let me lead you, and I'm going to take you to a land, and there in that land, your people and your generations Are going to be blessed and are going to multiply incredibly. In fact, later on, God repeated this and reiterated this covenant And expand only says the stars of the sky, your offspring, your descendants are going to be greater than the stars of the sky, sand of the sea He repeated that to Isaac, and then later again to Jacob. He reassured him that this covenant is good. And Jacob believed it. And he wanted his body to be buried in the land that God had promised would be Israel's. That was home. That was where he belonged. He wanted his body to be there. So he wanted to be buried in the land that God had promised his people. I think there's another factor on why he wants to be buried here, rather than with Leah, where Leah's buried, not necessarily with Leah, but where she's buried, in spite of not being buried with Rachel Another reason is I believe he wanted to be buried with his fathers. He mentioned Abraham is buried there. He mentioned Isaac is buried there. It was very, very important to Jacob that he be buried in the place where his fathers are buried. This was a family burial ground. And even today there are many folks who have a family burial ground. That's where the family's buried. I've done, oh I don't I wish I'd have counted over the years. uh hundred plus funerals or more uh maybe over the years. And um often, not always, but often We would uh uh when we go when they call me up or whatever, they'll say, you know, this is this is when the funeral service would be da-da-da. And uh graveside, we like to do the graveside, and sometimes I'll ask At some point I'll ask, well, where is the burial? Where's the gravesite? And uh there's little family burial plots all over this county I mean uh anybody here remember old um old uh Joe Irvin? Anybody remember Joe Irvin? What a blessing Joe was. He'd sit down here just sing his lungs out He passed away. We did the funeral. He was buried in some little family plot, lead mine. Anybody know where lead mine is up there, up behind you, Jed? We went down in there, I think we had to if I remember, we got on four wheelers and uh no not really. But it was back in there and I couldn't drive up to where the family burial ground was. I had to park down on the dirt road and hike up. I took my rifle in case I saw any deer. And um, I mean he was way back up in there. They had a bury a family burial plot. And um that's where Jacob wanted to be buried, where his daddy is. I want to be buried where my daddy's buried. I want to be buried where grandpa's buried. His fathers, his father and his family were very, very important to him Back in the day, and and uh I I hate to say it, but this whole world has torn down the honor of fatherhood anymore. And it's re-ridiculed and despised. And this whole world has just absolutely wreaked havoc, their philosophy and their approach and their teachings and their their influence on the home has been so devastating when they have absolutely torn down the honor of fatherhood. It is a great, great honor to be a father. And to have a father is a tremendous thing. And if you'll notice, and what I tried to point this out as we worked our way through Jacob, now we're only a little talking about uh as we looked at the life of Joseph. Here we're kind of focused on Jacob right now, but if you notice as we went through there the tremendous respect that was shown to fathers. Even Joseph's brothers, as big of a mess as they were, and that what a disaster some of those guys were. Yet without fail, as we notice their interaction with Jacob, they always respected him. They always showed him honor. And I think that's reflected in Jacob's desire to be buried with his fathers. They were highly regarded, his daddy, Isaac, and his grandfather Abraham. were highly regarded by him, and his family was very important to him. Regardless of how dysfunctional his family was, or the failures that took place, the hurt That took place, nevertheless, unconvinced Jacob loved his family. And they were important to him. And he wanted to be buried with his fathers. So he wanted to be buried in the land where God had promised his people. He wanted to be buried with his fathers. And this is maybe a little incidental, but it was land they already owned. It had been bought and paid for. And so um You know, um a ma my thinking is hey why buy another one? We already got one right there, right? And uh well just it's already bought and paid for. So I don't know whether that was a factor in his thinking or not, but nevertheless it was. Abraham bought it. with the intention of the family being buried there. And then I noticed I think when he said, take me there and bury me there where Abraham and Sarah are buried and where Isaac and Rachel are buried. Where Leah is buried, take me, bury me there. He's not asking them, he's telling them. And I think another reason is he believed that God had promised an eternal kingdom was going to be in the land of Canaan. How he had all I don't know how much uh detailed information he had, but I'm absolutely convinced that Abraham Knew, believed this, and I believe he passed it on to Isaac, and God had reiterated and to Jacob that someday there would be a kingdom ruled by God. In that land of promise where he was, and he believed that. He believed that. If you would, keep your place here because I'm going to come back and make another statement, observation from here, but come with me to the book of Hebrews. Hebrews chapter eleven. I think, and again this is Just from looking at my impression, my uh my understanding, I and I believe this, Jacob anticipated someday Now I'm going to add this in there too. I believe he anticipated someday being resurrected, this body being resurrected And that he would have a part in a kingdom established by God. Look with me, if you would, at chapter 11 and verse number 9. Speaking of Abraham, his grandpa, Jacob's grandpa, Joseph's great-grandpa. By faith, Abraham, when he was called to go out into a place which he should after receive for what Inheritance, it stays in the family or his offspring, obeyed, and he went out, not knowing whither he went. By faith, he sojourned in the land of promise, in a strange country, dwelling in tabernacles with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise. This land, it's an inheritance. Verse 10, look at this. For he looked for a city which hath foundations But look at this. Whose builder and maker is who? God. He was anticipating He was looking for a city not built by man, not built by human hands and tools, but he was looking for a city that was built by God. In this land of promise when he went there. And Isaac and Jacob were anticipating this city built by God. Come down to verse 16. But now they desire a better country, that is an heavenly country, wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he hath prepared for them a city. Now notice the wording in verse 16. He hath prepared for them a city, past, present, or future tense. Past tense. He hath prepared past tense. If I'm reading this correctly, if I'm understanding this correctly, this city that they were looking for who hath foundation build has foundations and builder is God. It's a city not made with hands. If I understand that correctly, it's already built. It's already in existence. You say, well, I thought it was in the land of promise. What city is Jerusalem? Jerusalem was built by men. David founded Jerusalem and Nehemiah rebuilt the walls and and uh the temple that was all built by man. What city is this that God has already built that these guys were looking for. Come with me if you would to Revelation, chapter number 21 Now, I'm tempted to get off on a rabbit trail here and talk about prophecy. This is future events. Someday Jesus coming back again. We understand the rapture and then the second advent tribulation. We talk about that a lot, and we should. After that is the 1,000-year reign of Christ from where? From Jerusalem. The promised land, Canaan, that God had promised to Abraham, reiterated his promise to Isaac, again to Jacob. Promised land. We say this often, I'll say it again. Israel is the ones that that that land uh where Israel is, it's Israel's land. Has been since Abraham, always will be. At the end of the thousand-year reign, there's a new heaven, new earth. Now look with me at Revelation 21. And verse number one. And I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth were passed away, and there was no more sea. You understand this whole world's coming to an end. There'll be a new heaven, new earth. Now look, and I, John, saw the holy, what? City, New Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven, prepared by who? By God It's building, it's foundation building. It's not made by man. Coming down from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. I think, now I said all that to say this. I I believe. I'm pretty convinced of this. Isa Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob To some extent understood that someday there would be a reign, a world ruled by God from that very land there, with the new Jerusalem, that city they were looking for That builder and foundation was God. And he wanted to be buried in that land. That's something. Burial for Jacob was very important. Some guys, I mentioned this last week. Sometimes we say, well, when I die, just Find a cliff over in West Virginia where a bunch of refrigerators and washers they threw them over there. Just throw me over the edge there. Uh that'd be fine. Coyotes will eat me, they'll like it Uh my father I meant I said this. My father in law told me before he died, he said whenever I die, make me into power bait for trout. And um For Jacob, his burial is very, very important. That he be buried how they disposed of his body and where it was. And it has prophetic significance through all of that. Now, if you would, I want to make one more observation from this passage in chapter 49. So he instructs the boys on all of this, and I elaborated it quite a bit, but he goes into pretty much detail. And then in verse 33, we're told this. And when Jacob had made an end of commanding, as I said, this wasn't a request. He's telling them, this is the way it's going to be, fellas. When he had made an end of commanding his sons, look at this, he gathered up his feet into the bed. Now remember, he can't even hardly stand. He struggled just to sit on the edge of the bed. Now he I can see in my mind he's sitting there. The boys are gathered around. He just told them what they're what they're to do with his body. And he musters up his strength He pulls his legs up in the bed, and he stretches himself out on the bed and yielded up the ghost, and look at this, and was gathered unto his people. He was gathered unto this people. You know what that means? That means there's life beyond the grave. It's not it. I ask people I get out knocking on doors for years and years and years. I've done it forty years I've been knocking on doors To ask people, do you know for sure when you die, you're going to heaven, not to hell? Well, whenever I die, that's it. I just, it's all over. Psh, that's nothing more. Nothing could be farther from the truth The devil loves to convince people that the death is just it, the end of our existence. And that is a lie of the devil. There is a heaven, there is a hell. And every individual goes to one of those two places, flat out. And Jacob knew he was one of God's people. He was saved by grace through faith, just like we are. And he anticipated life beyond the grave and a great reunion with his family and with his fathers. He's gathered unto his people. He saw Rachel, saw Leah, saw the family, Abraham and Isaac and their wives and family. Couple thoughts as we finish this part out. One, Jacob loved his family. He loved this is all family, family, family. We cannot overemphasize the importance of family. Jacob believed that there was life beyond the grave. He was prepared. He was at peace with his family now. He's at peace with himself and is at peace with God. And he knows he's about to cross over the other side. He anticipated the resurrection of his body. He fully believed he be would be resurrected. By the way, Job believed the same thing. He said, after worms have eaten my body, I'll see the Lord with my own eyes. I'm not quoting exactly there. And Jacob believed in a coming kingdom. I'm here to tell you, not a whole lot of that has changed. Family's important for you and I. There's still life beyond the grave, every one of us. We know Jesus Christ as Savior. Heaven is our own. Our dear friend, Brother Byron Fox, his wife Renee, went to be with the Lord this morning. He didn't lose her. She's not gone. It's just in another place. And he'll see her again. He'll see her again. And someday we'll be resurrected. I was up to visit my mom a couple months ago, and as I always do, I slipped out early one morning, I went out to the graveside and saw my daddy's gravestone there and Just reflected. I don't know. I don't know if I should do this or not, but sometimes I tell God, God, tell Dad I said, hey. I know you you don't pray to the dead, right? I pray to God. So I just God tell Dad I said, Hey, I miss him. But someday he'll be resurrected. That body will come up out of that grave. When I was standing there, this this was back in September, I think. I was standing there and I thought, wouldn't that be cool if the rapture took place right now? Zing! We'd go up together. I'd raise them. And we got a coming kingdom. We're going to come back with Jesus. And will rule and reign with him for a thousand years. Isn't that something? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to learn from this final words of Jacob. We pray you give us a strong faith, give us assurance, Lord, help us to take you at your word and believe. This is not all there is to light. There's another side to go over to, and this is just temporal here. This is material. I pray that everyone under the sound of my voice is prepared That great day, that day of crossing over, I pray you'd help us to be a good testimony, a good witness while we're here on this old earth. Folks could see Christ in us. They'd see and sense the presence of the Holy Spirit in our lives, and we could be a witness. This old dark world. Lord help us love our families. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many say, Preacher, God spoke to my heart today? I don't know how or what way, but maybe God stirred your heart this evening in some specific way. And you'd say, Preacher, pray with me I want the Lord to be pleased with my life. I want to live with that confidence, Jacob. Anything like that, uplifted hand, sure, sure we want that. And maybe we need to just ask the Lord to help us. God, help me live for you. Help me be at peace with others, with you, and with myself. Father, bless now our invitation, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.