Uh the Bible says, oh let me give you a little background. Joseph is um uh has seen his brothers, he's revealed himself to them down in Egypt. And uh they've gone back, they've gotten daddy, Jacob, convinced him that Joseph is still alive. And um They made their journey down. The last time we looked at this, they had made they had left Canaan. They're coming down to Egypt. Well, we're picking up tonight where They are arriving in Egypt, and Jacob is reunited with Joseph again. So fascinating event. Look at verse 28. And he, that's speaking of Jacob, he sent Judah before him unto Joseph to direct his face unto Goshen. And they came into the land of Goshen, and Joseph made ready his chariot and went up to meet Israel, his father, to Goshen. and presented himself unto him, and he fell on his neck, and wept on his neck a good while. And Israel said unto Joseph, Now let me die Since I have seen thy face, because thou art yet alive. Joseph said unto his brethren and unto his father's house, I will go up and show Pharaoh and say unto him, My brethren in my father's house Which were in the land of Canaan are come unto me. And the men are shepherds, and for their trade hath been to feed cattle, and they have brought their flocks and their herds and all that they had And it shall come to pass when Pharaoh shall call you and shall say, What is your occupation? That ye shall say thy servant's trade hath been about cattle. and our youth, even until now, both we and also our fathers, that ye may dwell in the land of Koshen. Now look at this last statement. He says, For every shepherd is an abomination unto the Egyptians. So uh Joseph gives them a little bit of instructions there. We'll look at this. I'm entitled it Juke, Jacob and Joseph Reunited. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you tonight with our open Bibles, and I'm asking that you would please speak to our hearts. I ask that your Holy Spirit would take the truths and the principles that are in this passage, that you would open our hearts and minds that we could see how this applies to us, that your Holy Spirit Would apply it to our hearts and lives as you know we have need. And so I yield my will to you. I ask, Father, with all my heart That you fill me with your Holy Spirit and please speak through me and help us tonight. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. As we mentioned, we looked back there. I think we ended last time in verse number seven Where uh it says his Jacob's sons and his sons' sons with them his daughters and sons and uh all his seed brought he with them into Egypt. So they leave Canaan, they're heading down to Egypt. Then from verse 7 Down through verse 27, the Bible just gives us a list of the names that make up Jacob's family. It's quite an extensive list there, and we're not going to take time and just work down through that whole list. But other than that, I think this is interesting. If you would notice In verse number 27, and it says, And the sons of Joseph, which were born in him in Egypt, were two souls. Now look at this statement. And all the souls of the house of Jacob Which came into Egypt were three score and ten. Question, how many is three score and ten? 70. A score is 20, three scores 60, and 10 is 70. So there's 70 individuals that make up Jacob's household, his family at this point in time And they make their way down. Now, this is sons and daughters-in-laws and grandkids and everything, the whole household. And they come down, and there's 70 of them at this point 400 years later, a little over 400 years later, they're going to leave Egypt. Now we touched on this earlier. They're coming into Egypt with 70 individuals, household of 70 400 plus years later they leave, they're a massive nation. At least a million. We don't know having exact figures, but we're pretty confident. At least a million, some have suggested upwards to three million. Now 400 years is a long time. But the thing I find interesting, and this is just trivia. How many people like trivia? Here's a little trivia for you. There's 70 individuals here. In Numbers chapter 16 later, this is when they come out of Egypt, Joseph or uh Moses is has this great responsibility shoulders and he's judging all these people, million plus people. And he's having to make decisions and help them resolve issues and And uh he's judging all of them. And uh God instructs him through his father-in-law, he suggests that that he take train others To help with the responsibility and make this judgment. And here's what I thought was interesting. In Numbers 11, 16, we won't turn there. He appoints 70 elders. To help him judge the nation of Israel, to provide leadership and provide judicial leadership. So there's 70 individuals go into Egypt In Numbers, there's 70 judges that are appointed to help with the leadership. In Daniel chapter 9, verse 24, when he's talking about Israel and God's future dealings with Israel, God tells Daniel that there will be 70 weeks of years. Until their transgressions are filled, until the Messiah comes, 69 years, the Messiah comes. Then the 70th year, of course, is a tribulation period. So you got 70 individuals going into Egypt. You got 70 judges set up in numbers to help provide leadership, judicial leadership. There's going to be 70 weeks of years till the Messiah comes back, literally, to the earth. And then when Christ was on earth, we are told the history books tell us there were 70 members of the Sanhedrin in the days of Christ. That they were leaders in Israel, 70 of them. And then when Jesus sent out seven, he sent, and Luke chapter 10, he sent out 70 witnesses. To be a witness to Israel only. Don't go to the Greeks. Don't go to the Gentiles. Israel only. 70. 70, 70, 70, 70, 70. So you say, well, what's the significance of that? I study this, and this is what I come to. I have no idea. I don't know what the significance is. But I thought it was interesting That that 70 figure creep crops up throughout Israel's history. And it's trivial. I don't know what the significance is. You say, preacher, why did you give that to us? Just because I thought it was interesting. And I really, seriously, I don't know what the significance there, but I thought that was an interesting trivia. So now we look at our passage Jacob is arriving in Egypt. I noticed two expressions of respect. And this is what This is what stood out to me as I started studying this. I see Joseph shows tremendous respect to his father. And I notice that Jacob's family shows tremendous respect to Pharaoh, the Pharaoh. Respect is becoming a very rare thing in our society today. I mean genuine respect. The word respect means to consider someone with honor. That's one of the definitions of the word respect. If I respect someone, I consider them With some honor. I have respect for them. It also has the idea of viewing someone that they have value. That that person, that individual, they have some value as an individual. It has the idea of a little bit of idea of re-reverence Treating someone with respect. How many people follow what I'm saying? Respect. Respect. To value somebody, this person has, they have intrinsic value just as an individual human being I want to treat them with that value in mind. I want to treat them with a sense of honor and a little bit of reverence there. Now what does showing someone respect? What is that? What am I doing when I when I treat someone with respect or I treat them respectfully? But one, I think it honors the value of that individual life. A person, simply because they have they've been given by God the gift of life. Should be respected. Did you know that Jesus Christ thought that every single human being was worth suffering hell for? So that they could be saved and go to heaven. You say even the worst, the wicked worst sinners, Jesus, yeah, he thought they were worth suffering hell for. I heard I'm thinking of a fellow in particular who was another state before we moved here. This was years ago, but he made this statement. He said, I wouldn't walk across the road for that person Now I understand the situation a little bit, but Jesus thought that person was worth dying and suffering hell for. And so I think we have to be very, very careful. I think we need to understand every single person we meet, regardless of what their appearance may be, regardless of what their behavior may be And by the way, regardless of what lifestyle they live, Jesus thought they were worth dying and suffering hell for. And that in and of itself ought to prompt me to treat them respectfully So respect means that I honor the value of that life. I put this down. Respect means to recognize they're made in the image of God. Every single person that has life, that life they have has been given to them as a gift from God. God thought they were worthy of living a life. Of living a life. This here struck me several months ago, maybe more now. uh half a year, maybe more. It's been a while ago. Just struck me. And every morning I think of this in my devotions, part of my prayer time, I think of this God, when he first formed man, he formed man from the dust of the earth. And the Bible says he breathed into the nostrils of man. The breath of life, and that man became a living soul. Now here's what, and maybe I'm a little off on this, I don't think so. My life I have right now, the life that I have, me being alive, that is a result of God breathing into that first man Adam, that life. And that life that God gave him has been passed down through generations to me today. And the life that I have is a direct gift from God Himself. You follow? Are you with me? You follow? And every person I meet has that same source. The source of their life is the very same source. God thought enough of me to give me life. And God don't enough for that person to give. Now, what we do with it, that's up to us. But God gives us that life. And the very fact that that life that that person has is a gift from God, I ought to respect that. I ought to have some respect for them. And so the value of that life, Jesus thought they were worth dying for. The source of that life comes from God, that person's life. And then I think when I show respect, it ought to be the potential of an individual life. In other words God knows what that person can, the potential of what that person can be someday. You and I meet somebody and we look down on them Yeah, what a low life. Uh what a uh what a what a what's something you call loser, loser, uh you know But God sees that person and he knows what their potential is. And it's very possible that person could get saved and become somebody very effective in the kingdom of God. And I don't know that. Well uh wouldn't it um I don't know about you, I'd feel bad if I'm looking down on some and treating 'em disrespecting. Sorry, loser. Next year I found out they get saved and they're winning people to Christ, and here I was disrespecting them. Before it. You follow what I'm saying? And so I think there's an element we have to be careful. Respect requires a little bit of humility on my part. Because if we're not careful, somebody that's not living the way they ought to, and their quote-unquote low life and their lifestyle, if I'm not careful, I can get proud and consider myself better than they are. Right? I wouldn't be careful of saying this. I would never do that. Better be careful. My mom used to say, never say never, you'll be doing it forever. Right? And so respect. Joseph showed tremendous respect to his daddy. And his daddy was far from perfect. In many ways, now get this: in many ways, Joseph was a better man than Jacob. Right or wrong. But yet Joseph never one time do you find him talking bad about his daddy or running his daddy down. You treat him with utmost respect. Pharaoh! I mean the guy worships the sun and frogs You know, lice, all those all those ten plagues, they were all gods, Egyptian gods that God was was uh using And yet Joseph and them showed tremendous respect for Pharaoh, not because of his lifestyle. I put this down. Respect does not mean I endorse their behavior. Uh respect does not mean that I'm okay with their lifestyle or how they live. It doesn't mean uh every yeah I don't compromise what is right and wrong and And what the Bible says to show respect to somebody. But respect in a lot of ways like love is unconditional. Ought to be respectful. If somebody's very, very rude If somebody's very unkind, they say hateful things, they curse me. What did Jesus say I'm supposed to respond to the person that curses me? I'm supposed to what? Bless them. Remember Sermon on the Mount? Bless them that curse you. Do good to them that despitefully use you. Be respectful even to the disrespectful. Just show them some respect. Yes, sir, no, sir. I I I uh I appreciate, and I know they're not I know there's some bad eggs, but I appreciate the policeman's patience. A lot of times you'll have some criminal You know, and this guy's just a mess, and though almost always you'll hear him say, Yes, sir. Sir, come here, you need to do this. And if they don't do it, they make them do it. But while they're slamming them to the ground, they're saying, sir. I don't know. Maybe I'm going overboard on this. But I think we ought to conduct ourselves respectfully and make it easy for others to respect us. But I don't know. It just struck a chord with me as I saw how Joseph treated his daddy, and his daddy had failed his family in a number of ways. And not one time do you find Joseph being disrespectful to a daddy, his daddy. In fact, I want to take it a step farther. Joseph's brothers treated him horrifically, right or wrong. And yet you never one time find Joseph bad-mouthing his brothers. Never one time does he say anything critical or negative, not to Pharaoh. not to Potiphar, not to that, not to Jacob. Some of us, Jacob shows up down there, Daddy, you wouldn't believe what the boys did to me. You don't find that anywhere. He treats his brothers respectfully. Now he he gave him a hard time there for a while. I think he was struggling. But in the end, he's pretty respectful. So I just want to give a little challenge out there. Maybe we could help bring respect back into our society again. And treat people respectfully and and uh be respectable ourselves. And so. Now let's look at our passage here. I got it broke down. I don't know if we'll get to all of this tonight. I want to. Number one, I notice, first of all, the prudence of Jacob. Look at verse number 28 with me. And they're coming down to Egypt. They left Canaan. And he says there in verse 28, and he sent Judah before him, this is Jacob, sent Judah before him unto Joseph to direct his face unto Goshen. And they came into the land of Goshen. I think Jacob was very prudent in sending Judah up out there ahead. Now, question. What does the word prudence mean? What am I talking about when I talk about the prudence of Jacob? Wisdom, foresight Anything else? Prudence? Acting very prudent? There's a word I'm looking for. Cautious is part of it. Hmm? Observant? How about the word wise? Um the word prudence itself has this idea: using caution and applying wisdom. to any decision I make or course of action I take. In other words, I want to stop and think this through a little bit And seek some wisdom on the best way to approach this, the best way to go about it. How many people here ever how many people here have a situation you wished you'd used a little prudence before you made that decision? Yeah, well we should try to slow down a little bit and thought that through a little bit. That's what prudence is, and that's what Jacob is doing He's uh approaching down to Egypt and um uh he stops and he thinks this through a little bit, and I'm gonna send Judah ahead of me. He did something similar back, remember when they first left He stopped off at Bethel and he sought the Lord. He made some sacrifices. Jacob's really exercising wisdom here. And he comes down here. Proverbs 22, verse 3, and Proverbs 27, verse 12, both verbatim, the verses are the same. I referenced these just recently, but it says this: a prudent man Forseeth the evil and hideth himself. But the simple pass on and are punished. In other words, you stop and think this through. Wait a minute, this isn't the best course of action. I think I'm going to hold off on that. Simple person just running right into it. And makes a mess of things. And the thing I notice about Jacob is this. He doesn't just come barging down into Egypt. Well, I'm Jay I'm Joseph's father. He's number two around here. Step aside. He doesn't do any of that. He's very, very prudent, I believe. He's being very, very careful. He's not just barging barging down. He's looking ahead. He's thinking things through a bit And he sends Judah ahead for the whole household. I mean, they've got wagons, they've got sheep and goats and cattle. And they they've got all their herds, everything they had back in Canaan, they're bringing along with them. You know, 70 uh people make up as His household, uh Laura no doubt a significant percentage of that are women. They all have got twenty packet uh suitcases of shoes and sweaters. And I mean they're they're loaded Uh loaded up coming down here and um he goes, you know what? Hey Judah Judah, hey, come here. I want you to go ahead. Before we get down into this, you go ahead And you check things out and you make arrangements. Now here's my question: why did he send Judah and not Reuben? Reuben's the firstborn. He's the one you would think you would go to for a responsible uh situation like this and to make these decisions and take this responsibility Why would he not send Reuben? Why does he send Judah? Judah's the fourthborn. I think because Judah had proven himself, or or Reuben, I should say, he doesn't send Reuben. Because Reuben had proven himself to be irrational and irresponsible. We saw that earlier when Reuben's dealing with Joseph and uh keeping uh uh uh they wants to keep Benjamin all that and Reuben made some ridiculous statements and made some offered some ridiculous uh uh deals And I think Jacob saw that and he goes, No, no, I can't trust him. Who knows? He's unreliable. So he sets Reuben aside and he goes to Judah. Judah had proven himself as a very reliable, rational young man. Well he's an adult at this point. Judah was rational. He was reasonable. And he had displayed unselfish leadership in a time of crises. Remember, he negotiated with Joseph when he didn't know he was Joseph about Benjamin's life. How many people remember that and saying, listen, we worked this out, let me tell you. And he was very very uh he showed real wisdom. And I think Jacob noticed that. And so he sends Judah ahead. Judah, you go ahead, you find out, make arrangements, find out where we need to be, what we need to do. I'm trusting you to do this. If you would, come back, keep your place here, come back with me To chapter number 49. And we'll eventually get to this down the road aways. But Jacob is believes he's on his deathbed, so he calls the boys in. And as was the custom in this day, he offers a blessing to each of them. And he kind of assesses their character. And he kind of assesses what they're, he anticipates they're going to be, how they're going to turn out. Now we already looked at Reuben, but let me look at this again. I think here's the reason why he didn't send Reuben. Look at verse 3 Chapter 49, verse 3. Reuben, now this is Jacob talking to his boy. He's about to pass away. He goes, Reuben, thou art my firstborn. My might and the beginning of my strength, the excellence of dignity and the excellency of power. Would you agree with me? Sounds pretty good so far Because, man, you're a strong man. You're good looking. Well, you're dignified. You have great gifts. You have great talents. Look at the next verse. Unstable is water, thou shalt not what? You're not going to amount to anything, Reuben. You've got all the gifts, you've got the ability, you've got the looks, you've got the strength, but you don't have the character. Can't trust you. You're unstable as water, you're on, off, in, out, up, down. Never know what you're going to be. He says, You're not going to excel, because thou wentest up to thy father's bed and Defile us thou and he went up to uh he went up to my couch. He couldn't control himself. He had no self-discipline So then he comes down to Reuben or Judah in verse number 8. Now look what he says about Judah. And he gives an extended assessment of Judah. Judah, thou art he whom thy brethren shall praise. Thy hand shall be in the neck of thine enemies. Thy father's children shall bow down before thee. Judah is a lion's whelp from the prey, my son. Thou art gone up. He stooped down, he crouched as a lion, as an old lion. Who shall rouse him up? He's saying, Judah, you're going to accomplish some things. People are going to praise you. You're going to be productive. You're going to advance. You're going to defeat your enemies. You're going to be successful, Reuben. You've got what it takes. He goes on, verse number 10. The scepter shall not depart from Judah. What's a scepter? It's a representative of the authority of the king. The king had the scepter. He says, you're going to have authority. The scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor lawgiver from between his feet until Shiloh come. Who's Shiloh? That's the Lord Jesus Christ. He's prophesying that through Judah's offspring, the coming Messiah will come. The Lord Jesus, Shiloh. Come, and unto him shall the gathering of the people be. I think it's a reference to the millennium. Binding of his fowl unto the vine, and his ass is cold unto the choice vine. Washed his garments as wine, his clothes as blood of grapes, his eyes shall be red with wine, his teeth white with milk I mean, he's praising Judah in a tremendous way, prophesying that from the tribe of Judah is going to come the Messiah, the eventual king of kings, ruling from Jerusalem during the millennial reign. And here's a man, he doesn't have the big talents, he doesn't have all the good looks, he's not gifted like the world thinks of somebody being very gifted, but he has character. He can be trusted. His word is good. He's got some wisdom about him. And Jacob says, I can trust you, Judah, I'm going to send you ahead. You you'll you'll you'll you'll be able to provide us the leadership we need here. Um look at verse come back if you would to chapter 46 again and look there at verse 28. He says, He sent Judah before him unto Joseph. Look what it says, to direct his face. Unto Goshim. He sent him before him. That little phrase before him means on ahead, on ahead. And we want you to direct us to provide leadership. He sends Judah ahead to inform Joseph of their arrival. He sends Judah head to get directions to their destination, to Goshen. And so I notice the wisdom of Jacob. He's got eleven boys here. He picked any of them to send ahead, but there's one he picks out, and that's the one that's most trustworthy, most reliable. Not the best looking Not the strongest, not the most talented, not the most gifted. But he's the one I can trust. He's the one I can trust. I tell you, I'll I'll take uh I'll take two Judas over a hundred Reubens. Somebody that is reliable, that does right, has some integrity about him. And so I see the prudence of Jacob. Let me quickly notice number two, verse number 29 First part, the presentation of Joseph. Look at verse twenty-nine, the first part. And Joseph made ready his chariot, and went up to meet Israel, his father, to Goshen, and presented himself unto him. I notice when Reuben show or when Judah shows up and finds Joseph and says, hey, Daddy's coming. We're just up here up the road a ways. Daddy's coming. He sent me ahead. We want to find out. Where do you want us to go? What do we need to do? And I notice that Joseph responds immediately. He says he made ready his chariot. I don't know what all that implies. Maybe he had been using his chariot for work. It was all dusty. And um how many people here your back seat of your car tends to collect things up. Anybody here? Yeah. I'm not the only one. Come on now. And uh French fries and You know, and empty water bottles. Oops. I don't do that. I've heard other people do that type of stuff And so um uh I don't know he guys had Yikes, Daddy's here. And so he gets out and he cleans the chariot up and He uh um details it and waxes it down, cleans it up real good, and he gets the chariot ready. We're going to see Daddy. Dad's here, father's here. And he makes ready, fixes it up, makes it nice, presentable. And then he goes to meet Jacob. Now I find this interesting. Would you agree with me, number two in command, two years uh into uh the the famine people's lives are dependent on Joseph's leadership would you agree with me it's probably a pretty busy man He's got responsibility. He's got a whole nation is looking to him for leadership in the distribution of the grain that's going to keep people alive, the hundreds of thousands, millions of people alive It's all on his shoulders. He's got responsibilities. He's a busy man, but he drops everything. Father's here. Father's here. He doesn't sit around waiting on jo waiting on. Oh, okay, well, we'll wait till he gets here. No, he doesn't do that. And by the way, he doesn't make his father wait on him. All right, you go back, tell daddy, just wait there. I'll be there. I got to take care of this stuff here first, and I'll be there. He doesn't do any of that Everything gets dropped. Boom. He's going up to see his father. He doesn't make his father wait on him. Now Goshen, he's telling them you're going to stay in Goshen. Goshen is in the north, you got Egypt, you got Canaan up here. Goshen is in the northeast corner of Egypt. It's as close to Canaan as you can get, yet still be in Egypt. And so Joseph says, listen, I'll come up there to Goshen. Don't bring Joseph's way down here in the big cities, down in central Egypt, and some suggest that he might have been down in southeastern Egypt, southwestern Egypt, down the other end. And so he says, no need for daddy to come all the way down here and then go all the way back up. I'll go up there to him. He's accommodating his father. He's being respectful. He's being respectful. Here's what I'm trying to say. Everything didn't revolve around Joseph. He was concerned for others. He put himself out. So that he could accommodate his father. You know, sometimes we get awfully self-centered, huh? Well, I'm busy, you'll just have to wait. Now, sometimes there's situations where that's the case. But Joseph uh Joseph family was important. And he set aside all his responsibilities and he goes up there to see his daddy. No doubt Joseph was a busy man, but he drops everything and avoids Jacob having to travel too far. Then I notice this, it says, he presented himself unto Jacob, made himself presentable. In other words, he fixed himself up. And uh cleaned himself up. The interesting thing about that word presented himself, that's an interesting word. It's used outside of Scripture That word is used when dignitaries would meet with a foreign royalty. In other words, when an ambassador from one country would come and have a meeting with the king of this country, he would present himself. He'd fix himself up. He made sure he looked and represented his home country in a respectable way. He didn't just show up in t-shirt and uh shorts and flip-flops He was he was coming to see his daddy and he and he wanted to show respect on how he presents. Did you know that how we present ourselves, how we dress, how we present ourselves can be respectful or disrespectful? Everybody knows that? Uh you can go to a uh somebody uh has a wedding, big, nice, fancy wedding, and you show up in a swimsuit and t-shirt Would you agree? That'd be a little disrespectful. Yeah. And Joseph, he wants to respect his daddy. He fixed himself just like he's meeting a king. Just like he's meeting the king from Ethiopia And he presents himself and dresses up. I'm going to go see. I'm going to see Daddy. I'm going to see Daddy. He met his father like he would meet a king. Joseph is an adult. He's a grown man at this point. He has a powerful position. He's a very, very wealthy man. And like I said before, in many ways Joseph was a much better man than his father was. Integrity. Staddy was a liar. Stadi was a sneak, a thief. He had a terrible reputation. Joseph, all we see of Joseph is nothing but impeccable integrity. And yet he shows his father, he treats his father like he's a king. He shows up. He did not fail, despite of the fact that he is a powerful position, he is a wealthy man, he did not fail to honor and respect his father. I think children of all ages, young and old, should respect and honor their parents. He said, preacher, I'm an adult. I don't need to honor my father. I want to remind you, the fifth commandment does not have an expiration date. We ought to honor, even as adults, we ought to honor our parents. God, that's the first commandment with promise. To honor our folks. Now I know a lot of us, our parents, many of them have gone on to glory. But if your daddy's still alive, if your mom is still alive, you ought to respect them. You ought to honor them. Say, well, if you knew my dad, if you knew my mom, it doesn't matter. Jacob was a rascal. And Jok Joseph met him like he was a king. And treat him like a king. He presented himself Fixed up, got the got the got the limousine cleaned up real good, fixed himself up. I'm going to meet a king. Who what king you meeting? My king daddy. I'll go see my daddy Children young and old should respect and honor their parents. Should respect and honor their parents. I got two more points. How many people vote? I wait to do them until next week. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to help us to learn from Joseph and Jacob's interaction here. It's such a lesson for me. I pray you would help us to see folks the way you see them, and to love people the way you love them. Lord, we don't want to Joke Joseph never excused his daddy's bad behavior, never justified it But he never let it hinder his love and his respect for his daddy. I pray that we could learn that. I'm glad you love us, Lord, when we're sinners. I'm glad you, in a sense, respect us, treat us with value, even though we're a mess. Help us to do the same, Lord. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I I need to work on treating folks the way God treats me. Any anybody here like that? I need to work on that. Sure. We got this old, proud, sinful nature We have that tendency to look down and be critical. We just need the Lord to help us, not excusing sin. You know I don't mean that But just respecting and loving people the way God respects and loves us, values us. Father, bless our invitation, I ask now in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand