Genesis chapter 49. I'm just going to read the first two verses, and uh we're only going to get some introductory thoughts tonight. I'm not going to try and get into the whole thing. I'll explain here in just a moment. But notice In verse number one, the Bible says, And Jacob called unto his sons and said, Gather yourselves together that I may tell you that which shall befall you in the last days Gather yourselves together and hear, ye sons of Jacob, and hearken unto Israel your father. I've entitled it, and we're probably going to take maybe a couple three lessons on this looking at this here, but I've entitled Jacob Blesses His Sons. And um we're studying the life of Joseph and so I'm not going to spend a lot of time, it'll probably be another week, like I said, on exactly what he's blessing and speaking to his sons. I want to stay focused on Joseph. But I think There's some lessons here for us, so we're going to take a little bit of time and look at this. Let's pray, and we'll look at these first couple verses. Father in heaven, I thank you for the Word of God and for these Old Testament Saints, these Old Testament individuals, Lord, you've preserved their experiences for us here in your word thousands of years later. And we believe, as your New Testament tells us, that there are lessons for us, that there are ensembles for us, for our admonition And so I ask you, Lord, tonight, Holy Spirit, that you would take this event that took place so long ago Show us, open our eyes to see how it applies to us and what we can learn from this so that our faith in you would be stronger And our witness would be more effective and our confidence a little stronger. So fill me with your spirit. It's always my prayer, and I yield my will, present my body Pray you'd speak through me again in this for this message. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. One thing that's becoming very obvious, especially here towards the end. of the account of Joseph is that his family was incredibly important in his life. They played a tremendous role uh in his life. In the early years of Joseph's life, you could say I'd say his family, it was a time of turmoil um uh and and difficulty. If you remember back when we first began studying the life of Joseph, we looked at the family in detail, and uh they would be what I would describe as a pretty dysfunctional family. There was a lot of anger. There was hatred between the siblings. And, you know, that's an awful thing. They hated each other. Uh there was a lot of anger. Of course, with Jacob having uh Rachel and then uh Leah and Rachel and then these concubines you throw that in the mix. Good night What a mess. You know, God's design is still the best design. One man, one woman for life. And you throw in then they started bringing these other w wives in and it just was a recipe for disaster. Um rejection Jealousy, envy. And there is no doubt in my mind, Joseph growing up in that environment, Joseph growing up in that atmosphere It had to have had a profound effect upon him. There's m several of us, no doubt, maybe I could almost say many of us, at least throughout the church general That come from homes that were difficult, broken homes, dysfunctional homes, homes that were not characterized by unconditional love We come from that, and one thing I learned from the life of Joseph is this, is that that doesn't have to define us. We can rise above that. No doubt it affects us. No doubt it's a factor in our personalities and sometimes our outlook on life. But it doesn't have to define us. We have a heavenly Father that can direct us and help us be what he intends for us to be, regardless of what our background may be there. And so Joseph's family was started out with in the early years a lot of turmoil, dysfunction. And then From there, you go into this about 17-year period where there is complete separation from the family. And it wasn't slowly weaned away from it. It was just cut off. Boom. One day he's part of the family. Boom. Next day he's on his way to Egypt, never to see them for another 20 years, maybe. And so that's a factor. Would you agree with me? That might affect a person's view on life, for something like that to take place, to be taken uh uh by all by By all accounts, it's being kidnapped and being taken hostage and sold as a slave. That would affect you. And now we're at the end. of Jacob's life for sure. And we're coming to the final account, day's account of Joseph's life and ministry. And we notice a change again. You had these turmoil years early. Then you had this sudden and extended separation from the family. And now they're back together, and I put it this way, the final years of reunion. And I'll be very honest with you, as we're studying Jacob here and his interaction, as we have now for several lessons, and we will here for a little bit. I see a tenderness on the part of Jacob that I had not seen before. And a compassion that I hadn't seen before. Now he's still Jacob. His old personality comes through here every now and then. But there's no doubt in my mind, Jacob loved his family. Jacob loved his family. God instituted, and I'll get to the verses here in just a moment. But God designed three institutions for mankind. The first institution, of course, was in the Garden of Eden. This was before sin ever entered our experience. And God designed the institution of what? The home, marriage, and the home. And he designed that there in uh in the Garden of Eden. It's the one thing. Adam and Eve brought out of a perfect environment. They brought out this institution of marriage and the home. And then after Noah, he established the institution of the Government of government. And of course that's been on our hearts and minds here as we're concerned for our country. And again, we're very relieved with many of the results of the election yesterday But nevertheless, government has a role. Now, like the family, the marriage in the home can be distorted, right? We just talked about that, multiple wives all those types of things. It can be distorted. And government instituted by God can be abused. The delegated authority that God gives the government can be abused. And we've seen that Um and throughout history it's been the case. But government, when it functions as God intends for it to function is a very vital part of a healthy society, a healthy nation if you have a good government and operating as God instructs us. Proverbs talks a lot about the righteous king and the godly king. And so he established the home, marriage in the home, he established the government And then he established the church later on. So you have those three institutions that God has put in place. All of them affected by sin, no doubt about it. Sin came in, affects it, makes it challenging. And can be abused, distorted, and abused, perverted, and we see that even in churches. But nevertheless They're good, and they're God's design. And I said all that to say this. I believe the family The very first institution you design is the groundwork, is the foundation for a proper, correct government and a good, strong church. Someone has said, I think Byron Fox repeated, I've heard it many, many times, you've probably heard it many, many times over the years, but he made the statement a year ago when he was with us. He said, a church is only as strong as its families I think there's a lot of truth to that. I think we can understand I think we'll understand why our society the way it is the way it is, if we'll come back and look at the condition of our homes The breakdown of the homes, fatherless homes, and on all that type of thing. And so the importance of the family is all through Scripture. And even into the New Testament, Ephesians, Paul spends a good portion of the book of Ephesians talking about the whole, the role of the husband and the wife, and the children, and the responsibilities we have there. And the purpose for all of it. And so uh um so the family was important To Jacob in his final years especially, we see him maybe appreciating the family a whole lot more than he did earlier, and uh and there's something going on. So, but but at this point here, when Jacob gives this blessings. on his sons, there is a transition taking place. And I might have touched on this a little bit in a previous message. There's a transition taking place. Israel is going from what we would call the patriarchs. Now somebody help me out. What do we mean by the patriarchs? We're talking about the patriarchs of Israel. The leaders, more particularly, it would be what? Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. They would be considered the patriarch patriarchs. of the nation of Israel. In other words, the at this point it's in the and it's in a family. It's a large family and getting larger. And it's primarily headed up by these three patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And they're the head, they're the authorities, they're the ones that God is working through and leading through and directing. But now there's a transition taking place. And from this point on, Jacob gives his sons these blessings. It's more of a prophecy he makes upon them, and we'll look at it in little detail. From that point on, you no longer have Israel as a family or a nation later on operating under a patriarchal society, a setup. Now you have the twelve tribes. And they're operating not under Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, but under directly under God. Was the design And we would call that a what? Theocracy. We're God. It's not a democracy. It's not a monarchy. It's a theocracy. God was their king. And God intended for it it for to be that way. Now I'm jumping way ahead here, thousand years ahead, but Israel wasn't satisfied with that. And they wanted what? They wanted their own king. They wanted a man to be their king. And their motive was because all the other nations around us have kings. We want a king. And of course, Prophet Samuel got upset with that. And God made a profound statement. He says, They haven't rejected you, Samuel. They've rejected me. They rejected me So here's this transition. You have Abraham, he's the father of the faithful, he's the father of Israel. From him will be his offspring, his descendants will be like the stars of the sky. the sands of the sea. Then uh Isaac is there. God reconfirms that covenant with Isaac and uh they begin to multiply. Then Jacob shows up and they begin to multiply and then he gives this prophecy to his twelve boys. And makes these statements here, and from that point on, you no longer have an individual Has an authority over Israel. You follow what's happening here? Of course, they go into Egypt 400 years. They come out the other side. They're a mighty nation. But they're divided into these tribes that are being established here. And so, as I said, it's a time of transition. Now let me come back to this family. It's right now, it's the Israel, what we call the nation of Israel, is actually the family of Israel at this point. I put a few things down about oh let me say this. The family of J that Jacob has here, these 12 boys, is laying the groundwork. For the future of Israel. That's what I guess I'm trying to say, this transition. It's going to have these twelve tribes. That's the groundwork. That's the foundation For the future of Israel. So all these twelve tribes, twelve tribes, that's how they function. And you see that all through the rest of the historical books. And um I guess uh here's what I'm getting at is never underestimate the importance of family. Family, Israel Started off with the foundation of a family of twelve sons. That was the groundwork for Israel. The church is as strong as its families. There's a reason God designed these institutions in the chronological order he did. A government with broken down families is not going to be able to function as a government is designed to function. What was it? Uh Paul Harvey, not our Paul Harvey, the Paul Harvey on the radio. We had enough old folks here. You all remember Paul Harvey. You say it to the kids and they're like, uh, oh, is that Stuart's daddy? No, no, no. Paul Harvey said self-government without self-discipline is doomed to failure. And self-discipline is learned where? In the family, in the home. So taught by parents. And so when that breaks down, then government fails and it of later on affects the church. So family is vitally important I put this down. Number one, family is where the unconditional love of God is to be demonstrated. I believe God intends for the homes To be a place where dad loves mom the way Christ loves the church. And mom loves daddy the way the church should love Christ. And the children obey their father the way we are all designed to obey our Heavenly Father. And so the home is the place, is the incubator, the nursery, so to speak Of where a child's understanding of the unconditional love of God. Now, unconditional love means I love you no matter what. Right? But it does not mean I love you, therefore I'm not going to correct you. Discipline and correction is an aspect of love. Um he whom uh uh he uh how what's how's the verse go? Uh he whom he loveth, he correcteth Did I get it right, Wilbur? I'll see. He that chasten. Ask Wilbur, he'll tell you later. But Proverbs, and then again in Hebrews, we're told that God's chastening of us is a result of He loves us. And so in the home, that's where that's nurtured, the family. I'll put this down: the family is where faith in God is displayed and developed. I tell you, I'll just be very honest with you, and you know, I come from a broken home, but I saw my daddy displayed to me what faith in God looks like. I saw him, trust God. I saw it. And many of you, if you had Christian parents, that's where you learn to trust God. And I think of course most of us, our kids are grown, most of us in here But I think our children ought to look to us and say, that's what it means to have faith in God. That's what it looks like. That's how it's carried out. That's how it's uh practice. That's that's how you have faith in God. And they look to mom and dad and they see that. And so the home, the the importance of the family in the home I put this down, the family or the home is where support, stability, and security is found. There's one place in this world a child ought to feel secure, and that's in the home Now, Joseph didn't experience that. It was pretty rough, and God brought him out of it and used him in a great way. But nevertheless, I believe that's what it's designed for. Family is a place for spiritual training ground. Well, I send my kids to church and Sunday school so the church will teach them about God. Listen, it's not the church's primary responsibility to teach your kid about God. Read Deuteronomy chapter 4. It's very clear. The parents are the ones. The home is the place where they're trained to pray. To read and study the Bible and to serve the Lord, win souls. All that should be nurtured in the home. Now I'm talking about ideal. This is the way it's designed. Number five, family is where biblical values should be established. Right and wrong. You know, biblical principles. The Bible says something's wrong, then we understand it's wrong. The Bible says something's right, then we understand it's right The Bible says something's important, then we understand it's important. And in the home and the family is where those values are to be established and and grounded. And then you know nowadays you hear folks, and it's been a long time like this, they say, well, I'll just let my child decide what's right and wrong Yeah, look at society. That's what we're dealing with now. And uh so the home is that place uh where that should be nurtured and developed And then I put down this concerning family and the home is uh it's to witness, it's to be a witness to the world of God's love and God's power. And this whole world is falling apart, and they can maybe look at the home. And this is ideal. I understand a lot of us, I'm short, and you know, sin's a factor. But nevertheless, they look and say, boy, there's something different That family, that home has something that the world cannot produce. And it reinforces our witness when we share the gospel. So Just some thoughts about the home as I thought got here and Jacob's calling his boys in, and in my mind's eye I can see Jacob is elderly, his sight is is pretty bad, he can't hardly see. And uh he's laying in his bed, no doubt. Maybe he's sitting at the edge. And no and the the twelve boys come in and gather around. Come on in here, fellas. I need to talk to you. Calls them in And I see this family once again is brought back together. And for the first time I see in a long time, they're not fussing. They're not mad at each other, they're not hating each other. They're gathered around their dying daddy. And he's making his final statements. So they had their share of faults and failures, as we all do But family was important to Jacob. Now I want us to notice a couple things real quickly here, and we're not going to get into what he actually says to the boys. But I'd like for you to notice in verse number one, he assembles the boys together. He assembles his sons together. Look what it says And Jacob called unto his sons and said, Gather yourselves together that I may tell you that which shall befall you in the last days. Jacob is on his deathbed. We'll see here by the time we get to the end of the chapter. He's passed on. He'll pass on by the time We get to the end of chapter 49. These are his last statements. Somebody put it this way. This is his last will and testament. And he assembles the boys together. He assembles his sons together there on his deathbed. Interesting enough, this is Joseph's third time. He's been here by the bedside of his daddy earlier, if you notice back there Uh let's see. Uh at the end um uh he calls him in, my father, my brother, verse uh forty chapter forty-seven. And uh he comes in there. And anyway, uh he he three times Joseph comes in with his daddy at his deathbed. This is the third time, this is the final time. Now here's my question I asked myself Jacob could have had this conversation a long time ago when they first came down to Egypt, the families together for the first time in years and years and years And he's got the boys there. Now 17 years have gone by, and now he decides to call the boys in and meet with them. My question was, why did he wait until he's on his deathbed? To call this family meeting together. Well, I I don't know the answer. We're not told. So I speculate. Um I think perhaps Uh he knows it's his time to go, and he wants what he's saying to the boys to have an impact. I don't know about you, but uh again, please forgive me for referring to my father, but this brings a lot of thoughts about it to me But I know in the la the time my father moved down here, we spent time together, the statements he made to me then during those last weeks and months of his life stand out in my mind than s more so than stuff he said fifteen, twenty years ago. You follow what I'm saying? A person's last words before they pass away often have more of an impact on those who are hearing them, who they're talking to, has a lasting effect. They remember, I remember what Daddy's last words were. And maybe that's his motive for waiting to this point. I know before Jesus ascended to heaven, he made some statements that were Very, very significant. In Acts chapter 1, verse 8, his very last words before he ascended to heaven here on earth were, And ye shall receive power. After that the Holy Ghost has come upon you. You'll be witnesses unto me And those were the last words he left with his disciples before he sent it. And you read the book of Acts, and what he said there played out, number one, number two, it had a profound impact on the disciples His last statements. And so he assembles his boys together here, and um he wants what he's saying to them to affect them. And it's his it's on his deathbed. So number one, he assembles a boy. Verse number two, I notice he demands their attention. Look at verse 2. He says, Gather yourselves together. Now I don't know why he said that. He's already called them in in verse number one. He calls his sons, gather yourselves together. Now he says it again: gather yourselves together. My uh I don't know I may be reading more into this than what's there, but I'm wondering, I don't know how large the room was where his bedroom was, but I'm wondering if maybe the boys came in and they were a little timid You know, and maybe they're not sure what's going on, maybe they feel bad, maybe that guilty conscience is still stinging what they did to their daddy when they sold told him Joseph was killed And so I don't know if they're maybe timid, a little hesitant to get together. So he says, guys, come on in, boys, come in here. And they come in. He says, gather yourselves together. I wonder if they're kind of hesitating. And he says again, fellas. Gather yourselves together. I can hear Joseph, Jacob saying that. Then he says this Gather yourselves together and hear, ye sons of Jacob. Now he's referring to himself in the third person here. He's trying to get their attention. He's about to say something that is incredibly important to them. And he wants them to understand the significance Of what he's about to pronounce. He says, here. That word here literally means pay attention. Listen with attention. Did you ever hear something, but you weren't paying attention? Yeah. My wife said to me, says, You never pay attention to what I'm saying. And uh I thought that's a weird way to start a conversation, you know, just you don't listen to a word What? Yeah, no comments. And so sometimes we hear some. You ever uh sitting in a service? And the preacher is preaching on and on. And uh you hear 'em, but brother, you ain't paying attention. You're thinking about the shopping list, you know, and how you're gonna set up to shoot that buck. And uh you got anybody? Come on now. Nobody ever does that, huh? Well, that's incredible. He says, I want you to pay attention. Listen with attention. And then he repeats it again. He says, Hear you sons of Jacob. Referring to himself and the boys, and hearken unto Israel your father. He doesn't say hearken unto me. Hear me, Israel your father. He is speaking, uh he's speaking with authority. What I'm about to say is significant. And by the way, what he's going to say to these fellows is very much, as I said at the beginning of the message, going to establish The foundation for the nation of Israel for the next thousands of years. So this is profound. This is significant. And he wants to make sure they're getting it. They don't miss this. The word hearken there means to listen with the intent to obey. To regard and understand what I'm saying. I think what he's saying to them is, listen, fellas, what I'm going to tell you, don't just blow it off. Just some old the old man's running his mouth again. He says, don't don't take don't take it that way. You need to take this very, very seriously. So as I'm studying these first two verses, then I look at what he actually says to them, and it becomes, I see the significance of it and the importance of it. So one, he assembles the boys together. Two, he demands their attention. And number three, and I'm just going to finish with this tonight, he announces a prophecy Over these boys. And that starts in verse 3, goes all the way through verse 27. And again, we're not even going to attempt to look at all that. But he begins with Reuben there. He says, Reuben, thou art my firstborn. And then he goes in and makes his statements about Reuben. And then he'll go, and the next is Simeon. And then Levi, and then Judah, and then Zebulun and Issachar and Dan and Gad and Asher and Naphtali and Joseph and Benjamin. And he works his way boy by boy. We'll look at this next week probably, but he starts with the oldest. He works his way down to the youngest. There's systematic statements being made here, and there's a reason for that It's called a prophecy, and it's often called his prophecy over his sons, but it's really, when we look at it, you'll see it's more of an assessment of their character. And the consequences of that character. I like character studies. That's what we're doing with Joseph. We're studying him. Characteristics of them, what we can learn from. We studied David and uh John the Baptist in Sunny School. I like doing character studies. You can learn from people Um and so he's he's summarizing what kind of boys the they are with authority from God. And uh and then he he points out in many of the cases what the consequences are. You know, um Well, these statements he's about to make to his sons and he makes about his sons, I think they touch on three things. Number one, and we'll look at it in more detail, as I said, but number one, he points out, we learn from this that we reap what we sow. So anybody here, you're living with consequences of decisions you made earlier in life. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Yeah, you're not alive if you're not. Somebody put it this way, present actions have future consequences. And he points out as he goes through here, he says, Reuben, you did this and you did this, and as a result of that, this is the consequence. If we could learn, and I've said this um a number of times over the years, and and I say it to myself If we could learn to assess what the consequences of my actions are before I act, might save me a lot of heartache, huh? In other words, think it through a little bit. Say, all right, where's this going to lead? How's this going to affect me tomorrow or next week or a year down the road? And I think the devil has this world and many Christians convinced that all that matters is what I do here and now. Now we're never told to worry about tomorrow. But we are told over and over and over to prepare for tomorrow. And the only way I can prepare tomorrow is I stop and consider what I'm doing today. Because what I do today is going to affect me tomorrow. In fact, that's what wisdom is. The prudent man, Proverbs tells us, foreseeeth the evil and hideth himself. In other words, I see what sowing this action, I see what I'm going to reap, so I'm not going to sow that action. If I sow this action, I see what I reap, oh, I want to make sure I sow that action because that's a good thing to reap. How many people here ever planted corn and you got green beans? Doesn't happen, does it? And so we sow what we reap. And we're all familiar with this truth. This is nothing new. It's part of life. If you would, take your Bible. I want to look at a few verses, and for most of us these are very, very familiar, but it doesn't hurt us to look at them again. Galatians. Come all the way back to Galatians chapter 6, classic passage on sowing and reaping And when we get into what he says to the boys, you'll see why I'm saying this, because he points out why they're dealing with some of the stuff they're dealing with, it's because of decisions they made Galatians chapter 6, verse 7 and 8. If you don't have these verses underscored in your Bible, I highly recommend it. These ought to be posted in every newspaper I think, in every w uh uh internet thing, and uh they ought to be taught in schools from nursery to universities. Look at verse 7 of Galatians 6. Be not deceived. God is not mocked. For whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also what? Read. Jacob's going to point this out to the boys. Look at verse 8. For he that soweth to his flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption. But he that soweth to the spirit shall of the spirit reap corruption. Life everlasting. So there's a consequence. I make this action, I make this decision, and there's going to be consequences. Come with me, if you would, to 2 Corinthians, chapter number 9. And notice with me verse number six. Now here he's talking about what we refer to as faith promise. Giving. And it's chapter 8 and chapter 9. He's talking about our giving, and uh particularly not of tithes, but of uh of over and above that, uh in our case to faith-promise missions. Notice what he says In 2 Corinthians 9, look at verse number 6. But this I say, he that soweth sparingly shall reap also what? Sparingly. And he which soweth bountifully shall reap also bountifully. So you sow this, you're going to reap that. You sow a little bit. You reap a little bit. You plant two kernels of corn, you'll get two stalks of corn. You plant two hundred kernels of corn, you get a whole bunch more, unless the deer and raccoons get in it. Luke chapter 6, if you would come over to Luke chapter 6. And I know this is very familiar. Most of us, I'm sure, understand this. Luke 6. I don't know about you, but sometimes I need to be reminded of things that I understand very clearly. Verse 38. Give and it shall be what? Given unto you. Give and it shall be given unto you. Now, this is both instruction and promise on God's part. Give, and it shall be given unto you. Good measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running over, shall men give unto your bosom For with the same measure that ye meet, withal shall be it measured unto you again. You know what he's saying? You'll reap what you sow. Now, this brings in another aspect of reaping and sowing. You reap what you sow, but you reap more than what you sow. Right? You plant one corn or cor we plant one kernel of corn in the ground. You don't have a stalk come up and there's one kernel on the end. Have ear, how many ears are on a stalk of corn? Two? Is that right? One or two Or Wilbur, he he does hormone therapy on them. They have eight or nine, I think, on there. No, I don't know. His corn is pretty productive. Yeah. Oh, okay. So he knows this stuff. So my point is this, you reap you reap not just what you sow, but you reap more than what you sow. Uh yeah, and then that's the third aspect is later. You don't reap it right put in the ground boink. It's later on, you have to wait But that applies, you reap what you sow, and you reap more than what you sow, but that applies both good and evil, positive and negative. Luke here is saying, listen, you give, you be generous, generous, and helpful and and try and be a blessing. Others give generously. Hey, God's going to take care of you. He'll make sure you get it back and get more back. Now it's not always Financial, sometimes it comes in other forms. But God blesses that. One more passage, if you would. Come all the way back to Proverbs. I always like to go to Proverbs. And verse number eight. Now I'm on a little bit. I know I parked it here a little bit before we look at what he actually says to his brothers, but you're going to see this as we go down through there. He's pointing out to them, hey You did this, and this is the consequence. Look at Proverbs 22 and verse number 8. He that soweth iniquity shall reap vanity. So you invest Time, you make decisions, give into sin, give into things God forbids. God says no. You're going to get out of it. You're going to get vanity out of it. What's vanity? Emptiness, nothing. Remember in the Ecclesiastes says, Vanity of vanity, vexation of spirit, all is vanity. Why? Because he was investing in himself in sin We studied that and and uh he wasn't investing in in anything of substance and it came out empty. And so Jacob's going to point out here, we're going to see this, that these boys are reaping what they sow. And it goes both ways, both positive and negative. Number two, coming back to Jacob's statements to his boys before we actually look at it, but he gives them a promise about their future. Things were pretty bleak for the last several decades for them. And here they are, the land that they were born in, the land they grew up in. Up in Canaan, up in the promised land, that's a long way off. And they haven't been there for a long time. And the fields are setting uh idle. They're just overgrown, no doubt. Whatever structures they had put up are no doubt fallen apart. And they're down in this strange country, Egypt, and they've been here a long time. And it doesn't look very promising. But God gave, if he goes through here, we're going to find out God has a promise for the sons of Jacob. that they each had a place back in Canaan land. They each had a place still in in uh the promised land. And their tribe, their offspring are going to be back there and are going to live there. In spite of all their failures and all the trials they went through, God still had a place for them. I don't know about you, but this whole world is a lot like Egypt sometimes. Israel did not fit in in Egypt. Amen? I tell you, this whole world, I'm glad for the yesterday and how some of that turned out, but I'm telling you, it still ain't my home. I still don't fit in. This world is a lot like and Egypt was down, and Israel was down in Egypt, and they spoke a different language. And I tell you, this world has a different language than what Christians have, don't they? Man, you and I will use God's name. We try to, in reverence. Humility, I pray, in the name of Jesus. This world uses Jesus' name, but not in a reverent way. And sometimes I'm out in the world and it's like, what in the w how do these people talk like this? And I'm telling you, in spite of we may have failed God awfully, we may have may be have gone through or maybe In some very difficult trials and difficulties. But I'm here to tell you, if we know Jesus Christ the Savior, God has a place for us. And ultimately our home in heaven. I don't know about you, the older I get, the more appealing heaven sounds. When I first got, say, back in my twenties and thirties, forties, into my youthful fifties. And that now it's youthful isn't it? Yeah, I'd sing about heaven. It was great. Amen. Heaven. Yeah. Glory to God. Heaven. Now I'm singing about heaven. It's like, yeah. Not dreaming about it. I'm looking forward to it. Looking forward. And so he's assuring these boys, listen, they messed up bad and they've been through it and they're in a circumstance And he's saying to them, and I'm putting this in my own world's words, I'm simplifying a lot, he's saying to them, fellas, listen, God's not done with thee yet. There's a place for you yet. And um I think it's important for us to understand God's not done with us yet And people talk to me sometimes, say, preacher, I blew it so bad, I messed up so bad, I don't think God could ever, I don't think God has any place for me. That is a lie of the devil. We come to the Lord, just trust him, claim his promises, let him lead us. God can and will have a place for us. To serve him, to rejoice in him, and ultimately be with him. And then the third thing I'm going to get from this, and again, you'll have to take my word. We're going to see this as we go down through here. But the third and last thing is I notice there's prophecies of Jesus Christ in here. This is something. He goes down through these twelve boys, makes statements about their character and how it affects what the outcome because of how they are. This is the way it's going to be. But notice with me, verse number 10. He makes a He uses a term here. He says, the scepter, speaking of Judah, we'll look at this again, as I said, the scepter shall not depart from Judah nor a lawgiver from between his feet, look at this, until Shiloh come. And unto him shall the gathering of the people be Who is this Shiloh he's talking about? Jesus, it's the Messiah. And it is through Israel. It's through Israel's offspring, these tribes And particularly the tribe of Judah, that Jesus came. The Prince of Peace. And to him Unto him shall the gathering of the people be. He says, if I be lifted up, I'll draw all men to myself. It's a reference to Jesus Christ. Way back here. Look at with with me if you verse number 18. He says, uh speaking to Dan He says, I have waited for thy salvation, O Lord. Where does salvation come from? The Lord. How does salvation come from the Lord? It's through the Lord Jesus Christ. The word salvation there is Yeshua. Sound familiar? It's a reference to Jesus Christ. Now, did Jacob understand all the details and aspects of Jesus Christ? No. But he knew this, that someday Shiloh was going to come and he was going to be the salvation of people from the Lord. And then one more, verse number twenty-five, and this one isn't as clear. But he says in verse 25, speaking to Joseph now, even by the God of thy fathers, which would be Jacob, Isaac, and Abraham. Even by the God of thy fathers, who shall help thee, and by the Almighty, who shall bless thee with blessings of heaven above. Now, a lot of Bible scholars believe that when he used that phrase, the Almighty, El Shaddai, and the blessings of heaven above, that he's referencing to the Lord Jesus Christ. The Lord Jesus Christ. All the Bible points to Jesus Christ. All of it. It's all through there. Genesis to Revelation. Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. Remember when Jesus, after he rose from the dead, he's walking, he's heading to Uh where was he going, Wilburn? They're talking to the two fellows, their heartburn. Emmaus. He's heading to Emmaus And he began from the scriptures to show how they all spoke about him. I wonder if he didn't go back to this account. Say, see that, Shiloh, fellas, it's me. It's the Messiah. It's the Savior. All scripture points the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, here's my conclusion. Though we reap what we sow, right? Probably all of us are reaping to some degree or another things we've sown earlier in life. I know I am. Though we reap what we sow, God still has a plan and a place for us And that plan and place for us is found in our relationship and our walk with Jesus Christ. Say, preacher, I messed up. Can God still use me? Does God still replace me? Yeah. Walking with Jesus again. Can't stay out there and live in rebellion against God and say, Oh, I want God to use me while I'm rebelling against him. No, come to Jesus Christ and Trust them as your Savior and then live for Him and walk with Him and God will use us. So we're going to look at what He says here to these fellows here, Lord willing next Wednesday But in the meantime, I don't know where you're at or maybe what's going on in your life, but I'm here to tell you, God still has a place for us. God still has a place. You say, well, uh this look at look at these fellows, they're a mess. And yet God still had a place for them. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to take these thoughts here this evening. And maybe you could use it to encourage your people to not give up, stay faithful, come on back if we've been away Lord, I had somebody just last week say I've been so far from God and I want to come back and say, come on. You can come back. God takes us back. He still has a place So I pray, Lord, you'd help us to see that. And Lord, when we stumble, help us to get back up again. Lord, help us to consider our actions and decisions and what the consequences would be And I ask this now in Jesus' name. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, Preacher, God spoke to my heart? I don't know how God may have spoken to your heart. To say, Preacher, I need that wisdom. God, I need to be reminded, claim his promises. Any like that? God bless you. Hands all around. And so let's let the Lord have his way. Father, bless our invitation, I ask now in Jesus' name. Amen.