Genesis chapter number 48 is where we're at. I'm gonna, if you would bear with me. I'm gonna read the entire chapter. It's 22 verses, but I want to try and keep this This whole event in context. We're gonna we'll read the whole thing, then we're gonna chop it up over the next couple messages and uh not try and cover all of it in one night, but I do want to read all of it to begin with so that we have um the whole context here as I said. So verse number one, Genesis 48, the Bible says, and it came to pass after these things that one told Joseph, Behold, thy father is sick. And he took with took with him his two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim. And one told Jacob and said, Behold, thy son Joseph cometh unto thee. And Israel strengthened himself and sat upon the bed. Jacob said unto Joseph, God Almighty appeared unto me at Luz in the land of Canaan and blessed me. And said unto me, Behold, I will make thee fruitful, and multiply thee, and I will make of thee a multitude of people. And will give this land to thy seed after thee for an everlasting possession. Did you get that everlasting possession? If it's an everlasting possession, when does it end? And never does. So that land is Israel's land. This is what the basis of that that uh contention is. Ver number five. Verse five And now thy two sons, Ephraim and Manasseh, which were born unto thee in the land of Egypt before I came, as Reuben and Simeon, they shall be mine. And thy issue, which thou begettest after them, shall be thine, and shall be called after the name of their brethren in their inheritance. And as for me, when I came from Padan, Rachel died by me in the land of Canaan in the way. And when yet there was but a little way to come unto Ephraith, and I buried her there in the way of Ephrath, in the same as Bethlehem. And Israel beheld Joseph's sons and said, Who are these? And Joseph said unto them, unto his father, they are my sons, whom God hath given me in this place. And he said, Bring them, I pray thee, unto me, and I will bless them. Now the eyes of Israel were dim for age, so that he could not see. And he brought them near unto him, and he kissed them and embraced them And Israel said unto Joseph, I had not thought to see thy face, and lo, God has shown me also thy seed. Joseph brought them out from between his knees, and he bowed himself with his face to the earth Joseph took them both, Ephraim in his right hand toward Israel's left hand, and Manasseh in his left hand toward Israel's right hand. And he brought them near unto him, and Israel stretched out his right hand and laid it upon Ephraim's head, who was the younger. And his left hand upon Manasseh's head, guiding his hands wittingly, for Manasseh was the firstborn And he blessed Joseph and said, God before whom my fathers Abraham and Isaac did walk, the God which fed me all my lifelong unto this day, the angel which redeemed me from all evil, blessed the lads. And let my name be named on them, the name of my fathers, Abraham and Isaac, and let them grow into a multitude in the midst of the earth And when Joseph saw that his father laid his right hand upon the head of Ephraim, it displeased him. And he held up his father's hand to remove it from Ephraim's head unto Manasseh's head. Joseph said unto his father, Not so, my father, for this is the firstborn, put thy right hand upon his head. And his father refused and said, I know it, my son, I know it And he also shall become a people, and he also shall be great. But truly his younger brothers shall be greater than he, and his seed shall become a multitude of nations And he blessed them that day, saying, In thee shall Israel bless, saying, God, make thee as Ephraim and as Manasseh. And he said, Ephraim before Manasseh. And Israel said unto Joseph, Behold, I die, but God shall be with you, and bring you again into the land of your fathers. Moreover, I have given to thee one portion above thy brethren, which I took out of the land out of the hand of the Amorite with my sword and with my bow. And then if we would, we'd read on to the next passage, and um and uh Jacob dies. So let's pray, and we're going to look at the first few verses of this, but I wanted to read all of that in this one event that took place here. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now, as we continue our study in Joseph, I pray that you would Your Holy Spirit would teach us and show us principles and lessons from this passage that will help us in our walk with you. That our faith will be stronger, our witness more effective. And so, Lord, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. Pray you'd fill me with your Spirit. Take me and speak through me tonight And teach us your word. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I called them, I'm going to titled the message Jacob's Blessings on Joseph's Sons. And so I think we mentioned this in last week's lesson, but we are now 17 years that Jacob and the family have been living down in Egypt. Remember the famine And uh the brothers came down to get food. Joseph insisted they bring uh Benjamin with them, and it went through all that, and we've already talked about that, and eventually Jacob and the family moved down there. So they're settled in, up in the northeast corner of Egypt, up against the land of Canaan. It's close to the land God promised them as you can get, but they're still in Egypt. And they're settled in there. It's a very fertile area. It's a very uh productive area. It's some of the it's perfect for cattle and sheep, what Jacob and his family did. It was perfect conditions for that. And so they're settled in there. They've been there now. At this point, they've been there at least 17 years, approximately 17 years. The famine's been over for a good while. And they're settled in here What was initially intended to be a temporary arrangement has turned into a long-term settlement. I see no indication as I study this and look at there's no indication on Jacob's part or any of the family as far as that goes to move back to Canaan anytime soon. They're comfortable here. They're settled in. Apparently, Jacob is content to die in Egypt, which I find a little Interesting. Um he makes no request to be taken back to Canaan and die in his homeland. He does he makes no request Listen, I'm going to die. He knows he's going to die. He knows he's in his last days. And he makes no request to be taken back to Canaan, the land of promise and be buried there where his wife is and his father's buried, uh his grandmother, his uh his mother, his his grandmother, his grandfather. That's where all the fa that's the where the family's buried. And he makes no request to go back there. I've been in the ministry a while and there's many times where folks are in a hospital or somewhere and they know the end is coming and they'll often make this request. I want to go home and die at home. Anyone ever hear that? I don't want to die in this place. I want to die at home. Jacob makes no request for that. He's perfectly content to die in Egypt. I find that interesting. That suggests to me that they're very comfortable there. They have settled in and he really doesn't feel strongly enough about it to be willing to put the effort in to go back to Canaan, back to the promised land. However, though he makes no request to die in Canaan, he does make the request, and we'll look at this in more detail a little later He does make the request that his bones, well, we mentioned that last time. We'll look at how it actually plays out a little bit later. But he makes requests that his bones be returned to the land of Canaan. He wants his his bones there, his body there. And he knows where eventually that's where all his offspring are going to end up, back in the promised land. That's what God promised them forever. So for 17 years, they've settled in They've got their home and no doubt the families have it all fixed up the way they like it and and uh the crops uh the the cattle and the sheep are prospering uh prospering And um so seventeen years they have everything's quiet in Jacob's household. We have no record of What's going on that 17 years? It's quiet. It just jumps from when they show up and a few events there till now Jacob's final days. That whole time is just skipped over in just a few verses We have the record of Jacob's arrival in Egypt, and we're given a good bit of detail about that, their introduction to Pharaoh, and all that took place, and now we have Jacob's final days and his requests, his blessings. on his grandsons, his sons, and his final passing, but that seventeen years is silent. And so that tells me it was uneventful. That tells me it was a quiet time. Their needs were being met. They were satisfied. Their family was safe. Joseph had done very, very well in caring for his father and his brothers and his extended family. Joseph did a good job and they're happy, they're content, comfortable, and safe. Chapter 48 begins with Jacob blessing his grandsons, and I doubt seriously, we're not told, but in fact I'm certain, this is not his only grandsons. The other boys had children, many of them, and they multiplied greatly. But these two are significant. Joseph's sons, Jacob's grandsons from Joseph, are very, very significant And uh he blesses them. And uh it's it's interesting. If you would keep your place here and come with me to the book of Proverbs. He's diving out his inheritance. He gives Joseph and the boys a significantly larger inheritance than the rest of the family. But in Proverbs chapter 13 and verse 22, I want you to notice a statement Solomon makes here. Proverbs 13, and come down to verse 22. Says, a good man leaveth an inheritance to his children's children. So your children's children would be your Grandchildren. That's what Jacob's doing. A good man leaveth an inheritance to his children's children. Now, what would that inheritance consist of that a good man leaves to his grandchildren? What would it consist of? Well, the first thought of is wealth. And, you know, sometimes a grandparent is able to leave a great wealth to their children and their grandchildren. Maybe they worked hard, they were wise with their finances, and they were able to accumulate a great wealth, and then when they pass off, they leave that as an inheritance for their children. Great wealth Uh not everybody has great wealth to leave as an inheritance for their children. Maybe somebody says, Pastor, I worked hard, I paid my bills, I've been honest, God's taking care of me, I'm content, but I don't have a whole lot of cash, I don't have a whole lot of wealth To pass on to my children. And this says a good man leaves an inheritance to his children. Well, that inheritance doesn't necessarily always involve wealth That inheritance could be a good name, leaving a good name for my children. In other words, my children, my grandchildren would not be ashamed of the fact that they were my children and my grandchildren. They would be, and I mean this in a in a in a good way, I don't mean this in a negative way, but they would be proud To have been my child, to have been my grandchild. It's proud, I'm glad, I'm content, I find great satisfaction. He was my granddaddy, she was my grandmom. That would be a great inheritance, right? Good names rather to be chosen than great riches, we're told. And so Jacob is leaving a pretty good name. We could question it a little bit. He was a little devious Let me take that back. He was very devious in a lot of ways. But the interesting thing is, for all of Jacob's faults, and I know we're studying Joseph, but Jacob is, of course, is his father, key figure in his life. For all Jacob's faults, I find this incredible. I find this encouraging. God is never ashamed to be declared the God of Jacob. Isn't that something for all his all his horsing around and all his dishonesty and all his his uh uh uh uh messing around, all his failures For all his failures, over and over and over, he said, God says, I'm the God of Jacob. Wow, I can see Abraham. Abraham had his faults, but he was the father of the faithful, a tremendous man of faith Isaac did pretty good. Jacob had his ups and downs, but God's not ashamed to be the God of Jacob. So Jacob's leaving, we could say a good name. He's leaving a great wealth. He's incredibly wealthy So he's leaving the boys a lot of wealth. He's leaving them a fairly good name. But this is what I'm trying to get at. There's something else I can leave. I can leave for my children and my grandchildren, when it's my time to go, I can leave for them faith in God. And they can see if I can live my life in such a way, and if I can be such a Christian, that my children and my grandchildren see me and they think of someone that has faith in God to such a degree that they want to exercise faith in that same God, I've left a great inheritance to my kids. But they learn to have faith in the God of their father and their grandfather. And Jacob absolutely pulls that off. And Joseph is a young man of tremendous faith in God. And we have to believe he learned that in his home growing up. As I was studying this and thinking about what the Bible says about inheritance and Jacob coming to his final days here, I couldn't help but think of my father. My father did not leave me great wealth. And he paid his bills, he left no debt, zero debt whatsoever, but we you know there wasn't millions and millions of dollars But my daddy did leave me a good name, Leatherman. And he left me faith in God. And you've heard me say a million times I attribute my salvation and my faith in God, humanly speaking, I attribute it to the faith and testimony of my daddy. And I would like to, and my desire, and I know many of you feel the same way, my desire is that my testimony to my children and my grandchildren would be such that they would want to believe and trust God like their daddy did Like their grandpa did. You follow what I'm saying? And so a good man leaveth an inheritance to his children's children. That's what's taking place here. Jacob is on his deathbed. He knows he has a brief time to live. And now he's bringing Joseph in. Joseph has come in. He's brought the boys, Manasseh and Ephraim And to be blessed and to receive their inheritance, so to speak. I got two thoughts for tonight, is where I want to Pick up and we'll build on this in the coming messages. We'll work our way through the chapter. But the first thing I notice in verse one and two is Jacob's terminal illness Jacob's terminal illness. Look again, if you would, at verse 1. It came to pass after these things that one told Joseph, Behold, thy father is sick. Thy father is sick. Now it looks to me, and again, this is some speculation on my part, but it looks to me like Joseph had somebody assigned, I think. Joseph had somebody, one of his employees or servants, whatever the however he referred to him, one of his attendants may be And I think Joseph instructed him, I want you to keep an eye on my daddy. And if anything happens, or if he has any needs or any situation comes up that needs my attention, I want you to let me know right away. And I think when it says one came and told him, I think this was an arranged situation where Joseph could be kept up to date on the condition and, as I said, needs of his father. Now, why would he do that? Why would that be necessary? I think there's two reasons. One is the distance between probably where Joseph was operating out of, where his duties required him to be in the cities. Remember they moved all the people during the famine They moved all the people into the cities for easier distribution and better uh meeting needs. It just worked better that way. So Joseph, as uh number two in command, the famine's over, but no doubt he still has administrative duties. So he's probably down in the cities. Jacob and the family are up in Goshen, a long way off. And so, you know, they didn't have lear jets to he could just fly up there and check on them on a regular basis And so I think he had somebody up there and through a s system of communication would keep Joseph up to speed on what was going on. So distance would be one of the reasons he would need someone to do this, and perhaps because of his duties. He was a busy man. And uh, you know, I just can't imagine what all he would uh be responsible for. So Whatever the case is, I thought it was interesting. It says, one told Joseph. I think he had this arranged. And that sounds like something Joseph would do. One told Joseph, Behold, thy father is sick. I got looking up that word sick. The word sick means very seriously sick. In fact, I found four other places in Scripture where that same word that it comes from is translated grievously sick. Grievously sore. They had a wound or something. It was grievously wounded. And so this is not A flu. It's not some bug he's got. It's not a cold he has. Jacob is extremely ill. at this point. In fact, look there in verse 2. Notice how it describes him. It says, one told Jacob and said, Behold, thy son Joseph cometh unto thee. Now look at this. And Israel what He strengthened himself and sat upon the bed. He doesn't get up. He doesn't even get out of the bed, but he has to muster all his strength. Just to work himself up to be able to sit on the edge of the bed. That sounds like a very sick man. And so Jacob is now terminally ill. We know that. We read on, and he doesn't have long to live after this. He's sick. Now we're not told what the sickness is. We have no idea, but he's not expected to live. So the first thing I notice in the first two verses here is uh Jacob is terminally his terminal illness. Second thing I notice, and this is where we'll look a little more detail, Jacob's testimony of God's goodness. Jacob, Joseph shows up. He's brought the boys along with him. And the very first thing Jacob does, he starts testifying about how good God had been to him. He gives testimony. Again, look at verse 3 And Jacob said unto Joseph, he worked himself up, got the strength up, he's sitting on the edge of the bed. Joseph is there with the boys. And Jacob said to Joseph, God Almighty appeared unto me in Luz at the land of Canaan, and what? He blessed me. He blessed me. Appears to me that Jacob was anticipating this day. I think he was prepared for the day when he was going to come to the end of his life. And he wanted to get his affairs in order concerning his children and his grandchildren and their future. He did not want to leave this hanging. He wanted to make sure that everybody knew where they were at and what God's plan and purpose was for them. And the other thing I notice here, and as you will read down through into chapter 49 and uh till he passes away, at the end of chapter 49, I see no hint Of fear or apprehension on Jacob's part as he's approaching his final days I see no panic. I see no terror. I don't hear any terror in his voice. He's absolutely confident. He's, I don't sense any fear. Now, why was that? How could he come to this point and without fear? I'll tell you how. He had faith in God. He believed God's promises. Hebrews tells us that Abraham looked for a city whose builder and foundation is God, made without hands. You know what he's talking about? He's talking about heaven, the new Jerusalem. And no doubt Abraham's faith was passed on to Isaac, and Isaac passed that faith on to uh Jacob, and Jacob was confident That God would had a place for him even after his time here on earth. Isn't that a beautiful way to live? No fear, no apprehension. This is what biblical faith does. I've often thought biblical Christianity, the end game of biblical Christianity is to prepare us for the day we live in the presence of God. That's what it's all about. Man, we can we can man you can feed all the poor, you can build houses for the homeless, you can do all that stuff, but if we don't have a home in heaven, we die and end up in hell. What what does that do for any of us? But faith in God, faith in Christ for salvation, Jacob had it. And there's no fear, no apprehension as he approaches his final days. I couldn't help again but think of um some of y'all remember Chuck Coddington. Anybody remember old Chuck, faithful member here for years? And um active, he was in Bible Institute, took classes in Bible Institute, came out visitations, soul winning. I think did he sing in the choir, uh maybe, I don't know I don't think he could sing a lick, so I don't think he was in the choir. I don't remember. Yeah, I don't know I don't remember. But I do know this. He was he was diagnosed with brain tumor, brain cancer, and it went quit. Went quit. And he ended up in the rehab center assisted, living back here for a while, and um and he passed away. We did his funeral. Chuck had a tremendous testimony. And as I visited him in the final months, month or two, and then weeks, and then days before he passed away. Not one time, and people a lot of times they'll open up to Pastor and they'll talk to me. I understand, I appreciate that. But never one time did he come and express any kind of fear or apprehension or or uh anxiety about crossing the River Jordan. And he was just confident in his salvation. And he was confident now maybe there was times of that I never saw it And he's very, very confident. And when he passed away, and while we were making preparation for the funeral, his boy made a statement to me I'll never ever forget. He said, My daddy taught me how a Christian dies. He showed me firsthand how a Christian dies. And I think we see that in old Jacob here. Faith in God. Just settle, at peace with it. Making arrangements, making sure everything after he's gone is settled and uh taken care of. And um and so we have this testimony of God's goodness. And he spent much of his final days. He's testifying of how good God's been, how good God's been. And to be honest with you, it's a little bit out of character for Jacob If you remember statements he made before, he's usually complaining about something. Pew and evil have been my days. Oh, everything's terrible. Oh, they're all going to turn on me. But he's come to the end of his life and he's changed his tune a little bit. And he looked back, and I think he realized, you know, God's been pretty good to me after all. God's been pretty good to me after all. First of all, he testified of God's goodness in his life. He's telling his grandsons all about his God. That's what we're going to see here in these verses. He's got his grandson's there, Joseph is there, and he's got the boys, and he's telling them how God has blessed him and his life and some of the things that God had done for him. And he's passing that on to him. He's given testimony. Do you see that there in the verse, end of verse 3? And well, the whole verse 3 said to Joseph, God Almighty Appeared unto me in Luz in the land of Canaan and blessed me. He's given testimony. Do you know our testimony is a powerful, powerful tool in passing our faith on to others? Say, preacher, how can I get my children and grandchildren to have the faith I have in God? I'll tell you how. Display it. Talk about what God's done for you. Show them the things, prayers that God has answered, and how God's changed your life, and how God has blessed you. Too often we spend all our time griping about this and complaining about that and criticizing this, and we never talk about the goodness of God, and then we wonder why those following us, the next generation, Doesn't want to have faith in God. We ought to be praising him and talking about how wonderful he is. That's what Joseph, that's what Jacob is doing here. Psalms 107, verse 2, says this: Let the redeemed of the Lord say so. Whom he hath redeemed from the hand of the enemies. Listen, we ought never to shut up about what God has done for us. And saving our soul and blessing. Is there anybody here? God's blessed you at all? Let's talk about it. To our family and our and our extended family. God's been good to me. God did this for me. And God saved my soul. And God did this and God did that. And God has blessed me. You know, we wonder why we lose in a generation and don't want to come to church. And I'm I'm not saying us, I'm just speaking generalities here, but you know, we go home and gripe about how hot it was in the church service or how stupid the pastor's joke was or you know and we just talk about all negative about church and then we wonder why our kids don't want to go to church Jacob's blessing God. He wants to make sure these boys, their faith is in God. And he's saying, listen, boys, God met me at Luz, and He's blessed me all these years. The power of a testimony is one of the, I think personal testimony is one of the most powerful tools the Holy Ghost can use in us sharing our faith. If it's for salvation Say, well, I got some family that's not saved. Well look for and pursue opportunities to share with them how God saved you. Now let me give you a little tip here. I know this is I'm parking here just briefly, but uh let me give you a little three words To help share your testimony, how you got saved to someone else, so that God can use that and they can put their faith in Christ also. Number one, put this down, be brief You don't have to give an hour and a half long testimony of all God's done for you. If you're just wanting to share your message of salvation, tell them briefly, keep your testimony brief. And then number two, I put this down. Keep it simple. Keep it simple. You don't have to go into all the theological doctrines from Genesis to Revelation. You don't have to break down the statue that Nebuchadnezzar made and what each part of that body meant. You don't have to go into all of that. What I would suggest is this. Just tell them a little bit what your life was like before you got saved. And again, you don't have to go into details about sin if you're saved out of a life of nastiness like some of us. Don't describe all the nastiness. You don't have to do that. If you're saved, you may be a church member and had a pretty clean life and pretty respectable, still you're an old sinner, saved, right? Old sinner And so talk about maybe uh before you got saved, my heart was empty, my life, I didn't have a purpose, I was I didn't know where I was going, to heaven or hell, regardless of the details. So Keep it very simple. What your life was before you got saved in generalities, in some way that it would relate to everybody. I learned early on that if I go in, I'm talking to somebody that uh I was trying to witness to a nurse down in Chattanooga when I worked in um and uh I didn't mention this to some of the new folks, I used to work in the surgery apartment of a hospital. Yeah, thank you. Very impressive. Very impressive. I have, I don't know if you knew this, I have a doctorate of garbology And what I would do is go in the operating rooms and take all the garbage out and mop the floors and clean up the mess they made during surgery. That was my job. And I was trying to witness to the head nurse there one time and um And uh for whatever reason I got talking a little bit and trying to share the gospel. And so I told I said, well, you know, and I started telling my testimony, and I made a mistake And I got into all these specifics about what my life was like, and I went into detail of sin and stuff. I mean not extreme detail, but more so than I should have. And when it was all said and done, I told her how I trusted Christ and what God did for my life. And she made this statement to me, and I realized I messed up. She goes, Well Dennis, you needed that. I don't. Follow what I did? I painted myself, I will show what I was, but that's not what she was. And so of course you needed Christ. I don't. I'm not doing all that stuff And I learned a lesson. When I share my testimony, and I want to talk about what my life was before I got saved, I want to talk about things that would be true whether you're in the in the sewer hole or in your you're if you're in the uh uh uh in the state house. And share what sin does to you spiritually. I was separated from God. I had no confidence. When I die, I go to heaven and not to hell, and I had no purpose in my life. There was an emptiness there that nothing could fill. And that would be true for me and her, right or wrong. And so when we share our testimony, be brief, tell a little bit what you were before, but don't have to get into specifics and then tell how you got saved. And be sure to include the scriptures that were used to bring you to Christ so that they have the gospel in there. Share the scriptures. Use the Word of God And then what the results were, what your life was after you got saved, and how God changed you, and how your perspective on life changed, your worldview, and my values, my priorities. Now I have assurance that when I die, I go to heaven, not to hell. And that is what God can use for people to put their faith in the same Savior the same way you and I did. The power of a personal testimony, that's what Jacob's doing. He's telling these boys how he trusted God and what God did for him. And you and I can do that same thing. If you're testifying, maybe you're not sharing your gospel. It's just with folks maybe not living for God, maybe they're already saved. But talk often about God's blessings. In our homes, talk about how good God is to us and point out ways that God has answered a prayer or met a need or showed his goodness. Don't take for granted that the family sees and knows all that stuff. They know people are sinners. You don't have to point out everybody else's sin and failures. They'll learn that. Point out God's goodness. Point out God's blessings. Talk often of what God has done for you. That's what Jacob is doing here. He's coming to the last years. He gathers the boys in here. He starts telling them how good. Now notice what he tells them specifically. Verse number three. Jacob said unto Joseph, the boys are standing there, God Almighty appeared unto me at Luz in the land of Canaan. He tells them how he met God. God Almighty. He refers to God as God Almighty. That word God Almighty The Hebrew term for it is El Shaddai. Did you ever hear a preacher talk about the name of God? El Shaddai, one of the great names of God. And God's various names are given to God, and God uses to reveal himself and they and they tell us they tell us various aspects of God's character, of what he's like. And what he does and his nature. And the term El Shaddai, God Almighty, means this: all-powerful and all-sufficient God. And Jacob wants these boys to know that the God that has blessed him is a God that is omnipotent, all-powerful. There's nothing God cannot do. He is El Shaddai, God Almighty. Now I tell you, this next generation needs to realize the God we worship is an all-powerful God. They got this image and idea in the world. He's just some myth and just some old man upstairs and if he does exist, he's just nothing. I'm telling you, God is not nothing God is Almighty God. And Jacob wants that to be very, very clear. Jacob knew of God from his father and from his grandfather But he's emphasizing the fact here that he met this all-powerful God. He met him personally. Look what he says: God Almighty appeared unto me. He had a personal encounter with the true and living God. And he's testifying that to his son and to his son's sons. He doesn't say God Almighty appeared unto my grandfather. Did God Almighty appear to Abraham? Yes or no? Yes, he did. He called them out of Ur the Chaldees. Abraham had a tremendous relationship with God. Walk with God. Did Isaac Uh uh did God appear, uh did Almighty God appear to Isaac? Yes! His daddy, new God And had a personal encounter, a personal relationship with the true and living God. But Jacob doesn't say, oh, my daddy, my grandfather, God appeared to my grandfather. He doesn't say that. God appeared to my father. He doesn't say that. He says God appeared to who? To me, personally. And Jacob had a personal relationship with the Lord. The most important relationship in the world. Is your relationship, my relationship with our God? That's most important. If that isn't in place, we're going to have a tough time keeping everything else in place And so Jacob is testifying to the fact that he met God personally. He knew God personally. Notice what he says. He says, God Almighty appeared unto me That word appeared means he presented himself. This was an actual, real, literal encounter with the living God. Now this is hard. I don't know exactly how to express this, and I don't know how exactly how to ask this question, but I'm going to try. Have you ever had a personal encounter with the living God where it was God and you interacting? Anybody know what I'm talking about? I don't I don't know how to word that in such a way. The night I got saved. I'm here to tell you, the night I got saved It was God and me interacting with each other when I was putting my trust in God. There is no doubt about it. As real in my mind as if he was physically sitting there at the foot of my bed with me. There was no I was talking to God and God was communicating back in my heart through his word. Can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? And there's been times, and prayer, and you know, you walk with God, but it seems like there are just some times when God presents Himself in a very significant way throughout our Christian life. And that ought to be true of all Christians. Have a personal walk with God. And uh what's the song say? He walks with me, and he Talks with me and he tells me I am his own. Now God, you're not going to hear audible voices, but God sure can speak through his word just as real as if it was an audible voice And he speaks to us. And that's what Jacob is telling these boys. He presented himself to me. I met God. We interacted. He presented himself. He had a literal encounter with God. Then notice what else he says here. He says, God Almighty appeared unto me at luz in the land of Canaan. He knew where he met God. He knew the time and the place that God came into his life. He knew the time and place where his relationship with his creator, with the God, Almighty God. He knew a time and place where that relationship began when it was established. So he's telling these boys, he's given this testimony of God's goodness to them. The first thing he points out is how he met God, this God that's blessed him so much. He points out how he met him. Then he points out how God has blessed him. Look at the last part of verse 3. He makes this simple statement. Almighty appeared unto me. God Almighty appeared unto me at laws in the land of Canaan and blessed me. I underlined that in my Bible. And blessed me. He wants them to know that God has blessed them. That word blessed means that to be given an abundance of goodness. Do you ever just stop and think about how good God's been to you? Anybody at all? Are you out there? Anybody hear God been good to you? Do you ever stop and just meditate and ponder a little bit how good God has actually been to us? Goodness, you could take all day. Just going through the goodness of God. Jacob says, Boys, I want you to know I met God, the true and living God. I met him at Luz. I'd tell you the place and tell you the time. And he has been so good to me. He has blessed me. He has been abundantly, he has poured out abundant goodness on me. And we won't take time, but he goes down through the list there. He tells them how God provided for him. Look what he says. And he said, Behold, and he, God, said unto me, Behold, I will make thee fruitful He says, God provided for me all along the way. Do you ever look back and just stand in amazement how God's provided for you? You ever been in a situation where you looked at tomorrow or this coming week and you said, How in the world am I going to do this? How am I going to pay these bills? And then later you look back and God met every need right through it. Anybody know what I'm talking about? On this side it looked dark. You look back and say, wow God blessed us. God blessed us. I believe in miracles. I believe that no matter how great the need is, how big the need is, our God is able to bless and meet that need. Be fruitful unto us. I don't know what your needs are. My wife and I, we have two things. We're praying for miracles from God. I tell you, if you don't have a miracle-working God, you need to get to know the true and living God because He's a miracle-working God. Doesn't mean He'll give us everything we want and do everything our way, but it does mean this. He can and often will if it's in His will. Do what is humanly impossible. Jacob said, He has blessed me. He promised me and made me fruitful. Then he goes on and he says he prospered him. It says, uh make thee fruitful and multiply thee. And he said, then he said, I'll empower you. Look, he says, I will make of thee a multitude of people. They're going to have profound influence in this world. You know the nation of Israel is the offspring of Jacob, right? You know that. His name is Israel. That's where they got their name, from Jacob. Would you agree with me? Israel has had an impact on this whole world They have a little bit of influence in this whole world. Now, most of the world hates their guts, but they just go on. Some of the greatest inventions have been out of Israel and God's people, Jewish people. Some of the greatest things, accomplishments have been. God says, I'm going to multiply you, and you're going to have an influence in this whole world. Then he says God blessed them, gave them property. Look at this. And will uh give thee the land to thy seed after thee for an everlasting possession. I got ahead of myself when I was reading that. I got stirred up. But he says, I'm going to give you a land that's going to be yours forever Jacob had much to be grateful for. And he's telling the boys, God has kept his word to me. God has given me a lot of promises, and God has kept them. And boys, you can trust God also. You'll trust him. He'll keep his word to you also. And that has been a testimony down through the ages, from one generation to the next God has kept his word. You can trust him. And that is our desire. That is our burden here. Mine personally. I know many of us and our church as a whole, is to pass on to the next generation the confidence that God's word is true and the next generation can trust it just like the previous generation trusted it. God is faithful and true. I think that's what Jacob's getting after here. And one more thing, and I end with this. He points something out. And he gets a little personal here. Come down to verse 7. And as for me, when I came from Paden, Rachel died by me in the land of Canaan in the way, when there was yet but a little way to come unto Ephraim I buried her there, the way of Ephraim, the same as Bethlehem. What do you think he's saying? He missed Jacob. He missed Rachel. He loved her. So we were almost there. We were almost there where we were going to live. And she died in the way. And I buried her on the way. I think at the end of his life, Jacob was showing his boys, I loved, I loved, I think he's showing Joseph particularly, I loved your mother. I miss her. You know the best thing a daddy can do for his son, one of the best things, is love his mother. Jacob loved Rachel so much. He missed her. And uh he wanted the boys to know that. He wanted Joseph to know that, he wanted the grandsons to know that. He ends on his little sad note there, but um we know he saw her again. Amen. He saw her again. He buried her body. But um that's not the end of it, is it We go on. Jacob, blessing. Now next time we're going to quit there. Next time we're going to look at how he actually blesses these boys. It gets interesting. And the position he puts them in, some interesting things happen. But until then, let's let's make sure our testimony is what it ought to be. Let's communicate to others, our family and neighbors and friends and workers how good our God really is. You know, some people, we live in a day and age where some people, the only time, only thing they hear about God is somebody wanting him to damn somebody. Right? That's all this That's all this generation hears about God Why doesn't somebody on the job or in the market or in the neighborhood in the house start talking about how good God is? How he's blessed us. And maybe that would make a difference. Father, bless. Now, as we uh consider Jacob, his testimony to his boys, and I pray you'd help us. Those of us that are redeemed, help us say so. I must talk about our wonderful God. Heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I want to be more vocal in how good God has been to me? Any like that by the uplifted hand I want to speak about it, I want to sing about it, I want to talk about it, I want to think about it, how good God has been to me, and get this negative garbage in the world out of our head And get the goodness of God in its place. Amen? Father bless our imitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand