I I would really if we could I would if I get a bye with it I would read verses one through twenty seven. But We're not going to read all those verses. We actually started this chapter in uh last Wednesday night, and we started with the first few verses. We're studying the life of Joseph, of course And we've come to the end of Jacob's life. This is his last words. He's about to pass away. And Shong is going to read and get us started here, and then we're going to pick it up here in a little bit. But verse 1 says, And Jacob called unto his sons and said, Gather yourselves together that I may tell you that which shall befall you in the last days Gather yourselves together and hear, ye sons of Jacob, and hearken unto Israel your father Reuben, thou art my firstborn, my might, and the beginning of my strength, the excellency of dignity, and the excellency of power Unstable as water, thou shalt not excel, because thou wentest up to thy father's bed, then defilest thou it. He went up to my couch And then he goes on down through there. And he's pronouncing this blessing on his sons. He starts with Reuben. Then you go on down through Judah. We're going to look at Uh just briefly at each of these statements that Jacob makes about his sons, all twelve of them eventually, we're going to get all the way down to Joseph. We're studying the life of Joseph, and so I'm trying uncharacter l characteristically trying to not get on any rabbit trails here, but um but I want to cover what he says about these boys. Then then Lord will in uh two weeks from tonight. We're going to zero in on what he says about Joseph, because that's the topic of our series. So let's pray. Ask the Lord to bless tonight. Father in heaven, I thank you for the study of Joseph that we've been looking at here for quite some time. And I pray that you would tonight in this portion of Scripture that you would speak to our hearts. I pray there'd be some lessons here, principles that would apply to each of our lives and that you could uh help us see and then you would apply them so that our faith would be stronger and our witness more effective and our walk with you a little uh stronger. So Please fill me with your Spirit as always my prayer as I preach and teach. I yield my will and present my body and pray that you would uh help me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen Half of the book of Genesis, from chapter 25 all the way through chapter 50 Is uh is dedicated to the life of Jacob, for the most part, covers the life of Jacob more than any other person in all the book of Genesis. And of course within that span of Jacob's life in chapter 25 is we have the account, the record of his birth And in chapter 49, here at the end of the chapter, we have his death. And then chapter 50, the last chapter of the book of Genesis, we have his burial. And so these 25 chapters, half of the book of Genesis, covers the life of Jacob and the life of his son Joseph, which is what we're targeting here. Jacob, Joseph's father, and we pointed this out multiple times throughout our study, his life was, I put it this way, was conflicted There was a lot, by that I mean this, there was a lot of conflict in the life of Jacob. From early on, he had conflict with his brother. Then he had conflicts with his uncle, Laban, and then he had conflicts with his wives, plural, then he had conflicts with his boys. And so he had a conflicted life, and again, we're not studying the life of Jacob, but it's a fascinating study, I believe, would be to study the life of Jacob. Why was he why did he have so why did he have such troubles with other people? Why did he have such a hard time getting along with his brother and with his uncle and with his wives and with his boys? Well, I think it's pretty obvious, at least early on, Jacob lived for Jacob. It was all about what he could get out of others. His conflict with his brother, of course, began with uh stealing the birthright, or selling the birthright for uh uh for a pottage, a bowl of oatmeal, so to speak. And it was up what he could get. He saw an opportunity, he took advantage of that opportunity to advance himself and get for himself something that belonged to somebody else. Now of course God is sovereign. God had a plan. He could take all that and use it. And then his his conflicts with his uncle again was Building his own um uh herds, his own um pro possessions at the expense of Laban And then his wives, there was issues there among themselves, and then with the boys. And so I think the problem there with Jacob was Jacob loved Jacob mo mo first and foremost. He was self-centered. Anytime you and I get wrapped up in ourselves and it all becomes about me and what's mine, we're going to end up with conflicts with people. Dr. Lee Robertson, my pastor for a number of years down in Chattanooga at the Hyman Park Baptist Church, used to say over and over and over again, you've heard me quote them many, many times, die to self, die to self, die to self. I'd venture to say 90 plus percentage of our problems, our conflicts would uh evaporate if we just what? Just die to self. Just die self. It's not worth it. It doesn't have to be me. It doesn't have to be my way. It doesn't have to be about me. And so Jacob's life was very conflicted because Jacob's life was focused primarily on Jacob. Particularly early on. I put this down. His life was con complicated. Do you ever ha have somebody ask him a question, what's the story? And they'll say something like this, well, it's complicated His life was complicated. He had such a difficult time, as I just said, with his brothers, his uncle, his wives. His sons, he had all these issues, he had all this struggle going on his whole life. And yet he is one of the most profound figures in Israel's history And all through Scripture, over and over and over, God refers to himself as the God of Jacob. He named God names his people, the nation that make up his people in the Old Testament. He names them after Israel. God's name for him. And so to me, how does that happen? How do you have a guy that has so many issues and so many struggles and failures? And yet he becomes such a profound figure in the history of God's people and throughout Scripture. So he's a conflicted, he has a lot of conflicts, and he has a complicated life, and it's hard to understand some things But now his life is coming to its conclusion. We're reading here in chapter 49 when we get to the end Verse number 33, the last statement of the chapter referencing Jacob says he was gathered unto his people. He's 147 years old at this time. He's making his final statements before he passes on and he's gathered to his people A couple statements. Two, the first two are going to be a little bit repetitious of last week, but I want to lay some groundwork. In verse number one, we find he's making a public blessing on his voice. This blessing on his voice, it's very public. Look at verse 1, chapter 39. He says, it says, and Jacob called unto his sons and said, gather yourselves together that I may tell you which shall what shall uh that which shall befall you in the last days. And so previously, just before this, and We're not told the time frame here. My impression is, it may have just been a day or a couple days previous to this, he had met privately with Joseph. Joseph had come in with his two boys, and they had there the birth rate was pronounced upon Joseph's boys and He makes some real special blessings and gives them a very, very special blessing. And we talked about the significance of the blessing. So that was a very private meeting between a father and his son and his two grandsons. Now, this meeting Conference, assembly, whatever you want to call it with the family. This is very public. They're all in on it. All the brothers are hearing what's said about all the other brothers. And so it's a very public blessing. Number two, about this blessing, it's a prophetic blessing. Look with me again at verse number one. And there's a little phrase that caught my attention as I was studying this. Look at verse 1. Jacob called unto his sons and said, Gather yourselves together. There's that public assembly. that I may tell you that which shall befall you, but the sentence doesn't end there. So I'll tell you that I may tell you what shall befall you. Now notice the last phrase. In the what? In the last days. He doesn't say in your last days. He says in the last days. So this, what we're calling a blessing, in the follow the rest of the chapter addressing these boys, I'm referring to it as a blessing. Most Bible commentators refer to it as a blessing. is really has a prophetic element to it. He says the last dates, it's a prophetic blessing. Now, this blessing consists primarily of two things. We're going to notice this, and I'm going to go through the blessings very quickly because I want to focus on Joseph, not on these other brothers, but this is part of his experience. First thing Jacob does, and as he brings each boy, he references each of his sons, and he makes a statement, a blessing, so to speak. Some of it's a curse, you'll see here in a bit. But it's a prophetic element to him. The first thing he says, and most of them, he assesses their character. I tell you, sometimes a daddy knows what a boy is what his boy is better than the boy knows what he is. You know, you've seen 'em from an infant. Negrow up and say, All right, I know I know what that guy is And that's basically what Jacob is saying about these boys. He sees what they are. He sees beyond the facade, and he knows what their character is. And so he's making an assessment about their character. I don't know how much they appreciated it. I would venture to say a few of the guys didn't appreciate it as much maybe as they should have But I tell you, and I can't now, but I would be really interested in knowing what my father's assessment of my character was, how daddy saw me. Anybody feel that way? Maybe be interested. I wonder how my daddy viewed me. What did he see? He sees most usually a daddy sees the boy's weaknesses. He sees his strengths. He sees his vulnerabilities. We talked about that Sunday morning a little bit. So Jacob has these boys pegged. Now, no doubt the Holy Spirit is involved in this. prophetic blessing. So we believe the Spirit of God perhaps has is a factor here. But it's interesting as you go through these twelve boys The characteristics of their character that he points out, there's a lot of lessons to be learned there, and I would really like to spend more time on each of these boys than we're able to You could do a full study on each of the boys. So he assesses their character. Then the second thing he does, and this I get from that little phrase at the end of verse 1, In the last days, he makes a prophecy about their future. Now, it's not that clear on each of the statements he makes to each of the boys what the prophecy is or what part of the future he's talking about. But when he uses that phrase, the last days, he gives us some information about what he's talking about. The last day. What do we generally associate with the last days? Somebody says, oh, it's the last days. What are we talking about? Huh? The days just before the Lord comes back, right? That's generally what we're talking about. Boy, we're living in the last days And I there's a fellow, he's with the Lord, and I used to always, every time he told me, he said, uh, uh he called me Reverend Leatherman. Reverend Leatherman, we're living in the last days, aren't we? Well, the fact of the matter is, biblically, the last days are from the time of Christ till the second advent of Christ at the end of the tribulation period. Biblically, that's considered the last days. So are we living in the last days? Yeah. And the people a hundred years ago were living in the last days, and the people a thousand years ago were living in the last days And Paul was living in the last days, technically, according to the Bible. So Jacob says to his boys, he says, I'm going to tell you How it shall be with you in the last days. I think he's referring to whether he fully was comprehended this or not. He's referring to the ultimate development of the nation of Israel back when the Lord comes back. Now again, he doesn't go into real specifics. He doesn't give a lot of detail. A lot of the statements about them in the last days isn't real clear what he's referencing. But nevertheless, this is a reference to Israel at the time, maybe during the millennial reign, when Jesus Christ comes back. So he's addressing their future of the them as a nation and each of the tribes. So number one, we have this public blessing. He calls them all in together. They all hear what the uh the the statement is about all each other. Uh it's prophetic. Much of it is going to refer to their future And now the pronouncement of this blessing. And this is where we'll pick up. And I'm just going to make a few statements on each of these till we get down to Joseph. And I want to commit one lesson itself to what he says about Joseph. Oh, by the way, he breaks them up into their mothers, the sons of their mothers. For instance, verse number three, Reuben Down through verse 14, Issachar, those are all the sons of Leah. We'll look at them. And then verse number 15. uh Dan, and then he kind of skips down, he does Dan, and then he skips down. Uh he he goes to Gad and Asher, who are the sons of Bilha. Then he comes back. He breaks it up. I'll point it out. Then he gets down to verse 22. He hits Joseph, of course, the sons of Rachel, Joseph, and Benjamin. So let's come back here. Number one, the sons of Leah. Verse number three. Reuben, thou art my firstborn, my might, the beginning of my strength. The excellency of dignity and the excellency of power. How do you think Rubin is feeling at this point in the statement Yeah, he's feeling pretty good. Ah, listen to what he says about it. He says, you're my firstborn. Yeah. You're my might, the beginning of my strength. Now again, we have to, we can't say dogmatically what Jacob is meaning by this, but it sounds to me like he's saying Man, I had high hopes on you. You were my strength. I saw my strengths in you. Then he got he says uh and the beginning uh the beginning of my might and the beginning of my strength, the excellency of dignity. Wow, that's a would you agree with me? That's quite a statement to make About your boy, man, you're dignified and you're excellent in dignity. So so far we get this impression that Jacob's assessment of Reuben, he's a very strong man He has some real strengths, some real abilities. He conducts himself with dignity is excellent. Um perhaps it implies Um he's attractive, a handsome, strong, gifted man, the excellency of power. Sounds like a reference to authority there. So the first thing Jacob points out about Reuben is very, very positive. You are a gifted man. Then he goes on. And he says in verse number four, unstable as water, look at that next this next statement. Thou shalt not what? What's the opposite of excelling? Failing? Then we say unto his son, you've got all the abilities, you've got the looks, you've got the talent. You've got it all. But you're going to fail. You're going to fail. Man, I don't know about you. But can you imagine what goes on in the heart and mind of a young man when his daddy tells him, You're not going to excel, son, you're going to fail. He's being brutal. But he's being honest. So he tells him, first of all, his first assessment is, you're very gifted, you're very talented, you have abilities. He says, but, now notice, he says, before he tells them he's going to fail, he says, you are unstable as water. How stable is water? That's not stable. In fact, it's so unstable you can't walk on it unless you're Jesus or Peter. And Peter didn't last very long on it. What's he saying? He says he's unstable as water. What's he what's he saying about Reuben? You're undisciplined Can't count on you. Um you're on again, off again. You're in and out, you're hot and cold You know, there's no consistency. You're like water just washing around, waves of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed. He's gifted. He's good looking. He has everything a person would want if they're going to succeed in life, except discipline. He is an undisciplined man. One day he's all gung-ho, the next day he doesn't feel like it. Undisciplined. I'll tell you Discipline, or the New Testament term is temperance. Discipline is absolutely necessary to be a successful Christian. Discipline. We have some employers in our church. Sometimes they'll gripe a little bit. I just can't get good work. Anybody ever hear somebody say that? Can't get good work. Generally, when they describe the situation, generally what they're describing is somebody that may be very good at what they're doing, but they're not disciplined. You don't know if they're going to show up or not. You don't know what kind of shape they're going to be in. You just don't know. You can't rely on them. You can't depend on it. You can't trust them. Unstable as water. Thou shalt not excel. And so he gives this assessment of Reuben. He's gifted, he's undisciplined, but then he takes it to another level, and this is a result of lack of discipline. Notice what he says. Unstable as water, thou shalt not excel, because thou wentest up to thy father's bed. Then defilest thou it. He went up to my couch. What's he saying? He's saying that Reuben is very gifted But he's undisciplined and he's an immoral man. He's immoral Reuben had a problem with lust. To such an extent that he committed incest With one of Jacob's concubines, a wife, you could say, one of four, who was a concubine. He was the maid of Leah, I believe. Come back if you would and have this count if th chapter 35, verse 22. This is what Jacob is referring to when he is speaking to uh Reuben chapter 35, verse 22, says, It came to pass when Israel dwelt in that land. Beyond the Tower of Edar, as verse 21 tells us, in that land, that Reuben went and lay with Bilha, his father's concubine. And Israel heard it. Now the sons of Jacob were 12. He went on. Israel, Jacob found out about it. And here he is on his deathbed, and he hasn't forgotten. He brings it back up and he says, you're gifted, you're talented, Reuben, but you're undisciplined and you're immoral, and you will fail. You will not succeed. By the way, you lost the birthright over that action. There was a consequence to that. That explains a little bit later, again, I'm taking more time on this than I wanted, but that explains a little bit Reuben's actions when they were confronted by Joe Joseph when they came down to Egypt, remember And they're going to keep uh Simeon, they keep Simeon, and and uh Reuben goes off on this rant, oh, you can kill all my kids if I don't bring them back. It was just irrational And that's apparently pretty much what Reuben was. And so Reuben loses the birthright. This horrendous sin of incest is brought up publicly in front of all the others. We assume they all knew about it, we don't know. Then he moves on, verse number five, he moves on to Simeon and Levi, and he addresses both of these guys together. Look at verse 5. Simeon Levi are brethren. Now look what he says about that. Instruments of cruelty are they in their habitations. O my soul, come not thou into their secret, into their assembly, mine honor. Be not thou united. For in their anger they slew a man, and in their self-will they digged down a wall. Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce, and their wrath, for it was cruel. I will divide them in Jacob and scatter them in Israel. Again, we don't have time we could spend a whole lesson just on these two guys. Question, positive or negative assessment of these two guys? Terribly negative Man alive. He has nothing good to say about these two boys. First of all, he points out their cruelty, instruments of cruelty. Back in chapter 34, and again we won't take time to go there, they slaughter scores of innocent people because one fella raped their sister. And so they go and they slaughter the whole community. Cruelty, instruments of cruelty. They knew how to be cruel. Jacob knew it. He saw it in them. Violent. My soul, uh he comes down there. In their anger they slew a man, in their self-will, they dig down a wall. I mean their anger just became violent. Their uncontrolled anger, cursed be their anger, verse 7, for it was fierce, and their wrath, for it was cruel. So he points out their cruelty, he points out how violent their anger becomes. And then he says, makes an interesting statement there in verse 6. He says, Oh my soul. He's talking to himself almost here. And he says, Come not thou into their secret, into their assembly, mine honor. Be not thou united. What's he saying we should do with these two guys? What's w what's he getting at here? Don't have nothing to do with these guys. Man, don't come in. If they've got something going on, some kind of deal they're making, some kind of secret, this contract, maybe that Don't be a part of it. Whatever their scheming, whatever their plans are, you stay away out, stay out of it. Proverbs tells us, Make no friendship with an angry man, lest thou be like unto him. That's what Jacob is saying about his two boys. If they got a problem with anger, you stay away. One thing I found in my experience, and I think you have also, anger is contagious. Right? If you're in the presence of somebody that's angry, what do you end up doing? You get angry also. You can try not to. I'm not going to get angry And Jacob is saying, listen, you two fellas, you're cruel, you're violent, your anger is out of control. Don't come near them. Don't get involved in their schemes. Don't be a part of anything they're doing. Angered. Angered. So Reuben has an issue with lust. These two fellows have issues with anger. You say, I thought this was a blessing. Well Then he gets to Judah. Notice what he says verse 8 about Judah. These are all Leah's boys. Judah Thou art he whom thy brethren shall praise. I'd venture to say they already are praising Judah because he helped them out tremendously with Joseph and then with Pharaoh. Thou art he whom thy brethren shall praise. Thy hand shall be upon the neck of thine enemies. What is he implying when he says your hand's going to be on the neck of your enemies? What's he saying? You'll be victorious in your life. You're going to overcome those that would be considered enemies. Thy hand shall be upon the neck of thine enemies. Thy father's children shall bow down before thee. You're going to be a leader. You're going to be respected. They're going to show respect to you. Judah is a lion's whelp from the prey, my son. Thou art blown up. He stooped down. You can see a lion doing this. He crouched as a lion, as an old lion. Who shall rouse him up? The scepter shall not depart from Judah. Nor a lawgiver from between his feet until Shiloh come, and unto him shall the gathering of the people be, binding his foe unto the vine and his ass is cold unto the choice fine. He washed his garments in wine, and his clothes in the blood of grapes. Wow, that's figurative language. This actually, and I don't know Hebrew, but what I'm understanding studying this, this is a very poetic statement here that Jacob on his deathbed, Jacob of all people It's being very poetic in his pronouncement upon Judah. So this is pretty positive. Jacob's blessing consists of Judah as he's going to destin to be a leader. You're going to be a leader, verse 8 and 9. Father's children shall bow down before thee. They're going to follow your leadership. Like a lion, you're going to be a leader. Verse number 10, and we looked at this last week, but he is From him, his tribe, his offspring, the Messiah is going to show up. It's one of the greatest blessings in all of Scripture. To know that from my seed, from my offspring, some point down the road, the Savior of the world is going to show up So this is where the prophetic aspect comes in. Until Shiloh comes. He's going to be the tribe of the Messiah, of course, the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, verse 11 and 12, you have to think this through a little bit. It says, binding his foe, what's a foe? Yeah, little young horse, a little foat, binding his foe unto the vine. And his ass is cold unto the choice vine. Now you have to think that through a little bit. If you've got a little horse, and maybe they're somewhat untamed, they've got a wild spirit. And you've got uh an ass, a donkey, a young uh donkey, and they're a little bit. You ever see them running around the field kicking and jumping and carrying on, frolicking You wouldn't think to tie them to a vine. Right? You would want something a little more sturdy than a vine, in my thinking. And then it says, tie them to a choice vine, binding his foe unto the vine, and his ass's coat unto the choice vine. I mean, this is the really good vine. This is the vine that's producing the really good grapes. This is something you've invested in. You don't want it tore up. So the question is, is why in the what's he meaning when he says it's like tying uh uh under under your offspring and the in your future of your tribe They're going to tie their young horses to a vine and their little baby donkeys to a good choice vine. What's he saying? I think this is it. And I'm look, try to see what other guys thought, try and sort this out. This is what I come up with. I think he's saying it's going to be so prosperous. You'll have so many good vines, so many choice lines, so much. And if you tie a little horse up to it and it tears it up, it's not even going to matter. That's how prosperous you are. You ever know somebody so rich they threw the one dollar bills away because they just took up too much room and the th I never met anybody like that. But that's the idea here, I think. He says you're going to have tremendous prosperity. He washes his garments in wine. Who does that? You use water out of the river. His clothes in the blood of grapes, that would be wine. Who does that? That's expensive. This is uh something you work hard to produce, then you're gonna wash your clothes in it So I don't know. That's the impression I got that he's going to be tremendously prosperous. And then he says this: his eyes shall be red with wine, and his teeth white with milk. I think he's talking about prosperity, and he's saying they're going to be very healthy. It's going to be very healthy. Now, again, you have to try and interpret what he means here. But nevertheless, this is all positive. Positively prophetic about Judah. Judah didn't have, Judah was not the beginning of Jacob's strength. Judah did not have excellency and dignity. He no doubt didn't have the looks. He didn't have the physique. Maybe he didn't have the skills and the talents, the abilities that Reuben did But Judah had something that Reuben did not have, and that was self-discipline and character. And he's going to make something of himself, and he's going to be productive, and his offspring, and his offspring's offspring, and all the way down the line till the Messiah comes, Shiloh. And so he addresses Judah. This is Joseph's brother. Then he moves on to Zebulun, verse 13. Zebulun, he just makes a short statement here, shall dwell in the haven of the sea. He shall be for a haven of ships, and his border shall be unto Zidon. He's talking about the geographical location where he ends up. I think what he's saying about Zebulun, he's saying, listen, you're going to, your tribe, your offspring, are going to play a vital role in Israel's future, particularly the economy. The ships coming in, what generally would the ships coming into Israel, what would they be doing? What would ships be coming and going for? Trade. Yeah, bartering and trading and bringing different things. Remember when Solomon was a king a thousand years later? Solomon's king, several hundred years later, Solomon's king, and the ships are bringing silver and gold and rubies and peacocks and apes and all kinds of stuff. Well that's what he's saying about Zebulun. You're going to be very effective. You're going to have a key role in Israel's economy, in the trade. And so they're going to be key there. Issachar And number 14. Issachar is a strong ass crouching down between two burdens. So get that picture in your mind. Here's a donkey. It's got heavy, two heavy burdens on him. Man, it's weighing them down. And he saw that the rest was good in the land that it was pleasant. That's the Canaan promised land And bowed his shoulders to bear and became a servant unto tribute. Alright, what's he saying here? I'm just going to abbreviate here a little bit. I think he's saying he's going to be a very, very strong tribe. They're going to have a lot to contribute, particularly in this matter of helping the nation of Israel do what needs to be done. They're going to bear burdens for them. They're going to be a help. It's interesting, you study the tribe of Issachar, no heroes come out of the tribe of Issachar. As far as we know, no judges, no kings, no heroes come out of them. Issachar, in my mind, this is the way I picture them, they are blue-collar workers. They don't have advanced degrees in education. They're not living in palaces They're blue-collared workers that are doing the work that's going to carry the nation forward. And we hear a lot of talk of that in our country now with elections and everything. But the fact of the matter is Your average middle class, hardworking, blue-collar people are the ones that make the nation work. Right or wrong. They're the ones that build the roads. They're the ones that uh work in the hospitals. They're the ones that dig the mines. They're the ones that keep the trucks running. They're the ones they're the The ones that do the work Right? That's what he's saying about Zebulin. I don't know about you, but uh I was uh if I was Zebulun here and he's saying this, or I'm sorry, Issachar, if I'm Issachar and he's saying this to me I don't know. I think I'd put my shoulders back a little bit. I'd find satisfaction in that. I'd find fulfillment in the fact that my daddy is saying you're a hard worker And you're going to be a key factor in the success of your community and your nation. I like that. So Issachar. So he's coming down through here. So that's the sons of Leah. Now he shifts over to the sons of Bilha. This is Rachel's maid. Hey, she had Leah Married uh uh Jacob first, uh sneakily. He didn't know I don't know how that worked out, but he didn't know he was marrying her till after he did it And then uh he marries uh Rachel. They find out they're not having uh kids, so she gets her a maid and she gives him to Jacob. uh uh as a concubine. So now we have the sons of Bilha. First one, verse sixteen, how many people are still with me? All right. Good then. God bless you. Verse 16, he touches on, she has two boys by Jacob. The first one is Dan He says, Dan shall judge his people as one of the tribes of Israel. Dan shall be a serpent, by the way, and an adder in the path. that biteth the horse heels, so that his riders shall fall backward. Boy, that's descriptive What's he saying here? He's saying, first of all, he says, you're going to be a judge. Apparently Dan is going to play a role in the judicial responsibilities in Israel. They had one outstanding judge, one judge that became very, very famous for good and bad reasons Anybody want to guess which judge that was? Samson was of the tribe of Dan. And he actually, if you can just separate him from his shenanigans, He was actually a tremendous judge. He got great victories for Israel. In fact, if you study Hebrews chapter 11, he's mentioned there in a very positive respect. Now he had his issues, no doubt, and we're all aware of that. But nevertheless, they're going to be involved in the judicial aspect of the nation. And how that applies to the millennial, we're not sure. We'll find out, I guess. But he says he's very crafty He says, uh, you're a serpent by the way. Anybody here, any of you guys ever out hunting or fishing or something, and you're not you're just Doing your thing. And next thing you know, right at your foot, here's a sermon. You never saw it, just like appeared out of nowhere. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Yeah, whoa, whoa. Um he said, that's the way you are, Dan. You're tricky. You bite the horse. I like the way he describes this here. You bite the horse's heels so that the rider falls off. Doesn't just fall off. He falls off backward. Why is he falling off the horse backward? Because the horse is rearing up and throwing him off So what does he mean by this? My impression is this, he's going to be very effective in warfare, in the defense of Israel. You're going to know how to come on the enemies and just get them by surprise. Kind of guerrilla warfare. And so, Dan, judge and creepy. Now, for some reason. He skips down, he references Gad and Asher and comes down to Naphtali. Dad and Asher are sons of Zilpa. Leah's maid. So he puts them out of order here a little bit, and we'd be honest with you, we don't know why. But come down to verse 21. Naphtali is the son of Bilha, Rachel's maid, and he says this. Nathalie is a hind, let loose, he giveth goodly words. Okay, a simple little statement. This is what we get out of it. He's free spirit He's a hind. What is a hind in scripture? When scripture references a hind, what's it talking about? A deer, a type of deer. And he says, is a hind let loose? You've got that deer caught up, and finally you let the thing loose, what does it do? Zing! It's wild. I think what he's saying is Naphtali is pre-spirit. And the interesting thing is when they finally his tribe finally settles in the land of e uh of Canaan, the promised land, they're actually living they lived in the hill country up where the deer would be. If Canaan was Maryland Nathalie lived in Garrett County. That's the way it would be. And then he makes this statement. He giveth goodly words. I think the idea here is he's a uh the the goodly there has the idea of productive, prosperous. He's a very wise man. He gives good advice, he gives good counsel. Some of the idea behind this, I think, is uh poetic. Um made me, while I was reading this, it made me think a little bit of um, uh I don't think you'll mind me saying this, Lonnie Lewis Lonnie Lewis, when we first moved here, he would hunt. He'd write poetry. Does anybody here know that Lonnie Lewis writes poetry? I mean tremendous. And he's probably listening right now. And I'm seriously, he's given me over the years, he'd give me a poem he wrote, I wrote this in the tree stand. I think Liney is out of the tribe of Naphtali. Then we come to the sons of Zilpah. Again, a little bit out of order here. Look at verse 19. Gad. A troop shall overcome him, but he uh he shall overcome. At the last. Gad, it's interesting. The the name Gad means troop It says that Gad, a troop, shall overcome him. The word overcome there is the same word as troop. So the word overcome means troop. And then it says, but he shall overcome at the last, and that means troop. So this is kind of the way it reads in the Hebrew, the way I understand it. Troop. A troop shall troop you, but you'll troop at the last. So I don't know if Jacob did that deliberately, just playing with words or what, with his name, the boy, it means in troops. He uses that term three times in a little statement Can't hardly think it was inadvertent. He probably said that deliberately. But it's a military term. And the tribe of Gad was great warriors, and they were vital in the defense of Israel. And he's pointing that out prophetically. Then we have Asher, verse number 20. Out of Asher, his bread shall be fat, and he shall yield royal dainties. Word Asher means blessed or happy. Not strong militarily, Asher's tribe was not known for their military prowess, but they were very productive and agricultural. Says, he says there, bread shall be fat. Oh, you're gonna contribute to the nation of Israel bread and abundance. You're gonna be the farmers. Of your nation. I tell you, America owes a great debt to our farmers. You enjoy your bread and your eggs and your food. You ought to thank a farmer for that. That's what that's what uh uh Asher was. They were the they made people happy. And then he says there, he says he give uh it says um His bread shall uh be fat, and he shall yield royal dainties. Apparently that's a reference maybe to the olive oil that was produced in their their region And it was a great blessing to Israel. And then he comes to the sons of Jacob, or the sons of Rachel, Jacob and Benjamin. I want to look at them separately because I want to really look at what he says about Joseph. So you say, all right, preacher, all that, we looked at all these guys and what he said about them. We see their characters. Some were great, some were terrible. Some were very gifted, some weren't very gifted, but they succeeded in spite of the fact that they weren't very talented, but nevertheless they had some character, they had some discipline, they worked hard And they made something of themselves, and their people had a great heritage. So what do we get out of that? Here's what I take away from it Every one of these boys, up w with the exception of Joseph, we could say, failed horribly. Right? They were all part of betraying Joseph. All of them had their faults, some more obvious than others. But here's the thing: each son, ultimately, in the end Had a place in God's final kingdom. They had a tribe named after them, and in the millennial reign, every one of their offspring, every one of their tribes Is going to have a place in the kingdom of God. How can that be? I'll tell you how it can be. It's called the grace and mercy of God. And the fact of the matter is, if the truth was known about every one of us, or any one of us, we have our own share of faults and failures, amen or not. Of course we do. And two things that we ought to take away from that. Number one, we ought to be very, very careful, very, very slow, very, very cautious about pointing out and dwelling on the faults of others. Because we got our own truckload of them ourselves. And number two, when we're aware of them and we deal with them, we don't ignore it. We confess our sins, we forsake them We recognize our faults, we get back up, a just man falls seven times, he gets back up, but we have to remember that in spite of my failures, in spite of my weaknesses, in spite of my faults If I've trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, I am in Christ, and when it's all said and done, I'll have a place in God's eternal kingdom. Now that is not a justification for failure. It's not an excuse to have lack of character, but it does bring me hope and encouragement when I fail. That God does not forsake me. And that ought to motivate me that when I fail, that when I fall That ought to motivate me because I'm accepted in Christ, not for my own righteousness, my own how good I am, I'm in Christ, I'm accepted in Christ, ought to motivate me to want to live for God even more Follow what I'm saying? So every one of these boys, Reuben, Levi, Simeon, Man. But yet in the millennial they all have a place. And that's something. Thank God for the grace and mercy of God. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for these boys. And Lord, it's a little tedious maybe looking through what all was said about them, but it's in your word, Lord, and I believe you have a lesson for us. So I pray you'd help us. Not one of us can look down our nose at someone else. Because uh we're just we have our own. issues ourselves. And so help us, Lord, rejoice in your mercy. Rejoice in your grace. Lord, when we mess up, help us get confess that, forsake it, get back up, and go on for you. Help us, Lord. Heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I gotta remember I'm in Christ I'm not on my own. I'm in Christ. And God accepts me in Christ. And I can go on. Any like that? Any like that? My word. Every day we need to remember that. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen.