I just want to read verse 24 to get us started. You all seem lethargic this morning, huh? Pastor Mark and I or Brother Mark and I were saying sitting here. It's like, man, everybody's quiet this morning. We need a We gotta do jumping jacks or something here. Get you all awake. How many folks are awake this morning? You're awake. How many folks are not awake? Raise your hand. Yeah, that's what I figure. How many people are glad you you'd rather be here than in jail? How many people would rather be here than in Baltimore where it's a hundred degrees? Yeah. So lighten up. All right, let's look at this here. Verse number 24 of Genesis 32, it says, And Jacob was left alone And there wrestled a man with him until the breaking of the day. Jacob wrestling with God. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven. I've come to you this morning very grateful for your blessings and your grace, the mercy you show us, and uh so grateful. And I pray now, as our Bibles are open in front of us, that your Holy Spirit Would take the word of God that we're looking here, this passage, and the principles and the truths here, I pray that your Holy Spirit would apply it to our hearts. Lord, all of us are different. We're at different stages in our spiritual life and different situations we're dealing with. And Holy Spirit, you know each of us individually, intimately. So please use your word to speak our hearts to help us and give us direction and strengthen and teach us. With that in mind, I yield my mind and my will to you that you could have control of my thoughts as I preach. I yield my body to you at present anew so that you can fill me with your Spirit and speak through me. So bless now and help us to be sensitive to your leadership in our lives. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I don't know about you, but I enjoy the Old Testament. I try to, on a daily basis, I try to read several passages from the Old Testament. I'm working on my second time through the Old Testament this year so far. I enjoy reading the Old Testament. Morning and evening I'll read from it. I enjoy studying it. It's a fascinating study for me, the Old Testament. Uh some folks some folks don't appreciate the Old Testament. Uh some folks avoid it. In fact, I have had, in the almost 31 years I've been here as pastor, I've had, on a few occasions, I've had people say to me, I don't like the Old Testament. I don't want to read it. I don't like it. There's various reasons for that. A liberal or liberal neighbors might not read the Old Testament because they don't believe it. There's events that are recorded there of supernatural events that are recorded in the Old Testament. Our liberal friends, they deny anything supernatural, they would deny anything of God, and so they would avoid the Old Testament. But sometimes even Bible believers will avoid, or let me use this word, neglect the reading and studying of the Old Testament. I think that's a mistake. Some people say that it uh had the attitude it's out of date. It's thousands of years old, and that it doesn't relate to our day and age. I take issue with that. You read some of the Psalms, you read some of the prophecies, you read the Old Testament. I'm telling you, it is as current as yesterday's newspaper. It's out of date. It's irrelevant to my life and what I'm living. So I'm not going to bother reading the Old Testament. I just want the New Testament. Some folks neglect the Old Testament because they say it's bloody and violent. And to that I say the Old Testament is bloody and violent. It is. You read the history of 1 2 Kings Chronicles down through their judges. Goodness. It is. But so is all of history. Man's from the f from the time of man's fall The history of mankind has been blood and violence. It has. I don't know that there's any time where there is 100% peace on earth. And it's never happened, never will, until the Prince of Peace comes back and rules. So, yes, the Old Testament is. There's portions of the Old Testament that are very bloody and very violent. Some people say the Old Testament's confusing. I just don't understand. And I'll be honest with you, the majority of the Old Testament I think is pretty clear to understand, but I'll I'll give it to you. I'll I'll admit there are portions that are confusing. I don't fully understand how that took place. I don't understand These things here. I think our passage we're going to look at here in a bit is a difficult to understand in some ways. And I'll address that So yes, there are confusing aspects of the Old Testament. And again, like I said, some folks just say it's not believable. I just I find it hard to believe. I find it hard to believe that a whale would swallow a man for three days and he'd live. Well, it would be hard to believe if God wasn't a factor in it. And with God, nothing is impossible, and with God, the miraculous is normal for God. The Old Testament has near about 4,000 years of human history. And of course, 4,000 years of human history, you're going to have all kinds of of events and circumstances. You're going to have some bloody events. You're going to have violence. But you're also going to have tremendous compassionate events. The Old Testament has tremendous drama I mean you read the book of Esther, what an amazing story how God delivers his people. Just uh Hollywood, I can't stand, can I just say this? How many people want me to say what I'm going to say? How many people don't want me to say what I'm going to say? How many people understand I'm going to say it no matter what the vote is? I can't stand Hollywood And I'm telling you, all these great storylines they come up with, and and some of it's intriguing, but I'm telling you, they don't have nothing on the Bible. When you come to drama and excitement, the Old Testament has tremendous, tremendous drama. There's, let me put it this way: there is horror. in the Old Testament. You look at some of the events in Judges and things they did and things that took place are just horrific. What man does to man, it's a historical account of some horrific events. There's miracles in the Old Testament. Some of the greatest expressions and display of love you'll ever find are recorded in the Old Testament. Fascinating events. I tell you, I would love to have witnessed the creation of the world. Wouldn't that be something? God speaking this universe into existence and observing that. Fascinating events, miraculous events, prophecies are given in the Old Testament that we see all around us. The very fact that Israel exists as a nation is a miraculous prophetic event. Poetry, some of the most beautiful poetry, psalms. Great wisdom in the book of Proverbs. What I'm trying to say is this: the Old Testament is very, very important to the New Testament believer. Every Christian ought to s read and study the Old Testament. I think it was, I don't know if I'm going to get this quote correct or not. I think it was uh uh um Who's the guy who wrote the book 1984? George Orwell. In that book he makes this statement, I don't know I'm going to try and quote it correctly, but he says, He who controls the present controls our understanding of the past. In other words, it can change history. Rewrite history. That's a term we hear nowadays. He said, those who control the present can control our understanding of the past. And he said, our understanding of the past will control our future. If we misunderstand our history, if we misunderstand our past, if we're misled concerning our history and where we came from and what took place, it will affect our future. What's that old saying? Those who ignore history are doomed to repeat it. And that is true. What is true in the political and society is also true in the spiritual world, in the Christian world. If we neglect the Old Testament, if we forget where we've come from, if we neglect The record of history that God has given to us, it's going to affect our understanding of God and our life now. I'm trying to say this: the Old Testament is important for the Christian to live the Christian life It must not be neglected. In Romans chapter 15 and verse 4, Paul, writing to the believers in Rome, along these very lines, he made this statement. He said, for whatsoever things were written aforetime, that's Old Testament, were written for our learning. That we, through the patience and comfort of the scriptures, the Old Testament scriptures, might have hope. Paul said that God recorded the Old Testament for our well-being to help us. To understand who he is and what he's like and how he operates and interacts with mankind. Paul said it's for our learning. Again, Paul writing to the believers in Corinth, that little that Corinthian church there that was had so many struggles, he wrote this. He said, Now all these things happened unto them, folks in the Old Testament, for ensembles. They are written for our admonition. What I'm trying to say is this: it's very, very important for you and I to read and understand the Old Testament. It'll help us have hope in God. It'll help us to understand the things about the Lord. It'll help us understand things about ourselves. All these accounts in the Old Testament and some of these events and historical events, particularly, that seem so bizarre sometimes and so horrific. I'm convinced every one of these accounts, these historical accounts in the Old Testament are recorded to illustrate a New Testament principle. I read a principle in the New Testament and go back to the Old Testament and I see it illustrated in the life of Jacob, in the life of Joseph, in the life of Daniel. And all these other people that are referred to throughout the Old Testament. The Old Testament is important. This morning I'm making a bid for God's people to read and study the Old Testament. Old and new, not neglect the new either. The Old Testament is just as inspired as the New Testament is. The Old Testament is just as inspired as John 3. 16. It's given to us by God for our learning that we may learn doctrine, reproof, correction, instruction in righteousness. The Word of God, the Old Testament. In the Old Testament, we find the origins of man. We're told where we came from. We're told why we're here. We're told about the creation of the universe. We did not evolve from monkeys. We did not come from amoebas. We were created by the Word of God. And everything that is was created by the Lord Jesus Christ. Old Testament's important. The Old Testament we learned the origin of sin. By one man sin entered the world, and death by sin. And so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. It's important we understand that. The Old Testament we learned uh uh the we we learned of the depravity of man. We learn of the holiness of God over and over. God in the Old Testament referred to as holy. Holy, holy. Our God is a holy God. And the Old Testament declares that and illustrates that over and over and over. I tell you, modern-day contemporary Christianity needs to be reminded: God is a holy God. He is not a worldly God. He is not a carnal God. He is a holy God separated from sin and unrighteousness. He's blindingly holy. Modern Christianity has forgotten that. The Old Testament's vital. Old Testament. The Old Testament, we learn of the power of God. As we see these amazing things, we learn of prophecy. In the old studying Old Testament history, we learn of prophetic events in the future. The Old Testament. So there's my bid stir God's people up to read and study the Old Testament. I hope I convinced you. Now we come to our text. Genesis chapter 32. We have this fellow Jacob. Now we've been studying the life of Joseph on Wednesday nights, if you're in on that. And you should. It's been good. If I say so myself. I enjoy it. But we have Jacob And Jacob is facing what I believe is the greatest crises of his life. He had stolen his brother's birthright. Now, to you and I, the birthright, we don't have that, we don't think much of that. But at this point in time, the birthright was incredibly important. To go to the firstborn, and they would have the birthright, basically the inheritance of their father. Jacob stole that from his brother Esau. swindled it out of him by selling it for a well I say he stole it, he stole it for a bowl of pottage. He got his brother's birthright and then He stole really his brother's blessings when he disguised himself as Esau, when Jacob was going to give the blessing. And again, that was vitally important in that time and age. Then he swindles his uncle Laban out of great herds. Now God has called Jacob. He's stolen the birthright. He's swindled the birthright. He's stolen the blessing. He goes to his uncle Laban. He flees from Esau because he stole that. Esau vows he's going to kill Jacob. So he flees uh uh to his uncle Laban. He goes there, he marries his daughters And he and he and he kind of swindles his uncle out of these great herds. And he he becomes very, very wealthy And God speaks to Jacob and he says, come back home, come back to Bethel. It's time to come back and get right with God. So he packs up his stuff and he's heading back home. And as he's traveling home, he gets word that his brother Esau is coming out to meet him. And he finds out that his brother Esau has with him his entourage, they're coming, Jacob with his great flocks and his big family and household, they're making their way, and Esau's coming out to greet him. And he's coming out to greet him with 400 armed men. Now, I'm not the brightest person in the world, but that ain't no welcoming committee. Right? 400 armed men. The last thing he knew about Esau was he vowed to kill Jacob So Jacob is on this collision course with his brother who vowed to kill him, has 400 armed men with him. And this is the night before. I'm telling you, this is the greatest crises of Jacob's life. Um It's not a peace party coming out. Jacob has no moral authority to argue with his brother. In other words, he can't meet Esau and say, listen, Esau, listen, I did you right. I did good. You shouldn't attack me. You shouldn't kill me. I did right. He has no moral authority because he didn't do anything right. He ripped them off. He has no military power to confront Esau. He's got a bunch of wives and a bunch of kids and a bunch of cattle. He has no military. All he is anticipating is a slaughter of himself and his family Everything, now get this, everything that Jacob had lived for, he's about to lose. Everything he had done, everything he had accomplished is about to be taken away from him And he's he's at this crises point. He doesn't know. The only thing he sees is disaster. He's facing the loss of everything he ever loved. He's facing the loss of everything he ever accomplished. And he does what any intelligent person does. He turns to God in prayer. I'm here to tell you, I don't know what's going on in your life, I don't know what you're dealing with. But I'm here to tell you there's a place we can go to find help. It's the place of prayer. Look with me if you would at verse number nine. Come back, verse number nine. And Jacob said, now this is the situation he's in Scared to death, no doubt. Facing extermination. And Jacob said, Oh God of my father Abraham, and God of my father Isaac. The Lord which says to me, return unto thy country and to thy kindred, and I will deal well with thee. I am not worthy of the least of all thy mercies and of all thy a and of all the truth which thou hast showed unto thy servant with with my staff And I passed over this Jordan. Now become two bands. Deliver me, I pray thee, from the hand of my brother, from the hand of Esau, for I fear him. Lest ye come and smite me and and my uh smite me and the mother of with the children. Now sayest I will surely do thee good and make thy seed as the sand of the sea which cannot be numbered for multitude. He comes to God in prayer. If you notice there in verse number 9, he appeals to the word of God. He says, God of my father Isaac, the Lord, which says to me, He came and he appealed to God's word. God, you said. You would take care of me. I tell you, when we come to God in prayer, it's a good thing to get a Bible basis for our prayers. God, you said I should call upon you, and you would answer me and do great and mighty things which thou knowest not. Lord, you said if I asked you I would uh receive. And if I seek, I would find. And if I knock, you'd open it. Take the promises of God and bring them to God in prayer. I don't mean this disrespectfully, but I want to say this. Hold God to his word. That's what Jacob's doing. Come down there. Notice with me verse number 11. Verse 12. Thou said I will surely do thee good. He's saying, God, you promised this. God, you promised me. I'm holding you to your word. I think it's interesting in verse 10, he humbles himself. Now, this isn't typical of Jacob, to be honest. So I'm not worthy of the least of all thy mercies and of all that truth which thou hast showed unto thy servant. So he comes to God in prayer. Any intelligent Christian that is facing a crisis or in a in a difficult time goes to God in prayer. Let me put it a little simpler maybe. Only a dumb bunny Christian wouldn't pray when they have a need. That'd be a good quote put in your Bible. I don't know where the term dumb bunny came from. My mom used to say that she'd talk about dumb bunnies. But nevertheless, if you're a Christian and you don't pray, you're a dumb bunny I'm telling you, you don't need help today. This passage, to be honest with you, where he's wrestling with God, I'll be very honest with you, it's difficult to understand. Who in the world is Jacob wrestling with? This man. Notice there, come back to verse 24. It says that Jacob was left alone, and there wrestled a man with him until the breaking of day, all night long. Who in the world is this man that he's wrestling with? Most Jewish commentaries, old Jewish commentaries from years gone by, most of them say it was an angel. Angel appeared to him and he wrestled with the angel all night long and he wouldn't let go and the angel touched the thigh of Jacob and went out of joint or the sinew there was damaged. From that point on, Jacob always limped for the rest of his life. They said it was an angel that he was wrestling with. Some of the pagan religions that had this mixed in with them. Uh and this is kind of bizarre. It's not very much, but I came across it teach that he was wrestling with some river devil. Now, I'm not real interested in man's commentaries or pagan interpretations of this. I want to know what does God say? And if you look at it very carefully, we actually are given some insight into who Jacob is wrestling with. Notice with me, if you would, verse number 28. And he said, This is this man that Jacob's wrestling with, this person we're trying to figure out who it is. He said, Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel. For as a prince, thou hast power with God and with men, and hast prevailed. Now he's wrestling with Jacob, and Jacob's hanging on, won't let him go. And this man says, You have power with God. So there's an implication here that this person is God. Now come down to verse number 30. And Jacob called the name of the place Peniel. This is where he wrestled with this man. He says, For I have seen what? God face to face, and my life is preserved. Who did Jacob believe he was wrestling? God himself. God himself. Back in Hosea chapter 12, let me read this. Hosea is this Old Testament prophet. He's in the last section of the Old Testament. He's what considered a minor prophet, not because he's not important, but his book is smaller than the others. But in Hosea chapter 12, verse 5, let me read to you. He references. . Jacob here wrestling this, and he gives us a little information. Let me find it here real quick. Hosea chapter 12 and verse number 5 Notice, listen to what he says. He says he took his brother by the heel in the womb. This is talking about Jacob with Esau. He took his brother by the heel in the womb. And with strength, listen to this, and by his strength he had power with God. So the idea here, the implication here, we're led to believe that Jacob was actually wrestling with God. Now here's my question. How in the world does a man wrestle with God and prevail? How in the world does a man wrestle with God and have power with God? Now you say, how is this God? I thought God's spirit. I thought God is invisible. How can a man wrestle with God? He's not a physical being. I believe that what we're this is my conclusion, this is my understanding of this. I believe this is what we refer to as, this is in theology, a theophany. How many people have ever heard that term before, theophany? You don't hear it a lot. It's a theological term. It simply means this. I'll give the definition and then I'll explain the definition. Then I'll explain my explanation of the definition of the word I'm using. A theophany is a pre incarnate Appearance of Jesus Christ. In other words, it is the appearance of Jesus Christ in the form of a man before He was born of the virgin and became flesh. That's the incarnation. He became flesh. But in the Old Testament, we have occasions where Jesus Christ appears In the form of a man. Sometimes he's called the angel of the Lord. You say, how do you know if that's the appearance of Jesus Christ or just an angel? Here's one clue. If the person bows down and worships that angel and the angel accepts the worship, that's Jesus Christ. Because an ordinary, everyday, blue-collar angel is not going to accept worship from man. Only God accepts worship from man. So if you have an angel of the Lord and somebody's bound down, worship them and they accept that, I know that's Jesus Christ. Are you with me? This is what I think. And again, it's confusing, and people might interpret it a little differently. I think he's wrestling with Jesus Christ, the Son of God. That's taken physical form in this event, for this encounter. Jesus Christ has taken on physical appearance, physical form. It's not incarnation. That doesn't happen until he's conceived of the Holy Ghost in the womb of Mary. But it's a pre-incarnate appearance of Jesus Christ. So Jacob is wrestling with Jesus Christ. How many folks here find that incredible? To wrestle with Jesus Christ? So this is a difficult passage. I don't dispute that. Another question is: how in the world does he prevail over God? Wrestle with God and you prevailed. You've had power with God. How can that be? God is omnipotent. God is all powerful. How in the world can a man have power with God? Well, I know one thing is for sure. He didn't have physical, he didn't have he didn't prevail over God physically God is omnipotent. God is all powerful. Listen, God could squish you and I with his little finger. If y'all want to say I'm figurative speaking, Jacob did not prevail with God because Jacob was so strong and so mighty. Pastor Matt is probably the strongest person I know. I mean the guy's a beast. I hope he's not watching right now Now he's a teddy bear beast, but he's a beast. But I tell you what, even Pastor Matt would not have power with God physically. Nobody I don't care how strong you are, you're not going to whoop God. I don't care how strong you are. And I don't mean to be irreverent here, but you can't you're not going to arm wrestle God and beat him Not gonna happen. So it wasn't because of Jacob was so physically mighty that he overpowered God. That ain't gonna happen. That ain't gonna happen. He didn't Prevail over God mentally. Boy, Jacob was so smart. Boy, he just outsmarted God and he knew what uh needed to he knew how to trick God and he knew how to get God in a position and he knew how to uh uh overpower God mentally and intelligently That ain't gonna happen. Our God is omniscient. He is all knowing. We are not So he he didn't somehow trick God into something, oh he tricked his brother, he tricked his uncle. But listen, you may trick your boss, you may trick and s and uh And fool your wife, and you may fool your parents, and you may trick other people, but you ain't gonna trick God. So how did he prevail over them? He didn't physically, he didn't mentally How did he do it? I don't think the prevailing power that Jacob had with God had anything to do with Jacob. I think it had to do about some things true about God. And what I mean is this the way a man Or a woman, a person, a human, can prevail and have power with God isn't through physical or mental might It's through humility and repentance and faith. I find it fascinating, and I find this tremendously encouraging That some of the most wicked people in the Old Testament, when they humbled themselves before God And when they were so repentant of their sin, it affected God, and God would show mercy to some of the most wicked people on planet earth when they humbled themselves before God. You follow what I'm saying? It wasn't pride and might and anything in me. It was the compassionate heart of God. When Jacob humbled himself before the Lord in that prayer we looked at, and he repented humbly before the Lord, and it stirred the heart of God, and God responded to Jacob. Listen, these yardbirds, these crackpots on TV coming and saying, demand things from God. We don't demand anything from God. We humble ourselves before God and we repent of our sin and we plead the mercy and grace of God and that's how we affect God. It's not in us, it's in the heart of God. Jacob prevailed with God because God is a compassionate, tender-hearted God. And when somebody humbles themselves before him and they plead the mercy of God, Then they have power with God. I remember the night I got saved and I refer to this too much probably, but That night I knelt by my bed there off of Yoda Road in Harleysville, Pennsylvania, and just a broken piece of humanity. And I called out to God, have mercy on me, God, save me. And God Almighty, the creator of the universe, responded to that prayer. And he forgave me and gave me a new life. I didn't bow before God and say, God, I'm good enough to earn your forgiveness. I deserve salvation. If I'd have done that, I'd be convinced I'd be in hell today. Nobody comes to God in pride and self-reliance and self-exaltation and think you're going to get anything but judgment from God. It's in humility and repentance. I tell you what our churches in America need is some good old-fashioned humility. Some good old-fashioned repentance from our sin so that we can have the grace and mercy of God upon us again and maybe spare our land. How does a man have prevail with God? How does a man have power with God? By humility, appealing to the compassion of God. Now that was my introduction. Now I got some that's the bad news. That was my introduction. The good news is my outline is very, very brief. How many people believe that? Not one hand went up. You b see uh y'all are messed up today. Let me give you a few thoughts here on prayer, Jacob and prayer. Number one, Jacob's prayer was a personal prayer. Look at verse 22. He rose up that night and took his two wives, his woman's servants, and his eleven sons. passed over the Ford Jabbok, so he crosses this river, Jabbok had a ford there as a uh the the river, uh the little brook there is a ford there they could cross, and he took them and sent them over the brook and sent uh over all that he had. So he gets himself alone, he gets his family, misses that night, and he moves his family across this at this ford here across this brook. Now the word brook there isn't what you and I picture a brook. You and I picture a brook is this nice little meadow and a trickling little stream going down through the meadow and um uh uh flowers and fl and uh uh um uh what are those things um butterflies uh and and all around and we go picture this little but that's not what he's crossing The word brook here actually means a river with very steep banks, almost canyon-like. In other words, what he's doing here is very, very dangerous. He is crossing a very steep river, very steep banked river, getting his family at night, and he gets them over there, all so that he can be alone. He backs up and he gets himself alone. He's left alone. Jacob wrestled with God alone. Alone. I y y you probably won't be surprised by this, but I wrestled when I was in high school. I looked like a wrestler. And I didn't do very well. I got beat every single time. That's the truth. But I learned some things about wrestling. You don't wrestle another you don't wrestle as a team. Right? You don't have nine people get out on the mat And we're going to wrestle. It's what? It's 101. Wrestling is a I think it's a great sport. And I'm not talking about this stupid stuff on to, alright? I'm talking about legitimate wrestling. It's 101. 101. And Jacob is wrestling with God. 101. Listen, I'm grateful for congregational prayers. I'm telling you, I thank God for this church. It is the absolute love of my life and joy of my life to be pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. And we get together and we pray. And Wednesday nights, we have a prayer meeting, and all across here, people pray, praying, pray. I wish everybody could see men's prayer breakfast. Man get together and scatter across the ear for a half hour or so, just praying our hearts out to God. Ladies prayer meeting. I thank God for congregational prayer. As a body, we pray together. I thank God for family altar. When the family, mom and dad, and the kids get together on a daily basis and pray together as a family, that is so important. That is so powerful I am absolutely convinced America could turn around if we just get that one thing back in place, family altar. But I tell you, congregational prayer, family prayer, but there's nothing as powerful as a personal prayer one-on-one with God. And I get alone with God. And I, as an individual, just God and I, and I pray, and I pray, and I pray. I'm telling you, there's power in that personal prayer. Alone with God, private prayers. I tell you, every daddy, every daddy that claims to be a Christian Ought to pray privately and personally and passionately for his family and his children. I wouldn't give you a plugged nickel for a daddy that doesn't pray for his kids. You don't press me at all. You don't pray for your kids. You don't press me one bit. Do you give me a daddy who gets alone with God in a closet or out in the woods or in a garage somewhere? And has a place where he meets with God and one-on-one, just him and his creator, and he prays for his family And he talks to God, and he pleads with God, and he humbles himself before God. I'm telling you, that'll make a difference in people's lives. Jacob got alone with God. He prayed. James chapter 5, verse 16 says, the effectual, that means prevailing, powerful, what Jacob is doing. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. Just one individual alone with God. Number one, it was personal prayer. Number two, it was persistent prayer. Notice with me if you would, verse 26. And he said, this is this man that Jacob is wrestling with, I believe the Lord Jesus. He said, let me go for the day breaketh. Question, did Jesus could Jesus have gotten loose if he wanted to? Yes. For Pete's sake. Even if it was an angel, he could have gotten loose. Do you know there's one angel that killed 185,000 people in the Old Testament, just one angel? Whoever this was he was wrestling was not being held there because they couldn't get loose. For Pete's sake. He was making a point. He says, Let me go, for the day breaketh. And look what Jacob says. I will not let thee go except thou one. Bless me. Except I'm not letting go. until you bless me. I'm not quitting until you answer this prayer. I am not giving up. I am not going to quit. I'm going to keep praying and I'm going to keep praying And I'm going to keep pleading and I'm going to keep begging. And God, I am not going to quit praying until you bless me and you meet and you answer my prayer I tell you, you get alone with God, personal prayer, and you get persistent prayer, and you're on your road to seeing God do some great things. Persistent, persistent, persistent. The Christian life is not a picnic. It's not a holiday. The Christian life requires effort, it requires wrestling, it is struggle, it is spiritual warfare. And Jacob gets wrestling with God, and he's getting a hold of God. He's going to lose everything. Everything he's lived for is going to be taken from him. His life is going to be taken, his family is going to be killed. And he gets with God. He says, God, I'm not going to quit. I'm not letting go. Until you intervene here and do something. I tell you, that's wrestling. Prayer is not a little picnic. Listen to what Paul said in Romans 15, 30. He says, I beseech you That ye strive together with me in prayers. Strive in prayers. The word strive means wrestle. Prayer is hard work. Genuine prayer is wrestling, it's struggling with God, it's persistent effort. Easy, casual prayers are not very effective. I tell you, when you want answers the prayer, that means earnest prayer, prevailing, persistent, staying at it, staying at it, staying at it. Again, forgive the personal illustrations I use so much. Before I was saved, 16, 17, 15, 16, 17 year old punk, 18, 19, out all night, Friday night, Saturday night I'd come staggering in the house. I can still see it in my mind's eye. Come staggering in the house. And my daddy's bedroom was down the end of the hallway. It was just the two of us. I'd come in two three o'clock in the mornings. That door and the door to his his bedroom be open. I'd make my way into my my room and I'd look over. And there three o'clock in the morning, my daddy's on his knees Praying for his boy to get saved, that he'd get home safe. Oh God, I don't know where my son is. I don't know what he's doing. God keep him. Oh God, save him. Night after night for years. I'm glad my daddy didn't give up praying for his son. I'm here to tell you, don't you give up praying for whoever it is you're praying for. Don't you quit. Don't you quit. Don't you quit You say, preacher, I've been praying for ten years and there's nothing from God. Pray another ten years. Keep on Prevailing. It's personal prayer. It was persistent prayer. And last of all, I end with this. I told you I'd be short on this. His prevailing prayer. Look at verse 28. Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel. For as a prince thou hast power with God and with men, and hast prevailed. That word prevail means to overcome, to gain the victory, to accomplish the objective. You know what he's saying? He says, Jacob, you got what you're praying for. I'm answering your prayer. You've accomplished what you've set out to do. I see two results to prevailing prayer. One of two things is going to happen. In Jacob's case, his heart was changed. Did you notice there? Uh uh uh uh I'm sorry, Esau's heart was changed Now remember, Esau vowed to kill Jacob. He is coming out with the armed, 400 armed men. But look at chapter 33 and verse 4. After Jacob wrestled with God Look at verse 4, chapter 33. And Esau ran to kill him. Oh, no, that's not what it says. Esau ran to what? Meet him and stabbed him in the back. No. Embraced him and fell on his neck and kissed him, and they wept Whoa! Something's changed here. You know what's changed? God has changed the heart of Esau. Jacob prevailed with God in prayer. And God changed his circumstances. He changed the heart of Esau. God can melt the hardest heart. I don't know who you're praying for, what your situation is. You may think that person's heart is so hard they'll never come around. I'm here to tell you the heat of the conviction of the Holy Spirit can melt the hardest heart. You just keep praying. God can clean up the filthiest life. You say, oh, they're such a sinner. They're so filthy. They're so wicked. Listen, you keep on praying. God can clean up a filthy life. You say, uh God can lift up the most discouraged, God can calm the most fearful. Two results. One is circumstances were changed, but I think more importantly Jacob's life was changed. Come back to verse 28. Did you notice what the an what the what God said? Thy name shall be called no more Jacob. His name Jacob means trickster, deceiver. Kniver, sneak. Boy, that's what he was. Now Jacob's praying. And he says, No more Jacob, but Israel. For as a prince that hast power with God. The name Israel means to prevail, a prince of God. You know what Jacob's prayer did? It accomplished two things. Number one, it changed the heart of Esau, but more importantly, it changed Jacob. It changed Jacob. And I'll end with this. You know what I found? That genuine, earnest, fervent, persistent, desperate prayer More often not, it'll change me more than it'll change my circumstances. We don't have time to go there in 2 Corinthians chapter 12. Paul is praying earnestly for a long time. That God would take away this thorn in his flesh. We don't know what the thorn was. It's figurative, no doubt, but it was physical. He had tremendous pain. He prayed and prayed and prayed and he prayed and prayed that God would take this away. God answered his prayer and said, Paul, not taking it away. He said, I want you to learn that when you're weak, I'm strong. And this affliction in your life is actually helping you spiritually. It's making you stronger spiritually. It's making you more effective in your ministry. And I'm going to leave it there. And you know what changed? It wasn't the thorn. It was Paul's attitude about it. And he said, most gladly therefore will I glory in my infirmities, for when I am weak. Then I'm strong. You know what God changed? Not his circumstances, changed his attitude. And a lot of times we get a hold of God. God will change us. Sometimes more often than he does our circumstance. You follow what I'm saying? There was a salesman, Dr. Lee Robertson told years ago of a salesman, he had a godly wife and he had a sweet daughter But he was unsaved. He was a good man. He was unsaved. His wife would always, every Sunday morning, Sunday night, got the daughter. And they'd go off to church, invite daddy. Daddy said, No, I'm not interested. He won't go. One day he was out on a trip, he was a salesman, traveling salesman. He's out on a trip. He got word, he got a call. His wife was very, very sick. They didn't know sh something happened. They didn't know if she was going to make it. He needed to come home immediately. Got a flight while he was flying home. By the time he got back, his wife passed away. Had the funeral, his heart was broken. Week went by, next Sunday came. His little eleven-year-old daughter said. Daddy and mommy always took me to church on Sunday mornings. Would you take me to church today? He said, well, okay. Took his little daughter to church. Came back home, she had Sunday nights, she said, Daddy, mommy always took me to church Sunday nights. Would you take me to church? Well, okay. Came back home. That night as she was getting ready for bed, she said, Daddy, Mama always prayed with me that you would get saved. Daddy, will you pray with me tonight that you would get saved? Dr. Robertson said that little girl, asking her unsaved daddy to pray with her, broke his heart. He said, Yes, sweetheart. I'll pray with you to get saved. He got on his knees beside his little daughter. She prayed, God, please save my daddy. Please save my daddy. That old salesman bowed his head and said, Lord, I need you to save me. Please be my savior. He called on the Lord to be his Savior. And the prayers of his wife for all those years after she had died were finally answered. Finally answered. What I want to say is this, you keep on praying. You keep on praying, you keep on praying, you keep on praying, you keep on praying Don't give up until God does something. Amen? Father, bless us now. I pray you'd take these thoughts. Help us, Lord, to be persistent, to be personal, and to prevail in our prayers. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, let me ask this, and this might be a little personal, this is between you and God. But let me ask this. How many folks here, you have something heavy on your heart? Maybe it's a loved one that's unsaved or away from God. Maybe it's a fearful situation But I let me put it this way. If I say there's one, if you could ask one thing from God, you know immediately what that thing would be If I said to you right now, what's the one thing you would ask from God, it comes right to mind. How many people say, preacher, I have something on my mind right now If there was one thing I could ask of God, immediately it comes to my mind. I know what it is. God bless you, hands all around. We all have it. I have it. That one thing comes to mind, God, if nothing else, this is what I need you to do. I want to challenge you. We're going to give an invitation. I want you to take that thing, whatever it is, and you bring an old altar and you say, God, help me to pray like I've never prayed before. God help me to keep on praying and keep on praying until you do something. I'm telling you, God will do something either in our heart or our situation. God will do it. God will do it. Father, bless our invitation I ask now in Jesus' name. Amen.