Genesis 32, and I'm going to be reading verses 24 down through the end of the chapter. Genesis 32. Verse twenty-four down through the end of the chapter. If you would, follow along in your Bibles as I read. And Jacob was left alone, and there wrestled a man with him until the breaking of the day. And when he saw that he prevailed not against him, he touched the hollow of his thigh, and the hollow of Jacob's thigh was out of joint as he wrestled with him. And he said, Let me go, for the day breaketh. And he, as Jacob, said, I will not let thee go, except thou bless me And he said unto him, What is thy name? And he said, Jacob. And he said, Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel. For as a prince thou hast power with God and with men, and hast prevailed And Jacob asked him and said, Tell me, I pray thee thy name. And he said, Wherefore is it that thou dost ask after my name? And he blessed him there. And Jacob called the name of the place Peniel, for I have seen God face to face, and my life is spared. And as he passed over Peniel, the sun rose upon him, and he halted upon his thigh. Wherefore the therefore the children of Israel eat not of the sinew which is which shrank, which is upon the hollow of the thigh unto this day, because he touched it uh because he touched the hollow of Jacob's thigh in the sinew that shrank. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask now your blessing on the Word of God. I pray you challenge us through the principles given here. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit And speak through me to each and every one of our hearts. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I've entitled the message this morning, Jacob in the School of Hard Knock. Now, if you remember, we've been on Sunday mornings. We've been going through the series entitled The School of Hard Knocks. Now, first in the series was Job going through, taking a semester, a one-year semester in the School of Hard Knocks, and the trials he went through and the lessons we learned. Last week, we looked at um The uh uh of uh Abraham and he had a class in the school of Harnox when God challenged him to offer up his son Isaac and uh the trial and test he went through and the lessons we learned. Today we're going to look at Jacob. And uh what we know about Jacob. Actually, you know what? I got a joke I forgot to tell You can't preach without telling a joke first, can you, Dave? Alright, here we go. I got it on my phone actually. Modern technology, when you can't remember, it's right there. But there was two young boys were spending the night, two brothers were spending the night at their grandparents' house. And it was the end of the day and uh they were saying their prayers before they went to bed. So they were upstairs, grandma and grandpa in the room next door, and they get on their knees, and uh the first boy, the youngest one, begins praying at the top of his lungs Oh Lord, I pray for a new bicycle, I pray for a new Nintendo, and I pray for a brand new DVD player. And his little brother looks over and says, uh, you don't have to yell when you're praying. God isn't deaf. And the little brother says, no, but grandma is So smart kid. Now that we got that out of the way. Jacob. I don't know what you think of when you think of the name Jacob, the person Jacob. If you've read your Bible, if you know your Bible story and account of Jacob, you know that he was born into a very godly family, Isaac. And he had a tremendous heritage in the Lord as far as his family was concerned. But Jacob, as often happens, got away from God. And he got far from God for a long time. He got so far from God that well, what happened was he got caught up in himself. Jacob uh uh started living uh for him the main concern was what do I get out of things? And he got away from God. He lost touch with God. In his selfishness, not only did he destroy his relationship with God, but his selfishness caused him to destroy his relationship with his father. With his brother, and eventually even with his in-laws. His selfishness destroyed his family In every aspect. Even uh uh you know back then uh for whatever reason God would tolerate multiple wives And his selfishness even hurt his family, his immediate family, his wives and his children. Not only did his selfishness destroy his relationship with his family But his selfishness ate away at his own soul. As you read through the account of Jacob and how he's conniving, And how he's weaseling his way to get what he wants, regardless of what it costs others. You find his happiness in life deteriorating. I found that selfishness and happiness never mix. Never mix. The more selfish a person becomes, the more unhappy they are. The more selfless a person becomes, the happier they become. Jacob at this point in his life was an unhappy man His selfishness had eaten away at his life, had eaten away at his soul, and he's actually in the chapter previous to this in the early part of chapter 32, uh Jacob is actually, and I think Partly because of the spiritual condition his selfishness had produced. He's actually journeying back to God He's on his way back to a place called Bethel. I believe that was the place of Jacob's salvation, but he had gotten far from it. And he's on his journey back. And uh, but two things stand in Jacob's way. He's far from God. He's out here been living for himself and he's destroyed just about everything, every relationship he had, though he's very wealthy, his selfishness paid off as far as uh prosperity was concerned, his selfishness paid off as far as his possessions were concerned. He was incredibly wealthy. He was incredibly s uh successful in his business But because of his selfishness, he had destroyed his relationships. So he's wanting to get back with God. His kids are growing up, uh, his soul is empty, though his pockets are full. And he begins to say, you know, I gotta get back to Bethel. I gotta get back to that place where I had the blessings of God. And I knew the presence of God in my life, and I had the joy of the Lord. But two things stand in his way. One of them is his brother Esau. Whom he had stolen the birthright from and had stolen the blessings of his father from. So he has this fractured relationship with his brother. So he needs to deal with that. Before he ever gets back to Bethel, he's got to go through Esau. He's got to deal with Esau. Who, by the way, I'm getting a little ahead of myself here, by the way, Esau, all these years later, 20-some years later, Esau is still Picked. Esau is upset that his brother stole from him the blessed father. And so Esau hears that Jacob is coming back to Bethel. Rumor has it, Jacob's bringing his family. He's got all these possessions, man. He was lo he got load uh uh he got loaded. Um not in the sense you're thinking of, but um Uh man, he was very successful uh out of the land of Cain. Now he's coming back, and uh Esau says he'll pay You say, where do you see that in Scripture? If you'll read it very carefully, Esau's coming out to meet Jacob, not with a welcoming committee, but 400 armed men. Now, if there's 400 armed men coming out to greet me, I wouldn't take that as the welcome wagon No doubt Esau is very upset. And Esau's going to make Jacob pay. That selfish little lion brat ruined my life, stole my blessings, he'll pay for that. So, before Jacob ever gets right with God, before he ever gets back to Bethel, he's got to deal with Esau coming at him. There's another thing he has to deal with, and that is this: his rebellion in his heart against God. And that's probably going to be the most difficult to deal with. You know, I've found the thing that keeps me from the blessings of God is not so much what others do or think about me But it's more to do with the condition of my own heart, is what hurts my relationship with God. And so for many years, for decades, Jacob has been nurturing This rebellious, self-centered heart. And if he's going to be right with God, that has to be dealt with. That is where he enrolls in the School of Hard Knocks. He needs to take a class. On dealing with the selfish rebellion that is ingrained in his heart and needs to be dealt with And he needs to be tested on it. Thus our text for this morning. Jacob faces a trial. Now let me lay the groundwork here, the setting of what's taken place. As I said, Jacob is coming back. Esau's very upset. Esau's coming out with uh 400 armed men All Jacob's trying to do is get over to Bethel where he can get things right with God, where he first met God, and so he deals with it. So what he does, and without getting into detail, I want to try and stay on track here, but without getting into too much detail, what he does, he takes his family and he breaks them up into groups, waves, so to speak. And apparently he puts his least favorite wife out in the front. If you read it, it's what he does. And uh I was tempted to write in the margin of my Bible, cannon fodder is basically what uh you know when you play chess you've got the po how many chess players do we have here? You got the pawns out there. You know, you just throw them out there to see what the other guy's up to, how he responds to them, and you get his strategy. That's kind of what he's doing. So he puts them out there, then he has a little space, and they've got a bunch of gifts for his soul. Then he takes his second favorite and he boils it down until just him and his his favorite wife are back here. And then what he does is he backs up even farther by himself. What a great guy. That's like in the middle of the night you hear a noise out in the living room, and fellas, you wake your wife up and you say, All right, go out and see what's out there That's what he's doing. How many ladies ever dreamed, oh, I'd love to have a husband like that So while he's back here by himself, he's got it all laid out. Jacob was a schemer. He had a plan for everything. He's going to work it out. You see, can you see his selfish nature just in how he lays out this strategy? The last one to die in his family was going to be him. Everyone else is going to die before he does. What a lovely daddy. What a great husband. So he sets all this up, and he's back here by himself. And I'm giving the leatherman spin on this, but it's kind of like God says, all right, Jacob, enough is enough. You've been scheming, you've been lying, you've been so selfish, and so rebellious for so long. It's not going to go on anymore. We're going to have a wrestling match. I'm going to come down here, and God, in the person of an angel, confronts Jacob one-on-one. Now let me get into my outline here and sharing my thoughts. My first thought is this. Number one, I'd like for us to consider the nature Of this trial or this conflict that Jacob goes through. Now keep in mind he's an incredibly selfish man. Keep in mind he is incredibly subtle. Boy, he knows how to trick people. He can lie with the straightest face you've ever seen. And he can manipulate things and play people to his advantage. And God confronts him. So the nature of this confrontation, if you will, or this trial he faces with God, first of all, it's a wrestling match Now, I don't know about you, but I like wrestling. I like real wrestling, not this junk on TV. That's not wrestling, that's entertaining, that's showmanship. Uh when I was young, I was on the wrestling team for the school in junior high. And uh I loved it. I never won, but I loved it. I've always appealed. I've always liked chess and I've liked wrestling. When our oldest son was real young, we enrolled him in wrestling. And so I've enjoyed wrestling and I find two things. Two ingredients necessary to be a successful wrestler. Number one is you've got to have some physical strength. Right? How many people agree with that? You have to have some physical stamina to be able to wrestle. But equally, if not more so, you have to have some brains There is strategy to wrestling. You don't just go lumbering in there and say, oh, me strong, you're going to be tied up and on your back shoulders in no time. There's strategy, there's intelligence to it, there's moves that you make and you counter moves you do when your opponent makes moves. And there's a tremendous amount of strategy to it. In fact, and I was trying to find this to document it, I had the uh documentation years ago, but there was a young man that had was on the wrestling team And um if I remember correctly it was wrestling or something like that. And uh he had lost his arm in an accident. It was his left arm. And he had lost his left arm in the accident, and he thought he'd have to give up wrestling And he stayed exercising and stayed in the fit, but everyone told him he'd have to give up. But one coach, it was well known, said, you know, you don't have to give up wrestling. He says, how's that? He says, I'll train you. If you'll let me train you, you can be a successful wrestler. And so he trained and trained and had his first match, and lo and behold, he pinned the guy in no time. One arm. And uh he went to the next and he worked his way up the ranks in the in whatever the sits s uh setting was there. And finally somebody came to the coach and said, How can this guy with one arm be such an effective wrestler? And this was his answer. He said, I trained him one move, I trained him to master one move and one move only. And I said, well, how does that make him a great wrestler? He said, the only defense of that one move is you have to take the le the guy by his left arm. And this guy has no left arm, so there's no defense on this one move. Pretty clever, huh? My point is this: a wrestling match consists not just of physical brawn. But it also consists of using your brains. Now I don't picture Jacob as being a great physical guy, do you? Uh when his brother Esau, I see him physical. He's he's out there, you know, he's got his bow and arrow, he's out there killing stuff and and uh out in the woods and all of that. Where's Jacob when as young boy, where's Jacob spending all his time? He's with mama in the kitchen And he's boiling hot dogs and stuff like that. And out there. So I don't view Jacob as this macho guy. But Jacob is smart. Worldly smart. And so you have this wrestling match between Jacob and God. As I said, though he wasn't very physical, Jacob was Pretty shrewd, I guess is the word I would say. Through deceit and his shrewdness, Jacob had wrestled away his brother's birthright Remember Esau was out hunting, came back, and he says he's starving. I doubt seriously he was starving. And he says, tell you what, I just happen to have a bowl of um instant oatmeal here. And uh and Esau says, Oh, I'm gonna die. Give me your oatmeal porridge. And uh he says, uh, alright, I'll give it to you. His old scheming is working. If you sell me your birthright. Now, I view Esau, his brother, as being very macho and strong, but I don't view him as being very bright. Duh, okay. So he sells his birthright, his inheritance, so to speak, for one bowl of oatmeal. So he had wrestled away, so to speak, his brother's inheritance, his birthright. Now it's Jacob's. A little bit later on, he threw his mother, his mother was scheming also, but he wrestled away from his father The patriarchal blessings. Now we don't have that in our dispensation we're in, but back then the blessings of a father on the child carried significance. There was a spiritual aspect to it. And so Jacob, his mother, actually hears that uh Isaac is sending Esau out to go get some deer and he wants to eat it because he's going to give him the blessings. And so you know the story. Jacob disguised himself, puts uh some uh uh ram skin on his arms and comes in and fools his daddy into thinking he's Isaac and he uh he's Esau and he gets the blessing So he wrestles away from his brother the birthright, he wrestles away from his father the blessings, then finally he flees for his life, goes up to Laban and uh he marries Laban's daughter. He gets kind of tricked there a little bit, marrying Leah first, and then Rachel and uh finally uh uh they get uh he starts wrestling from Laban all his Cattle. And he skins. So Jacob knows a little bit about wrestling, at least from the mental aspect of it. Fact is, everything Jacob did was for his own well-being. Are you with me? Everything he did was to benefit Jacob. Everything Jacob did was to put something in Jacob's pocket. Now we have to be very, very careful, or we fall into that same frame of mind. Listen, even a church can fall into that frame of mind. What do we get out of it? What does it do for us? How do we benefit? If we're going to dish all this money into this, what do we get out of it? If I'm going to invest all this time in soul winning and missions and doing all this, what do I get out of it? And if we're not careful. We'll end up with the same mindset that Jacob had when everything revolves around what it does for me Now let me make a little application here to our situation. What do we get as a church out of the bus ministry? What does it do for us? Well, get oil spots all over our parking lot. That's a blessing. Uh we get little kids here that aren't taught taught discipline and uh aren't really under a s a good structure, come from pretty dysfunctional homes, come in and overrun the place and man there's bubblegum stuck on here and And uh there's writings on the wall there and the seats get tore up, and this happens and that happens. That's a blessing. Well, uh, you know, we gotta dish out of this money, man. Gas is almost four bucks a gallon. They're talking about it going up to five, six, man. It's gonna put a drain on our budget, running these buses and bringing kids in. What do we get out of that? You know, the issue isn't what we get out of it. The issue is what are we able to do for others? Jacob had to learn that. Everything was me, me, me. I'm gonna get it, I've got a finagle, it has to be something to advance me, it has to enable me, it has to benefit me. And God comes down and says, All right, enough. And he engages Jacob in this wrestling match. Jacob was willing to sacrifice his own family. To pacify his angry brother and save his own hide, that had to stop. That could no longer continue. So, God intervenes. And God brings this trial to Jacob's life in the form of a wrestling match. This, I think Jacob was at a point here. Now get this. I think Jacob was at a point here where nobody in the world would have said Jacob is a blessing to me. Who would have said that about Jacob? Do you think his father would have said, oh yeah, Jacob, he's been such a blessing to the family? I think not. Isaac definitely, uh Esau definitely would not have said that of Jacob. Do you think Laban, his father-in-law, would have said, Oh yes, Jacob marrying my daughter Leah and Rachel? Boy, he's been such a blessing to our family. In fact, the last time they saw each other, Jac uh Laban was on the verge of cursing them. Let me ask you, um, who was it? Leah, he puts out in the front there. I uh Esau's coming with 400 armed men, no doubt, coming for a slaughter. Leah's out there with a couple of her kids. She looks back, about a quarter mile back, is her husband hiding up in the woods You think Leah would have said somebody one of the kids say, Mommy, what do you what do you think of daddy? He's a blessing, isn't he? Oh yeah, right, he's a blessing, all right. Nobody in the world would have described Jacob as being a blessing to them. Let me ask you a question. When somebody thinks of your name, when somebody thinks of you, would they say, oh yeah, he's a blessing? Oh yes, she is a blessing to me. Nobody said that of Jacob. What about our church? To the little kids and families in our community and surrounding communities, they say, oh yeah, that church has been a blessing to us. Nobody said that about Jacob. So God confronts him. This selfish mentality put him at odds against his maker And a selfish mentality for you and I as individuals will put us in a conflict with our maker. And a selfish church will be in conflict with that church's Maker. So if God confronts them, first of all, it's a wrestling match. Second thing about the nature of this trial that I notice is that it's one-on-one. God comes down and he deals with Jacob individually, not as a family. But individually. And I found that God deals with us as individuals. You have a family, and you have father and mother and the children. And I found that the Spirit of God, when God wants to begin working in a family, God doesn't deal with them as a unit, God deals with them as individuals. In other words, God maybe begins working in the Father's heart. And that father becomes aware of his need and his res need to get right with God, his need to deal with his spiritual condition, and he becomes concerned for the condition of his soul. And then as he begins to deal with it, then God deals with the wife, or sometimes it's vice versa. Sometimes it's a child What I'm saying is this, in the matter of salvation in particular, God doesn't save families, he saves individuals And that applies to our children. Listen, a child is not saved because their parents are saved. Nobody goes to heaven on the coattails of their godly parents. Each individual has a personal responsibility to God. Each individual must deal with their own relationship with God and must know that they are saved. And then my growth as a Christian is individual also. So God deals with him one-on-one. So the first thing I notice here in this trial that Jacob faces that he goes through It's uh the nature of the trial is a wrestling match. Second thing I'd like first to notice is the object of the trial. What is God trying to accomplish? Is God just trying to prove to Jacob that God is stronger than him? That's not necessary It's obvious that God is stronger. Good night. God could snuff them out just with the breath of his tongue. Breath of his tongue? God could just speak a word and snuff them out. The issue isn't the omnipotence of God here. The object of this wrestling match, let me ask you this. Do we have anybody here that wrestled at all any time in your life? Alright, a few. Very good. What is the object? Yeah, the two opponents there. Looks pretty good, doesn't it? Oh that was a good one, but I didn't um you have the two opponents here. What is the object? Alright, to pin them down, but what does that mean? To all right, you're getting in the lines of what I'm thinking. To dominate your opponent, I want to render them unable to do what they want to do Submission. I want to get my opponent. Now in boxing, it's a little different. I want to knock him out. God isn't boxing with Jacob. God doesn't want to destroy him. God's not out to destroy Jacob. He's out to bring him to submission. When I wrestle that person, I get him into such a position where he can no longer move the way he wants to move. He can no longer perform the maneuvers that he wants to maneuver. He is completely under my domination. And when I can do that for what is it, three seconds, the count of three, then I'm the victor. I've rendered him totally submissive to me. That is what God wants. That is the purpose of this trial, and I'm suggesting that is the purpose of many of the trials God allows into our lives, is so that we learn It is not my will that is important. It is your will, God, that is important. God is not trying to destroy Jacob's life He is trying to redirect his life. He is trying to develop his submission to God. Jacob could never accomplish the purpose of his life until he submits to God. Now, that is an important lesson for all of us to learn. God has a plan and a purpose for every one of our lives. You are not here by accident. You are not just a haphazard result of millions of years of chaos. You are the direct and deliberate creation of Almighty God. And God has a plan for your life, and God has a plan for my life, and God has a plan for your young people's lives, and God is every one of us here that is breathing air, God has a plan and purpose for our lives. Now, here's what I'm trying to say. That plan that my creator created me for will never be accomplished while I'm demanding to live my life my way. I'm going to foil God's plan for my life. I tell you what's a tragedy is so often you see not just young people in their teens, but as people grow up refuse to submit to God and refuse to submit to the principles of Scripture and say, it's my life, I'm gonna live it my way And you just watch. And as the years go by, you see that life deteriorate, destroyed. And you think, boy, what God could have done in that person's life. Jacob was on a train wreck, was on a on a on track for a train wreck. He had destroyed every relationship he had. And God says, that's enough. And God engages him in a wrestling match To get them to submit. God had a fantastic plan for Jacob's life. Did you know that Jacob was part of the lineage of Jesus Christ? He was part of the process that was put in place that was going to bring a Savior to the world And bring blessing and salvation and hope to multiply millions of people through the ages. Jacob had a significant role to play in the salvation of the lost. And until he submitted to God, that could never happen. That could never happen. What a tragic thought Now this this'll if this really gets a hold of you, it'll rattle you. But what a tragic thing it would be for there to be people who end up in hell. Because my selfishness, my refusal to obey God, my refusal to submit to God's plan and purpose and principles For my life, for people to end up in hell. Now, if Jacob would have Refused to submit to God and went off, would that mean the Messiah wouldn't have come? Oh no, no. God would have used someone else. But he would have missed out. Isn't that tragic? So the object of this trial, this course in the School of Hard Knox for Jacob was to submit his will to God. His self-will had to be conquered, or his life's purpose would be forsaken. Then my last observation here are the results of this trial. Well, first of all, because of this wrestling match, Jacob's delivered from certain destruction. Esau was coming with 400 armed men. He's going to kill Jacob. There's no doubt about it. But when Jacob wrestles with this angel, the ending of the wrestling match is interesting. It's not the way I would have anticipated for it to End up. I would have anticipated for the angel of the Lord to have Jacob on his back, legs sticking up in the air, and him pinned to the ground. Right? That's the way I see it But the object was accomplished. Jacob submitted to God in the process of wrestling all night. And then he gets a holy angel and he says, I'm not going to let you go unless you bless me. And the angel does bless him. He changes his name. He says, you're no longer Jacob. The word Jacob means schemer, sneaky. He said, now you're called Israel, a prince with God. And I believe part of that blessing, now this is my thinking, I believe part of that blessing was God changed the heart of Esau. And he finally shows up, and rather than slaughtering Leah and the things, they say, What is all this? There's obviously a change of mind. And they meet up. And God delivered Jacob from certain destruction. Listen, if you and I insist on our own way, are you listening If we insist on living our life the way we want to and completely disregard God and His teaching and His will for us, I'm telling you, it is certain destruction. It's not a coincidence that the divorce rate in the United States of America is 50%. You know what that's the you know what causes that? Can I just be very frank? Selfishness. It's not from living by the principles of Scripture that produce that. From getting away from the principles of Scripture. So he's delivered from certain destruction. Listen, the best thing many of us could do here this morning were to stop fighting God. And submit to God and let His will be done in your life. You say, that's not easy. No, it's not easy, but it's right. Say, all right, not my will, but the Lord's will be done. That means making some changes. That may mean maybe changing your schedule, maybe changing relationships, it may be starting up some things. The best thing we can do is submit to the will of God, let God have his way, and avoid certain destruction. Not only was he delivered from certain destruction, we had the restoration of his relationship with his brother. This thing ends up, Jacob and Esau are hugging each other. How about that? You know, my relationship with others is very much a result of my relationship with God. It is get this, would you? It's impossible to be right with God and wrong with my brother. First John tells us that. How can you say you love God who you can't see when you don't love your brother who you can? 1 John, if we're in fellowship with him, we have fellowship with our brothers. When Jacob got right with God, he was able to get right with his brother. A relationship, let me just bring it home into the marriage into the home. A breakdown. I had a husband sit in my office, this was years ago. He said, I don't love my wife anymore. I said, That's not the problem You don't love God. So what do you mean? I said, my Bible says if you love God, you'll keep his commandments. God's commanded you to love your wife the way Christ loves the church. The problem isn't your love for your wife, the problem is your love for God. If you get things right with God, then you'll have things that will be right with your wife. You'll be able to be the husband God intends for you to be. Now you can't control her actions, but you can be what God intends for you to be. So the restoration of relationships with his brothers, eventually with his father. But more importantly, there's a redirection in his life. Look at verse 28. And he said, Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, sneak, liar, subtle, deceiver. That's what Jacob means. But Israel, for as a prince, thou hast power with God and with men, and hast prevailed. Something changed. Something changed His selfish ambition is now changed to a submission to God. He went from living for self and possessions to now living for the Lord. Let me ask you a question. What are you wrestling with God about? I'm not the Holy Spirit. But I believe with all my heart the Holy Spirit is present. I can't help but believe that the Spirit of God is dealing with hearts right now, and there's a wrestling match going on. God is saying this has to change in your life. God is saying, you really need to submit to me in this matter. And you're saying, no. No, I don't want to do that. That won't benefit me. What do I get out of that? That's going to be hard. That's not going to be pleasant for me. God saying no, but it's best. Every day a wrestling match takes place in your heart and soul. God's dealing with you. There may be some this morning, God's dealing with you about being saved. You know you need Christ. If you died now, you know you'd go to hell. God is saying, I want to save you. I just want you. Just trust my son. Just take trust my son. You're saying, no, no, no, no, no. I remember I got saved. Did I ever mention I got saved May 7, 1979? Did anybody ever mention that? I was 19 years old, it was 1979, 51, so don't think about it. But for the five months before, beginning in January, God began dealing with my heart You listen, young people? God began dealing with my heart. I cried out January 1st, 1979, said, God, you gotta help me. My life is a mess Not an audible voice, but it was as if it was audible. You need to read a Bible. Dug through my dresser door and I found a Bible a Sunday school teacher had given me as a kid. I hadn't been to church in years. I began reading that. And a wrestling match began. And as I read that scriptures, I just open it up and read. I don't recommend doing that, but that's what I did. And God began wrestling with my heart. You need to be saved, Dennis. You need to trust Jesus your Savior. No! I lose my friends, I'll lose this, I won't be happy, it'll be miserable. And for five months, I wrestled every day with the Spirit of God about my salvation. Until May 7, 1979, 1030 at night. I can remember it like it was last week. I knelt by my bed and I tapped out. I said, God, you will. And I trusted Christ as Savior. Now here's the thing. When an idiot If I go back and do that over again, I'd have trusted Christ January 1st and avoided that fight that whole time. Now, if you're here this morning, you don't know for sure you're saved. Spirit of God, the Bible calls it conviction. It's a wrestling match. God's trying to get you to make that decision to accept Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. I heard Oliver B. Green this week make this statement. It's tremendous. He said, if you will take the faith that you put in your banker concerning your money and put that faith in the Savior concerning your soul, you'll be saved. If you'll take the faith you put in your doctor concerning your physical well-being, and take that same faith and put it in Jesus concerning your spiritual well-being, you'll be saved. So quit wrestling, fighting with God. If you need to be saved, trust Him, be saved today. Now, what about those of us who are saved? What's God dealing with your heart about? Is there some worldly things in your life that God's been doing? You say, I know I need to get out, I know it, I know it, I know it. Tap out. Say, okay, God, you're right. You know what you'll do? You'll look back and say, what an idiot. Why didn't I do that right away? Is there some ministry God's dealing with your heart about? Some aspect of the cause of the gospel? Is it a relationship situation with your wife, your spouse, or your children, or your parents? And God's dealing with you, say, you know, you need to be right, you need to be honest, you need to be let the Lord have his way. God brings trials and tests in our lives so that we'll submit to Him. And He can develop our faith and redirect our life and use us. Use us. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, you'd take these few thoughts this morning and help us, Lord. I pray that today you get the victory in our homes, our lives, our ministries. And that your will be done. I wonder how many Christians this morning would say, Preacher, yes. The Spirit of God is dealing with my heart about some aspect. Maybe it's a relationship type thing, maybe it's a ministry, maybe it's a relationship with the world. Your trust in him, his directing in your life. I don't know what the particulars are, but you and God do. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I'll be submissive to the Lord. And I'll let him have his way. What he's dealing with my heart about, I'll help pray that God will help me submit to him as Jacob did. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. God bless you. Goodness. Hands all around God is dealing specifically with an area in your life. There's a wrestling match going, you say, preacher today, February 26th. 2012, I submit to God. I let him have his way. He's right, I'm wrong. I submit to him. How about it? Any others? Yes, preacher. God is the ultimate heart. God bless you. How about it? Others? Wrestling matches going on. Is there some here this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die? I don't want to go to hell. I need Christ. Come in my life and save me and settle this matter once and for all. How about it? Any like that? Uplifted hand, preacher, pray for me. I need Christ. I need to be saved. I don't want to go to hell. I'm tired of fighting God over this. About it. Any? Father, you I saw hands, you see our hearts. I pray, Lord, that we would submit to you and let you have your way as these turmoils, these wrestling matches in our souls That they would end with us submitting to you, Lord, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer is going to play just a few verses of invitation. God spoke to your heart this morning