Genesis forty-nine verse number twenty-eight. I'm going to read down through verse thirty-three, the end of the chapter The Bible says, all these are the twelve tribes of Israel. Now the context is Jacob is addressing his boys, his twelve sons, and he's giving what normally Bible scholars, preachers refer to has his blessings on him. This wasn't exactly a blessing on him. We'll talk about that momentarily. But that's the context. He says all these, these twelve boys standing around his bed are the twelve tribes of Israel. And this it is that their father spake unto them and blessed them. And every one according to the blessing, he blessed them. So that's why we call it a blessing. Verse 29. And he charged them and said unto them, I am to be gathered unto my people. Bury me with my fathers in the cave that is in the field of Ephron the Hittite. In the cave that is in the field of Makpelah, which is before Mamre in the land of Canaan, which Abraham brought uh bought with the field of Ephron the Hittite for a possession of a burying place. There they buried Abraham and Sarah his wife. There they buried Isaac and Rebekah and his wife, and there I buried Leah. The purchase of the field and of the cave that is there therein is from the children of Heth, was from the children of Heth. And when Jacob had made an end of the commanding his sons, he gathered up his feet into the bed and yielded up the ghost and was gathered unto his people. I've entitled the message tonight, Jacob's Final Words, and we're just going to get started looking in this section. And so let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father, I thank you for the Old Testament account of these amazing men and many women throughout the Old Testament and and the lessons that we can learn from them and the principles that are illustrated in their lives that help us And I pray now when we look at this short little account here, these few passages, that you would teach us something. about life and about death, and uh and uh what we can learn here from Jacob's final words So please fill me with your Spirit as I yield my will to you, Lord. I ask tonight, this hour, you'd please guide my thinking and direct me to say the things you'd have me say. I present my body anew. I pray you'd fill me, as I said, Lord, with your Holy Spirit and speak through me your word. Be the teacher tonight through my lips. And help us to be receptive to what you have for us. And I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. As I said, Jacob just finished addressing his twelve sons. And it's called a blessing, we say that, but if you look at what he says to them, the blessing consisted of, and we pointed this out I think last week, Consisted of him making an assessment of their character. For remember, he went through Reuben and all of these, and he was brutally honest He's on his deathbed. He has no interest in flattering his boys. He has nothing to prove and he has nothing to gain. So he's just brutally honest with them, and some of his assessment is not very positive. And he just tells them, here's your weakness and here's your problem. So he makes an assessment of their character, and we looked at that already, as I said. And then he warns them of the consequences of their character. The way we behave, the decisions we make, our character often will determine our destiny. That affects mm where we end up and how we uh how we uh uh uh what our life is like And so he warns them, several of them, not all across the board, but several of them, he says, listen, this is your character, these are your strengths, these are your weaknesses, and this is what's going to be the consequence of that. And then a few of them, he prophesied of their descendants. Joseph in particular, Judah, he references the Shiloh coming out of Judah. He references Joseph and and Benjamin and what their ancestors are going to be like, what or what their not ancestors, what their um uh descendants are going to be like, their prodigy And it's a fascinating study. We looked at that. So we just finished all of that with the boys. Now my thinking is what kind of impact Did what Jacob just said have on these boys as they're standing there? I'd venture to say some of them are a little bit rattled maybe Some of the stuff he said was pretty brutal. Uh maybe some of them are upset. Is the is the air very tense because of what he said? Is that Is some of that old animosity and jealousy between the brothers, is that still present as he praises Joseph and Judah to such an extent? And then he blasts Levi and Simeon and and uh and uh uh uh Ju uh Reuben. I don't know But that's the atmosphere. That's the context of what's taken place here. He now gives his sons some very clear instructions concerning his death and his burial. He's transitioned, his conversation has been removed from the boys, and now he's going to talk about what's about to happen and what he wants them to do. What he wants them to do And um look at verse 29. It says, and he charged them and said unto them, I got looking at that word charged there. He's not asking them, he's not making a request. He's charging them. I got looking up that word charge, it simply means he's uh he's uh commanding them to do something. In fact, that word that the word charge comes from is translated in our Bible, other places, 339 times it's translated commanded them. So he he feels very strongly about his burial. Um he's very serious when he's saying this. Anybody here ever talk to somebody? Sometimes you talk to older fellows It's usually fellows that say stuff like this, but they'll say, Oh, uh, where do you want to be buried? Ah, just throw me over a hill somewhere. Anyone over here Some old guys say that. My father-in-law told me years ago, of course he's been with the Lord a number of years, but before he died, he said, whenever I die I want you to make me into power bait for trout fishing. And uh and so we said, well, we'll see what we can do. But um So sometimes people are are flippant, don't take seriously about their burial. That was not Jacob Jacob was very, very earnest and very, very serious. He's commanding them. He's charging them. This is what is going to happen, and you boys are going to make sure this happens. We could go back when he was with Joseph earlier when it was just them and Joseph's boys. He had charged him then at that point. He also told him then that he was to be buried in a very particular place in a very particular way. And so Jacob is very, very serious here. He's very, very firm about this, about his death and how he's to be buried and where. It's interesting as I got studying this, we're told more about the death and the burial of Jacob than we are about the death and burial of Abraham. I thought that was interesting. There's more scripture covering the death and burial of Jacob than there is about Isaac. In fact, there's more details and more scripture committed to giving us the account of Jacob's death and his burial than there is about Noah. Adam, Moses, David, Solomon, Paul, Peter, the only one that comes even close, and maybe you could say surpasses the uh references and the scripture committed to his death and burial is the Lord Jesus Christ. And so you have Jacob here. We're given, in fact there's three different passages Where he references his death, and in two of the three he references his burial. If you would, let's just look at them quickly. Genesis 47. Come back. This is when he first brings up the subject About his death. 47 in verse number 29. It says, and the time drew near that Israel must die. Of course, Israel is who? Jacob. Time drew nigh that Israel must die, and he called his son Joseph and said unto him, If now I found grace in thy sight, put, I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh And we've talked about that. That's a custom of committing to it, submission to it. And deal kindly and truly with me. Look at this. Bury me not, I pray thee, in Egypt I will lie with my fathers, and thou shalt carry me out of Egypt and bury me in their burying place. And by burying place he's referencing their cemetery, their family graves plot is basically it. And he said, And he, Joseph, said, I will do as thou hast said. And he said, Swear unto me. And he swear unto him. And Israel bowed himself upon the bed's head. Would you agree with me? It's pretty important to Jacob. how his body is treated after he dies. Right? I mean he's telling Joseph, you promise me, you swear to me, you're this is how what you're going to do with my body after I die. Come over to chapter 49. And uh where we're at, verse 48, or 28, I'm sorry, here I just read he charge them uh verse twenty-nine, I'm to be buried, I'm to be gathered in my people, bury me with my fathers in the cave that is in the field of Ephron. He's very emphatic. He's charging them, he's commanding them. In the cave that which is in the field of Makpelah, which is before Mamre In the land of Canaan. He's very specific. This is exactly where you're to bury me. Which Abraham bought with the uh with the field. of Ephraim the Hittite, possession for a burying place. And then he goes on to explain that's where my grandpa's buried, his my grandma, my father's buried there, my mother's buried there, and that's where I buried my Leah, my wife, and that's where Um that's where you're gonna bury me And then one other time in the first part of chapter 50, he actually dies, and we'll look at this at a later time, future time. Joseph fell upon his father's face and wept upon kissed him. And uh they embalm them verse number 40 or verse number two, and then verse 3, 40 days are fulfilled. uh for the morning there in Egypt and then they take him to where he said and they bury him. So three times Three passages of Scripture reference the burial of Jacob. It's incredibly important to Jacob. Now my first point, and this is all I'm going to look at tonight, maybe two, we might look at three or four. But first point I want us to notice tonight is the peace in Jacob's heart. And this has impressed me the last portion we've been studying this, the peace in Jacob's heart. Everything we're told about Jacob's final days He's coming down to the end of his life. He's uh, what did we say, 110, 117 years old, something like that. He's coming down the final days of life. And everything we're told about Jacob at this point in his life is incredibly commendable. He's testifying of God's goodness to his grandkids, to Joseph's two boys when he blessed them. You know, he crossed his hands, remember. And before he does that He's testifying to these boys. He wants them to know God has been good to him. And God has been powerful and proven himself to him. And he wants his grandsons to know how good his God is. Now you rewind 20 years. You don't hear Jacob talking about how good God's been to him. In fact, he's complaining, few and evil have been the days of my life. Woe is me, I'm going to just rather die. You know, oh, Simeon's never coming back. Oh, and he was miserable. But something's different. And now he's testifying to the goodness of God. Another thing I notice about these last days in the life of Jo uh Jacob He's expressing concern about his boys and their future. He's speaking to them. Now he's being brutally honest with them, but I think the whole point Of him addressing his boys before he dies, this ceremonial blessing that it's called before he dies, is he's concerned for their well-being after he's gone They leaned heavily on him. If you notice that as we've gone through Joseph's life, how often these boys as adults, they're in their 50s and 60s at this point, most likely. And they're still leaning heavily on their daddy, and they're honoring Jacob in a tremendous way. And he knows he's going to be removed from their life, and he's concerned that they go on And make something of themselves and be so many prophesies a little bit along those lines. Would you agree with me? Somebody that's testifying to the goodness of God at the end of the life, that's a very commendable thing Somebody that's concerned for their offspring, their children, and their children's children, for their well-being after they're gone, would you agree with me? That's a commendable thing. And then I also notice he declares his confidence that he's going to be with the Lord and with his family members that have already passed away, he's going to be with them on the other side. Now we're going to look at that in a little more detail later on, but Jacob here has absolute, displays absolute confidence That whenever his body dies and his body is buried, he's going to be okay. He's going to be with his fathers The whole implication is, and by the way, I'm getting way ahead of myself here, but when he says he's going to be gathered unto his fathers, he's not suggesting, like some liberals suggest, that he's just simply going to the same place They're buried. Oh, I'm just going to be buried same place my father's bones are buried. It's not what he's saying. He's saying they are someplace very, very real. I'm going to go and be with them. I'm going to be gathered to my father's. So he's showing tremendous confidence that he's going to ultimately end up in heaven. He's going to be with the Lord. I tell you, and I know I'm I know Wednesday night crowd on a horrible uh weather night. You're out here, you made the effort, I understand who I'm talking to, but I'm saying this, it's it is a tremendous thing to have assurance and a confidence that whenever this life is over, I'm going to be okay. I'm going to be with the Lord. I'm going to be with loved ones that have already gone on. That's a tremendous thing to know. Not a lot of people have that assurance, not a lot of people have that confidence, but we can in Christ. And I hate to say this, but in a lot of quote-unquote quick Christian churches, the teaching and preaching, the biblical teaching and preaching that we can know for sure Our sins are forgiven, that we have eternal life, that we can be secure in Christ. That is not taught or preached. But Jacob had it. And so he's very commendable. He is, there's no hint of fear, there's no hint of insecurity as he's approaching the end of his life. The fact of the matter is, Jacob was much more noble in his death than he was in his life. If all we knew about Jacob, if if if if we didn't have any more information about Jacob other than this account here, these last statements, these last days of his life, maybe a week or so, taking place here in these three passages. If that is all we knew about Jacob, we would think this man was a great man of God Man, he lived a life of faith and obedience and submission to the Lord. He walked with God in a great way, if all we knew was the final days of his life. But the fact is, he did not walk with God. He did not have a great testimony. It was okay sometimes But the fact of the matter is, and I'm not trying to be disrespectful, and I think you understand what I'm trying to say, but the fact of the matter is he was a liar Multiple times we have an account of him lying to his father of all people. I tell you, a person that lies to their father, that's pretty bad. One of the big things under that uh that um uh that uh I was convicted about and then even after I got saved bothered me a long time. I finally had to go to my daddy and apologize, is times I had lied to my daddy, that bothered me. Jacob lied to his father. He lied to his brother. He stole the birthright from his brother. That's not stealing his, that's not going over in your brother's room and stealing his basketball. This is stealing his future. He lied, he cheated, he stole, he cheated off his uncle. And uh But yet here we have, in spite of all these personal failures, in spite of all these heartaches he brought upon himself and others. Somehow, through all of that, he maintained his faith in God. And a lot of times it was hard to see that faith there. That flame of faith a lot of times had really dwindled down to just almost an unseen amber. But then other times you would see it would come up. Remember when he was coming down to Egypt to see Joseph, and got the wagons and they were moving down, and he said, hold it, we need to stop at Bethel. There you see that faith. Kind of blossomed a little bit and he went to God and made sure that this was okay with God. This is the right thing he should be doing And so all his whole life, where it's all Jacob, Jacob, Jacob, Jacob, it's all about Jacob and what he can get, however he can get it. Lie, cheat, steal, whatever it takes, I'm going to get what I want. I don't care what it costs, I don't care who it hurts. I want it, I'm getting it. That was the story of his life. And now here he is at the end of his life, and we see this tremendous man, this tremendous faith. Somehow, through all his personal failures and all the heartaches he brought on himself and on others He maintained his faith in God. He did not quit. And the fact of the matter is, God never gave up on Jacob. That's an amazing thing. All that he did and all the shame he brought on the name of Jehovah, and the horrible testimony was to his uncle and to the s surrounding people, the issue with Dinah Slaughtering all those people. The testimony his family had was awful. But yet God never abandoned Jacob. God never forsook him. And sometimes we get ourselves in a mess, and sometimes we fail, and sometimes we We do things and we wonder, God, why in the world do you put up with me? Can I get a witness? Anyone know what I'm talking about? Da'hab what in the world? And yet God never God never breaks his promises And God had made a covenant with his grandfather, he renewed that covenant with his daddy, and God made a covenant with Jacob, and part of that covenant was, I'm not going to fail you, I'm not going to forsake you, I'm not going to abandon you. And God was faithful. Jacob's faith, though it struggled and though at sometimes it seemed almost absent, nevertheless, he hung on to that. And now at the end of the life, we see it coming through. God never gave up on Jacob, and God's never given up on his children all through the ages. I'm here to tell you, and I know, again, I know who I'm talking to, but those here, if we know Jesus Christ as Savior, I can assure you he will never leave us nor forsake us. Say, but preacher, you don't know how bad I messed up. You don't know what I did. You don't know what I said. Oh man, I lost my cool. I did this, I did that. I'm here to tell you, you need to confess it and forsake it, make it right, but I'll tell you, God has not forsaken you God does not abandon us. I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. God never forsook him In fact, this is an amazing thing to me, and I this this just boggles my mind, and I don't know the answer to it, other than I have I have a theory. Anybody want to hear my theory? How many people want to hear my theory? Five people. All right, good. All through Scripture, God repeatedly identifies himself, and we brought this out previously numerous times before. He identifies himself as the God of Jacob. I am the God of Jacob. All through, even into the New Testament sometimes. The God of Jacob, the God of Jacob. Why Jacob? Why doesn't God say, and he does, on occasion he'll lump the three together, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob But primarily, God is known as the God of Jacob. I am the God of Jacob. That's the majority of the time when God identifies with somebody, He identifies with Jacob. Not Isaac, not Abraham, a little bit them, but mostly Jacob. Now, if it was me, how many people are glad that Pastor Lemon is not God? Me too. Me, it would be like, hey, Abraham's the guy. That's who I mean man alive. What faith. It wasn't perfect, but man. Isaac wasn't too bad. He built altars, you know. He showed some maturity. But Jacob, you've got to be kidding me. I'm the God of Jacob. God was not ashamed to be the God of Jacob. In fact, you almost get the impression, and and I don't mean to be disrespectful, so I hope you understand my heart. But it almost comes across sometimes he's almost proud to be the God of Jacob. I'm the God of Jacob. And then on top of that, God names his people For all eternity after Jacob, except he uses the title Israel, the nation of Israel. We still call them that today. Who's Israel? Jacob! What in the world? Now, again, my reasoning would say, you know, name the nation after Abraham, the father of the nation. You know, he's the one that started it all. He's the one that God said, Come out of her, and I'll give you the promised land. I'm gonna make of you a great nation, and more than the stars of the sky, and more than the sand of the sea, you're also uh and uh you're it's gonna be great. But he doesn't name it after Abraham. Again, my understanding would be to this day, it would have been, it would be, hey, I support Abraham over in the Middle East. Abraham's at war with the Arabs and all of that. But it's not. It's who? Israel. Jacob. So I don't know the answer to this question I'm belaboring here, but I wonder Over and over and over, we're told in the Bible, particularly in Psalms, and I'm finishing up the book of Psalms right now, and over and over and over it says, God is merciful. His mercy is great. His mercy endureth forever. Great is his mercy. Mercy, mercy, mercy, mercy, mercy, mercy, mercy. One of the chief displays, one of the chief um uh characteristics of God's interaction with mankind, one of the prominent characteristics of his interaction with mankind is the mercy he shows us. And I'm wondering, God showed so much grace and so much mercy to Jacob. I'm wondering if that isn't why he chose Hid to say, I'm the God of Jacob. I don't know. God glories in his grace he shows us. God glories in his mercy he shows us. And Jacob experienced a lot of grace and mercy. And so I wonder And what I take away from Jacob coming to the end of his life, and he's completely at peace. This is a picture of a man at peace with his God. He's at peace now with his family. He wasn't before. He's at peace with his family, and he's at peace with himself. He's not saying my days are evil. He's saying God's been good to me. I'm concerned for my boys. I'm ready to go with be with my Lord and my fathers where they are. He's at peace with himself. And what I take away from that is this, it doesn't matter how badly a person may mess up, it doesn't matter what a failure we may make. If our faith and trust is in the Lord Jesus Christ, we can have confidence, assurance at our death that we'll be with the Lord and He'll accept us into heaven. Now, we may not get all the rewards that were available. We may be ashamed a little bit of how we lived our life. But nevertheless, our acceptance by God and our love by our God is secure. is secure. So the thing I notice here is the peace in his heart, the tremendous peace in his heart in spite of all of this stuff Then the second thing, and I'm only going to do part of this tonight, is the place of honor. Look with me, Wood, there in verse 29. First part it says he charged them and said unto them. And then he says this, I am to be gathered unto my people. Now look at this. Bury me with my fathers in the cave That is in the field of Ephron the Hittite. Bury me at this place. Two things very important to Jacob. Incredibly important. There's no negotiating. They cannot fail on this instruction. Is to number one that he is to be buried. Number one. And number two, where he is to be buried. It seems like he emphasizes the fact that he is to be buried. It's important to him that he is buried. Look at this passage here. It says, I am to be gathered unto my people, bury me with my fathers. Come down to the last part of verse 30 It says that Abraham bought with the field of Ephraim the Hittite for a possession of a what? Burying place. Verse 31, there they buried Abraham and Sarah his wife. There they buried Isaac and Rebekah and his wife. There I buried Leah He's emphasizing the fact that they are to make sure he is to be buried. Five times He references it. I'm buried. I'm buried. Why would he make such an emphasis upon being buried? Well, several reasons, perhaps. One is in Egypt, a lot of times they would not bury their dead. They would put them out in the river and float them down the river, or some cases they would burn them, incinerate their bodies. There was various methods of disposing of the corpse of their people And I think Jacob is saying this. We're living in Egypt. It's where we're at right now. It's not our home. And I do not want to be identified with the Egyptians. I want to be buried. In the ground, buried, with my uh where my father is and my family is buried. Um the by now let me say this The Bible pattern for treatment of a believer's body. A corpse. After a believer dies, we go absent from the body, we're immediately with the Lord. What do we do with the bodies? Some people say, oh, it doesn't matter. Throw it over a hill, whatever. Burn it up. Throw it in the furnace Well, the Bible pattern, I'm just telling you, the Bible pattern for a treatment is for a uh of a believer's corpse is it's to be treated with honor. That body is to be treated with honor. The body for a believer is the temple of the Holy Ghost, where the Holy Spirit dwells. God created our bodies. Our bodies are the temple of the Holy Spirit. Now, we're not in them when we die. We're not in them. We're in the presence of the Lord, absent from the body, present with the Lord. But this body is the temple of the Lord. And God is going to raise it up again someday. And it doesn't matter whatever happens to the body, that is no factor on God's ability to raise it up and resurrect it and glorify it. It might get eaten by 25 sharks out in the ocean and one finger is in that shark's belly and my eyeball's in that shark's belly and my big toes in that shark's belly and crabs are eating uh my uh knuckles. But still God can bring that all together and resurrect it. Right? But all through scripture, all through scripture, we find that when there is a body of one of God's people, it was treated with respect. It was treated honorably. And so the pattern in the New Testament is that believe uh treat the body with honor. And second of all, if you study it carefully, all through the Bible, I said the New Testament, all through Scripture, it's tree with honor. And then for New Testament believers, it's the body of the Holy Spirit. Second of all You find the body of believers are buried. Are buried. Burial of a believer's body is a testimony of their faith in the resurrection. That's why they were believing. Jacob believed in the resurrection. Someday, read Hebrews 11. By faith, they were looking for that city. Believers, all through Scripture, God's people are buried, and it's a testimony of the fact that we believe that someday this body is going to be resurrected. Now, God can resurrect that body, however It's disposed of. But the testimony in Scripture is they bury the body. They bury the body. They bury the body. Nowhere in Scripture, not one time Do you find God's people's body being cremated or incinerated? The pagans did that. The uh unbelievers did that, the people outside the family and and uh outside the the nation of God's people, and the family of God's people, they would be cremated, but you never find God's people. Deliberately cremating their bodies. They're always buried. They're always buried. They're always buried. You say, preacher, are you saying it's sin to Have cremation when somebody passed away. I'm not prepared to say that it's sin to do that, but I will say this, it's not the Bible pattern. So not this it's not the way God's people disposed of their bodies in Scripture. And we could go on that, and I have, if you're interested, I have some literature a little more detailed on that I'm reading a book right now about folks that have persecuted contemporary people, and by contemporary I mean during our time, within the last 25 years. People that are persecuted or giving their lives for their faith in Christ, primarily in the Middle East and Africa And I read an account on Monday evening, I read a little bit each evening, I read an account on Monday evening about a fella in Nepal. We have a missionary over there. We had two at one time. And this fellow was a believer. He had a tremendous testimony. He was hated by the hardcore Hindus. And uh harassed by them uh horribly, but he died. Natural causes, I believe, don't say he wasn't he wasn't martyred, but he died. And so he made it very, very clear, and it reminded me of Jacob here, he was emphatic, that he wanted his body to be buried. Now the Hindus, if you're familiar with their rituals and their religion, is it's very, very important to them that you burn the bodies And he says, I do not want my body cremated, I want it to be buried. Now let me just read you his account of this. I thought this was interesting. They don't give the man's name, they just give a synonym for him. But he died in a small Nepali city. Now listen to this. And it was important to him and his family that his body be buried. It is hard for many American Christians to understand the priority of our Nepali family members placing on this ritual of burial. In their culture, and I believe in biblical culture, in their culture, a burial or a tombstone is not just a way to dispose of a body But it is a permanent landmark of that person's faith and God's faithfulness. In other words, in a culture that incinerated their bodies Being buried was a testimony, having a tombstone and a body buried was a testimony, I'm a believer in the true God. This man was a believer in God's faithfulness. He goes on. It's about 30,000 people in that city. But there were only four or five Christian families. 30,000 people, four or five Christian families. When this man died, the radical Hindus came to get his body for cremation. They force themselves on. We're going to take his body. According to Hindu custom, uh they were going to uh take his body for create create cremation according to Hindu custom His family said no, they wanted a Christian funeral and a burial. They went on and started making arrangements for the burial. A large Hindu mob gathered. The people were shouting and threatening. They demanded the body of this man to be given to them in order to perform their Hindu last rites and cremation. They explain that in the life of a Hindu there are three significant milestones. One, birth, number two, marriage, and number three, death. By cremating this man's body, the Hindus, now get this, the Hindus hope to erase his Christian testimony. Cremation would be a message to everyone that he really hadn't been a Christian and in his final moments He rejected this foreign religion of Christianity and returned to Hinduism. There was significance. The grave, and I'll end with this, the grave, in contrast, will be a permanent testimony that this man who had died was a Christian. Was a Christian. Now my opinion, again, I'm not prepared to say uh it's sin. I've done funerals for people, cremated. Uh uh if you ask me my opinion, I'll tell you your my opinion. If I'm the preacher, I'll tell you my opinion I'm the preacher tonight, so I'll give you my opinion. I'll respect anybody, but this is what I think. I think the biblical method of disposing of a believer's body is burial. That's the pattern, that's the example we have, and I think there's tremendous significance to it, to the testimony, that God is our Father, Jesus is our Savior, and we expect to be resurrected someday. I think all that's in it. Now I think we've lost a lot of that significance. Generally it'll be buried with the head facing east. Why east? Because that's where Jerusalem is. That's where Jesus is coming back. So all of that has significance. Say, all right, what does that have to do with me today? I don't plan on dying today, preacher. Well, I think this. Number one, let's be faithful till death. Amen? Say, well, I blurned it. I messed up. I'm bad. Listen, uh Jacob messed up too, but when he came to the end of his life, uh his faith shone through. And uh it wasn't over. God never forsook him. So I want to be faithful. And um and what we do with our body after death I think does matter I think there is biblical significance. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you take these thoughts tonight. Help us, Lord, to understand your plan and purpose a little better. Help us be faithful. God, I don't want to come to the end of my life and be ashamed of how I lived my life. Lord, I don't want to come to the end of my life and say, Boy, I wished I'd have lived differently. I want you to be pleased with my whole life But Lord, when that day comes, I'm glad that in Christ we can have assurance, we can have peace, we can have confidence, that Jesus has made us acceptable to you. And that we don't have to fear or fret. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many would say, preacher, it's just encouraging to me to know that the Lord doesn't forsake me even when I mess up and sometimes forsake him. Is there any like that by the upper hand? My hands raised. Goodness. I tell you the assurance of salvation is just about as joyous to me as salvation, first of all, in the first place. And so let's live for the Lord. We struggle, get back up and go on. We fall, get back up and go on. And let's be faithful unto death. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. Take these thoughts in Jesus' name. Amen.