Chapter number forty eight is where we're at. Uh we started this last week and um we're gonna pick up where we left off. If I can get my glasses out of my pocket. There we go. Genesis chapter number 48, and I want to begin reading in verse number 8. Verse number 8. I'm going to read down through the end of the chapter. We read the whole chapter last week. Of course, just a reminder of what the context is here. Jacob is now on his deathbed. He's terminally ill is the point I had, first point. And uh he is not going to live very long. Whatever his illness is, we're not told what it is. He's a hundred about 147 years old, his body is failing, whatever sickness he has, it's the what's going to take his life. He's grievously ill. And so uh they call Joseph in, and uh Joseph comes in and and is with his daddy. Then he brings the two boys. Joseph brings his two boys with him And I thought this was interesting is Jacob takes time, he knows his time is limited, he's facing the end of his days. And he takes some time to address, I believe, in front of these two young men, and they're not toddlers, they're grown pretty much, but he testifies to the goodness of God. And he tells what God had done for him and the things that were important to him at this stage of his life. And I tell you, that that stirred my heart on the part of Jacob. Now, we're going to pick up in verse number eight And uh verse number eight says, and Israel beheld Joseph's sons and said, Whose are these? Joseph said unto his father, They are my sons, whom God hath given me in this place. And he said, Bring them, I pray thee, unto me, and I will bless them. Now the eyes of Israel were dim for age, so they could not see. And he brought them near unto him, and he kissed them and embraced them. And Israel said unto Joseph, I had not thought to see thy face, and lo, God hath showed me also thy seed. Joseph brought them out from between his knees, and he bowed himself with his face to the earth. Joseph took them both, Ephraim in his right hand toward Israel's left hand, and Manasseh in his left hand towards Israel's right hand, and brought them near unto him. And Israel stretched out his right hand and laid it upon Ephraim's head, who was the younger, and his left hand upon Manasseh's head, guiding his hands wittingly. Important phrase there. For Manesseh was the firstborn. And he blessed Joseph and said, God before whom my fathers Abraham and Isaac did walk, the God which fed me all my life unto this day, the angel which redeemed me from all evil. Bless the lads, and let my name be named on them, and the name of my fathers, Abraham and Isaac, let them grow in multitude in the midst of the earth. When Joseph saw that his father laid his right hand upon the head of Ephraim, it displeased him. And he held up his father's hand to remove it from Ephraim's head unto Manasseh's head. Joseph said unto his father, Not so, my father, for this is the firstborn. Put thy right hand upon his head. And his father refused and said, I know it, my son, I know it. He also shall become a people, and he shall be great. But truly his younger brothers shall be greater than he, and his seed shall become a multitude of nations. And he blessed them that day, saying, In thee shall Israel bless, saying, God make thee as Ephraim and Manasseh. And he said Ephraim before Manasseh. And Israel said unto Joseph, Behora, before I die, God shall be with you, and bring you again into the land of your fathers. Moreover, I have given to thee one portion above thy brethren Which I took out of the sword of the Amorite with my sword and my bow. Jacob's blessing, Joseph's sons. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, we ask, Lord, that you would Just bless our study of this passage. I pray you'd open our eyes. That maybe, Lord, there be some principles here, some lessons that we can learn that would help our faith, that would strengthen our faith in you. Some examples we could follow here, maybe. So I ask that you please fill me with your Spirit. Guide my mind, my will. As I yield it to you, I present my body, Lord, that your Holy Spirit Can just speak for me and um and that you can have your way. In Jesus' name, amen. Alright, uh Jacob is uh blessing here. Well, the first point was this, was uh Jacob's terminal illness. As I said He's going to die, whatever this illness is, we're not told, it's what's going to take his life, and he knows it. So that uh so he brings in uh the family and he testifies, as I said Of God's goodness to him. Now we have his tender blessing. This is the point I put it, the way I put it. Jacob's tender blessing. Jacob's about, as I said, about 147 years old. Physically, he is very ill. This is the weakest, no doubt, that he's ever been in his life. In fact, if you remember, last week he struggled just to sit up on the edge of his bed. And so he's very, very weak, very, very ill physically. However, spiritually, Jacob is about the strongest he's ever been, as far as what I can glean from Scripture. He is uh his attitude, there's a noticeable difference in his attitude, uh, his approach, his outlook. We'll notice this as a little bit as we go through There's something different about Jacob at this point. He's spiritually stronger than he's ever been. Like I said, as far as I can tell. Usually in Scripture anyways, and I don't know testify in our experience But uh I maybe I shouldn't say usually. Often in Scripture, it's the exact opposite. And we could go back into the book of Kings and some others and give example after example after example, where somebody started out very strong spiritually and on fire for God and strong in their convictions and they would do right And over and over you have a little statement that says, And he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord. And that's a significant statement. There's a world of difference between doing right in the sight of man and doing right in the sight of the Lord. We can put a show on and make ourselves look good. But when the Bible says that somebody did right in the eyes of the Lord, uh that's that's uh saying something about them But over and over and over, you read through the book of 1 Kings, 2 Kings, even back a little bit into Samuel a little bit, you find these kings that start out so strong, so good. And then as they got older, they drifted. They ended up into idolatry and different things. Anybody uh see that at all reading through their shore? Classic example is Solomon The wisest of all men, and how strong he was for the Lord when he started out and built a temple and established some convictions and taught his people the wisdom of God But he had many wives, and they stole his heart away from the Lord, and he ended up uh pretty rough shape. And so this is unique uh a little bit unique with Jacob in that He struggled early on, stealing birthrights and sneaking blessings and uh sneaking away blessings and um swindling Laban and different people and and pretty much uh looking out for himself. And he got, you notice anytime somebody gets self-centered, they get uh pretty despondent And he's all down, and my days have been evil, and oh, it's just been tough, and he's lived for himself and sought his own uh prosperity at the expense of others his whole life. But now something's different. And he's testifying to the goodness of God. And he's blessing his Joseph's sons. And he's saying some tremendous things. And so there's a change. His focus is no longer on himself and what he can get out of others. Now his focus is on wanting to be a blessing to others. And wanting to encourage others and wanting to strengthen other people's faith. I don't know how you are, but I know when I get sick, when I'm not feeling good, I generally focused on myself Can I get a witness? Anybody that way? Oh, I'm gonna die. You know, you got a you got a uh a cold. Oh, I'm sorrible And uh but Jacob is dying and literally, and he's very, very sick, but his focus is on others. And I'm in I'm impressed with uh uh Jacob's um uh spiritual progress here in the condition he's in. He's wanting to be a blessing to others. And he's about to bless Jacob's sons. He says there in verse number 9, Joseph said unto his father, well he asked verse 8, who are these? He's hard to see. He knew someone was there. He couldn't make out who they were. Joseph answers, My father, they're my sons, whom God hath given me in this place. He says, Bring them me, I pray thee. Bring them, I pray thee, unto me, and I will bless them. I will bless them. The idea of blessing is mentioned numerous times throughout Jacob's life. We won't take time to turn to all these, but if we go back to chapter 27 of Genesis, you have Jacob, at his mother's insistence and schemes, he steals the blessing away from his brother Esau. First, he bought the birthright with the pottage. Then he sneaks out while Esau's out deer hunting. He sneaks in and steals the blessing from him. And so J Jacob We have this idea of blessings being shared or put upon somebody numerous times in Jacob's life and outside of Jacob's life, but his particularly In chapter 28, verse 1 and 5, he believes he receives his daddy's blessing when he's going to go over to Laman and Laban to uh under the guise of finding a wife when he's really running away from Esau. uh to keep Esau from killing him. But his daddy blesses him, pronounces a blessing upon him as he leaves for uh Laban. In that same chapter, he receives a blessing. The blessing of Abraham is passed on to him by his father. So you have twice, Isaac blesses Jacob, and then Isaac passes on the blessings of Abraham that God had promised to Abraham, he passes them on to Jacob. In chapter 28 and verse 14, God meets with them, and God pronounces a blessing on Jacob. And so this idea of blessing, pronouncing blessings on someone or bestowing a blessing on someone is not the first time it's happening. In fact, it happens particularly in Genesis, but it happens uh early, early on In the life of Israel, we find fathers especially blessing their sons. So the question is, what are these blessings and what's the significance of it? Anybody here ever say to someone, God bless you, when they sneeze? You ever say you see someone you're leaving? And uh maybe as pastor I say this more. But um somebody say, Shalom, God bless you. Anybody ever something like that? Or somebody says to you, God bless you. We use that phrase. What do we mean by it? And in the scriptures, particularly here with Jacob and these Genesis blessings, what was the significance of it? It's fairly common, as I said. But it was of great importance. These blessings here in this case where Jacob is blessing the sons of Joseph. It's very, very important to everybody involved. There's obviously tremendous significance to this. Esau was very, very upset when Joseph or Jacob stole the blessing, his blessing from his father. And so, what are these blessings? I believe that they were played a key role in the establishment of Israel eventually as a nation, and the and Israel is God's people. These blessings that are given to them Often are associated with the nation of Israel's future, the family of Jacob's future. And so somehow, someway, these were factors In the establishment of Israel as God's people. Now, a few observations I made about these blessings that we find in Genesis. First of all, they involve both material and spiritual benefits. They're often associated with land, sometimes Um the uh they're associated with um the uh um what's the word I want many kids, um many offspring uh with uh somebody help me, what's the word I want there? Uh generations, prod if somebody has a lot of kids, they have a lot of uh heirs. You know what I'm talking about. It's not the word I want. See you guys what? The prodigy. Aha. Their offspring. It has to do with you're going to have a lot of many, many uh uh offspring, have many, many children, descendants I think that's what I wanted. So a lot of these blessings were both material and spiritual. Now the birthright was for the firstborn. The birthright almost always went to the firstborn, with a few exceptions. The birthright dealt primarily with the inheritance, the material heritance from the father. The birthright would go to the usually the eldest son. It usually, almost always, involved a double portion of the inheritance. In other words, however the possessions are going to be divvied out to his offspring, the birthright, whoever has the birthright, they're going to get a double portion of these material uh inheritance, what it what they're inheriting. So in this case Jacob is incredibly wealthy. Incredibly wealthy. And so whoever gets the birthright is going to get a lot of stuff. So that was the birth rate. However, the blessing was not necessarily limited to the firstborn. And we see that. Normally it was, but there are Exceptions to that. It often went along with the birthright. At some point, the father would bestow the birthright, say, all right, you get the birthright. It was a legal notice. It was similar to our will. You're going to get a double portion of everything that's left behind when I'm going. Then the blessing would also often come along with that. It had the idea if they were blessing this, and this was a fairly formal event. It wasn't just saying, oh God bless you kids, oh God bless you kids. It was it was very very formal, it was very very significant. And it usually and it what it meant was uh bestowing God's favor, God's protection And God's um uh uh uh increase on that person and their offspring So, this blessing that Jacob is bestowing on Joseph's sons would include, no doubt, material and spiritual benefits. We know the spiritual part. The blessing, one person suggested, I was looking up and just some background on this, and one suggested that it was a display of the father's acceptance Sometimes the firstborn would, uh especially in Esau's case, particularly, although that's not why Abraham, that's not why Isaac didn't bless Esau, it's because Joseph Uh Jacob's uh was sneaky and got it. But a lot of times they would bestow on one of the other sons the blessing because the son, the oldest son, maybe had shamed the family And brought disgrace on the name. And though he may still get the inheritance, he wasn't necessarily going to get this blessing. And so it bestowed it indicated the Father's acceptance of that one. The blessings were irrevocable. And that's why Esau got so upset Because when Jacob formally, when Isaac formally blessed Jacob, thinking it was Esau, And then finds out later Esau comes in and says, Who are you? He says, I'm Esau. And he says, Who was this here? He says, I gave them the blessing. That tells us that this blessing is irrevocable. He couldn't call him back in and say, nope, erase that. Nope, not blessing on you, on you. Once it's pronounced, it's set. It's set in stone. Let me give you some scripture for that. Keep your place here and come with me, if you would, to Numbers. Chapter number twenty three And look with me We'll start in verse 19. Now this is Balak. This is Balaam. And Balak is wanting Balaam to do what to Israel? He wants them to curse him. And Balaam starts out to his credit, he says, I can't, if God doesn't curse them, I'm not cursing them. I'm only going to do what God does And so he goes through this, and I think we looked at this recently in the message. And so he goes and asks God if he can curse them, and God says, What? No, you're not going to curse my people. So he goes back and forth, back and forth, and Balak's getting mad, because instead of cursing Israel, he blesses them. Then look at verse 19 of Numbers 23. He says, and this has given us some information on this idea of blessing, this Old Testament idea of blessing. He says, God is not a man that he should lie, neither the son of man that he should repent. Hath he said, and shall he not do it? Or hath he spoken and shall he not make it good? Look what verse 20. Behold, this is God speaking, Balaam speaking, behold, I have received commandment to bless, and he hath blessed. Now look at the last phrase. I cannot what? I can't reverse it. It's irrevocable. When that blessing is pronounced in this formal, significant event, it can't be undone. It can't be undone And so these blessings in the Old Testament are significant. We don't really fully understand it. It's not something that's carried out throughout Scripture and not something in the New Testament we see it all, not in in this f uh form anyway So, there are both material and spiritual benefits that involve that. They're a display usually of the Father's acceptance. Their blessings were irrevocable. And here's something: the blessings originated with God, and they were given through the Father, or in this case, the Grandfather. Come back to Genesis again. Look with me at verse. Well tell you what, we're here in Numbers. Let's go back to Numbers chapter 6. You got your Bibles tonight? Numbers chapter six, and look with me at verse twenty-two. Now this is uh this is God instructing Aaron to bless Israel. And look what takes place here. Verse 22. And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Now this is years, hundreds of years later, Moses is with Israel. And God tells him, verse 23, speak unto Aaron and unto his sons, saying On this wise, ye shall bless the children of Israel. Now when he says bless the children of Israel, he's not talking about just some generic, oh, just God Uh, God bless y'all. He's something very specific here, very significant. And he says, When you bless the children of Israel, saying unto them, now this is the blessing that they're supposed to pronounce on Israel. The Lord bless thee and keep thee. The Lord make his face to shine upon thee and be gracious unto thee The Lord lift up his countenance upon thee and give thee peace, and they shall put my name upon the children of Israel, and I will bless them. Now, what I want to point out here is this. God is actually the one that is blessing Israel with the peace And uh making his face to shine on them and be gracious. God's the one doing all that, but it's being pronounced through uh uh through um uh Aaron. Everybody with me? This is good stuff. Stirling. So these blessings are by God. God's the one to actually do it, but he's pronouncing it through a person. Now come back to chapter forty-nine of Genesis And look with me, if you would, at verse 25. Next chapter. We're in 48, go over to 49. And look at verse Twenty five says, even by the God of thy father, this is This is Jacob speaking to Joseph and giving him his blessing later on. Even by the God of thy father who shall help thee. And by the Almighty, who shall bless thee with blessings of heaven above, blessings of the deep that lieth under, blessings of the beasts The breast and of the womb, the blessings of thy father have prevailed above the blessings of my progenitors unto the utmost bound of everlasting hills. He goes on. But what I'm trying to point out is this these blessings are actually from God. So when Jacob is going to lay his hands on these boys, he's going to bless them, it's not just something he's coming up with This is God is going to bless them through this activity of the Father, this pronouncement of the grandfather. Alright? So what I'm trying to say is this: there's a whole lot more to this than bring the boys in. God bless these boys. Make them rich. No, no, no. It's more than just wishful thinking or a prayer request This is a pronouncement of Almighty God upon them. And it's tremendously significant And it's often, one other observation here, it's often conveyed by the laying on of hands. We see that in verse 14. He puts his, Joseph comes, brings the boys, takes his hands, and puts them on the boys' heads. So, this idea of blessing, I wanted to take a moment and just point out the fact that this is tremendously significant. Though we may not grasp all the significance of it, this is God doing something through Joseph. In the lives of these two boys, that is outside what they would normally come up with. Alright, so let's look at here what's taking place. First of all, under Jacob's tender blessings, the first thing I notice is he claims his sons, Joseph's sons, as his own, as his own. I thought that was interesting. Look at verse 9. Joseph brings the boys in, verse 8, and Jacob says, Whose are these? He can't see, his eyes are dim. He sees some people standing there. Who are these? Joseph says, Father, they are my sons whom God hath given me in this place. And And uh he says uh uh he said, Bring them, I pray thee, unto me, and I will bless them. And he takes them near unto him, and uh uh and they become his And uh he claims them for his own. And so he's claiming what's happening here is he's claiming these two boys as his own sons. In the place of Joseph. In other words, they are now adopted into Jacob's family with as much legal heir to Jacob's inheritance as Joseph has or any of the others. And they become his own. From this point on, this is interesting, from this point on, the tribe of Joseph is represented by Ephraim and Manasseh. In fact, almost never is Joseph mentioned as one of the tribes of Israel. In numbers, he is And uh, but he is only mentioned in that and it actually goes on and says, and Ephraim I'm putting my own words now, and then Ephraim is representative of Joseph, and Manasseh is representative of Joseph. And so he's taking them in as if they are his own sons. He's claiming them for his own. Numbers chapter 1, verse 32 through 35. Manasseh and Ephraim, the tribes of Manasseh, the tribe of Ephraim, are now Mentioned and Joseph is not mentioned from that point on. Second of all, Jacob's, uh we see Jake Jacob's claim for his sons as his own, he takes them in his own. And the second thing, Jacob's compassion for Joseph's sons. Again, look at verse 9. They are my sons whom God hath given me in this place. And he said, Bring them me. I pray thee unto me. And I will bless them. He says, Bring them over to me. Bring them up close to me. Come down and look at verse number 10. He says, and the eyes of Israel were dim for age. He could not see. He brought them. Look at this. He brought them near unto him. He didn't want these boys to hell. He wanted them close to him. And look what he does. He kisses them And he embraces them. That word embrace there means to clasp or to wrap your arms around. What's he doing? He's giving them a big what? Big hug. He's holding them up tight close to him. Now, if you paid attention to Jacob before, he is not a very compassionate man. He loved Rachel, but you don't find him showing a lot of affection to his boys. Joseph, he liked Joseph. Benjamin, you don't find a lot of compassion, but something's different. His heart's tender now. He brings these boys in and again they're in their teens no doubt, maybe more, uh, and he's bringing them in and he wants them close to them. And he wants to hold them and touch them. And I thought it was interesting in verse 12 that Joseph shows tremendous respect to his father. It says, And Joseph brought them out from between uh verse eleven it says, And Israel said unto Joseph, I had not thought to see thy face, and lo, God has showed me thy seed. I didn't even think I'd see you, Joseph, and here I see your boys. I'm holding them and I'm kissing them and hugging them. And look what how Joseph responds, verse 12. And Joseph brought them out from between his knees, and I Jacob's sitting on the edge of the bed. The two boys are up against him. He's holding them up close to him. And Joseph pulls him aside, sets him aside. And notice what he does. And he bowed himself with his face to the earth, to his daddy. Now, wait a minute. For 14 years or more People have been bowing to Joseph. Right? What was the prophecy that God gave in the dream of Joseph about his father and mother? They were going to do what? They were going to bow down to him, and that was all fulfilled. But here's the thing I notice about Joseph. It did not go to his head. He was not too big, too proud to humble himself and bow in respect and honor to his daddy. And I tell you, anytime a son gets too proud and too high-minded to honor and respect his father, that boy's gotten too high. He's thinking too highly of himself and that a daughter for as far as that goes. We are told to honor our parents, our father, and to obey them, right? We're not necessarily told to bow down to him, but Joseph did. And he wanted his daddy to know that he had his utmost respect and his utmost honor. Right, and that's that's the first commandment with promise. Is that God says we're told that our days be long. on earth. But um uh and uh here's the thing about that and it just flew out my mind Um, there was a great truth I was going to say about it, so profound. And uh but uh he's honoring his father here And he's respecting his father. We're not instructed to bow down to our fathers, but we are instructed to obey them and honor them. And Joseph love and respect for his father. The third thing I notice here is Jacob's apparent confusion over Joseph's sons. If you would, look at verse number 13 And Joseph took them both. Ephraim, now this is Joseph. He's standing in front of his father. You've got to think now in your mind. Jacob is sitting on the bed. He's got his two boys here, however tall they are. And he takes, and Joseph took them both, he pulls the boys back in again. Ephraim is in his right hand, towards Israel's left, and Manasseh. Is in his left hand towards Israel's right hand, and he brings them up. So Joseph is being very deliberate. The oldest needs to be at Jacob's right hand. That's where the blessing's going to be. So he maneuvers Manasseh over there to Jacob's right hand. He maneuvers Uh E Ephraim over to Jacob's left hand. His daddy can't hardly see. So he's making sure that they're lined up right the way they're supposed to be. So The right hand, the blessing goes on Manasseh, the firstborn, and uh the whatever's left, uh, his left hand goes on Abraham. Now look what happens. And Israel stretched out his right hand and laid it upon who? Wait a minute. He reaches over. And he puts it on Ephraim's hand, and then he takes his left hand and puts it on Ephraim. Manasseh. Yeah, he puts his left hand on Manasseh. And is uh and um guy look what it says there in verse fourteen guiding his hands wittingly And he blessed Joseph, and he gives this blessing to Joseph and the angel redeemed. And verse 17, and when Joseph saw that his father laid his right hand on upon the head of Ephraim, it displeased him. He got upset. This is the first time we find Joseph displeased about something. I mean, this is important to him. And Joseph, of all people, gets upset. The word displeased there means to be very agitated. It displeased him. And he held up his father's hand. He just bowed down to him. And now he's taken his father's hand and forcefully putting it over where he thinks it should be. To remove it from Ephem's head unto Manasseh's head. And Joseph said unto his father, Not so, my father, for this is the firstborn. Put thy right hand upon his head So there's some confusion going on here. I would imagine Joseph is thinking, Daddy's blind, he can't see, he doesn't know what he's doing, maybe, you know, maybe his mind's slipping a little bit. I've got to help him do this right And look how Jacob responds. Verse 19, and his father refused. And that's a very strong word. His father borderline rebuked Joseph here. And said, I know it, my son, I know it. He shall become a people, and he shall be great, but truly his younger brother shall be greater than he. His seed shall become a multitude of nations So this was a deliberate action on Jacob's part to bless the younger before the older. It's contrary to Joseph's thinking. He's doing it wittingly. The word wittingly means deliberately, consciously, knowing what he's doing. He's doing this on purpose. It's a deliberate action contrary to Joseph's thinking. For 14 plus years, Joseph, everybody did exactly what Joseph said. And now his daddy's not doing what he says. And Joseph's displeased. This isn't the way it's supposed to be, Daddy. This isn't the way we imagined it to be. This isn't the way we've always done it. This is different. So it's a deliberate action on Jacob's part, and I want to suggest to you it's a divine action God had a plan for these boys. And what's happening here is this God's plan for Joseph's boys. Did not line up with Joseph's plan for Joseph's boys. And Joseph was displeased. God's pl uh can I just throw this out? God's plan is always better than your plan and my plan And sometimes it displeases us. Anyone ever, maybe you haven't said this out loud, but you ever think, and maybe you don't want to admit this or acknowledge it, but you ever think in your heart, God, why are you doing this? Do you ever think that we would never say it this way? I'm sure we would never say it this way. But did you ever cross your thought ever crossed your mind, God, you're making a mistake? I'm here to remind you tonight, God never makes mistakes. He makes no mistakes, whether we understand it or not, whether it matches up to our anticipation or our understanding. God does a lot of things we don't understand, but I'm here to tell you, God is never wrong. And so even when things happen and he does things and his plans contradict our plans and our understanding, the best thing in the world to do is just trust him. Because he never makes a mistake. He never makes a mistake. Anybody here ever do something the way you thought it should be and look back and regret it? Anybody here ever wait on God and say, all right, God, I'll do it your way? And you say, Praise the Lord. I trusted God on that one. That's exactly what's happening here. In fact, I'm getting a little ahead of myself and I've got to wind down here, but in Hebrews it says that Abraham, that Jacob did this by faith. He blessed the sons of Joseph. This is all God's leading. Jacob is following, trusting God. It's divine play. Joseph is a little out of the loop here. He gets on board and he cooperates, but initially it's like, no, no, no, you're making a mistake. God's plan for these boys was different than Joseph's plan. Now, a couple lessons here along these lines. If I want God to bless my children, and I believe all of us do, and most of us our kids are grown, we've got grandkids, some cases great-grandkids. But if I want God to bless my children, if I want God to bless my offspring, first of all, I need to be a person that God can bless them through. I'm afraid too often parents expect their spec spiritual results out of their kids without being spiritual themselves. If I'm demand I'm a little off track here, but if I'm demanding that my children obey me and I'm not obeying God, God can't bless my children through me the way He could if I obeyed Him. What's that called? It's called hypocrisy. When I expect something from my children that I'm not doing myself. You obey your father. Are you obeying your heavenly father? You follow what I'm saying? And so Joseph wanted his boys to be blessed, so, and he lived a life that God could bless them through And along those lines, if I got one God to bless my children, get them to a place where God can bless them Joseph brought them to their grandpa. Joseph brought them to Jacob. That's where the blessings have been passed down from Abraham to Isaac to Jacob and now to the boys Get them to a place where God can bless them. You say, preacher, in our day and age, where's a place that God can bless them? Church. I don't know about you, but I think kids that are in church under the teaching of the Word of God and around people of God have a better chance of getting God's blessing than those that don't even know the name of Christ Get them into church. How old should they be when they're in church? I like uh who was it just recently said that they were in church. From the start of their life and nine months later they were there. Who was that? Just said that recently. Nine months later they were there in uh uh uh in per in person. Don Williams said that, yeah. Get 'em to church. Get 'em in nursery. Oh, they just lay in nursery and eat and cry and other stuff Um wh why why put them in, I tell you, get them around the people of God. You have a chance, God bless you. Are you with me on this Get them in church. Get them to the place God can bless them. Send them to good Bible preaching camps and conferences. Have devotions in your house. That God can bless them. So two lessons. One is if I want God to bless my children, be blessable. Be a conduit, a good conduit for God to bless through you, and get them to the places God can bless them. And number two, I put this Allow God to accomplish His will in my children's lives. Joseph Had a plan for his boys. Apparently, the oldest would get the blessing. The second, the youngest, would get the leftover blessing. That was Joseph's plan. God's plan was different for his boys' lives Oh my uh my son's gonna be uh uh a truck driver, my son's gonna be the president, my son's gonna be uh uh what else A preacher, my son's going to be a missionary. You know what? I want my son to be exactly the person God intends for him to be. I want to give you scripture for that, if you would. Come with me to Proverbs, and we're going to look at one more thing here, and then I'll quit, I promise. Come with me to Proverbs, chapter number 22. Some of y'all know where I'm going with this, maybe already. Proverbs 22. And verse number 6. Notice what it says. Notice the wording here very, very carefully. Train up a child in the way you want him to go. Uh-uh. Train up a child what? And the way he should go. And when he's old, he'll not depart from it. Now there's a lot of teaching on that, and there's a lot you can pull out of that. But I think what God is saying here, listen, you teach a child how to know, you teach your child to follow God so God can lead him where he wants to go, rather than what I impose upon him. We say this every mission just about every missions conference. We don't want mama-called missionaries on the field. We want what God called missionaries on the field. That's raising up a child in the way he should go. God calls him there. We don't want daddy-called preachers behind the pulpits. We want God-called preachers behind the pulpits. And so Joseph had his plan for the boys. And that's uh Ebrahim, no, not so, Daddy. Uh, this ain't right. And Daddy says, Nope, I'm doing this on purpose, and Joseph got upset. But praise the Lord, finally he submitted to it and uh and uh followed with God's plan on that. Yes, it's glory of the Lord's audience to the glory. Right. So God's plan isn't always Our plan, and God doesn't do things the way we think he should. Let me give you one more thought here from back in Genesis 49. And here we have Jacob conveys his blessings on Joseph's sons. And it's not real profound. Look at verse Genesis 49. Let me get back here. And look at verse number Verse chapter forty eight, I'm sorry. Said, I know it, my son, I know it. And here he says, he shall become a people and he shall also be great. Don't misunderstand. Manasseh's going to be great. I'm going to use him. It's going to be one of the great tribes of Israel. But truly his younger brothers shall be greater than he. And his seed shall become a multitude of nations. You notice this is more than just a general, well, God bless you. It's very specific. This is a borderline prophecy. In fact, it is prophecy. This blessing. Verse 20, and he blessed them that day. saying, in thee shall Israel bless, saying, God make thee as Ephraim and Nessah. In other words, that's what people are going to say down the road. Years later, they're going to say, oh, God make you like Ephraim. God make you like Manasseh. And he said Ephraim before Manasseh. Said Ephraim before Manasa. My point is this. Let's, when God's will and God's plan contradict my will and my plans, let's cooperate with God. I think it's interesting Hebrews eleven and um uh the verse twenty one The Bible says that by faith Jacob blessed Joseph's sons. By faith. By faith. That tells me something. That tells me even, maybe even Jacob. Maybe even Jacob thought, no, this ain't right. But he knew what God's will was. God somehow had communicated him to him. This wasn't a spur-of-the-moment thing. He knew ahead of time deliberately that what he was going to do, somehow God had communicated him my plan for Manasseh, my plan for Ephraim, and Jacob had to by faith go with what God was saying. Sometimes what that book says doesn't make sense. Sometimes what God's telling us to do, and now make sure it lines up with the Word of God, but if it lines up with the Word of God and say, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, uh I I say this, go with God. Yeah, it did. It actually did. In fact, that's what we were saying before when the tribes, Joseph's not even mentioned And the the tribes go to Ephraim. You list the t list uh the uh you find lists of the tribes of Israel, and Joseph's not even in there. It's Manasseh and Ephraim. Or Ephraim actually before Manasseh. So, and here's the thing, and I don't know the answer to this, but you never in the scripture do you find God identifying Himself as the God of Joseph It's always the God of Abraham, God of Isaac, God of Jacob, of all people, Jacob. You never find the God of Joseph. Joseph is a man of impeccable integrity, outstanding faith, and yet No, I think it was just the plan of God. This is Leathermanism, okay? But I think Joseph got to heaven. I think he got a standing ovation in heaven. He didn't get a whole lot down here maybe, but man, he got a heap in heaven. And he's sure a tremendous example for us. So why God chooses? To honor some and others, I can't give the answer to that But Joseph did right, whether he got attention or not, whether he got the blessing or not. He did right. He did right. And so God's plans and our plans sometimes Conflict, but it's best to go with God's plans. There's a lot of times in life what I want, what I would like to happen, what I would like to see, and what God's will is contradicts mine, and I found it's always best to cooperate with God. Sub much my will to God So let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask that you would help us to follow this example here and to let your will be done. Whether it makes sense to us or not, whether we see it or not, we'll just trust you. And follow your direction, your instructions. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, Preacher, I'm thinking of something in particular? I need to trust the Lord. Just let God lead me. Is there anyone like that, preacher? I got something there. Ah, I don't know. I just need to trust the Lord. Just need to trust the Lord. God bless you. Hands all around. Maybe you're facing something. Your will is one thing. God's will is another Of course it lines up with Scripture. I'm sure God's will is not, but I need to put aside my will and do God's will. And I tell you, it always works best. It always works best. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.