Genesis chapter number 37, we're starting of Joseph, and we're really in the early stages of the biblical record of Joseph's life. And we talked about, and I know I'm reviewing every time, but just we're still getting our wheels turning here. He's come from a very dysfunctional home, so we've emphasized that And um uh and then his brothers and their attitudes towards him. We're gonna pick up that again this evening Where we're at in our text, we're going to begin reading in verse number 31, if you want to find that. 37, chapter 37, verse 31. Leading up to this, what the context is, is Joseph's brothers had taken the flocks of Jacob out to Shechem. Uh it was about a 60-mile trek out there. They had gotten out there. They'd been gone for an extended period of time, apparently. Jacob was concerned, I believe, for two things. One, he was concerned for the welfare of his boys If you remember Shechem, they had some pretty violent issues with Shechem previously, so it wasn't the safest place for them to be. So his concern for their well-being, I believe he was also concerned for the well-being of his investment. uh all these great herds that they were over. Uh that's where that was his living. That was his business. And so he wanted to make sure everything good was there, I'm sure So he calls Joseph his favorite son, and he made that clear, he gave that coat of many colors to, and uh he sends him out to go find your brothers and check on them, make sure they're okay So Joseph goes. Apparently, we see pick up later, he's wearing that coat that his father had given him. And so he goes, he eventually finds the brothers. They see him coming from a long way off. And they say, here comes that dreamer. And so they conspire together and they make a decision that they're going to kill Joseph. Now their hatred has crossed the line. Their bitterness and their heart and hatred for their brother had gotten to the point where they were willing to take his life. That's pretty intense, if you ask me. So they see him coming. And by the way, in my studies since our last lesson, I was thinking, I wonder who was the mastermind behind the idea of killing Joseph. And I have a sneaking suspicion. I think I've picked up on something. We'll get into this later, but I'll just throw a little teaser out there. Hold on. I always got mad at Dr. Williams when he did that. Now I'm doing it. So uh I found a little teaser. I think I figured out Who came up with the idea? Which of the eleven brothers came up with the idea of killing Joseph? How many people are curious? Which of those? Come back in seven weeks And um we're gonna get to that point. I think I figured it out. Nevertheless they see him coming. Reuben is a little tender hearted, he has some compassion He speaks up and says, Don't kill him. We don't want his blood on our hands. Put him in this pit here. And so they throw him in the pit And uh Reuben's probably his re his turn to watch the flocks. They're sitting there uh eating, and uh lo and behold, a caravan comes by heading down to Egypt. There's um there's the um Ishmaelites and uh who were those other birds with them? The Midianites, Ishmaelites and Midianites, and they're coming down there, the huge caravans. We see little pictures in Sunday school with the kids. There's a camel and like a little wagon behind them. No, no, no. This was huge. This was, they're traveling hundreds, perhaps thousands of miles To go do business in Egypt and northern Africa. And so this was an established trade route. They sell Joseph to the Midianites Midianites and the Ishmaelites for twenty pieces of silver, the price of a handicapped slave. They sell them to him. Reuben comes back, looks in the pit, Joseph is gone. And I didn't talk about this last week, but I'm wondering if Reuben thought at that moment That maybe Joseph had been killed. They killed him when they were gone. Because he makes a statement there. Look there in verse number 30, I think it is. He said, the child is not, and whither shall I go? That sounds a little bit like he thought Joseph was dead. So that's where we're picking up. Alright? So let's get to verse number 31. And they took Joseph's coat and killed a kid of the goats and dipped the coat in the blood. And they sent the coat of many colors, and they brought it to their father, and said, This have we found. Know now whether it be thy son's coat or no. And he knew it. And he said, It is my son's coat. An evil beast hath devoured him. Joseph is without doubt rent in pieces. And Jacob rent his clothes and put sackcloth upon his loins, and mourned for his son many days. And all his sons and all his daughters rose up to comfort him, but he refused to be comforted. And he said, for I will go down into the grave unto my son, into the grave unto my son mourning. Thus his father wept for him, and then many a nights sold him into Egypt unto Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh, and captain of the guard. I've entitled it Jacob's Grief So let me take another sip and we'll pray and we'll see how this goes. Let's pray together. Father in heaven. We ask now that you would bless our study. I pray we, your Holy Spirit would impress upon our hearts and our lives truths and principles From these events here that we're going to look at and help us, Lord, to grow in our faith. I pray that our confidence in you and your word would grow. I pray that our love for you and one another would grow. And I just ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. And Lord, I ask, if it be your will, your Holy Spirit would touch my voice box. Lord, and help that thing operate correctly. And so that um so uh that we can understand what's going on here. Fill me with your spirit, I pray, Lord. Speak through me is my prayer. In Jesus' name. Amen. All right. If I was writing a biography of Jacob, Joseph's father, if I was writing a biography of Jacob, Where we're at right now would begin a new chapter in the biography of Jacob's life. And I think I would just entitle that chapter, Grief Grief. Jacob's heart is broken. He's not lived morally, he's not lived the best life a man can live He's lied, he's connived, he's schemed, he's stolen. And you know, when we live a life like that, there's consequences to that life. I was thinking today, I was talking to someone this week, you know, we can we have a free will. How many people understand that? We have free will, we can make what decision we want. We can go what down what road we want to We are free to make choices in life, but we are not free to choose the consequences of those choices. That's God's sovereignty. He gives us a free will. I can choose to accept Christ or I can choose to reject Christ. If I accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, the consequence of that is eternal life. A secured home in heaven. Amen? If I choose to reject Jesus Christ, I say no. I'm going to try and make it on my own. I think I'm good. I'm a church member. And um we die in that condition. Then there's consequences to that choice, right? Eternity and hell separated from God. So there's choices. So Jacob had made a series of choices And the consequences of those choices was grief. Just a few of the things that brought grief to Jacob's heart, I believe, first of all, was a dysfunctional family. A dysfunctional family. Would you agree with me? It's not very pleasant when the family doesn't get along. Do you agree with me? It's not very pleasant when there's uh uh bitterness and fussing and anger and hatred in the home. Um that brings grief to the home Um uh how many we got parents here tonight. How many parents here? It bothers you when your kids don't get along. Man, it breaks your heart, doesn't that, sometimes it creams you? When they're little, you just give them a whooping. When they get older That it breathed grieves your heart. I think Jacob's heart was broken over the way his family had turned out. Um Jacob uh grief Rachel's death, if you would come back to chapter 35, just a couple chapters earlier. Look at verse number 16, chapter 35. It says, and they journeyed from Bethel, and there was but a little way to come to Ephrath, and Rachel travailed. This is for Benjamin. And she had hard labor. And it came to pass when she was in hard labor that the midwife said unto her, Fear not, thou shalt have this son also. And it came to pass as her soul was in departing, for she died, she called his name Ben-Oni. His father called him Benjamin And Rachel died, and was buried in the way to Ephrath, which is Bethlehem. And Jacob set up a pillar upon her grave, that is the pillar of Rachel's grave unto this day That word Benjamin means the son of my right hand. I think Jacob was broken and grieved deeply over the death of his wife. Jacob loved Rachel He loved her dearly. So his family's dysfunctional. His wife dies. Then he has his son's misdeeds. Come back to chapter 37. We looked at this a little bit. At the end of verse number 2. It says Joseph brought unto his father there, that's the brothers, The brothers, evil report. Now we don't know what they were doing, but they were doing wrong, and it was bad enough that Joseph felt like he needed to tell Daddy about it. And I believe that broke his son's heart. Would you agree with me? Kids get in trouble with the law. Kids are doing something wrong, something like that. That breaks your heart. Amen or not? Sure, it breaks our heart. Grief And now we have Joseph's apparent demise. And Jacob is at the end. He is a broken man at this point. I believe he is crushed. He sent his son on a mission. And he never returned. And for 22 years, Jacob was convinced That his son was dead, his favorite son, the one he loved, the one that he had chosen to be heir Jacob's grief. If I was writing a biography of Jacob, I would name it. This chapter of his life, I would name it grief. Grief. We've been focusing on Joseph's brothers a good bit in our study so far, because they were major factors in Joseph's life at this period of time. Remember who said God had a plan for Joseph's life? He made it clear. One day his brothers would bow down to him. One day his father and mother would bow down to him. The implication of that dream was that Joseph would be in a place of tremendous authority that would be recognized by his family. Now what did Jesus say? He said a man is without honor except where? And his own land, in his own family. So if his if in this dream, this revelation God gave him about his future, his family's bowing down to him That tells us that this is universal recognition of Joseph's authority at some time in his life. And so Joseph is gone, and uh we're looking uh we're looking at his brothers now because they were pivotal in getting Joseph Getting that process that God was using to get Joseph from where he was to where God planned and was going to use him. And the Joseph's and Joseph's brothers are pivotal in that process. Up to this point, I got looking, up to this point, Joseph is only mentioned five times in the Bible. From this point on, the next 14 chapters, Joseph is mentioned 133 times. So the stage is being set. The ball is uh um how do you say it, the ball is rolling. Uh-huh. Yeah, well, the ball's starting to roll. It's starting uh the stage is set. Things are starting to fall in place. Not only can't I talk, I can't think tonight either. So 133 times from this point on, next 14 chapters, Joseph is mentioned, he becomes the focus. Right now, a lot of it's the brothers. After chapter 39, the focus is almost exclusively on Joseph. So here, two points tonight. Don't get your hopes up too high. There's 45 subpoints. But only two points in the message. Number one, I want us to notice the brother's actions. His brother's actions. Look again, verse number 31. And they took Joseph's coat And killed a kid of the goats, and dipped the coat in the blood. And they sent the coat of many colors, and they brought it to their father, and said, This we have found Know now whether it be thy son's coat or no. Then come down to verse 35. And all his sons and all his daughters rose up to comfort him, but he refused to be comforted So his his sons, Joseph's brother's actions, as cruel as they were to Joseph, they are just as cruel to Joseph's daddy. And what they are doing, and what we're going to see here. They betrayed their brother, Joseph. They betrayed him. And they're betraying their father also, Jacob. First thing I want us to notice under their actions, I'm going to try one of these, see if this helps. I want us to notice their attempt to hide their deeds. Verse number 31 again. They took Joseph's coat, killed a kid of the goats, and dipped the coat in the blood. And they sent it, uh they sent the coat of many colors, and they brought it to their father. They're trying to hide their s what they did. They're trying to deceive their father. They're trying to hide their sin I think it's kind of interesting. Verse 31, it says they killed a coat, a kid of the goats. You would come back to chapter 27. Now they're gonna they're trying to fool Jacob. They want to try and cover up what they did. Come back to chapter 27. Look at verse number nine. Here is Jacob with his father, and um Notice what he does. Isaac is out looking for venison. He had his deer tag. He's out hunting. He's looking for venison for Jacob. Or for Isaac. It wasn't fair season, so he could just shoot whatever he saw. And verse number nine So Jacob hears, uh Jo Jacob hears that Isaac is out hunting and that and that um Not Isaac, I'm messing this all up. Esau is out hunting, and Isaac is going to give Esau the blessing. So Jacob wants to steal the blessing from Esau Notice what he does. Look at verse 9. His mother's telling him here, Rachel, Rebecca, go now to the flocks and fetch from thence two good what? Kids of goats. And I'll make them of savory meat for thy father. Look down verse sixteen And she put the skins of the kids of the goats upon his hands, upon the smooth of his neck. Here's what I'm trying to say. I think it's interesting. Jacob lied and fooled his father by killing a kid. And lo and behold Twenty years later, well however many years later, his son does the exact same thing, his voice kills a kid to lie and cover him. You know, God is not mocked. Galatians 6:7 tells us, God is not mocked. Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. We call it the chickens coming home the what? Roots. They come back. And Jacob sowed deceit. And Jacob sowed dishonesty. And he reaps the same thing in a kid. Be not deceived. God is not marked. For whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. Ever since Genesis chapter 3, man has been attempting to hide his sin and cover his sin. I like Proverbs 28, verse 13, says, He that covereth his sin Shall not what? Prosper. He that covereth his sin shall not prosper, but whoso confesseth and forsaketh shall find mercy. And so they're trying to cover up their sin. Adam and Eve started with that. Remember, they disobeyed God. They ate of the forbidden fruit. The very first thing they did was they did what They hid themselves. They hid themselves and then they made aprons of fig leaves. Not aprons, they made uh covered fig leaves. They made aprons of fig leaves. And so the very first thing they did, they tried to hide their sin and cover their sin. Ever since Genesis chapter 3, man has been attempting to hide his sin, cover his sin. Attempting to cover up or hide sin when we're dealing with an all-knowing, ever-present God is the height of foolishness. I might be able to hide my sin from my wife. I might be able to hide my sin from my neighbor. I might be able to hide my sin from my children. I might be able to hide my sin from My parents I might be able to hide my sin from the church, but I can never hide my sin from God. They're trying to cover this up And it only lasts when you try to hide sin from God. You're going to get by with it temporarily at best. And eventually it's going to be exposed. By the way, ask Achan about that. He covered up. He stole the Babylonian garment and the gold and the silver and hid it. And it didn't take long, God to expose that on him. So they attempt to hide their sin. Here's the problem. The brothers were so wrapped up in their hatred for Joseph that they forgot about God And God's still watching, God's still working. Second thing I notice in the brothers' action, first their attempt to hide their sin, then I notice at the end of verse 32 the absolute hardness of their heart. Look at the end of verse 32. Come back, chapter 37. Verse 32. Says they took Jose and they sent the coat of many colors, and they brought it to their father, and said, This we have found. Know now whether it be thy son's coat or not They had zero concern about how their actions would affect their father or anyone else. They were so wrapped up in eliminating Joseph They were so wrapped up in satisfying their hatred and their vengeance for their little brother, they never thought about how their actions would affect the people around them. They never considered how their actions would affect their father. Romans 14, 7 says, For none of us liveth to himself, and no man dieth to himself. Our actions have consequences. Our deeds do affect others And the boys didn't even think about their daddy. And if they did, they didn't care. Look at that verse carefully there. Notice verse the first part. And they sent the coat of many colors. These boys, they're gonna lie. They're lying through their teeth. And they don't even have the decency to go themselves and present the code to their fathers. They send it by somebody else. His fathers at home. I don't know what the setting was. They sent, no doubt, some messengers, and notice it says They sent a coat of many colors and they brought it to their father. That means the one they sent brought it to their father. They sent this message along this we've found. The servant shows up. Jacob's in there. I don't know what he's doing. In the house, maybe out in the out where the cattles are or something. He says, Sir, I have a message from your sons And I have something to give to you. Jacob gets Jacob's attention, and he brings Joseph's coat, and it's soaked in blood. No doubt by this time it's dried on there. And they said, Your boys, your sons told me to tell you that they found this And you need to decide whether this is your son's coat or not. I'm telling you, you talk about hard hearted Hatred knows no boundaries. Hatred is difficult to contain. Their hatred for their brother Joseph is now spilling over and being displayed as hatred towards their father. Selfishness has little concern for others. Hatred spreads to other relationships. If I allow bitterness and hatred to take root in my heart towards an individual, if I don't check that, if I don't correct that, that will spread Before I know it, that I'll start hating others. If for no other reason, simply because of their association with the one they hate. I have people that dislike me. You might not believe that Not not uh not so much, but uh when I first came as pastor uh several times, um I had people, and every now and then I still run into it, but I had people that hated me for no other reason than I was a preacher They didn't know me from Adam. They didn't know anything about me. I am a really, really, really nice preacher. I'm really nice. I'm kind and loving and um a lot of other things. But um But they they hated me. I'm thinking of one guy in Mount Lake Park. He said, I hate preachers. I don't care who you are. If you're a preacher, I hate you I tell you, we let bitterness or hatred take root in our heart. I know we've been hounding this because it's a major part of the brothers at this point. But we let that take root in our heart. We better be careful. That thing can spread and break out of our heart towards other people also. We got a little hole about five, six years ago. Might have been a little longer than that. I was out in the yard doing something, I was mowing grass or something, and I kept seeing this little wide Uh leafed vine. Be a little low over here, low up there, a little patch over here. The next year I saw a little more of it. Saw it in the flower beds a little bit. The next year I sold in my front yard, just little patches here and there, kind of creeping up on the in the flower bed on the edge of the driveway. Five, six years later, I'm telling you, our front yard is covered with it. My backyard is probably 50% This little vine. I got looking it up. I talked called all the yard places around and yard people. We found out it's called creeping Charlie. Not creepy Charlie, creeping Charlie. And they said, we had a guy out there this spring. I mean we f we put weed and feed on there. We we did everything we knew to do We had a guy come out, a professional guy from Cumberland came out this spring. I said, man, this stuff's taking over. I mean it's you go out, look, it's up in our flower beds. I mean it's everywhere He said that stuff, once it takes root, he said, it is impossible to get rid of. He said, we can treat it and we can keep it at bay. But if you want to get rid of it, you've got to tear your whole yard up and reseed and start from scratch. Creeping Charlie. I don't know much about creeping Charlie, but I know this. That's the way bitterness in a heart of a man or woman gets that same way. It takes root and it begins to take over. Oh, there is these boys, these boys, their natural love for their father Has now been poisoned by their hatred for their brother. The hardness of their hearts. We've been talking about this, but it's so prevalent at this point in Joseph's life. So, their actions, we notice their actions, their attempt to hide their deed, the absolute hardness of their heart. I notice one other action of these boys. The awful hypocrisy. Of their actions. Come down. Verse number 35. How many people like this voice better than my normal voice? Oh well. No verse thirty-five, chapter thirty-seven. And all his who? Who's that? That's these boys. These are the ones that just killed his favorite son. Or at least they make it sound like they killed him, just sold him. And all his sons and his daughters rose up to do what? Comfort him. You just lied to his face. You just convinced him that his son is dead. And now you're trying to comfort them for the grief that your lie has caused. I don't know about you, that sounds like hypocrisy to me. What would they all they would have had to do to comfort their daddy would have been what? Just tell him the truth Just say, Daddy, listen, we got eat up. We did wrong. We did wrong. We're sorry. We know where he's at. He's on a caravan to Egypt. We can go get him We can we can get put a team together, we can buy them back. But they didn't. All they would have to do was tell the truth But they put on this hypocritical show of trying to comfort their daddy. Not one of his boys told Jacob the truth. Not one of his boys had the integrity to be honest with their daddy Not one of those boys cared enough about their daddy to be true. All they cared about was themselves. I put this down, they love themselves more than they love their father. I tell you, when we fall in love with ourselves, we're messed up. We fall in love with ourselves. When we become the center of our universe, when everything, no matter what the consequences are, no matter what the cost is, I'm going to get what I want When we get to that frame of mind, we're living hypocritical lives. Putting on a show they're trying to comfort their daddy. They're not trying to comfort their daddy. They're lying through their teeth to him. So number one, we have the brothers' actions. Number two, we notice Jacob's agony. Look at verse 33. Come back if you would. Verse thirty three, and he knew it Well, they they gave him the coat. This we have found. Know now whether it be thy Oh by the way, did you notice how they said it? Whether this be thy son's? They didn't say it whether this is our brother's coat They didn't want to identify themselves with them. And he knew it. Jacob knew it. And said, this is my son's code. An evil beast hath devoured him. And Joseph is without doubt rent in pieces. And he rent Jacob rent his clothes and put sackcloth upon his loins and mourned for his son many days. And all his sons and all his daughters rose up to comfort him, but he refused to be comforted For he said, I will go down into the grave unto my son mourning. Thus his father wept for him. First thing I notice here in Jacob's agony, his agony was unfounded. It was unnecessary. Joseph was alive. He came to an incorrect conclusion that was based upon incorrect information. They were they were dishonest to him, so Joseph, Jacob came to a wrong conclusion because he had dishonest information, he had bad information. Like they say in the military, he had bad intel. Jacob, I got looking at this, apparently Jacob trusted his sons They're lying to him. But he trusted him. I look at how he responded, and I see no skepticism on his part. I I uh you know it looks to me like you might have said, well let me see that coat. You say, you found this? It's all covered in blood? Well let's look at it a little bit And I got looking, I can't find anywhere where it suggests here that the coat was torn up in any way There's no suggestion that it was it was it was ripped or anything. It was just dry blood. I find it hard to believe. I mean I I would think Jacob would find it hard to believe that a wild beast would tear his son to pieces and the coat not be ripped up. Right? He just takes them for their word. There's no questions asked. Where did you find it? How did you find it Was there anyone else there? Did you look around? Try and find his body. He just instantly takes them at their word. No investigation. And I'm not faulting Jacob, good night. He's on a rough road. But If he'd have just maybe asked a few questions, if he just did a little investigation, he might have been able to come to a different conclusion. Might have looked at the coat and said, you know I'm not convinced he's dead. I don't know. But I think his agony was unfounded. He's going to find out 22 years later. That Joseph actually was not dead. Number two, his agony was unbearable. Look at verse 34. And Jacob rent his clothes Now, when the Bible says he rent his clothes, it doesn't mean he bought a store downtown, put his clothes out, and rented them out for hire. He would come and rent his blue jeans for a week and bring it back. I got looking online. Did you know Pete you can rent clothes? How many people knew that? I didn't know that. You can actually rent clothes I've actually rented clothes before. I've rented a tuxedo for funer uh not funerals um weddings. Um that's not what he's talking about here. How many people knew that? Short. When the Bible says he rent his clothes, that word rent is past tense of the term to rend. It means to tear in pieces. It means to rip in half. Joseph's coat was not rent. It was whole. Jacob sees it, comes to the conclusion: a wild beast has torn my son to pieces. And he takes his clothes and he tears them. He rips them. He just starts, in his agony and his overwhelming grief, he just starts tearing his clothes. Actually, rending your clothes was one of the most dramatic expressions of grief and sorrow in Jewish culture. You find throughout the Bible, you find Barry's field. When David found out, when David got word that Saul was killed, he rent his clothes. It was a common practice when overcome with grief. In fact they had they had quite a bit of uh uh different um cultural things they would do in grief. And one of them was to render clothes. It was it was one of the most dramatic in the Jewish culture. It represented, renting your clothes represented a broken heart. It represented the fact that my heart is torn in half. Anybody here ever have a broken heart? Three people? I've had a broken heart before. Do you ever say this statement? Do you ever think this? I feel like a heart is being ripped out of my chest. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I feel like my heart is being ripped in two. That's what that's that expression. His grief, his agony was overwhelming. He rent his clothes, then look what it says. Jacob rent his clothes and put sackcloth on his loins. Ripped his clothes off, tore them up, and then you got sackcloth. Now what in the world is sackcloth? Is that cloth you make out of sacks? No. It was a very coarse fabric. It was usually, almost always, made out of black goat's hair. And it was very uncomfortable. It was very coarse, very stiff. And they would use, they would put on sackcloth When they when they were it indicated when someone put sackcloth on, they were indicating that they were going through a time of intense sorrow, intense distress. It was a time of intense grief. Sometimes when they were in sin And God would confront them of their sin, and they would humble themselves before God in repentance. They would put on sackcloth Indicating my regret for what I've done, the way I've lived, the things I've said and and uh how I've lived my life I repent and sackcloth in ashes, and he would put that sackcloth on. Ninevites did that when Jo um when um uh not Jonah. When Jonah showed up In fact, they put sackcloth on the cows. They were so repentant. And so Jacob puts this, he rents his clothes and he puts sackcloth on. He's completely crushed. He's completely undone Now, I don't want to be too hard on Jacob. I mean, I can't imagine. But it appears to me That Jacob forgot where to go to in a time of grief. I don't find any account that Jacob went to the Lord. David, over and over again, he would go to the Lord. Read the Psalms. In my grief I sought the Lord. My sorrows. David would fly. When his heart was broke, when he was intensely, intense sorrow When he's repentant, he would fly to the presence of God. No mention here. Now, again, I don't want to be overly critical of Jacob, good night. But there's no indication of a faith in God. There's no indication that he went to his altar or back to Bethel. To find grace and comfort and strength and hope in the presence of the Lord. He just throws up his arms. I'm going down to my grave. It's hopeless. I want to say to you, as long as God is still alive, it is never hopeless. The only hopeless place in existence is in the pits of hell. That's the only place there's no hope And as long as God is alive, and as long as the Lord is on the throne, whatever we're going through, no matter how deep the sorrow may be, no matter how deep the pain may be, I'm here to tell you, there's hope in the Lord. We can find grace to help in the time of need at the throne of God. I'm not suggesting it's wrong to grieve God made us that way. Worked with hospice for four years. I've seen, and many of you Many of you have seen as much or more. But I'm telling you, I've seen intense grief firsthand. I'm not suggesting it's wrong to grieve. I believe it is necessary to grieve In fact, here's my opinion. I think it would do us a heap of good to do a little more grieving than what we do. Talking earlier. And again, please don't misunderstand. I'm not trying to be critical. But you know, back in the day, if someone passed away They would have 30, 40 days of mourning. And they would they would they would stop and put everything out of their life for 30, 40 days and just grieve the passing of a loved one, someone dear to them. And again, I I want to be very careful because I'm going to sound like I'm being critical and I'm not. But nowadays we'll have a half-hour dealing, 20-minute service, and then go back to work that afternoon. Now not everybody, but what I'm wondering, I'm wondering, as our nation and our society and our world, our culture Loses the value of life. And when a life is taken We just act like we accidentally drove over a cat. Right? Now maybe I'm off face, and if I am, you know, that's fine. But Jacob is broken. I'm not suggesting we shouldn't grieve. I believe grief is important. And maybe we need to indulge it a little more. And what we do, I don't know. I'm not I'm I don't know. But I know this. When we're in Jacob's condition and everything, it feels like everything has gone wrong. And our world has collapsed, and there's no hope. I'm here to tell you, there is hope. Jesus said, cast uh Peter said, casting all your care upon him. Why? Precareth for you. God loved Jacob. God loved him dearly. He's vital in the plan of God. Jacob was not alone in his grief. He thought he was. But he wasn't. He wasn't. He thought he was going to go down to his grave mourning his son. He did not. He saw his son again one day. He rejoiced in it. In fact, he was able to bless Joseph's children before he died. Wasn't as hopeless as it looked. I'm not falling on good heavens. And then I put down His agony was unconsolable. Back in verse 35, nothing anybody said or did was helping him. Jacob was convinced this was the end of his life. This was the end of his joy. But little did he know, I like this statement, little did he know. He thought it was the end. But it was just the beginning of God's plan for his son's life. Everything was dark. Everything was hopeless. But it wasn't. It was the beginning of God's plan for Joseph's life. Isn't that good? I wouldn't know if I'd have enough time for this or not. 1956. There's five missionaries. I've mentioned this before. Some of you are very familiar with it, I know. There was five young missionaries that wanted to meet wanted to reach a tribe of people down in South America called the Auca Indians. Now you know where I'm at, right? They wanted to get the gospel to them. And they had a reputation of killing anybody that tried to contact them. And of course they lived up to the cop their reputation. They killed Jim Elliott, Ed Macaulay, Pete Fleming, Nate Saint, and Roger Rodarian. They were speared multiple times, hacked to death with machetes. Miles away, back at home base, base camp, a little five-year-old boy named Steve Saint. He finally got word of what had happened, and he mourned the death of his father. Eventually, His aunt, Rachel Saint, was a Bible translator, sister to Nate Saint, and along with Elizabeth Elliott, the wife of Jim Elliott They were able to move in the village with the people that just killed his daddy and the ladies' husbands. They translated the book of Mark into their language. And lo and behold, Alka Indians started getting saved. The people that killed the five men now are coming to the Christ they were trying to introduce to them. There's a fellow by the name of Min Kay, I think I'm saying it right. Is that the fellow you met, Brian? You said a guy came through Bible college that may have been him. Brian met him He got saved, became a spiritual leader among his people. In fact, he became a pretty powerful preacher of the gospel. This is what blows my mind. This McKay, and I'm not I'm I don't know if I'm saying his my name right, but he gets saved, he gets grounded, he begins preaching the gospel, telling others. Nate Saint's son, Steve. I think it's his son or his grandson. Nate Saint's son, Steve, gets saved And the man, this McKay fella, is the fella that threw the spear that killed Nate Saint. He's the one that threw the spear. He gets saved, becomes a preacher. Steve Saint, Nate Saint's son, I think I have this correct, he comes into the village with his aunt and with Elizabeth Elliott, and these people start getting saved. Micaiah becomes a spiritual leader. He's preaching winning people, Lord, and becomes a spiritual leader. The man that killed Nate Saint, the last spear throne, baptized. Nate State's son, in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, in the river on the beach where his daddy was killed. Now I have it documented. Tell me God doesn't have a plan. Tell me that when everything looks so terrible and there's no hope, don't tell me God's still not able to turn things around and bring glory to Himself. Imagine how crushed they were on the radio trying to contact their husbands on that little plane. No answer back, no answer back. They send a search party in. They find five bodies. Hatton uh butcher. They come back, imagine how they felt. But God turned that whole thing around. And Brian met the fella, if I think I'm correct, in Bible College. And the hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of thousands of people that were stirred come to Christ to serve the Lord. That's what's happening. Well I guess I guess is how I ended. Number one, our actions have consequences Think about it. Before you do something, before you say something, stop and think, how is this going to hurt affect people? And number two Even when that happens, God is still able to take it and turn it around. It is never hopeless as long as God is still alive. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I hope my voice didn't take away from the truth here. I pray you'd help us, Lord. When we get down, we get looking at our circumstances. Lord, help us to look up and take our burdens to you and our cares to you. I pray, Lord, you'd help us to be very careful in the decisions we make, in the actions we take, and the things we say and do, and consider the consequences, how it affects others. And Lord, we want you to be glorified in our lives and we want you to use us to bring others to Christ. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, preacher, I need to be a little more careful About some of my actions. And I know sometimes maybe I hurt some folks say or do something. I need to stop and think about it. Anything like that? I'll lift a hand. Just short. Probably for honest, all of us would say, yeah, at some point Well, there's some tonight say, preacher, I need to remember God is still able. I have somewhere to go. I can find grace to help in time of need. It's not hopeless. It's not all dependent on me. Anything like that. I need that. Sure. My hands raised. Father, I pray you bless our imitation tonight. Help us have faith in Jesus' name. Amen.