Genesis chapter 47. I know I lost some of you right there with that statement. 47. Genesis 47. I want to read verses 1 through 10. Genesis 47, 1 through 10. Joseph's family have showed up down in Egypt, and uh they're fixing to get settled in in Goshen. We talked about that last week And tonight we're going to look at where Jacob finally meets Pharaoh. This is a big event. Jacob meets Pharaoh. And so let's begin reading in verse 1. The Bible says Then Joseph came and told Pharaoh and said, My father and my brethren, and their flocks, and their herds, and all that they have, are come out of the land of Canaan, and behold, they are in the land of Goshen. And he took some of his brethren, even five men, and presented them unto Pharaoh. And Pharaoh said unto his brethren, What is your occupation? Now, do you remember what Joseph told them to tell Pharaoh their occupation was? He said to tell them we cattle, we deal with cattle. Notice what they say. Oh, he said, don't say you're shepherds, say you're cattlemen, because the Egyptians hate shepherds. So uh and so uh and verse three, and Pharaoh said unto his brethren, what is your occupation? I can see Joseph standing there looking at him. What are they gonna say? And they said unto Pharaoh, Thy servants are shepherds, both we and also our fathers. And they said, moreover, unto Pharaoh, For to sojourn in the land are we come, for thy servants have no pasture for their flocks. For the famine is sore in the land of Canaan. And now, therefore, we pray thee, let thy servants dwell in the land of Goshen. And Pharaoh spake unto Joseph, saying, Thy father and thy brethren are come unto thee. The land of Egypt is before thee. In the best of the land, make thy father and thy brethren to dwell. In the land of Goshen, let them dwell. And if thou knowest any men of activity among them, then make them rulers over my cattle. And Joseph brought in Jacob. uh his father, and set him before Pharaoh. And Jacob blessed Pharaoh. And Pharaoh said unto Jacob, How old art thou? Jacob said unto Pharaoh, The days of the years of my pilgrimage are a hundred and thirty years. Few and evil have been the days of the years of my life. Have the days of the years of my life been and have not attained unto the days of the years of the life of my fathers in the days of their pilgrimage. And Jacob blessed Pharaoh And went out from before Pharaoh. Jacob meets Pharaoh. Let's pray together. Father, we ask now you'd bless as we study this portion of your word. I ask that you would speak to our hearts and open our eyes that we can see principles here and truths that will help us be stronger in our faith, more effective in our witness, and have a closer walk with you. Lord, I know in my heart I have nothing of myself to offer of any spiritual value, eternal value. So I'm asking you, Lord To please fill me with your spirit as I yield my will. I present my body anew, Lord. Ask that, as always, I pray that you'd speak through me, Lord, and teach us your word tonight. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Joseph's family showed up here. He's got them up in Goshen. He's brought them down now. He's going to introduce them to Pharaoh. Uh they have there's an issue that they have to face that is uh potential contention. Here, right off the bat, they've got a they've got to deal with this. And that is, as I pointed out as I was reading, the Joseph's family, their shepherds. They're shepherds And if you look back at chapter 46 in the last phrase of verse 34, the very last phrase of the chapter, it says, For every shepherd is an abomination unto the Egyptians. And we touched on that a little bit last week. I mentioned it as I'm reading here. But this is a serious issue. It comes up several times. And the word abomination there is a very, very strong word. It means to deeply hate. If someone is an abomination to someone, that person has deep hatred towards them. It means extreme hatred. It has the idea of disgusting. And the fact that God uses that word abomination to describe the Egyptians' attitude towards shepherds tells you that it's this is a serious issue. There could be potential problems with these this family of 70 folks coming down. They're all shepherds. Egyptians hate shepherds deeply despise them. That could affect, do you agree with me? That could affect their relationship with the Egyptians. I mean, they're going to be living here with them. They're mixing up. Now they're up in Goshen. We talked about that. They're not right there, but nevertheless They're in their land. These shepherds are in their land, eating their meadows, eating their uh uh crops and and in their meadows and in their farmland And so it could be potentially a source of contention between the two, and it could also be a potential problem for Joseph. He's number two in the land. He's got a powerful position. And I'm I think if they do not handle the introduction of Joseph's family as shepherds to the Egyptians in an appropriate way, in a very, very careful way, Joseph could potentially lose the support. And the position he has. I mean, that's how strongly they felt about these shepherds, about shepherds. And so it has to be handled very, very wisely how this introduction goes. And I notice Joseph's strategy here a little bit. Notice up there, and I'm backing up into chapter 36 a little bit, but notice He gives advice to his family about what to say. And again, we touched on this before, but I want to look at it a little more in depth here. Joseph said unto his brethren, his father's house, I will go up And show Pharaoh and say unto him, My brethren, my father's house, which are in the land of Canaan, are come unto me. Now Pharaoh knew they were coming. Joseph says, All right, I'm going to go tell him you're here. You've arrived. Now look what he says. And the men are shepherds, verse 32, for their trade had been to feed cattle. They have brought their flocks, their herds, and all they have. That's what Joseph is going to tell Pharaoh. I'm going to tell them the men are shepherds. My family get here. They're shepherds, Pharaoh. I want you to understand, they're shepherds. Their trade has been in cattle also. But they deal with sheep. They brought their flocks and their herds, but they have I see Joseph's strategy, number one, he's open and honest. He doesn't try and pull anything over on Pharaoh. He doesn't say, all right, we're going to sneak these sheep in. When it's dark out, we'll get in there and we're going to try and hide. No, he's he's uh he's open with Pharaoh, he's honest with Pharaoh, he says to him directly, these men are shepherds Now later on he advises his family how to talk about their occupation. We'll see that here in a moment. But before he even talks to his family, Joseph wants to be the one that says to Pharaoh, their shepherds, he's the one they tr that he trusts. Joseph is the one that the Egyptians have benefited tremendously from. So it is best for Pharaoh, would you agree with me? It's better for Pharaoh to find out from Joseph that their shepherds than to find out they've been hiding their sheep for uh six months till he finds out. In other words, honesty is the best policy. Abraham Lincoln said honesty is the best policy. I would amend that slightly and say honesty is the only policy. Thomas Jefferson said, honesty is the first chapter in the book of wisdom. In other words, if I'm going to be wise, if I'm going to have wisdom, I've got to learn to be honest, because a dishonest person is a fool. Be very blunt, is a fool. Thomas Jefferson said that. The first, honesty is the first chapter in the book of wisdom. Albert Einstein. Everybody hear that Brilliant. He said, whoever is careless, listen to this. He said, whoever is careless with the truth in small matters cannot be trusted with important matters. That sounds a little familiar. It sounds a little bit like something Jesus said, doesn't it? What did Jesus say? He said, he that is faithful in the least things will be faithful in the great things. Now I'm not quoting verbatim here. And he that is unfaithful in the least will be unfaithful in the big matters. Warren Buffett, of all people, moneyman, he said honesty, I like this quote actually, he said honesty is a very expensive gift Do not expect it from cheap people. It's a pretty good statement. Honesty sometimes is costly, right? I wonder how many people ever lost their job because they were honest. Maybe friendships and positions Honesty is a very expensive gift. Don't expect it from cheap people. I wonder, and this is just total speculation on my part, but I wonder if it went through Joseph's mind I tell Pharaoh that my family are shepherds, I could be putting my position in jeopardy. I mean that's how strongly they felt. I don't know that. The Bible doesn't say that But if that was the case, Joseph was willing to put his incredible position in jeopardy rather than be dishonest. So the honesty factor is a good strategy. Honesty is a good strategy. And that's what Joseph is using. Honesty, someone said, honesty is the key that unlocks the door to trust. And I believe Joseph had a history of being honest. That's why he was trusted so deeply and so strongly by people that didn't even know him. But they knew he was an honest man. Proverbs says, and I don't have the reference in front of me, and I'm not quoting this verbatim, but it says something to the effect: a lying tongue hateth those affected by it. In other words, if someone lies to someone, that tells you they don't think very highly of that person. They don't have much respect or compassion or love for that person if they're lying to them. So Joseph's strategy is twofold. Number one, he's open and honest. And number two, I notice here he emphasizes, he tells Pharaoh that we're shepherds, they're shepherds But he uses a little diplomacy along with it. He says, he tells his family, listen, we're shepherds, I told him the shepherds, but you emphasize the cattle part. Alright. He knows your shepherds, but we're going to emphasize the cattle. Look there in verse number 33. He says, And it shall come to pass when Pharaoh shall call you and shall say, What is your occupation? By the way, that's exactly what Pharaoh did. He knew exactly what he was going to ask them, because he wanted to know, are these guys shepherds coming in here? Ye shall say, thy servant's trade has been about cattle. From our youth. Verse 34, until now, both we and our fathers, that ye may dwell in the land of Goshen. Now, he's not lying to them, because he already told them they're shepherds, but he's going, listen, you guys emphasize the cattle part. And so he's being very honest, he's being right up front and open with Pharaoh, but he's not being stupid either. He says, all right, listen, we're going to downplay that, and and you are cattle, you do have cattle, so that's that's the part we'll focus on and emphasize. Joseph knew people. He'd been an administrator now going on nine years plus in incredibly difficult circumstances. When the seven years of plenty are uh Egypt is experiencing the tw seven years of plenty, these people, their crops are coming in uh a hundredfold. I mean these people are rolling in dough. And Joseph has to get them to give a very large percentage of their income To the Egyptian government because there's going to be seven years of famine. He knows that's true. Pharaoh's convinced it's true Joseph has done everything he can to convince the people that that's true. But I tell you, when it comes time to pay taxes, I bristle at that. I had to pay some property taxes this week. But he was able to convince an entire nation for seven years To submit and pay taxes, so to speak, their income so that they would have money. Joe what I'm trying to say is this. Joseph knew how to deal with people. He knew how to handle people in difficult situations, and he was tremendous as an administrator in working with people that had different values than he did People that had different, this culture had different priorities than what Joseph would have had. Their morals would have been different than Joseph's morals. And yet he was able to successfully administrate a nation with a people so very different from him. Anyone here ever get aggravated with someone if they think differently than you do? You knucklehead. Anybody doesn't think the way I do is a knucklehead. That's the way I look at it. But you've got to be able to interact. And by the way, that That might be good for independent Baptists. We've got to be able to interact with people without making them hate us. Alright? Now, if they hate our message, that's between them and God, but we ought to conduct ourselves in such a way that we can minimize their hatred for us. You follow what I'm saying? I don't think I convinced you on that one I guess what I'm saying is sometimes people make enemies not because they're dedicated to Christ, but because they don't have any common sense They're rude and they're arrogant and opinionated. And Joseph understood, listen, you can't be that way. And so he used this strategy. He knew that this situation is very volatile And this thing could blow up and it could get ugly really fast. And he was able to successfully navigate Bringing his family as shepherds into a land that despises shepherds, and yet establish them there. I tell you, my hat's off to Joseph I believe it was a supernatural gift that God had given to him. He was successfully, uh he was uh a tremendously successful administrator for many years in a foreign land and a foreign culture And he succeeded at doing that. And my hat's off to him. Now, let's look at our text here, ver chapter 47, get into the new chapter here. The first thing I want us to notice tonight is the introductions that Joseph makes to Pharaoh. His family showed up. Now he's introducing them. And again, and I'm emphasizing this, it's vital that Joseph's family and Pharaoh get started off on good terms I got thinking about this, and I could be totally off base on this, but I'm wondering, I'm just wondering, as I think back and considering the situation here I'm wondering if Joseph's treatment of his brothers when they first showed up. Remember when he first showed up? And I I'm still convinced he was struggling with how to deal with these guys and had that old nature in there wanting to get vengeance. But I'm wondering if part of his treatment wasn't an attempt to assure the Egyptians that his loyalty was still with the Egyptians You follow what I'm saying? If these guys would have showed up and Joseph would have been, oh yeah, come on in, come on right down, they might have said, wait a minute, is he going to have our best interest in mind or is he going to use us To enrich his family. You follow what I'm saying? And I just and I don't know. We get to heaven, I'm going to ask him. Actually, we get to heaven, I probably won't even care too much about this But I'm just curious if maybe that wasn't part of his thinking, I'm going to make Changa rough these guys up a little bit, and that may have been a natural result of the sinful nature struggling with that. But I'm wondering if it wasn't also I want to make sure the Egyptians know I'm not going to sell out uh uh the Egyptians for my family What's uh it's called uh uh nepotism, I think. And uh but anyway, uh and so I'm just wondering if maybe he wasn't trying to assure the Egyptians uh of his loyalty here. First impressions have a powerful influence. Would you agree with me? Anybody here meet someone and your first impression of them was, man, that guy's a knucklehead But maybe you worked with him for a while, you got to know him a little bit, you went to church with him for a while, and uh and you found out ah, he's not as bad as I first thought he was. Huh? The first thought was this guy. But after I got to know him, it wasn't too bad. Anybody here ever have a first impression? You thought, man, this this gal's the greatest thing since sliced bread. Woo, she's great Then you got to know her and thought, man, she's she's stale-bred and uh moldy. First impressions can be very wrong, can be misleading. However, they do have an influence And I'm wondering how many friendships may have been forfeited because of a bad first impression and never got beyond that. And so Joseph is going to introduce his family to Pharaoh, and again, this is vitally important how he does that because first impressions do make a difference. And these introductions here, I believe, are very, very important. And just the fact that Joseph is taking the time to introduce his family to Pharaoh is a show of respect to Pharaoh. He could have just brought him in there and put him up there and never said a word, but he wanted to stop. He says, Pharaoh, I want you to meet my brothers. I want you to meet my father. And that was showing respect to Pharaoh, that I'm not just bringing these hopes in here. I want you to meet them. I want them to get to know you. I want you to get to know them. And so this is, we read through this and we just see it, oh yeah, he's introducing them. But there's a tremendous amount of significance here, I believe. First thing he does is he introduces his brethren in verse 1 and 2. Came and told Pharaoh, My father, my brethren, their flocks, their herds, all they have are here. Behold, they're in the land of Cushion. Look at verse 2. And he took some of his brethren, some of his brethren Even five men, and presented them to Pharaoh. He wasn't ashamed of his family. He wasn't ashamed of their occupation. He's very tactful about that, but he's not ashamed of it. They bring them in. He brings five of them in. And I notice that he's very selective In his introduction of his brothers, he doesn't bring all 11 of them in. He brings five of them. Now, again, we have to, I'm resorting to speculation here because we're not told why. We're not given any information as to why he only chose five and who that five were. But I know Joseph, I'm convinced Joseph as an administrator, as a man that knows people. He was convinced it was best not to have Pharaoh meet all of his brothers personally. Anybody ever have that crazy ant? I I don't know who the five were. I can guess probably one of the five was not Ruben. Right? Family's pretty Ruben act played the fool. And who knows what he would say. And so I'm guessing that Ruben's probably not one of these five. I'm guessing. Again, I'll get to heaven here. So was Reuben in that I don't think, I'm going to guess that Simeon was probably not in it. Simeon's description by his own daddy was he's a man of cruelty. I don't think you want to take a cruel person introduce them to the Pharaoh when you're coming to eat his food and live in his land as a shepherd. So again, speculation. There was a few he vetted and said, nah, you're not in the inner circle. Now, who were those five? I would guess probably Judah Judas proven himself a very responsible man. He's become the spokesman of the family on numerous occasions, and what he said was very wise and was very common sense about it. So I'm guessing Rubin's one of that. I cannot help but think that Benjamin's probably in the mix, the favorite. I can see Joseph going to Benjamin. Benjamin, I want you to be a part of this, because I want you to meet Pharaoh. I mean, that's like meeting President Trump or something, you know It's big. It's big, it's huge. And um sorry And so, I don't know who the five are, but he chose, no doubt, chose the five who would make the best impression. Because he wants to get off on a right start, a good start, and he's using a little common sense here. So the introduction of his brethren, then come down to verse 7 And they interact here. We'll take a look at that. Then you come down to verse 7, and we have the introduction of his father. Says, and Joseph, this is after the brothers interacted with Pharaoh a little bit, they step out, apparently. And then he brought in Jacob, his father, and set him before Pharaoh. And this is a private meeting. This is Joseph Jacob his father and Pharaoh as far as we know. There may have been a fringe entourage there, but these three are meeting together. And this is the big meeting. This is Daddy. This is the father of the clan meeting the king of the nation. And I would imagine that Pharaoh would have been anxious to meet the father of a man as extraordinary as Joseph. Remember when David killed Goliath and um on the battlefield and after the rout and uh battles going on, and King Saul says Whose daddy whose son is this? Now he knew who David was because David had been playing the harp and calming him down before, but he couldn't remember who his father was. And when he saw the exploits of David's faith, In killing Goliath with a sling as a young boy and then routing the Philistine army, he says, he's basically saying, I'd like to know who the daddy of that boy is. Who in the world raised a boy like that? And I would imagine Pharaoh would be very, very interested. Pharaoh's no dummy. He's the king of the, he's the pharaoh of the most powerful nation in the world at that time, what we're aware of. He didn't get to that position by being an idiot. And I'm sure this was big in Pharaoh's mind. I want to meet the man that was a father of Joseph. And so he introduces his father. So we have these introductions. He chooses five brethren out of the eleven, brings them in, he introduces them to Pharaoh. Then uh they interact a bit, then he gets his father, everyone out, uh brings his father, no maybe they sat down, I don't know, they stood there, it wasn't that long of an introduction, but uh, and then he introduces his father to Pharaoh Now we get Pharaoh's reception of them, Joseph's introduction. Now Pharaoh's reception. Come back to verse 3 again. He introduced five men, presented them to Pharaoh. Now notice how Pharaoh responds to his introduction of the brethren. And Pharaoh said unto his brethren, What is your occupation? Now Joseph knew he was going to ask that. And he knew that this was a concern on the part of the Egyptians. What do these guys do? What's their occupation? And um and so he asked that question, and that's uh uh uh uh an important to him. And the brothers, as I mentioned, answer exactly the opposite of what Joseph told them to. What is your occupation? And they said unto Pharaoh, Thy servants are shepherds. Both we also and our fathers, all of us, we're all shepherds. I'm a shepherd, he's a shepherd. We're all shepherds. Now, I would like to be a little fly on the wall and watch and see how Joseph is responding to this. I can hear a little groan. I can see Joseph going like this. Or I got I was acting too sout in my office. And um I thought Joseph standing there and he says, these are my brothers. He gives their names and and Pharaoh, I mean there's Pharaoh. He says, What are your occupations, fellas? Oh, we're shepherds. I'm a shepherd, he's a shepherd. Everybody's shepherds. I can see Joseph just standing there. Waiting for a reaction. But the interesting thing is, we're not told how Joseph responds, so that implies to me, indicates to me that there wasn't any response. He just stood there. You know what he was doing? I think. He's trusting God. Trusting God. Now, if it was me. Out of 7 now, wait a minute. Now there are shepherds, but they're really cattlemen also, cattles, you know. We have a lot of cattles But Joseph didn't do that. He just kept his mouth shut and trusted God. And you know there's a lot of situations where it's a whole lot better if we just keep our mouth shut. Huh? Just trust God. You say, oh, I gotta I gotta say something, I gotta do something. No, just be quiet That's what Joseph did. Apparently, we have no record of any response on Joseph's part to a very potentially inflam uh volatile situation He just was quiet. The other thing I find interesting, there's no reaction by Pharaoh. Man, this could have gotten really ugly really quick. This could have blown up. Pharaoh, what do you mean your shepherds? You mean you, Joseph, you're bringing shepherds into my palace? into our land to eat our food, take our money. I mean that could have so easily gone down that way. Joseph, he had already told them they're shepherds, and then they bring that up again. Joseph doesn't respond, and the amazing thing is, Pharaoh doesn't respond. He just goes right on. In fact, we're going to see here in a little bit, he offers them positions in his administration, in his in his country. You say, well, I wonder why that was. Well, that was God just. Yeah, I agree, it was God ultimately. But I want to suggest to you: Joseph had conducted himself with such integrity That Pharaoh knew, even though we don't like these guys, I trust Joseph. And if he says it's okay, it's okay. That is called having an impeccable testimony. That is called earning trust. And if we don't learn anything about the life of Joseph other than the fact that he was a man of impeccable tech So Pharaoh doesn't respond. Again, I'm reading into it maybe a little bit But I think Pharaoh, Joseph is trusting God, and Pharaoh is trusting Joseph. And by the way, when you have a man that trusts God, he's usually the guy you can trust And so there's no reaction from Joseph, and there's no reaction from Pharaoh. And notice again what the brothers say. Look at verse 4. They go on. We are thy servants are shepherds, all of us, both we, every one of us, and our fathers, and everybody's with us a shepherd. Then said the uh verse 4, they said, moreover, they didn't stop talking unto Pharaoh. For to sojourn in the land are we come. For thy servants have no pasture for their flocks, for the famine is sore in the land of Canaan. Now therefore we pray thee. Let thy servants dwell in the land of Koshen. Now they've already got the green light. They've already got the okay. They've got the stamp of approval. They're there. They're very graciously saying, listen, we're asking, is it okay for us to stay here? I think that was pretty wise on the sh on the brothers' part That's what makes me think Judah is involved in this group. That sounds like something Judah would be saying. But they make a statement early on that caught my attention. It says verse 4, They said, moreover, unto Pharaoh, for to sojourn in the land are we come. That word sojourn caught my attention. Anybody know what it means to sojourn in a land? Just passing through We're sojourning. The word itself means to pass through. It's actually translated. The word that that word sojourn comes from is translated six other times in our Bible. Strangers. We're just strangers. We're just passing through. The word sojourn means to dwell temporarily with the emphasis on temporarily. It comes from the root word that we get our word journey. Mona journey. Passing through Uh when I was I just thought of this, when I was um a young when I was teen, young teen, uh there was this s I I don't know what's from, maybe I shouldn't even say this But we I had t-shirts and it had this guy walking, it had his leg out and a big uh pro portion of his foot and it said, just passing through. I think that's what the brothers were wearing that shirt. And they said, We're just coming to sojourn. In other words, they're saying, listen, we're not staying, Pharaoh. We're only here as long as we need to be. We have no intention of staying beyond the time of this famine. When the famine's over, we're heading back home. When the famine's over, we're going back to God's promised land. We're not staying, we're sojourning here. Now, little did they realize that sojourn was going to end up being 400 years But they had no intention of moving into Egypt. They had no intention of settling down there. Now, throughout the Bible, particularly New Testament, a lot of times Egypt is a picture or a type of the world. And I tell you, it would do all of us a heap of good if we would get the idea and the attitude and the frame of mind that this world is not our home. We're just show sojourning through this old world We're just journeying through. We're not putting down our roots. We're not settling in. We are, when God's time for us is done here, we're going on home. And so I thought that was interesting. They're emphasizing to Pharaoh, we're not coming to stay, we're not moving in on you, we're just here until we can get back home. And so then notice that Pharaoh in this conversation, his response to the introduction to the brothers, he makes this offer in verse number five. And Pharaoh spake unto Joseph And he's okay with everything they've said. In fact, he I think he's really positive in what they said to him And he says to Joseph, he turns to Joseph, and he says, Thy father and thy brethren are come unto thee. The land of Egypt is before thee. He's offering the land of Egypt. The best of the land, make your father and brethren to dwell. In the land of Goshen, let them dwell. It's the best land you put them up there He wants these fellows, he wants his family well taken care of. And then he said, he's speaking to Joseph, and he says, If thou knowest any of any men, of course, of his family of activity among them that make them rulers over my cattle. In other words, he's saying, if you got some hard workers in your family, you got some fellows that know how to handle things and can provide leadership. I don't want them just working among my cattle. I don't just want to employ them as cattle hands I want them to be over it. I want them to be in charge. Just like you're in charge of all the grain, number two, and all the land. I want them, got any that work hard. Know how to lead, know what they're doing, can trust them. They're men of activity. They don't sit around. They're not lazy. They're not bums. And uh I'd like to put them in charge And I think Pharaoh's thinking, if his brothers are half the workers and administrators that Joseph is, these guys will help us. And so he's being very gracious. Joseph had been very kind to Pharaoh and to Egypt, and Pharaoh is responding by being very kind to Joseph and his family. So you have the reception, Pharaoh's reception of the brothers, then come down to verse 8, and we see Pharaoh's reception of Joseph's father. Now verse 7, Joseph introduced father. We looked at that. And in verse 8, Pharaoh says unto Jacob, and he only makes one statement to Jacob. The brothers he made too. What's your occupation? And uh you got anybody that That hard worker that I can put in charge of my cattle. But to Fa Joseph's father, he only makes one statement. I think it's interesting. Pharaoh said unto Jacob, How old art thou? How old art thou? I thought, why would he ask that? I mean the very first thing, how old art thou? I'm wondering, I'm guessing Jacob looked old. Good night, how old is this guy? I don't know. But Pharaoh wanted to know how old Joseph's father was. Now, in most cultures, I believe this is still true, in most cultures, with the exception being some subcultures. In our society, maybe, others. But most cultures respect the aged. Most cultures. I haven't traveled that much, but I've been a few places around the world, and every place I went Particularly among God's people, the aged were respected. The elders were respected. They treated respectfully They were recognized as um as uh uh someone to respect. When I went to Mongolia, we got there and they kind of briefed us the first night. We were in the capital city of Mongolia, Ulan Batar is the name of it. By the way, when we landed they had to run some cows off the runway so the plane could land. This is the capital of the nation. But um Nevertheless, they briefed us a little bit, and they were saying before we had meetings inside, then before we went out into the society, out into the city itself. They said some things to do and not to do, and one of them was the tip was a typical Mongolian greeting. And they said, when you come up to greet another man, man oh man, when you go up to greet that man, the person who is the oldest, the older of the two, would put their hands out like this. And the older of the two would put their palms up. And the younger of the two on the greeting would put their hands on top with the palms down and they would grip. And they said there's tremendous significance in that form of greeting, in that the elder, the older is the foundation of society, is the foundation ones that paid the price and Put the time and the work in so you can live the way you do. And they are the foundation, and you recognize that as respect by putting your hand palm down on top of it. I think that's a good greeting. I think that's a good recognition that the folks that have been here a while, they paid a price so that you and I can live the way we're living. We think of soldiers. But I want to remind you, this auditorium that we enjoy, there's a previous generation gave sacrificially and worked and trusted God for so that you and I can have a building to enjoy worshiping God in. And I think Pharaoh recognizes that Jacob is older than he is, and he says, How old are you? I don't think he would say it in in a disrespectful way. I think he was saying it in a way that I want to recognize the fact that you are a senior and I respect that. I still think it's good, and I know I'm talking to the older crowd a little bit tonight. Some of y'all are, but um uh no but uh I still think it's a good thing for younger people to say to elder people, yes, sir. Yes, ma'am. And stand up when they walk in. Amen? And I think I think that's what uh I think that's a little bit what Pharaoh had in mind when the only question he asked Jacob is, How old are you? And I think it was a display of respect on On Pharaoh's part. Jacob answers in typical Jacob fashion. Look at his answer. Pharaoh said unto Jacob, How old art thou? And Jacob said unto Pharaoh, The days or the years of my pilgrimage are 130 years. And he doesn't stop there. He could have said, I'm I'm 130 years old, Mr. Pharaoh. He doesn't say that. Days of my pilgrimage are 130 years. And then he goes on, few and evil have been the days of my life have been. Days of the years of my life have been. I have not attained unto the days of the years of the life of my fathers and the days of their pilgrimage Uh, I don't know about you, but that sounds somewhat negative. He's meeting f he's meeting Farr, the most powerful man in the world. The man's wanting to show respect, and he goes, uh, days of my pilgrimage, 130, and oh, it's been miserable Oh, you don't know how nobody knows the troubles I've seen. I mean he's griping, sounds to me. Negative. There's a hint of self-pity here. I'm never going to live as long as my fathers did. My life's been rough. He's basically saying this: My life's been rough, and I'm not going to live long. But he makes a statement that, again, caught my attention here, and I'll end with this. Jacob said unto Pharaoh, The days of the years of my pilgrimage, verse eight, verse nine, the days of the years of my pilgrimage. Then at the end he references his father's And again he says the days of their pilgrimage. He doesn't say the days of my life, the time here. He describes his life span As a pilgrimage. Now, what is a pilgrimage? Somebody thought, what? A journey. A pilgrimage is a journey from one location to another location. Different religions around the world have pilgrimages. They have their in their lifetime they want to make this journey From one point, from point A to point B. I think what Jacob is recognizing here that this world was not his home. He's just the passing through. He says, my time here on this earth is my pilgrimage is just about over. It's winding down, and I've got somewhere else I'm going. My journey through this old earth is coming to an end, and I've got somewhere else I'm going. His grandfather understood that. Who was Jacob's grandfather? Abraham. Come back to Hebrews with me if you would. Abraham understood that his life was a pilgrimage. This isn't all there is. Number one, we're not going to be here on this planet forever. And we live like we are, we act like we are, but we're not. And it's important for us to understand that. And number two, our life here on this planet, we're not going to be here forever. And number two, it doesn't end when we leave this place. Death does not end at all. Death is the beginning of eternity. Notice Hebrews chapter 11. Look with me if you would at verse 8. Those first two words are vitally important. Hebrews 11, 8. By faith, Abraham, that's Jacob's grandpa. When he was called to go out into a place which he should after receive for an inheritance, obeyed. And he went out, not knowing whither he went. Look at this. By faith he sojourned. That's what the boys said. By faith he sojourned in the land of promise as in a strange country. Not a place he's going to stay. It's a strange country. Dwelling in tabernacles. Do you know Abraham never built a house? He never built a permanent dwelling place. He lived in tents The only thing Abraham built were altars to the Jehovah God. He lived in tents. Why? Because he's sojourning. He's on a pilgrimage. He's not staying here. Dwelling in tabernacles with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs of him of the same promise. Look at this, verse 10. For he looked For a city which has foundations whose builder and maker is God. Now the only city that I know of whose foundation the foundations are built and made by God is the New Jerusalem Our eternal dwelling place in the presence of God. And Abraham understood that this world is not his home. And I've been referencing this, this world is not his home. We're just passing through. And there's a city that God has built, and there's a place that God has prepared. And by faith That's what I'm looking for. That's what I'm anticipating. That's what I'm waiting for. I'm just passing through. And Jacob caught a hold of that And his grandson understood that same thing. And he says to Pharaoh, of all people, I'm just a pilgrimage. I'm just a pilgrim passing through. Passing through. I'm going to remind you, you and I. We're just passing through. We're just passing through. Last Saturday night, suppertime, Sandy Schofield, her pilgrimage ended And now she's in the presence of God in that city whose builder and maker is God. Isn't that something? And Harry Jr. and many, many, many others. One of these days, we'll join him. Amen. Amen. Won't that be something? Father, bless us now. Help us learn from this. Help us to see this life and this world the way Jacob did here. It's just passing through, the boys. Help us not to get our roots too deep in this old world. Help us not to fall in love with this world. Help us not to hold too tightly to the things of this world. Lord, cause we know we're just passing through. We're just passing through. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together