Genesis chapter 49, and what I want to read is uh verse 22 down through uh verse 27. Genesis forty nine twenty two through I'm sorry, yes, twenty two through 27. The Bible says, Joseph is a fruitful bough, even a fruitful bough by a well, whose branches run over the wall. The archers have sorely grieved him and shot at him and hated him, but his bow abo his bow abode in strength And the arms of his hands were made strong by the hands of his of his the mighty God of Jacob. From thence is the shepherd, the stone of Israel, even by the God of thy father, who shall help thee. And by the Almighty who shall bless thee with blessings of heaven above, blessings of the deep that lieth under, blessings of the breast and of the womb The blessing of the Father have prevailed above the blessings of my progenitors unto the utmost bound of the everlasting hills. They shall be on the head of Joseph and on the crown of the head of him that was separate from his brethren. Benjamin shall raven as a wolf in the morning. He shall devour the prey And at night he shall divide the spoil. Joseph Jacob is blessing his boys. He's about to die. He knows that. He's okay with it. He's at peace with the fact that his earthly life is coming to an end. And he calls the boys in, if you remember, just previous to what we read here, Joseph had got word that his daddy was about to die, and so he brought his two boys in, Manasseh and Ephraim And he asked Jacob to bless his two sons, which he did. And I thought it was interesting. Before he does, he testifies to his grandsons about how good God had been to him. And it's probably one of the most spiritual speeches we have of Jacob in all of his life, all the accounts of his life As he's coming to the end, he starts sharing his heart with his grandsons about how God led him and God provided for him. Now, if you remember previously, and I know I mentioned this before, but previously He would gripe and complain, my life has been terrible, and all this and all that. But now he's coming down to the end, he's facing eternity, and he's giving what I believe an honest evaluation of his life And he's no longer focused on himself. He's no longer obsessed with uh himself, which he had been. Now he sees this next generation coming on and he wants them to know That God has really been good to him. In spite of all that he said and his attitude, God had really been good to him. Now he's called the r uh Joseph and his brothers in, all twelve boys. And uh he's now giving them uh his blessing. And as we said previously, it's been a little while since we looked at this, but we said previously that um This blessing is very, very significant. It's not just like you saying to somebody, oh, well, God bless you This is uh uh almost prophetic in the in the fact that God is sort of speaking through him as to the boys. He evaluates their character He expresses in some cases what the consequences of their character is going to be. And in a few cases, here with Joseph, he makes some prophetic statements are all encompassed in these blessings he's giving his boys. So we're going through here, and uh we noted uh we started this before, whenever it was the last time we're here, he's giving his blessings And he he divides the boys up, whether they were standing around the bed in this order or what, we're not sure, but he begins with the sons of Leah This was his first wife, the first wife that he married against his wishes, unknowingly married her. And uh he gives Reuben, he made statements about Reuben, which wasn't real positive And then Simeon and Levi talks about them briefly, verse 5 and 6, and then he addresses Judah, and he spends a good bit on Judah, about four verses, and he goes into a bit of detail. Judah's going to be a leader. The Messiah is going to come out of the tribe of Judah. And he has a pretty good positive report and prophecy on Judah. Then he goes to Zebulun and Issachar, and he's finished with the sons of Leah. Then he turns to the sons of Bilha. And he addresses Dan. He's going to be a judge in Naphtali. And he makes some statements about that. He skips in between there for whatever reason. Maybe how they were uh standing, the order they were standing, we don't know. And then he addresses the sons of Zilpah. This is one of the maids, Leah's maid, Bilhah, was Rachel's maid. And uh he addresses Gad, makes some statements about Gad, and then Asher. Now, I said all that to say this. Now he's to the sons of Rachel. Rachel was Jacob's true love. She was, I'm tempted to say she was his favorite wife But I think it was stronger than that. I believe Jacob sincerely loved Rachel. And when she died, his heart was broken. She was probably his only love. He was married to Leah. He had these other maids, handmaids that got in the mix there. But I think she was the only one that he really loved. Now that brings up a little situation in the Old Testament. It appears in the Old Testament that God would tolerate multiple wives. You had, you go through and David had multiple wives. Of course, you think of Solomon an extreme, perverse number of wives. And God tolerated that to some extent for whatever reason. But we know this: God did not design marriage with multiple spouses involved. This is not God's plan. Marriage is not designed for there to be anything other than one man and one woman. That is God's design. That's God's plan. And anytime we step outside of that design, anytime we try to get marriage to function in a way that is outside the way God designed it to function, there's going to be trouble. There's going to be difficulty. You use, there's various illustrations you can use, but you take an engine And you put the wrong fuel in an engine, it's not going to function correctly, right? You put diesel on a gas engine, you got a problem. You put gas in a diesel engine, you got a problem. It's not designed to run on that type of fuel And the same is true for marriage. And I believe the breakdown of our society can be directly traced to the breakdown of the home and the functioning the way God designed it to function. And so here we have Jacob. He's got Rachel, whom he loves. She's really his only true love. But he's got Leah, and he's got Bilhao, and he's got Zilpah, these handmaids. And as you remember, we studied before, the home was a disaster. There was jealousy and fighting among the ladies, among his wives. There was hatred with among the boys. It caused a lot of trouble For Jacob, because I think he functioned outside of God's plan. And you see that all through the Old Testament, particularly. You don't see it in the New Testament so much. However, having said all that God can still take a mess and perform a miracle out of that mess. And out of this completely dysfunctional home and this com this horrific marriage arrangement Yet out of that comes Joseph. Joseph. And in verse 22 through 26, we have Jacob's statements about Joseph to Joseph. It's a blessing. It's a bit of an assessment of Joseph and Joseph, what he's been through. It's a bit of a prophecy concerning Joseph. And so that's what I want to look at here for a little bit. Verse 22 through 26, it says, now this is Jacob speaking. I just read it, but let me just read the first verse 22 there. Jacob's speaking, he looks at Joseph, he's next in line, he says, Joseph is a fruitful bough, even a fruitful bough by a well whose branches run over the wall. Now, this blessing of Joseph, the statements that Jacob makes about Joseph are the longest blessings of all the boys. He spends more time addressing Joseph than he does all any of the others. Judah would be the second in length. He goes into more detail with Joseph than he does any of the others. Joseph, among these twelve boys, Joseph is unique He stands out in so many ways. And um and so uh Jacob is giving this blessing uh on Joseph. And the other thing I noticed before we start looking into this, um Jacob recognized that Joseph had the special blessings of God. Jacob recognized there's something different about this boy. There's something unique. His spiritual well-being, his spiritual standing is unique from all the others. Look if you would. Down in verse 25. I'm going to read verse 25 and 26, and I want you to notice something that Jacob repeats Verse 25, even by the Now he's still speaking to Joseph here, he says, even by the God of thy father Who shall help thee, and by the Almighty, who shall bless thee with blessings of heaven above Blessings of the deep that lieth under, blessings of the breast and of the womb, the blessings of thy father have prevailed above the blessings of my progenitors unto the utmost bound of the everlasting hills. Did you notice something repeated? Blessings! Six times he references God's blessings on Joseph. There was something about Joseph. And if you go back through his history as we studied his life and he's The brothers hated him with envy. And then he gets into Potiphar's house, and Potiphar recognizes there's something unique, something different about this guy. God is with him. They make that statement Then he ends up in prison, and the uh prison the warden of the prison says, Man, there's something different about this guy. He has the blessings of God on him. Then Pharaoh notices that And now his daddy comes and six times says his blessing, his blessings. God blessed Joseph in unusual, unusual ways. Now look what Jacob says. Jacob states about Joseph. Number one, he states that Joseph is prosperous, is how I put it. Again, verse 22. Joseph is a fruitful bough. Even a fruitful bough by a wall, whose branches run over the wall. He's prosperous. I also put this word down, he's productive. This you get a picture of this tree with this bow or this branch. And it's just filled with fruit And the thing is so large and it's so productive, it's hanging over the wall. Generally back then, a lot of times anyway, and it's still true in a lot of third world countries, most properties would have a wall around them. And this tree is, by the well, he's referring to Joseph and figuratively here as a as this fruitful bough, this tree or this vine, and he's a branch off the vine. And he is so productive, this tree is so fruitful, so productive, that it's actually growing out over the boundaries of the property, over the wall, for others to benefit from it Joseph is very, very prosperous. The word fruitful here means what you think produces fruit. But it also has this idea to be very productive To be very prosperous. And Joseph was. The word bough, as I mentioned already, is the idea of a branch coming off of a tree, or it could be a vine. And then he says this. He says he's a fruitful bough by a well. What would be the significance of this vine or maybe a tree? That's so fruitful, so productive, but it's by a well. What would be the significance of it being by a well? This is the Middle East, remember Okay, providing shade. But what would the well what what what would the well have to do with anything Yes, it's providing water. We're outside away from a well in that in b in that area there This was a lot of desert. This is a lot of wilderness. If there wasn't some sort of spring or well, remember Isaac was digging wells all the time. Abraham's digging wells There's hardly any water available. And so he's speaking figuratively, and he says, and this is the daddy assessing his son And he says, son, you are productive. You're prosperous. You're like a tree that's planted by a well. In other words, everything around you is barren. Everything around you is unproductive. There's no water. There's no source. But you have a source of a supply of life, really. Water is life, particularly in that environment. And you have this. And so he references this well here. There's a source of water for this tree. And then he says, over the wall. You're branching out over the wall. And again, that's beyond his borders. Now look at the life of Joseph. Everyone hated him, but yet he had peace in his heart. He had purpose. It didn't uh shake him He just went on. I mean he's thrown in prison. His brothers hate him. They can't say anything nice about him. They betray him. He gets thrown in prison. He gets falsely accused. He's forgotten And yet, in spite of all of that, he never wavers. He never alters. There's something About Joseph that keeps him on track no matter what anybody else does, or no matter what his circumstances are. And I think that's where the well comes in. Joseph was uh and and uh when I use the term prosperous uh I mean by this, not I don't think Jacob here is referring to Joseph's powerful position Oh boy, you're fruitful. You really made something of yourself. You got a powerful position. I don't think that's what he's talking about. I don't think he's talking about the obvious prosperity, financial, material prosperity that would come with that position. I don't think Jacob's noticing that at all. And to be very honest with you, I don't think that meant much to Joseph himself Whatever position he had, whatever possessions he had or didn't have, it didn't alter his state of mind. It didn't alter his spiritual well-being. I think when he says he's a fruitful bow, he's talking about his own spiritual health. I think he's saying, Joseph, listen, you've been through it, and he's going to mention it here. You've been mistreated, you've been hated, you've been, according to Psalms, you were hurt in prison. And it hasn't phased you. You're just as spiritually strong and healthy as anybody There is some source, there's something that is enabling you to be a strong, spiritually healthy man in an environment that is spiritually barren. There's something there. And that's what the well was. That's what the well was. Um Spiritual Wellbeing. Would you agree with me? Uh probably, and I'm guessing here, but probably your average, let's say, Christian That was treated the way Joseph was, and that went through the trials and everything Joseph went through, uh, probably would deal with bitterness, right? And anger. And man alive, how I'm being treated this way. But yet, as we pointed out and we studied his light, not one time do we notice that We don't get a hint of bitterness. We see a little bit of struggle maybe when the brothers show up about how to treat them, but he overcomes that pretty quickly. No complaining. We don't get any of that. The guy is solid. He's unfazed spiritually, and his frame of mind and his attitude is unfazed by whatever anybody does to him, whatever the environment is He's focused, he's going forward, he's fulfilling his responsibilities. That is spiritual prosperity To prosper as a child of God does not necessarily mean I live in a half a million dollar home and I drive a $20,000 car uh $80,000 vehicle. That's not necessarily spiritual prosperity. These guys on TV, and there's a certain element in Christendom that equates materialism with God's blessings. God's blessings are not necessarily related to my material possessions. I wish I could take the whole church on mission trips with us and meet some people that h don't have ten percent of what you and I have. and yet are 100% happier, rejoicing, and spiritually healthy way more than your average American Christian. So Joseph is prosperous in his soul, in his spiritual condition. And also, I think when he says he's fruitful, a tree bears fruit primarily to reproduce itself, but that fruit is used for what? For food. It's a blessing to others. That tree bears the fruit. If you have a very fruitful tree, cherry tree or apple tree, in this case it's probably a grapevine, maybe Maybe what he's referring to. Whatever the case, you have some sort of fruit tree, and it's very, very fruitful. Who benefits from that fruit? You and I do. The tree produces it, and we enjoy the benefits of it. Let me ask you this. Did potter fir enjoy the fruit of Joseph's character? Yes. He prospered tremendously, in fact, such a degree that he put Joseph in charge of his whole household. Question, did the jailer Profit from Joseph's character and integrity and responsibility. Yes. He put him over the whole whole uh prison. And of course, Pharaoh sees Joseph, and Joseph interprets the dreams, puts him in charge, and the entire nation of Egypt and all the surrounding nations Benefit from Joseph's faith in God, his unwavering walk with God, and it's a blessing produces for everybody. And so he says Joseph is prosperous, spiritually prosperous. No matter what his circumstances were, he was a benefit to others. What happens when we get mistreated? Now bear with me. We didn't break any attendance records tonight, so talk to me a little bit here. What do we what normally happens if someone mistreats us, where does our concern go to generally? ourselves. Man, I was treated wrong. They did this to me. And and we get so focused on how we were mistreated and what they did to me and this isn't right and they didn't do right to this and I got ripped off and I got this. Joseph is able to be a blessing to others and serve others that were treating them wrong and benefit them benefit to others. People hated him. And yet here is a question. Did Joseph's brothers and family benefit from his faith in God, his walk with God? Yeah, their lives were spared. They had food to eat. Because he didn't get bitter. He didn't get mad at God. He didn't blame everybody and everything for all his problems. He died to self, he did his job, he focused on the Lord, and God was with him, and God blessed him, and he was a fruitful vine, and made the world a better place for him having been there. for him having been there. I think Christians are good for communities. I mean healthy, strong, healthy, godly Christians. are good for a community. The more Christians, strong, healthy Christians a community has, the better off that community is, right or wrong. Sure. We want good, strong, healthy churches. We want lots of them everywhere. I mean the best thing could happen to America is for good strong healthy churches Filled with good, strong, faithful, godly, mature, healthy Christians. Be the best thing in the world. Happen to this country. And so Joseph was a blessing everywhere he went. He was an encouragement. He left the world a better place than it was when he came into it. And left his family better off. So Jacob looks at Joseph and he says, you're a fruitful bough, just like a tree by a well. And that well it provides, and you're such a blessing to others. Now, what was Joseph's well? What was it that made him, that enabled him To be a blessing in a world that was not much of a blessing. To be prosperous in a world that was barren, prosperous spiritually in a world that was barren spiritually. What was this well that enabled him to do it? I think there was two things we're told in Scripture. Number one, he had the promise of God. Remember back when he was young? God gave him two dreams. Remember, we talked about them? The star, the and the sheaves bow down to him, and the stars and the sun and the moon bow down to him And God gave him a dream that he had a plan for his life. God had promised him, I have something for you. I'm going to do so. I have a plan for your life. And so whether he's sitting in a pit rejected by its brothers, or he's in a a slave in Potiphar's house and being treated as a slave, or he's a prisoner and uh forgotten in a prison either that he had this promise of God that God was going to do something God had a plan And I am convinced in my heart and mind that that's what kept him spiritually strong was the promises of God. Now I want to remind you and I, as Christians, we have promises of God also. We go through it and sometimes things happen we don't understand and people treat us in ways that aren't right and we've we come up short in a lot of areas. I tell you what'll keep us spiritually strong is the promises and in God's Word right here. And that's why we emphasize so much we need to come and spend time in the Word of God. It'll enable me to stay strong in the Lord and stay focused on his plan for my life and stay close to him. I think the promises of God were part of that well, that spiritual well that kept him going, kept him going, kept him going. I wonder how many times in Potiphar's house a slave. He owns nothing. He can't dictate, at least in the early stages, what he does or when he gets up anything. He has no control over his life I wonder how many times he might have thought, wait a minute, God showed me those dreams. God has a plan. This isn't permanent. This God has a plan. God will see me through this. In prison, I wonder how many times when he's forgotten, he realizes Hey, there they forgot me. I wonder how many times they remembered, but God has a plan. God told me that he has a plan And I tell you, you and I get in a mess and we get out of sorts. I think we need to come back to God's word. And God says, I'll never leave thee nor forsake thee. I have a plan for your life. I have a purpose. And it'll keep us going. Then the second aspect of this well, this spiritual well, figuratively speaking, was the presence of God. We go back to Genesis 39, verse 21 and verse 23. It says God was with them. God was with them. God was with them. Joseph and others saw it, and there's no doubt in my mind, Joseph sensed the presence of God wherever he was God's with me here. God is with me. He'll see me through. And for you and I as a believer, God, we have a tremendous promise. He said, I'll never leave thee nor forsake thee Sometimes we get lonely, but we are never alone. We have the Lord with us. We have the presence of God. And as long as we have the presence of God He'll strengthen us and enable us to deal with what we need to. Promises of God are the Word of God. The presence of God is the Spirit of God that indwells us. And we can prosper spiritually and be a blessing to others regardless of our circumstances when we hold on to God's word and we rely on God's Spirit. So Jacob looks at Joseph and he says, You're a fruitful bow, you're prosperous, you've been a blessing to people in a world that had no blessings. And uh you've been strong spiritually in a world that was barren. The second thing he says to him in verse 23 He points out that Jacob was persecuted. Look with me, if you will, there. Verse 23. He refers to him as a fruitful bough, figuratively speaking. Now he uses another figure of speech. He said, the archers had surely grieved him and shot at him and hated him. Now I read that, and I went back over the life of Joseph, and I was looking for any record of any archers shooting arrows at Joseph. And you know what I found? None. We have no account, no record of any archers shooting arrows at Joseph. So the only conclusion we can come to, as I said, he's speaking figuratively here. He's not using lit, he's not, doesn't mean this literally. It's figuratively archers It's a figure of speech. And so what does he mean by archers? And he says they're shot at him. What do archers shoot? Arrows. Okay, yeah, and I got thinking, well, what what are these? What does he mean by using this figure of speech? What does he mean? So I got looking some things up and I found That arrows, archery, and arrows are often used figuratively in Scripture to refer to cruel words In fact, here's where did anybody bring your Bible with you tonight? Alright, let's use them, okay? Keep your place here, and uh we're gonna come back to this just a little bit. But come with me if you would to the book of Psalms. And I found several passages that refer to as arrows and archers in the context of words being said. Psalms chapter number 57. He would turn there. Psalm 57. And verse number 4. Psalm 57, verse number 4. If you found it, say amen. Alright, that's a majority. 57 verse number 4. Look what it says. My soul is among lions. Now, this is David speaking. It's not referencing Joseph, but notice. How he uses these arrows. My soul is among lions, and I lie even among them that are set on fire. The sons of men, look at this, whose teeth are spears and what? Arrows, and their tongue a sharp sword Abid references arrows, spears, and swords here, but he's referring to what The words that are said about him, statements that are made to him and about him, sharp words, cruel words Unkind words. Question. Did David have unkind words said about him? Good night. King Saul accused him of everything you can think of. Come over to chapter 64. Psalm chapter 64. And notice with me verse 3 and 4. It says, who wet, again, this is David speaking, and he knows what he's talking about here. Who wet their tongue like a sword, their tongue And bend their bows to shoot their arrows, even better words. There he tells us straight up what he means by these arrows. Verse 4, that they may shoot in secret at the perfect. Suddenly do they shoot at him and fear not. They say the most cruel, bitter words about him, and it doesn't bother him at all. There are no fear of God. They can say all this stuff. Bitter words, bitter words. Come over to Proverbs, if you would, just quickly. Two more I want us to notice. Proverbs chapter twenty-five and verse number eighteen. Proverbs twenty-five, eighteen. Notice what he says. A man that beareth false witness against his neighbor. What does he mean by false witness? He lies. This guy's lying about his neighbor. Uh uh where am I at? Verse 18. A man that beareth false witness against his neighbor is a maw, a sword, and a sharp what? Arrow. Here's a guy lying. About his neighbor, another person, just flat out lying about him, false witness, and he said it's like an arrow. It's like an arrow. One more, chapter 26, verse 18. Just a page over there As a madman who casteth firebrands, look at this, arrows, and death. So is the man that deceiveth his neighbor and saith, Am I not in sport? A man who cast firebrands, arrows, and death, a man that what? Deceiveth. He's lying. So cruel words, false accusations, hateful, harsh, unkind words are like arrows that pierce the soul And Jacob is saying to Joseph, Joseph, you've been throwing. The archers, the people have said things to you and about you. That hurt deeply, like an arrow piercing your heart. Remember back in Genesis 37, verse 4, the Bible says his brothers Could uh hated him, and listen to this, they could not speak peaceably unto him. What does it mean? If they could not speak peaceably unto him I'm wondering what did they say to him? Would you agree with me? No doubt harsh, hateful, unkind words, right or wrong? Yeah. And Jacob knew that. And Jacob observed that years ago. He saw what his brother, what Joseph's brothers were saying to him and treating him, how they were treating him, and he says it's like an arrow, like archers shooting arrows, and they hurt. I'm here to tell you tonight, unkind words hurt. Words are powerful. Proverbs 18:21 says that life and death Is in the power of our words. And what we say and the way we say it has a profound impact on the people that hear it. And it affects us. Cruel, I put this down, cruel words hurt deeply. Jacob saw that And he saw what uh Joseph had been through and what he what he dealt with. Potiphar's wife just lying through her teeth about him. You don't think that then hurt? Don't think that affected him? Yet he didn't let it alter him. Sticks and stones may what? Break my bones. Sticks and stones can hurt us physically, right? In fact, they would kill people with stones. They'd stone them to death. Sticks and stones can and will break our bones and hurt physically. But the rest of that little ditty is wrong. Sticks and stones might break my bones, but words will never hurt me. They might not cause a black and blue bruise on your arm. They may not give you a black eye. It may not break your foot But words can sure hurt us emotionally. Words can sure hurt mentally, and they can hurt spiritually I wonder how many people are outside of Christ. They don't know Christ as Savior because of some harsh, unkind, hateful Christian, says awful things about them and to them. I'm telling you, I want to remind you, I just read this afternoon, I was reading something, some guy made this statement that God doesn't love sinners. I'm telling you, that is a lie of the devil. God loves us even if we're sinners. And we have to be very, very careful that we as Christians don't get this, I'm a better than you, I'm holier than you. I'm more righteous than you and talk down and talk unkind to somebody that's outside the faith. We need to remember, if it wasn't for the grace of God, we'd be in their same shoes. And so words can affect people spiritually. They affect us mentally and emotionally. So Joseph had archers. Come back to our text. Jacob says, he says, the archers have sorely grieved him. They hurt Joseph, their words. It hurt him, it grieved him. And shot at him and hated him. But the great thing is, and I've been waiting all night to make this statement, Joseph was not a snowflake. Not a great quote. He wasn't a snowflake. What do we mean by snowflake? Offended by every little thing. Oh, untriggered. We're going to put this trigger warning on. We're going to listen, these people said awful things to him, and he just stayed a course, just stayed focused, didn't let him let didn't let didn't return uh in kind He returned with kindness, but not the same way they treated him. Oh, you gotta fight fire with fire. No, you fight fire with water. And bless them that curse you, Jesus said, and do good to them that despitefully use you. Joseph wasn't a snowflake. He didn't get triggered. He didn't go whimpering in the corner in the prison. Regardless of what they said or did to him, he got up in the morning, he walked with God, he did his job, he fulfilled his responsibility, and he tried his best to make the place a better place than what it was before he got there. He maintained his integrity. In Matthew 10, 22, Jesus said, Ye shall be hated of all men for my sake. Matthew 24, verse 9, Jesus said, Ye shall be hated of all men for my sake. Verbatim. He repeated it. In Mark 13, 13, we have Jesus saying, Ye shall be hated of all men for my sake. Luke 21, 17, ye shall be hated of all men for my sake. Over and over and over in the Gospels, Jesus made that statement. In John 15, 18, he says, They hated me, and I'm putting this in my own words now, they hated me, they're going to hate you as a follower of mine. We need to just settle the fact that this world is not going to treat us kindly, friendly, and their words are not going to be pleasant and nice. And if we're going to get offended every time this whole wicked world uh turns on us and says hateful things and unkind things and shoots verbal arrows at us, we're not going to get very far. We've got to man up, endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ, and that's what Joseph did, and just go on and be a blessing. Amen? And so he says, You've been persecuted, Joseph. And then last of all, I have to wind this down here. He prevailed. He was prosperous and productive. Man, a fruitful bell. He was persecuted. They shot arrows at you. And then verse 24 through 26, and I'm not going to break down everything every statement here, but he says, Joseph, in spite of all of that, you prevailed. Look at verse 26 here. He says, verse uh Verse 24, but his bow abode in strength. But they did all this, but his bow abode in strength, and the arms of his hands were made strong. by the hands of the mighty God of Jacob. In other words, God used all these persecution, all this adversity, God used it to make Joseph's stronger. God did help him. And it was Joseph's faith in God that enabled him to overcome all this mistreatment. Without getting bitter, without becoming like the people who were treating them this way. The interesting thing is Joseph never became like his brothers. He never became like them. He never responded in kind. He never reacted back to them the way he never treated them the way they treated him. A little bit of struggle there maybe He overcame. God helped him. God helped him. God did help him, and Jacob is saying to Joseph, he's going to help you throughout your life. He enabled you to maintain the spirit, this gracious spirit, this this and they don't use this term then of course, but Christ-like spirit God enabled you to do that through all this mistreatment, and He's going to do it for you in the future. The word prevail means to overcome with strength and might. He just got stronger. The more they mistreat him, the stronger he got. The more godly he was, the more gracious he became. I tell you what, the normal course is the more we're mistreated, the more bitter we get, and the harder we get, and the more hateful we get, and the more angry we get. And that's the flesh. Read Galatians 5. It's the flesh. The Holy Spirit of God, the presence of God in our life, in spite of our circumstances, in spite of our environment. But the presence of God in our life, we're able to be gracious and kind and compassionate and firm and self-disciplined. He prevailed, he prevailed. And then last of all, he addresses Benjamin. That was Joseph. And that's who we're studying. But he also addresses Benjamin, verse 27. He says, Benjamin shall raven as a wolf, a ravenous wolf. What do you picture when you think of you hear that phrase a ravenous wolf? What picture comes to your mind? Yeah, rah-rah Right? Did that sound like a wolf at all? I don't know. I never heard a wolf. But that's the description that Jacob is giving of his youngest son, Benjamin. Would you agree with me? The impression we get in studying scripture, Benjamin was pretty coddled. Right? He was baby. He was pampered. You ain't taking him to Egypt. He'll stub his toe. No, yeah. And he was coddled and he was pampered and he was babied his whole life is the impression I get. And you know what that produced? A ravenous wolf. And if you'll study the history of Benjamin, we won't go into it, but if you'll study the history of Benjamin, his offspring, his offspring were pretty fierce. The first king of Egypt, or not Egypt, let me take it back. The first king of Israel was who? King Saul. Ravenous wolf? Yeah, I'd say so. He pursued David like a wolf, tracking down an elk. Um ravenous wolf? Yeah, King Saul, I would say so. Pretty vicious. Murdered all the priests there and Nob when uh David got the Goliath's sword, man, he just slaughtered them all. Just like a wolf with little sheep, just killed them all. Um uh Abner He was a murderer. He was offspring of Benjamin. Shimei, remember, he's throwing rocks and dirt at David when he's going out, telling him he's a bloody man and all that. Offspring of Benjamin, King Sa or um uh um Saul of Tarsus, later Paul Murdering Christians, men and women, Christians, murdering them, throwing them in prison, ravenous wolf What Jacob says about Benjamin, if you study that tribe, and they were cruel, they were fierce, they were violent. What Jacob said about them was true. Now I'm not going to get into child rearing and all of that, but I'm saying that we're not helping children by coddling them and babying them and and uh pampering them all the time. They need to be trained to live for God. They need to be taught. And ja and apparently Benjamin never was, and for the off all his generations uh uh uh felt the effect of that. So Joseph was productive spiritually. He's a blessing to people around him. He was prosperous spiritually, strong in his faith, the peace of God, the presence of God in his life, in spite of all this He was persecuted, arrows shot at him, and they hurt. He was grieved by them, but he did not derail them, it did not get them off track, walk with God, stayed focused on God's plan and purpose for his life. And then he prospered. He prospered. God's hand was with him, and he got stronger and stronger. Let's just determine to make sure. Here's what I want to leave us with, and I'll end with this. Let's make sure that we are planted by that well. That fed that tree the water. And by that I mean this. We stay in the Word of God. And let God speak to us. And water our soul and our spirit with the Word of God. This is the water of His Word. And let it feed us and drink from this thing and keep us spiritually strong. Let's always remember I have the Holy Spirit of God dwelling within me as a believer. I have the presence of God in a literal way. Dwelling in me. And I can access that resource and his strength and his leadership in my life. And as he convicts me, I respond to that. And as he leads me, I trust him and follow him. Let him bear that fruit in my life so I can be a blessing to people around. I can leave this church and this world a stronger, better place. than it was when I showed up just like Joseph. Amen. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to use these thoughts here from Jacob's blessing on Joseph. And challenge us and help us and remind us, Lord, to stay close to you. And I pray you'd use us as individuals to be a blessing. I pray you'd use our church to be a spiritual fruitful bow in this community and around the world, and that what you enable us to do would be a help in bringing others to Christ and strengthening the faith. I wonder how many would say, preacher, I want God to use whatever vast uh adversities I'm going through. I'm wanting God to use them to help me be a better person, a better Christian, not a bitter one I want my words and my faith to be strong, Lord. Any like that? Sure. I imagine all of us would want that. Let's ask the Lord to help us learn from Joseph. And incorporate some of these things in our lives. Father, bless now as we give the invitation and help us in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Let's stand together.