Book of Mark, chapter five. We have uh some uh prints of artwork that I've done. It's on the on the back in the back uh there on that table. Might look those over and Christmas is coming up. Might make a good gift. And uh They don't cost all that much. We try to keep the prices down where people can afford 'em. And uh I think uh uh Dan will be back there and she'll just Gobble your money up. If you get it out where she can see it, it's gone. So be careful when you get back there. I mean that's the way it is with the you know with me. If she sees it it's gone I notice the preacher says that uh, you know, that's the only way that we uh have to live is love offerings. And uh I mean I never see it. Gone. So but anyway, uh I'm glad your folks are here tonight and I trust you've come with a an open heart and a willing spirit and I trust the chalk drawing is a blessing. I think it will be as we show the the hidden effect. I believe the Lord will uh perhaps speak to us tonight in a special way. Mark chapter five Mark chapter 5, we're going to read uh we're going to read several verses here, and you'll just have to follow me. We're going to uh break in the middle of it and go to some more verses. But in verse 21 is where we're going to start. And when Jesus was passed over again by shipment to the other side, much people gathered unto him, and he was nigh into the sea, and behold, there cometh one of the rulers of the synagogue, Jarus by name. And when he saw him, he fell at his feet and besought him greatly, saying, My little daughter lieth at the point of death, and I pray thee, come and lay thy hands on her that uh she may be healed and she shall live. And Jesus went with him and much people followed him and thronged him. Then we jump down to verse 35 there where it says, And while he yet spake, there came from the ruler of the synagogue's house certain which said, Thy daughter is dead. Thy troublest thou why troublest thou the master any further? As soon as Jesus heard the word that was spoken, he saith unto the ruler of the synagogue, Be not afraid, only believe. And he suffered no man to follow him save Peter and James and John, the brother of James. And he cometh to the house of the ruler of the synagogue, and he seeth the tumult, and them that wept and wailed greatly. And when he was come in, he saith unto them, Why make ye this ado and weep? The damsel is not dead, but sleepeth And they laughed him to scorn. But when he had put them all out, he taketh the father and the mother of the damsel, and them that were with him, and they entered in where the damsel li uh lay. was lying. And he took the damsel by the hand, and he said unto her, Talatha kumai, which is being interpreted, Damsel, I say unto thee, Arise And straightway the the damsel arose and walked, for she was of a the age of twelve uh years, and they were astonished with a great astonishment And he charged him straightly that no man should know it, and commanded that something should be given her to eat. Let's pray. Lord, now we come to the preaching of the Word of God, and as always, Lord, we stand before you always in need, and so we ask you, Lord, to fill fill that need tonight. And certainly as we preach and the Word of God goes forth, I trust that it'll find a lodging place in the hearts of the hearers. And they'll not be just hearers only, but they'll be doers of the word. So I pray, Lord, that you just work in our midst here. Thank you, Lord, for the chalk drawing. And uh as usual, Lord, uh It looks beautiful from this end. I believe, Lord, it'll be a blessing to the people and I believe it'll be a a blessing to you as we uh show it in a few moments. So we ask you, Lord, now to take the service, take this message And get honor to yourself and we'll praise you for it in Christ's name. Amen and amen. Well, Mark chapter five. It's a it's one of those chapters that has so much stuff in it, and uh that's why we had to skip there. You have Mark chapter 5 has uh three different stories to it. One of them is the Maniac Gadera, where Jesus uh you know, uh lands there in in that land and the maniac comes to him, you know, and he casts the demons out. And then the demon, the man who had been possessed, the demons had came to him, you know, and wanted to stay with him. And he told him to go back home. He was supposed to be a witness back there. And then we s we see this story here, as it unfolds with uh Jerusal's daughter, who is uh who is uh s ill to begin with and and dies while the her father's uh uh talking to Jesus. But in between those uh those two stories is uh is this other woman, this other story of this woman who has an issue of blood. Uh about the time that she got sick, well this other this little girl was born. Twelve years ago was when she got sick and the girl's twelve years old, so somewhere in there is pretty close to the same time. Which doesn't have anything I there's got to be a message in there. He wouldn't have put it like that, but but the that's the three stories that's there. It's a woman that had the issue of blood, she came in press behind the touched the hem of the garments, you know, and and uh uh virtue went out from the Lord, you know, and and uh healed her her body and and And she gave praise to him and she was saved. This story it shows a dominion of Christ over a wide range of things. Here you have demon possession that that he has power over and uh cast the demons out And then you you see that he he has uh power over the body as far as the healing process is concerned and and where he heals the woman of the issue of blood. And then it takes uh takes the extreme step. Where he literally raises the dead. When he says that don't worry about it, she's just asleep, she was dead. She was dead. Everybody knew she was dead, but when Jesus got there as far as he was concerned, it was just going to be. You know, I couldn't help but think about that I thought about how how this this little girl, she'd been sick for what how however long, we don't know. But she was uh sickened to death. And when she closed her eyes Uh in death. She was in pain and and suffering and all that. And the next time she opened her eyes Jesus had a hold of her hand and was lifting her out of her bed of affliction. Now, if that isn't a picture of the way that the Christian needs to see death, It's we may be in all kinds of misery and have all kinds of disease and we pass out of this world, we close our eyes, we may be in misery then. But if you're saved The next time you open your eyes, he'll have you by the hand and he'll say arise. So that to me that uh may not do a thing to you, but I was excited about that Yeah, I thought that was that was a a wonderful revelation there. Well it's uh you know, it's amazing how things we already know until they all at once they just come b bursting out of the scriptures and hit you between the eyes, sometimes you just don't really grasp them like they ought to be. But anyway, so I I want us to just I want us to look at this scenario with Jaris, uh Jerus's daughter. Uh here was a man the Bible calls him the uh uh one well there's there's two records of the story And uh uh you get two different things. One of 'em says he he is the ruler of the synagogue and the other one And in different places it says that he's a ruler. Of course they had many rulers in the in the synagogue and people who were in position to read the scriptures and and give their thoughts on it. But he seemed to be the main one from what the scripture says. And I find that sort of unusual Because in in one of the s the uh I think it's in Luke uh eighteen and and verse eight if I'm not mistaken, uh where he he literally came up It says here that he he fell at his feet, but he literally came up and worshipped the Lord Jesus. And I thought that unusual, him being a ruler of the synagogue. And uh and yet uh it just shows you that it doesn't matter how where you are as far as the political world, the religious world, no matter where you are, what level you are at that uh when crisis strikes your home and it's personal to you, and it doesn't make any difference what your position is, you're going to find a a place at the foot of Christ. It's it's uh it's a shame. Uh we were talking about just before the service started. Uh this gentleman and I we were discussing things and getting real and you know solving all the problems of the world I think, weren't we? And uh uh we were talking about that very thing. What was it we were talking about? I get off on this uh but anyway, uh how that how that uh um That going through hard times is sometimes the only way that God can get our attention. And here's a situation where I doubt seriously if this man from the synagogue would have been there at the feet of Jesus had it not been for his daughter being sick. There's sometimes a g God just has to s has to really slap us down in order to get our attention. We've got kind of away from uh from his uh uh from his book, away from you know his way We're kind of stumbling along the darkness and and we somehow hurt ourselves. Or maybe it's a it affects us in in our work uh load or uh where we lose our job or where you know It so many different things that come to us that are uh adverse and we we you know we we wonder why in the world why did this happen to me? Here I am, I'm a Christian, everything, but why is this hap because listen We have to understand that God is a sovereign God and his his mind doesn't work like ours. And if it takes a little bit of affliction, in your life to bring you back into a place of fellowship with him. Uh you know, to him it's worth it Going through that situation, it doesn't seem worth it to us, but to him, it's worth it. The fellowship means more to him sometimes than it does to us. And that's tragic. It ought to be r the realization that we're talking about God who who created the universe and he wants to have fellowship with us and we have to be beat over the head in order to uh, you know, pay attention to him. That's so somewhere in there that that's a sad story. I can't help but think that that's exactly what happened here. Jesus is simply he caught his attention. When he came to him, he said, hey, my daughter is sick, and I want you to come and if you just lay your hand on her, she'll be healed. That showed faith But this guy has a another step to go. And God is always working in our life to increase our faith. Without faith, it's impossible to please God. And an increased faith, building our faith upon faith. God is pleased with that. And when we trust him more in not just the big things that come along in our life that knock us flat, but if we'll trust him in just the little things. When I say little things, I I'm talking about driving around town and and uh uh looking for a parking space. And saying, Lord, I could sure use a parking space. My leg has been bothering me and and pop all the ones there's a car pulls out right of out of a parking space right there and you just pull right in. Now you say, That's silly. I don't care as long as I can get to that parking space. I don't have to walk that extra distance. You know what I'm talking about? There's so many little things that he does for us and and and most of the time we just go right on and don't even think about it. It's just a happenstance. But in reality, it's uh just one of those little blessings that he wants us to acknowledge him and say, Thank you, Lord. Thank you, Lord Ruler of the synagogue. Wow. He ought to have been a spiritual giant. But he came to Jesus And he found what he was looking for. Certainly his his main thought was, you know, d his child. Well I tell you, if you want to get close to somebody, you get close to when their child is going through a hard time. You who are parents, you know what I'm talking about. Anytime your kid is sick, you'd much rather be in that bed of sickness and have him out running around than vice versa. So sometimes God does work in strange ways. I probably have told this before, but I remember when Lynn was just a baby, just a few months old. And she uh she became dehydrated. She'd uh uh she'd gotten a little flu, you know, and was run off about this and that and and all at once She was dehydrated, took her to the doctor, and the doctor said put her in the hospital. They had to put her in hospital. Now, right at that particular time, of course it was You know, just circumstances. At that particular time, I'd kind of slacked off reading my Bible a little bit. Hadn't been praying like I ought to. It just so happened that at that particular time Lynn got sick. It just so happened I remember sitting beside the bed there in the hospital. And I said, okay, Lord, I understand. I got the message. I'll be more faithful next time. Lord spoke to my heart about that. You say, well, you mean he'll punish your kids? No, he punishes you. Tragedy is your kid sometimes has to go through it. In order to get to you. Well, God doesn't do that all the time, and just because some kid gets sick, don't think that God's beating you over the head might be just a flu, you know. I don't know what God's doing with you and you don't know until it comes to you personally and God has a way of just putting his finger right on you and say, this is because of you. This is something that you need to deal with. And he is real you know, he's able to do that easily. So there is a blessed result that comes from even the worst tragedies. We just don't like to think about them. But we know that all things work together for good to them that love the Lord and are the call to accord to his purpose. Well if you're working and you know, working with the Lord and you're doing the your best to the Lord and and these things come in, just understand. Hey, you may not grasp it right now, but somewhere down the line you'll understand that this is something that God placed in your life for a specific purpose and you'll find out what it is, you know, when you need to. He'll let you know about it. But I noticed I noticed in verse 24 there How that uh let me get over here in twenty-four. How how quickly. In verse twenty-three it says, and and he besought him, talking about the the the uh uh the ruler of the synagogue and he said be he besought him greatly saying, My little daughter lies at the point of death, and I pray thee, come I you know, you as you listen to that, as you read it If you you allow the Spirit of God to take that verse and and and touch your heart with it, you'll read into that the anguish in this ruler's heart as he as he uh uh Tells the the Lord what he needs to do and he says and and he said if you'll just come and and lay your hands on her and she may be healed and she shall live. That's faith. But immediately, and it says, and Jesus went with him, and much people followed him and thronged him. Jesus immediately answered the call. This old boy may have had, he may have had a heavy heart when he walked up to where Jesus was. And when he gave his petition to him and said, if you'll just come and just lay your hands on her, you can heal her. And immediately Jesus answered that and said, Come on, let's go. Don't you think that lightened his load by a million t pounds? There's something about knowing that the Lord is with you that that just just makes your your your walk a lot easier. Do you remember what Moses said when the Lord was saying you're gonna have to leave? He said, If y if you go with me I you know I okay, but if not, uh don't send me out there with those that bunch of uh Jews. If you'll go with me, it it's okay though. And that's the that's the way life is and that's exactly the way the Lord wants it He wants us to understand that that uh when he's with it with you uh let's see in his yoke Oh yeah. See I got that last night's message in there. See how dovetails here? But he it it had to lighten his load when he understood Jesus is going to take care of this thing. And I see him as he walks along with the Lord, you know, and and as he walks along with the Lord then then something else happens. Comes a trial of faith. It's in verse 35 where he says, And while he yet spake, there came from the rule of the synagogue's house a certain, one of the servants, apparently. Which said, Thy daughter is dead. Wow. That was a slap in the face. He's sickened to death in these first verses there when he comes to Jesus. She's sickened to death. Now, there's no question about it. It's already over the line. She's dead. She's dead. Thy daughter is dead. Why troubles thou the master any further? No need for the Lord to go. Now it's already dead. Nothing can be done about it. But I want you notice notice the verse thirty-six. As soon, wow, as soon As Jesus heard the word that was spoken, he saith unto the ruler of the synagogue, notice how he's so quick to ease the pain and to encourage the heart. You know Jesus is a wonderful Savior. He's a wonderful Savior. He came to seek and to save that which is lost and And when I trusted him as my Savior back in sixty two, he saved me and he keeps me saved and and I can look forward to a home in heaven because of that. But he's so much more than just a savior. And you say, Well, isn't that almost blasphemy? That's just one office that he has. My goodness. He you know, he can meet every need that we have And this is one of the times where we see him immediately come to the aid of a man whose heart is totally broken His daughter was sick unto death, and all of once he gets word she's dead. That's a finality that's hard to grasp. If you've lost a loved one, you you know that pain that hits you when when when somebody says they're dead They're not with you any longer. They've gone on, and you have nothing to do with them any longer. There's no conversation, no way to communicate. She's dead. His heart must have sunk. His knees must have buckled. But I see Jesus, as soon as he spoke those words, he was there to lift him up and he said he said Listen to what he says there in verse 36. As soon as Jesus heard the word that was spoken, he saith in the ruler of the synagogue, Be not afraid, only believe. It's exhibit your faith Be not afraid. Don't fear death when I'm walking with you. You know that's a that's good advice for the Christian today. We live in a world that that is is is fearful. Right now the people in France they lock their doors and at night they get their gun under their pillow and every noise, every little tweak They're awake when they walk their streets. They're suspicious of everyone. People in Belgium, people in France, people in Britain, people in the United States are fearful today. Because of the of the threats that are out there. I'm going to tell you, there isn't a fear that Jesus cannot relieve you of. Fears of the devil. Understand that. It's something that that uh that trust just wipes away fear. When you're trusting Jesus Christ and you know that all things work together for good to them the Lord and are called according to his faith, but he just He just, when you understand that and you trust that and you and you have total faith in Jesus Christ, then he just can wipe away the fear from your heart. That's why you Christians don't have to fear death or hell. But I'm sure now this is this is a test. It's a test of faith. It's a trial. Something that is going to build the faith and build the s the the spiritual faith of this of this ruler of the synagogue And uh uh as he walks along with the Lord, you know, he's g I I can just see him uh you know, I can see the Lord as he as he quickens his pace. Yeah, uh well he may have gone slower, I don't know, just to s show there's not no rush about it, 'cause he can handle it no matter how long she's been dead. But I can see that's the anxiety in the ruler and the the anxiousness that he has As he follows along with the Lord and he's wringing his hands and he's trying to muster up all the faith that he possibly can. Have faith, believe. There's times when you're going to be going through some things that you're going to have to muster up all the faith that you have in the Lord. Why'd this come to me? We just got a we just got a a uh I guess the name was talking to our daughter. And our grandson who's uh a missionary to to uh Scotland. She's the one you folks I have prayed about, uh Katie And uh with she had cancer, terminal cancer, and and the Lord healed her. I mean, it was amazing. And uh they told her she couldn't have a child. They got a child named David He's a cute little booger, yeah. Ask Nan, she'll tell you He's on his way uh from Ohio. Let's see, he was in in Ohio when that happened, honey. And uh he was going to to to another meeting somewhere. Car broke down He's doing the Lord's work. Why? Why do these things happen? To good people. But good thing or bad things happen to good people all the time. And if you're a Christian, why, you don't have to fret and worry about it. Because you know that that God's got everything, your whole life, and all that you do, and it's in your it's in his hands. And so you just, just in that situation, in the poem of his situation, you just simply say I'm going to trust you, Lord. I don't have any way to control this situation. I'm just going to trust you. If you've been saved for very long, those those times have already hit you. And and uh Nan and I've had a few of 'em. But God has to build our s our s our our our faith somehow. Wants to strengthen us more and more. Uh and as we believe him more and call upon him more and trust him more, uh these trials are going to come. And mark it down, listen. Uh Tyler and and Katie, since they surrendered to go to the mission field, they're going through so many things. You know, I say, Are you sure this is what God wants you to do? Is he trying to stop you or is this the devil testing you? And uh is this a trial of the Lord or a t you know, I But uh he's he's solid in his calling, you know, and this is exactly what God wants and he's just taking it one step at a time. And uh he gave up his house and And and everything. On the road, living out of the car, if he can't find anything, I mean that's where he's at right now, is in a car, I guess. Of course he's in motel, I suppose. I'm not I'm not making a pitch for him. I'm just just saying I'm trying to get you to understand that that that bad things do happen to good people and we don't understand everything and And perhaps this this fella here, you know, as he's walking along, he's saying, I I don't know why these are all but God had a reason This was to glorify God. This was to lift up Jesus Christ. That was the purpose. And I, if I'd be lifted up. I'll draw men to me. The bottom line of everything that Jesus does was to draw people to him that he can save. That's the bottom line, to glorify him and to see people saved. So that's that's what the story is in this. Let's run on down here quickly. Real quick. So the Lord said, um be not afraid, just only believe, just trust. You know, isn't that something Uh he didn't tell him to pray. Did you notice that? He said, believe, just believe. Praying's good. I'm not trying to say don't pray. I'm trying to say that in this situation, he just he wanted him just to simply put his trust in him. Say, okay, Lord, I'm going to just trust you. So then in verse 38-39, it says, And so he comes to the house of the ruler of the synagogue, and he seeth the tumult, and them that wept and failed greatly. Now this is just the these are people that uh are paid to do the the uh the wailing and and all that. I mean these are these these are a bunch of hypocrites. They're just paid to do it. They're not really sad or anything, but their people, I mean that's what they did. They paid people to come in and mourn over a death. And so they're wailing and they're they're going through that whole thing. And uh the Lord says I want you out of here. Let's see. I want the mother and the father and the guys that came with me. And let's go into the room of of the the daughter. You know, there's going to be a time when the doors are going to be closed on people who've never trusted Christ. Just like when Noah was in the ark and and uh when the floods came, God closed the door. That was it. Nobody can get in. Couldn't get in if they wanted to. They didn't want to to begin with. God closed the door. That was it. The ten virgins. Five of them had the oil, five of them didn't. When the Lord came, the others were out looking for oil, and and when they came back the door was closed. It was too late. That's something to think about. If you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, understand there's going to be a time when the door's going to be shut on you. Huh? It's going to be shut and no man opens. When God shuts the door, that's the end of it for you. There's no going to be second chances, you know. No second chance after you die. When you turn down the Lord Jesus Christ, understand that you you have there's a potential loss of your soul Because if you die in that condition, you're going to die and go to hell. And and it's a real place. I mean, you can say what you want to and don't believe it or whatever, but it's not going to change anything. So in Mark five forty it's it shows their their unbelief and and the you know, who they really are and uh there in verse forty. It says, And they laughed him to scorn, but when he had put them all out, he talked the father uh taketh the father and the mother of the damsel and them that were with him, and he entered in where the damsel was lying. And he took the damsel by the hand. Now, here again. Jesus spoke to huge crowds, thousands upon thousands of people. Preached the word to them. But there's when he talks uh to individuals, it's a personal thing. And in this case we see that that personal touch. He could have just said, uh, damsel, arise out of your bed. All he had to do was he could have done that way back over there where he got out of the boat from the other side, you know, where he came from the maniac of Gadera. He could have just spoke the word when the guy came to him. But there was there was some something here that he he wants there was a personal touch here that he wanted him to see. And I think he wanted the father and the mother to see the personal touch. the touching of the hand. I see him as he just just gently grabs a hold of the hand and he says, Arise out of your bed and walk. And and immediately she just rose right up. And here's that that first moment when she opens her eyes, who does she see? You know, I don't know where she came from. You know what I mean? I don't know uh zap. All at once she's she's not where she was. Wherever she was, she's not there now and uh she's holding the hand of the Lord Jesus and he's telling her to arise. All I'm saying is that salvation is a personal thing. It's an individual personal thing. It's not because you're an American you're a Christian. That's you know a lot of people believe that. A lot of people think that if their parents were s were were Christians, they're automatically a Christian. That's not scriptural either It's a personal, personal thing between you and God. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved individual. When he calls, God answers. In this particular situation, we see the personal touch of the Lord Jesus. He's a personal God, and He wants to do things in your life personally. And he's one of he may put you through the test, just like he did uh Jarrus here. But uh you need to understand that as long as you're walking with him and you're and uh You're trusting him. Everything's gonna be alright. Everything's gonna be alright. People This world's in all kinds of turmoil today. We see it over in in the Middle East over there. We see it here in the United States. We've got race problems and we've got political problems. Our country is split right down the middle and two factions that that almost hate each other's guts. And it seems like that there's there's no end to it. I've got news for you, there's not going to be an end to it. Until the Lord Jesus comes in the clouds and calls us home That'll be an end for us and the beginning of the end for the rest of the world. But the thing that I think is important for us to understand tonight is this. And I'll close with this thought. People all over This world need Jesus Christ. How many people are lost? Pastor and I are talking about it today. Cities in Brazil, uh several of them in this one area, a million people in each one of those cities and not one got not a gospel. Not a gospel witness in those cities. That's just one little square down there in the bottom of Brazil How many other millions, probably hundreds of thousands at least, of cities that large that that there's not a gospel witness? People that are dying going to hell. Yeah. And the and the word is readily available in many cases. We just need people to get the word out to those places. Every day we meet people in the store, the gas pump, you know, the grocery store. We meet 'em on the street, in restaurants, all over. And they they have that same emptiness inside where they've never trusted Christ. Here's a God that wants to meet the needs. And he's not just a savior, but he's a high priest. And that's a wonderful thing because the high priest that we have, the Lord Jesus, is one who is touched with the feelings of our infirmities He knows the heartaches just like he did this ruler of the synagogue. He saw his heart, saw it broken for his sick daughter, and he immediately went to the aid. And that's the situation we have here. All these people out around us that are aching inside. Some from from uh you know from from sin itself And some from their own makings, the heartaches that they have, they brought on to themselves. But Jesus is concerned about those people and wants to save them. He just needs somebody to care enough to go. I looked on my right hand and beheld. But there was no man that would know me. Refuge failed me. No man cares for my soul. Heavenly Father, I pray, Lord, tonight. Perhaps uh we might get uh the same burden that Jesus had for the lost, and the desire to help and to lift and and to see people saved. And I pray, Lord, that we might open our hearts tonight and allow the Holy Spirit to minister to us the need that we have. We know Lord that you can you can take that hard heart and soften it. And we know that you can you can take that one who's bitter and give them a sweet spirit. We know that you want to work in our lives and make us more Christ-like, that we might put on the mind of Christ. Help us, Lord, to be what you want us to be. Help us to be obedient to your spirit here tonight in Christ's name. Amen