Who uh who feel this way, but because Jehovah's Witnesses and Mormons both knock on your door, uh often we equate the two is is very similar. And really they're very different. Uh just in everything from uh their philosophies to how they got started. Yeah it would work. Thank you very much. I don't, but it's all right. But I'm gonna probably move around. Okay. Backwards. All right. Very good. So um Thank you, Pastor. So, Jehovah's Witnesses. What makes them so different? I mean, uh you know, some would say, you know, cult's cult is cult, but Jehovah's Witnesses and Mormons got started in very different ways. Um One, the uh if you were here last week, the uh the uh Mormon leader, uh the Mormon founder, which would be Joseph Smith, started because he claimed he had visions and found another book of prof or a book of uh the word of the God and it was it was known as the Book of Mormon and then he just uh wrote on a bunch of ramblings about and uh they produced some books that said d just w laid out rules. Uh but uh Jehovah's Witnesses are a bit different in that they actually take the Word of God and just misread it. Um there are other publications and I'll get to that in a second, but it started with uh Charles Tay's Russ Russell in eighteen seventy. um misreading scripture. And what happened was, and as you can see up on the screen, while still in his teens, without any formal education in uh theological train or theological training, he started a Bibles class whose members made him pastor. Now listen, anyone can start a b anyone can start a Bible club I I'm not against Bible studies, but here's one thing I am against. And I'm not against team Bible studies. I like that idea. Here's what I am against is thinking you know more than other people. Just because you're smarter than everybody else. Charles Saying Russell was a lot like this. If you look into uh just uh who he was, he was a very prideful man. And by the way, only a very prideful person would have no training, start a Bible club, and allow them to call him pastor. With no form of saying, only a very prideful man would start looking at scripture and interpreting it completely outside of anyone else's uh anyone else's opinion. You see here's the thing, the cult started not because listen and by the way I think everyone before I get on this everyone should read their Bible. You should interpret scripture Uh you should interpret scripture, you should, or not interpret as in Greek, but you should read the Bible and understand it for yourself. You shouldn't just come to church and have uh and have pastor teach it to you. You should read it and understand it yourself. And and find new truths in it, but or new truths that are new to you in it, but when you start finding things You're like, well that's kind of weird. The Bible is, you know, depending on your is uh sixty-six books long and uh depending on your Bible uh a thousand, maybe fifteen hundred pages long. There's at least one verse in there that's going to make you go, wait a second, is that what that says? You're like, well that's not what I was taught. Because here's the thing, the Bible is a wonderful book and it's a flawless book, but you need to interpret it with other scripture. And so as you're reading through and you find verses, and uh we'll get to some of their verses that they uh that they found uh and misinterpreted uh later. But as you as you uh as you read through the Bible, there's some verses you might say, well that's that doesn't sound right. And it might not mean the same thing to you as it as they as it does in the whole context of scripture. And that's the real danger with just being alone. That's why you come to church. Listen, some people say, well, I can study the Bible by myself. That's true, you can study the Bible by yourself. But it's really helpful to study it with other people, especially if you don't know what you're talking about. Have people who do know what they're talking about help you through it. I mean and listen, I I work with teens, I like teens, I love teens. Sometimes some teams I don't really like, but uh but uh I love teens, but there's a lot of pride associated with being a teenager And there's a lot of problem with, by the way, with uh being uh associated with uh leading any group, don't get me wrong, but a teen pastor over other people who don't know the Bible is a dangerous thing. Not because they shouldn't study the Bible, and I don't want to belabel this way, not because they shouldn't study the Bible, but because they might get confused. It's good it's good to talk to people who are a little bit wiser than you, who know more than you. But uh go on the next slide. So uh in uh 1979, this is uh ten years later, or uh nine years later, he founded Zion's Watchtower magazine. In which he published his own unique interpretations of the Bible. In 1886, he published the first volume in a seven-book series titled The Millennial Dawn. Now it's titled Studies and Scriptures So he's had so he's uh and by the way, this magazine is still going on today, Watchtower magazine. In fact, Jehovah's Witnesses are not called Jehovah's Witnesses, they're called the Watchtower uh Watchtower Bible and no Watchtower and Track Bible Society. Thanks Later on here. That's what they called themselves. But then they also call themselves Jehovah's Witnesses. But the whole thing is the watchtower. It it's all based on this magazine in which he per in which he interpreted the Bible and said what this meant and what this meant and he and he published it in sections. And then and then he went on and he did basically the same thing with a uh with a seven book series. By the time of his death in nineteen sixteen, the Watchtower claims he wrote books containing more than fifty thousand pages and game uh and gave thirty thousand sermons. That's just what they claim. I don't know if that's true or not. Claims of the Jehovah's Witnesses. They claim quite zealously, if you talk to one, you'll you'll figure this out, they claim quite zealously that the Bible is their only source of authority, but deni but yet they deny many of the cardinal beliefs of historic Christianity, including the Trinity. The divinity of Jesus Christ, his bodily resurrection, salvation by grace through faith, and eternal punishment of the wicked Here's something. I said that there's some things that are confusing in the Bible. There's some things that maybe maybe if you read by themselves, there's definitely things if you read them by yourself, you're going to come out with a completely different theology. That's why you need to take the Bible in context And again, talk to people who know more. And and again, past pastor needs to talk to people who know more. I need to talk to people who know more. Everyone, it feels like knows, you know, I'm not sure anyone's ever the smartest person in the in the world. It's good to it's good to fellowship. It's good to it's good to talk to people. And I I again I'm belaboring that point. But how can even the simplest of people And by simple I mean stupid. How can even the stupidest of people read the Bible and not believe in salvation by grace through faith? Because that's in there multiple times, like a lot. Or even more asinine is not believing in Christ's bodily resurrection. Now listen, I can understand how you can twist things to mean Christ didn't rise bodily, but you actually read the Bible, you read all four Gospels. In the first part of Acts, you'll be like, oh wait. Oh Christ yeah, oh yeah. Well especially all four gospels, you'll be like, oh well Thomas touched the nail print in his hand. He had to be there for that to happen. He couldn't have just been a spirit uh spirit if he got touched It kind of goes with the whole not being a spirit thing. But um let me uh let me see uh say what the uh watchtower has to say about itself. If the six volumes of scripture of scripture studies, which is the books he wrote actually, are practically the bi or are if the six volumes of scripture studies are practically the Bible, topically arranged with Bible proof tests Given, we might not improperly name the volumes the Bible in arranged form. That is to say, they are not mere comments on the Bible, they are practically the Bible itself. We've paused there. If you ever hear a preacher saying that what they are saying or their sermons are equal to the Bible You should probably just kind of get up, walk out very politely. Because that's adding to the Word of God. Even if you're not saying bad stuff. It's still adding to the Word of God. Listen, if I if and listen, I I have uh I have a giant set of commentaries. And Pastor, if you go and pass it off, he has a bazillion commentaries. and books. And all of them are good. I don't think any of them preach heresy or any of them are are anti biblical. But the fact is they're not Bible. They're not the Bible And if anyone ever says that their words are the Bible, they are wrong and they're committing and they're committing heresy. Furthermore, and this is all by Charles uh Charles St. Russell Furthermore, not only do we find that people cannot see the divine plan in studying the Bible by itself, but we see also that if anyone lays the scriptural studies aside, even after he has used them, after he's become familiar with them, after he has read them for ten years, if he lays them aside and ignores them and goes into the Bible alone Though he has understood his Bible for ten years, our experience shows that within two years, he goes into darkness. Now, for those of you that don't understand what that's saying, and by the way, I remember what I said earlier, I think everyone should study the Bible by themselves and with other people and come to church, just because man, that that can hurt just having all that. But these guys say that if you study the uh the Bible with uh that you can't study the Bible by yourself. It's impossible. Which Pastor I don't understand how anyone studied the Bible then because I mean, someone had to be the first person to figure all this stuff out. Apparently Charles Casey Russell was the most amazing person ever. And this didn't apply to him. But it applies to everybody else according to him. Um We don't so they say you can't study it by yourself. And they say even if you've studied the uh the studies of scriptures, that's his book series, even if you study that and you're supposed to take that and study it with the Bible, that's what he says. Even if you study that for ten years And then you just read the Bible by itself, you'll probably fall away from the Jehovah's Witness religion. That says a lot. That says a lot. Now, let me tell you, they have since uh tried to remedy this. But what they're saying is if you study the Bible by itself, it will prove our religion wrong. You'll you'll end up not believing in uh in our religion anymore. So don't do it I mean I I I I could just kind of you know drop the mic and quit right there. I mean that's I can But uh l let me keep going. I like I like this passage, Dave, he read. He goes in darkness. On the other hand, if he had merely read the scripture studies with the reference and had not read a page of the Bible as such. Let me read that one more time. On the other hand, if he had merely read the scripture studies with their reverences and had not read a page of the Bible as such, he would be in the light at the end of two years because he would have the light of the scriptures. So this seven book series, which if it's seven books, is most likely longer than the Bible, is way better than the Bible. according to Charles Taze Russell. This was in the Watchtower, September 15, 1910, page two ninety-eight. But like I said, they claim that the Bible is their source of authority. Even though their views are completely wrong, and uh you have to have the various publications to interpret the Bible And oftentimes their own doctrine, in fact, every time, their own doctrine overrides the Bible. Well, how does it now now you might say, well, did they did they ever fix that? I mean, I mean, really Really, how can you do that? How can you take a Bible and then say, this is where we get all of our doctrine? And then say, well, if you study just this, then you won't get our doctrine. You know what their answer was? Let's rewrite the Bible. The New World Translation. The New World Translation came out in 1961. And by the way, I put this little question at the top. When your followers begin when your followers begin to realize that your beliefs do not line up with the Bible, what do you do? Rewrite the Bible. In 1961, the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society published the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures. This book is translated. They took the scriptures of the Bible. They translated it, but with the Jehovah's Witness teachings in mind. Therefore, anything that would disagree with the Jehovah's Witness doctrine would be changed or removed. So the question is, how do you disprove a Jehovah's Witness when the evidence has been tampered with? Here's the thing. You'd think, and this is what I would think, if I was going to rewrite the Bible to fit my own religion that I made up, I would m it then I would it would be flawless. I'd say disprove it and I'd give them my Bible and they'd not be able to because it would be flawless. You see, they weren't that smart. Because even parts of their own Bible, and in this lesson, I'll have actually quite a few New World Translation scriptures in there, and here's the reason why. Because say you're uh a Jehovah's Witness comes to your door. And they want to talk you, and they say, well, and uh you say, well, your religion is false here, here, and here, and here, and they'll say, Well prove it, and they'll you'll pull out your Bible and say, Well, we think that that's an incorrect translation of the Bible It would be nice if you could say, all right, well give me your Bible. I'll just prove it with your Bible. Even though the King James Bible is the true word of God. Even though it is, you can still disprove their own religion with their own Bible, which at least will make them think Because as we'll get into later on, there's a bunch of rules about Jehovah's Witnesses that like in by a bunch of rules. Just type in Jehovah's Witnesses can't. It will give you like a list of 108 things on Google. Really? It's awesome. There's a whole list. They can't play chess. They can't I mean there's a bunch of things they can't do. They can't simulate war in any way. That's why they can't play chess. So There's a bunch of things they can't do, and one of those things is actually argu uh is actually listen to other people talk about the Bible. Listen to other religions talk about the Bible. Which by the way If you're gonna keep people stupid and in line, telling them not to talk to other people to gain knowledge, it's a pretty good way to do it. It's really evil. But it's a pretty good way to do it. Nowhere in the scriptures does it say that we uh behead people for uh for saying the wrong thing or for preaching different doctrine. In fact, it tells us to love uh love our enemies And actually when we think about it, nowhere in the scripture does it say that we can't even have uh uh religious discussions with people who are different than us. In fact, we'll see uh We'll see uh most of uh Acts is them going into or the first part of Acts is them going into the synagogues and actually teaching uh and actually Teaching slash arguing with people about, you know, Christ is uh the Messiah. And so you look at that, you're allowed to talk to people who disagree with you. But Jehovah's Witnesses aren't. Now, by the way, they're left talk to you. You're just not allowed to teach them back. Um And let me uh read what they uh say uh and I'll get to this. How do you uh disprove it when the amp evidence has been tampered with? I'll get to that in a second. But uh this is another uh quote by uh This is the forward to New World Translation. So this is the forew to their NWT Bible. But honesty compels us to remark That while each of them other translations has its points of merit, they have fallen victim to the power of human traditionalism in varying degrees. Consequently, religious traditions uh whoary with age have taken uh taken for granted and gone unchallenged and uninvestigated. These have been interwoven into the translations of color of into the translations of color of the thought. In support of preferred religious view, an inconsistency and unreasonableness have been insinuated into the teachings of the inspired writings. The Son of God taught that the traditions of creed-bound men made the commandments and teachings of God of no power or effect. The endeavor of the New World Bible Translation Committee has been to avoid the snare of religious traditionalism. So, what they're saying is because men interpreted the Bible in light of what they thought They came out with a flawed concept of the Bible. And then they went and translated a Bible in light of their own religion and came out with a flawed con uh version of the Bible. They're accusing people of doing uh exactly what they just did. Let me just give you one more point that's not on my screen. Oh. See that's where all that is, by the way. Um let me give you one more point that's not my screen. You wanna know why I in in this is if there's any reason that I would say the King James Bible is the best version of the Bible. If there's any reason above all the other ones, I would say because it's a word-for-word translation. Most other versions of the Bible are what they call thought-based translations. Which means they'll read what they think it says and then try to communicate it best on their so it says so uh say that uh again I We won't go into different languages here, but um but they but the King James Bible is different where they say the word is the so they put the the word is dog, so they put dog The word it is is, they put is. The word is blue, they put blue. Many other translations will do uh something a little different. They'll say, the dog is blue, they'll say Well, the idea is the dog is blue. So we'll just say the blue dog, and then we'll mix another sentence. The King James Bible does not do that. The King James Bible says word for word. And by the way, the King James Bible is not translated by independent fundamental Baptists. By the way. And you know what we still use it? Why? Because it's word for word. Now what did the men say? I think many of them were, but there was a whole bunch of different, it was a bull, a bunch of different religions, a bunch of different thoughts. And you know what they said? Listen, we're gonna do this right? We're going to translate it word for word, and then we're going to have another guy check you. Alright? You guys want to listen, read up on the uh how the King James Bible is translated? That's another that's for another time. But the fact is, is that When they translated the New World Translation, the Jehovah's Witness Bible, they did it in their own viewpoint. They said, ah, well we don't believe that Jesus is the uh is actually God. We don't believe in the Trinity. So anything that says that we'll kind of change a word here or there. But how do you disprove a Jehovah's Witness when their own Bible has been tampered with and they when they won't look at your Bible because they think yours is flawed? One is a remark on that whole King James thing I just talked about, about how ours is a word-for-word translation, so it actually can't be tampered with. But another one is uh attack the translation and the contradictions therein. Attack the translation and the contradictions therein. In John 1. 1, you turn to John 1. 1. This is actually my uh um this would be my text verse. Go ahead and turn there. Alright. Now yours would say, in the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. But the NWT translation, which I have up there, says, in the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was a God. That's what the New World Translation says. Now, it's very close. It's separated by like a letter and a little and capitalizing G. It's very close. But it opens up a whole can of worms. Here's the thing. Um I'm going to attack this, like I said, translation-wise first. See the problem is. is that there's no evidence in the Greek scriptures to change uh to change. The same word for God in the phrase was with God is the same word for was God. Yet they put an A there because in their mindset they say, well it can't be, so he had to be a God. No other place in the Bible, not in John 1. 8, not in John 1. 12, not in John 1. 16, I think, is it translated God. The word is Theos, or sorry, is it translated A God. It's always God. It's uh Theos is always God. All throughout this entire passage and other places in the Bible, by the way, uh I have it up here, but the word is Theos. And it never means a God except for there. There it means a God instead of God. So we can attack the translation problem, because that's a problem. But next we can also attack the tran uh the uh contradiction therein. The contradiction problem. Even in the NWT, the New World Translation, Isaiah 43:10 reads: Before me no God was formed. And after be there has been none. Also in their Bible, it says John in John 17. 3 reads, this means everlasting life. They're coming to one the only or coming to know you, the only true God, and the one whom you sent, Jesus Christ. You see, twice in these in just these two scriptures, does it say there are no other gods There's only one. And yet, and yet, it says that Jesus was a God and that Jehovah was another God. So either Jesus is a false God, according to them, which is not something they believe, or they believe in polytheism. Which is also not something they believe. In fact, they just kind of sweep it under the rug, and they don't connect the two uh contradictions. Now remember, this isn't their Bible, not even your Bible. Again, I wish that we could go through and just uh and we and we could attack everything with our own Bible and everything would fall apart pretty soon. But they won't look at your Bible, so I'm just going to give you some more evidence. The New World Translation in John 8. 5 changes and everyone can go to John 8. 58 if you want. There's a right. If you there says, Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, before Abraham was I am. Now in their Bible, it says, before Abraham, I have been. Or I've been sorry, I have been before Abraham. Now I I again this is a translation problem and I guess you'd have to have trans the stuff with you, but the problem is Is that that's not what it says. I have been and I am are completely are two completely different things. Even in and by the way, Greek is its own language. In Greek it's completely two different things. They're different words. But they change it anyways because they don't want to make mess with their doctrine. Colossians one fifteen through eighteen and uh we'll actually again I'm gonna turn there if you don't have to for this one, but I think it is important. Colossians what is that one fifteen through eighteen? There it is. Colossians 1 and uh 15 through 18. In your Bible, at least hopefully in your Bible. It says, who is the image? It's talking about Christ, who is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of every creature. By him all things were created, that are in heaven and that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created by him And for him. And he is before all things, and by him all things consist. Tell me, according to your Bible, who created everything? Jesus. Now Jesus is God, so those who said God, you get half credit. Um but uh but more specifically in this verse it's talking about Jesus Christ. But what does it say in the New World Translation? He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation, and by by means of him all other things were created in the heavens. And on the earth, the things visible and invisible. I don't need to read any more of that. All other things have been created through him, and by means of him all other things were made to exist. Other is a falsely inserted word. If you look through, and it's hard to give evidence for this only because it doesn't exist. Let me say this. There's no word for other in the Bible. Right? Obviously in the Bible. But in this passage, other doesn't exist. It's just all things. So when you're translating it word for word, you get by him all things were created. When you're translating it with the might with the thought in mind that Christ was a created being and not God, you come up with the idea that all other things must have been created Again, it's an improper translation. Let's uh tap uh tart start on their beliefs. The Trinity. As I already discussed, Jehovah's Witnesses do not believe in the Trinity Um That's right. Sorry. I think they don't believe in the Trinity. In Watchtower theology, Jehovah is God, and whether neither Jesus nor the Holy Spirit are God. In fact, um it says uh we'll get to that in a second, but in fact, and I said this or I don't know if I said this earlier, but they believe Jesus is actually uh Michael the archangel And then he's brothers with Lucifer. Now, if you want to find that in the Bible, you can tell me where it is. But it's not there. Now again, but but remember they have this special book in which interprets the Bible for them, which they pulled out of thin air, because they couldn't use the Bible to interpret the book or write the book, if that makes sense. Um again Joseph Smith from the from Mormon uh from the history of Mormons, he was, you know, he actually claimed to have uh prophetic visions and uh and stuff like that. These g uh Charles T. Russell didn't claim that he just acted like it. Anyways, let's uh go to uh 1 John 5. 7. Uh 1 John 5. 7. I have it up there if you want to just take a look. Um, but here's the uh New World Translation version. For there are three witness bearers, the spirit and the water and the blood, and the three are in agreement. Now let's see what it actually says, which is 1 John 5 7. For there are three that bear record in heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost. And it doesn't say they're in agreement, it says, and these three are one. Um if you uh now uh I'd like everybody, if they could, to turn to Matthew 28-19. Uh I I know we're using our Bibles a lot, but I think it's important. Matthew 28-19. Many of you hopefully know this as the Great Commission, or one of the verses of the Great Commission. This is another one, if you want to mark it, of one of those verses you can use to disprove them with their own Bible But in your Bible it says, Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Now let's read what they say. Go therefore, and make disciples of people of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all things I have commanded you. Sorry that I had um But uh the fact is, is if you look at that verse and you can look up it on the screen Which I know it's uh it's a little hard to write it. It says teaching them in the name of the Father. Now that's theirs. But let me read this. Or uh baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. How many people are listed there? Three. Shouldn't it be names? If there's no Trinity, if they're all separate entities If if Jesus, the Holy Spirit, and God, even though they don't believe the Holy Spirit is even a person, so, but we'll get to that in a second. If Jesus and God are two separate entities, And the Holy Spirit, by the way, they believe is just the same thing as God. But if there are separate entities, Jesus and God, shouldn't it say names? If their Bible is flawless, shouldn't it say names? But see, we believe in baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and the Holy Ghost, because by the way. They are God. And so it's it's you know uh it's uh singular, it's not plural. Now let's talk about their beliefs on Jesus Christ. Their beliefs on Jesus Christ. Jehovah's Witnesses believe that Jesus is a created being. By the way, even this is uh disproved. by their own translation again in John 1 1, in the beginning was the Word. Well if the Word is Jesus and they admit it it is, if the Word was Jesus and he's there in the beginning, then he can't be created. That's just, you know. Now they said shortly after the beginning, then maybe they could, but they actually say in their own in their own Bible, in the beginning was the word. By the way, instead of God, they believe Jesus is actually Michael, the archangel, brother of Lucifer, disproven by Hebrews 1. 6. Uh and this is, I think, yep, and this is their own translation again. Let all of God's angels worship him if Jesus was an angel, like they think he is. Grammatically, it would said, let all of God's other angels worship him, because he would be one too. Even in the New World Translation, it doesn't say other angels. This is again a this is uh from Make Sure All Things, page 207. Jesus Christ, a created individual, by the way, this is not what we believe. Again, this is what they believe. Jesus the Christ, a created individual, is the second greatest personage of the universe. Jehovah God and Jesus together constitute the superior authorities. And this is from Let God Be True, page 33. He was a God, but not the Almighty God, who is Jehovah. Again, that's polytheism. That's against their religion. They believe there's only one God. But yet there's two gods. This is from Let God Be True, page 88. The truth of the matter is that the word is Jesus Christ. Who did have a beginning. Even though he was there in the beginning, he apparently still had a beginning. Which means there was a beginning before the beginning, which means the original beginning is obviously not the beginning. If that makes no sense, then you're paying attention. The denial of the deity of Christ is nothing new in uh in history of the church. It is a revival of the ancient heresy known as Arianism. Named after the fourth century A. D. heretic Arius, Arianism teaches that the son was a substance different than the father was, in fact, created. That was just a little tidbit for you. Beliefs about Jesus Christ. These are verses used by a Jehovah's Witnesses. Now this is where okay, so when I said um Again, I don't want to sound like a Jehovah's Witness, but when you have to be careful studying the Bible on your own, you have to be careful not to take things out of context with the Bible, is what I meant, obviously. This is where they take things out of context And this is what they'll show you. This is what they will go to. And they'll be like, you know, that does make sense. By the way, if you talk to a Jehovah's Witness and don't know the Bible very well, you'll sit there and go, especially if you don't know that they translated their own Bible in their own light of their own beliefs You'll sit there and go, that's a good point. Oh, I've never read that before. That's very intel like if you if you're not if you're not up on your game, by the way, it's very important that you read the Bible, very important you come to church because Again, we teach truth. We teach it from straight from the Word of God. But this is they'll sit there and they'll bring up a verse and they'll say, My father, or John 14, 28, my father is greater than I. This again, I think most uh I think that's from uh their uh Bible, because that's what they use, but it also says that in our Bible. In reality, this refers to his position earthly humbled life to God uh God the Father. Remember, Jesus humbled himself to become man. So when he said the Father is greater than I, remember, we also need to remember that Jesus is our ultimate role model. And he took a humbled state. So when he said, My Father is greater than I, we need to realize that's not saying that positionally Jesus Christ is lower than the Father. Jesus Christ is the Father. But positionally, humanity is great uh humanity is lower than God. Revelation 3 14, it says that to the angel of the congregation of latest year write, these are the things that the Amen says, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of the creation by God. This is the New World Translation. What does ours say? And unto the angel of the church of latest seasons write, these things saith the Amen. The faithful and true witness, the beginning of the creation of God. Now, that's what our Bible says. And they'll say, well, look to it. They'll say, look. He was a creation by God. Or maybe they even use your Bible. They say, look, he was a creation of God. He was the first creation of God. So the beginning of the creation of God. So obviously Jesus Christ was a created begin being If you admit that Jesus Christ was a created being, then you admit that Jesus Christ is not God. Because God's existed for eternity past. But how do we interpret this then? You see, here's the thing. I can I can even see where they get this. Like it almost sa it does sound like, well, man, Jesus sounds like he was the first creation of God. But the fact is the reason they changed the beginning of the creation by God And the beginning of the creation of God. The reason that they changed that one word is because that word is very important. Beginning can be used as first created or the source of a creation. In the light of uh Oh no, cut it off. In the line of scriptures there can only be one answer. Actually that's not caught up, I'm sorry. Beginning what that means is beginning doesn't just mean the first, it doesn't just mean right here, it can also mean the source. Jesus Christ was the source of creation. Which, by the way, if we look back in Colossians, that makes sense. By him all things were created, right? That makes sense. But if you do by God, it means that they're not the same person. Of God means they're the same person. meaning that he is God, meaning that he created everything. But in their translation, by God means that he was created and he was separate from God. Bruce Metger, which I don't know who that is, points out that if this passage were to teach that Christ was created by God, it would have required the preposition hoopo rather than to theo, which means of God. God uses words for a reason. He uses the correct words for a reason. I know I know that one's kinda that one just is kind of uh hard to uh comprehend um because it took me a little while, but you guys are smarter than me, so I trust you'll figure it out. Um Proverbs 1822 Uh next. Just and by the way, just to uh give the simple uh answer for that again, if they bring that up, there's a difference between being by uh being created by something and created of something. Of something means he was already there. uh and the source of by means that there's two separate beings and one was created. Let's go to um Proverbs 822. They will use this for the Old Testament creation of Jesus Christ. Proverbs eight twenty two And it says this The Lord possessed me in the beginning of his way before the works of old. That's what ours says. Now they have a different one, and it'll say something completely different. And it'll say and it and it says that uh that uh that uh it was his first creation. I can't remember what the uh I was set up for my rostering from the beginning forever, the earth was. But basically what they'll they'll use that as Uh let me read it one time. The Lord possessed me in the beginning of his way before his old works. They'll use that saying that was the creation of Jesus Christ according to the Old Testament. The only problem with that is it's speaking about wisdom And if you you know actually want to read the Bible and go back a little bit, it's actually uh wisdom talking. Uh it's personify uh wisdom is uh God prof personifies wisdom and wisdom saying, I was this, I was that, I was this. And it's all it says is God has wisdom. So that's just kind of them not really paying attention. Um we've already touched on verses sixteen, seventeen, and eighteen. Um in uh Colossians one and uh this uh this might be where I'll end tonight. Um where uh and that was again if I need to r reread that. That was when uh he said that he was the uh Do he was, sorry. Uh by him cre he created all things. That's where uh we were. Uh if you'll go back Yeah actually you know let's just all go to Colossians uh Colossians 1 again. Sorry, I should have told you to keep your place there, but it's easier if you can look at it All right. Now Colossians 1. 15 in our Bible says, who is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of every creature? I have that up there, but just talking about Jesus. For by him were all things created that are in heaven, that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones or dominion or principalities or powers, all things were created by him and for him. Now Colossians 1. 15 in our Bible and in theirs says that Jesus is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of every creature. Now they will say, well there you go. That is absolute evidence that Christ is the firstborn, that he was a created being, uh we and they'll say, we gotcha. The only problem with that is, is it firstborn Firstborn does not necessarily mean that he was created. By the way, it would contradict the next verse They the next few verses that say uh by all things were created. Or by Christ all things were created. But it's still a little confusing. You say, how is firstborn Um the same thing. How is firstborn different than than uh being created? How is that different? Well I have it right here. The fur the term firstborn and begotten are different terms than created. In Jewish culture and many other Middle Eastern cultures, being firstborn is a position. The firstborn, think Jacob and Esau, received a special blessing, had a double share of the inheritance. and was replaced the father as head of the family. Christians are all sons and daughters of God. If you're saved, you're a son or daughter of God. But Christ is the head of the family and has the preeminence according to Romans 8. 29. By the way. Him referring to himself as the beginning. Um in other parts of the Bible the Lord refers to himself as the beginning and the end. If you believe that Christ if Jesus saying that he was the beginning Means that he was created, then you believe God will one day die because God is also the end. He's the Alpha and Omega. So if you think that he that he was created, then he's, you know, like there's a good chance that uh that he's gonna die. Now, and uh there's a bunch more uh text I could read. I think I'm gonna quit here, Pastor. Um Ryan let you out. All right, very good. Well thank you.