Very much. Um let's start with a g uh with a uh verse. Uh first John, if you turn to first John and chapter four. First John and Chapter Four First John in chapter number four. All right, and um Starting verse number one, Beloved, believe not every spirit, but try the spirits whether they are of God, because many false prophets are gone out into the world. Hereby know ye the Spirit of God. Every spirit that confesseth that Jesus Christ is coming to the flesh is of God Every spirit that confesseth that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh and is not of God, this is that spirit of Antichrist, whereof ye have heard it that it should come. And even now already it is in the world. Yeah of God, little children, and have overcome them because greater is he that is in you than is in the world. Uh we use that verse a lot. The greater is he that is in you, that is in the world. Um and we use it for a lot of things, and I think it can be used for a lot of things. However We realize that verse actually comes after someone say uh after um John said uh John talks about false prophets and about listening to false and uh false spirits. And how God is greater than the false spirit, and that you are of God, and that no one can tell you differently. That's what that context of that verse is. Now uh as uh as many of you know, uh I'm finishing my Jehovah my study on Jehovah's Jehovah's Witnesses tonight. And uh And last time I I will admit I got a bit technical, but I want to explain something. There's a reason that I got a little bit technical, and uh there's a difference between there's a major difference between versus like Or verses in our Bible and verses in their Bible, such as when John 1. 1, when we say, and the Word was God, they say, and the Word was a God. Now that that's a minor I mean that is literally that's the shortest uh word in the English language is A. And and it shouldn't and and to many people would say, well is that really that big of a deal? Everything they change in the Bible is a major deal. Now here's the thing. I I I'm a King James believer, but you and and other and I think it is the absolute best translation. I believe it's God's word completely And I can argue about other people and other translations and I can have arguments with them, but beyond those translations, beyond the other translations that are translated, and again I can have arguments with them back and forth about them. The New World Translation, which is the Jehovah's Witnesses book, was actually interpreted in the light of their own theology. Which means they changed stuff on purpose. Now other translations have also changed things on purpose. But they they they took the Bible originally, read it. got a wrong view from it because they did not study it out and because they uh did not uh did not necessarily like what it said and then they took that wrong view and then they reinterpreted the Bible to match it So most of the changes will be little changes. The the word um of instead of um instead of from uh adding in the word other when it's not actually in the uh in the text. These are all changes, they just say little words. And these little words, while technicalities while while small things in when we look at them are major differences in theology. Now so so if it sounds a little technical, you need what what we need and again I don't I don't mean to be technical, I don't mean for anything to go over anybody's head. Um this all makes a lot more sense to me because I've studied it a lot now Uh so so if you're like wow that went over my head because I'm throwing out all this grammar and stuff and listen I'm not a huge grammar person, I don't necessarily love grammar like some people, but grammar is important and context is important. And what they do is they take that and they twist it slightly so you say, Well that makes sense. And the the greatest part about Jehovah or the the uh Really the most evil thing about Jehovah's Witnesses isn't that they completely change everything about religion, is they only change slight things And uh and that's little technicalities that will get you every time. But I'm going to actually go over um just an overview from last week. If you have your paper, uh you can follow along Let's start with their founder. And again, I uh I could not do a perfect job of this, but I tried my absolute best to uh give you um a starting point and a rebuttal for everything they say. Uh because again if you if you and it's on one piece of paper, so if a Jehovah's Witness comes to your door, hopefully you'll have this little piece of paper. Um and you'll be able to say, well this is, you know, this is w what about this? What about this? What about this? And be able to quote them the verses or read them the verses straight off and uh see what they say. But uh let's start with their founder started from an uneducated teen bible uh teen bible study by Charles Tayes Russell. He was nineteen, I believe, at the time. Um He's sorry, he was 18 at the time. He had not uh joined a particular church, he never had formal biblical training, but he decided I'm going to sit down and study the Bible, which is great. Studying the Bible is great When you study the Bible looking to disagree with people You know this is this is a major problem. Studying the Bible again is is I think everyone should study the Bible. In fact I think You should have your own personal not just Bible reading, because Bible reading, while in itself is great. Bible study is also necessary. To take portion and say, well what's the okay, what's the Bible say about this? And then figure out what the Bible actually says about certain topics is a great way to study the Bible. in uh in a topical study. Now again, reading the Bible is important, but studying the Bible. But he sat down saying, well I don't necessarily like what the Bible says. I've never agreed with any of the religions. I'm eighteen years old, so here's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna read my I'm gonna start my own religion. Or he's if I'm gonna start my own Bible study. And so he'd take verses and he'd say, Well I don't like how that sounds. I I don't like how that sounds uh And and and maybe he's like, well if I use this verse, it kinda sounds like he's saying this. He doesn't go to another pastor, he doesn't ask anyone, he says, Well, this is what it says. Now listen, you can disagree with listen, we disagree like whatever I'm preaching right now disagrees with someone. In fact it disagrees with all the Jehovah's Witnesses in the world. But um you're gonna disagree with people on the Bible. You will even disagree with uh people in your church on the Bible, just on little things. But what he did is he took his disagreements without studying them out, without looking at them in context, and without actually comparing them scripture with scripture, and what he did was he made his own belief system. At again 18 years old. Now it took him quite a few years to actually write the uh the fifty thousand pages worth of material to publish all the m to get the magazines in the publication and the books published However, he was a very prideful man, people say. Now, like it says right here, in uh 1979, uh he founded the Watchtower magazine, still in publication today. Um he also uh In 1986, he published the first uh volume in a seven-book series titled The Millennial Dawn, now titled Studies and Scriptures. By the time of his death in 1916, they say that he wrote over 50,000 pages and gave 30,000 sermons. Alright, now claims of Jehovah's Witnesses. And by the way, here's something very important. Like I said, I think everyone should study the Bible, everyone should read the Bible, and you should discuss it with other people. But do you know who the best commentator on the Bible is, on the Word of God is? The rest of God's word. Because if it disagrees with the rest of God's word, either God contradicts himself, which he doesn't, or you're wrong in your interpretation. And by the way, God is always not wrong and you were always wrong when you have a disagreement with him. That's how God works Um source of authority. This is very important. They claim that the Bible is their only source of authority However, in other parts, and again I I covered all this last week. I'm going to be very short. I have four of my seventeen pages left of notes. Um or four of my seventeen slides. They're not pages of notes. Well I put them on one page, so it is seventeen pages. But I only have four slides left, but I'm gonna so I'm gonna go over this again. It's good for you to hear things twice because it uh greatly increases your memory. I sat down, I was the one who wrote all this out and I was like, man, I don't remember writing that. So there's a good chance that you guys don't remember some of it. And if you do, you have great memory and that's wonderful. Uh but you still have four pages that you don't know about, so you have to stay for the rest of the summer. Sorry. Uh but uh so they say, well the Bible is our source of uh Authority, they always have. Even before they retranslated the Bible to fit their religion, they always said the Bible is our only source of authority But then you'd find in the Watchtower magazine them saying you have to translate it in the light of the Watchtower magazine or in light of studies and scriptures. Because if you don't translate in that light, then you're going to come away from this and you're not going to be Jehovah's Witness anymore In fact it said if you can study in uh Charles T. Russell said in nineteen ten, he said if you can uh stu and I think I even had that reference on there In uh yeah, in uh September fifteenth, nineteen ten, the issue, he said that if you can study the Bible, or if you have the choice between studying the Bible and reading studies and scriptures with all the references already there, he says do studies and scriptures. Because it's basically the Bible. Now, if you're saying you should study something else besides the Bible, which is really your source of authority? Not the Bible. It's the other thing. It's gotta be. I mean if you if you think the other thing is better to read than the Bible, listen, I love I love our the devotionals that we give out, the batch of breads that we give out. That is great But that is not your Bible. And if that says something contrary to the Bible, then that is wrong and the Bible is right. He says if the Bible says something and it's contrary with our religion, then it's wrong and we're right. That's how he believed Now, like I said, then they've retranslated the Bible in 1961 to the New World Translation. Now Here's the problem. If you're gonna retranslate the Bible to make it say what you want to say, it should say everything you want to say. Uh doesn't make any sense. But if you're retranslating the Bible here and make it say what you want it to, it should make it say what you want it to. Except they missed a lot of portions of the Bible and forgot to retranslate them correctly because they weren't so smart. But Here's the problem. The Bible in Psalm 12, 6 or 7 says, The words of the Lord are pure words, as silver tried in a furnace of earth, purified seven times. Thou shalt keep them, O Lord, and preserve them from this generation forever. Which means we've had a correct we've had the Bible forever. We've had the correct word of God forever. Meaning that no new translation surpasses the old translation, if that makes sense. Because then we don't have it. In fact, if this is wrong, and and again you might say, well the si the King James Bible was written in sixteen eleven. I don't want to go into biblical history, but there were other Bibles before that which were also pure. Here's what they're saying. They're saying you guys didn't actually have the true Word of God. You guys were your guys' version was very, very, very dingy being uh you know uh sponsored by the Catholic Church is what they'll say. Your Bible was terrible, so now we have the fear of God. In 1900. No. There is a lineage of pure of Bibles being purified. There is a lineage of Bibles that uh that have been translated in English. And if it isn't, then God's a liar, and he did not preserve it to every generation. He only preserved it to apparently 1961, according to the um Jehovah's Witnesses. So that's one rebuttal. They also claim claim that the Trinity is a made-up theory. They changed the Bible in both 1 John 5-7. Oh, and sorry. There's another verse, but uh I have both just erase that. They changed the Bible in uh 1 John 5, 7 to do away with the Trinity, and um which says and I'll read that for you. One second It's a they said ours says, the King James uh Bible says, for there are three that bear record in heaven, the Father The Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost, and these three are one. That sounds a lot like the Trinity to me. Because when three are one, it's a Trinity. They changed it to say this. For there are three witness bearers, the spirit and the water and the blood, and these three are in agreement. Now, just uh I'll get to this in a second because this is very important later on. They do not believe the Holy Spirit is part of the Godhead. Or a separate and a separate part of the Godhead. They believe like I said, they don't believe in Trinity, period. They don't believe the Holy Spirit even exists. They think it's just God's Spirit. So they think that God it's you know just God's Spirit. And yet even in this verse they realize that there is a Trinity because they wrote it down. But um but and they say and these three are in agreement. Well these three are one is not the same thing as saying these three are in agreement. I can agree with someone and not be a part of that person. And that it's a completely different verse. Now However, they do forget to change Matthew 28, 19, claiming that God the Father, God the Son, and the Holy Spirit all share one name. Even in their Bible it says, go therefore and make disciples of people. Of all nations baptizing him in the name of the Father. It should say if there's three separate entities, names with an S. But it doesn't. Why? Because even in because they forgot to change it. Because in the Bible, God the Father, God the Son, and God and the Holy Spirit are all three at one. So they all have the same name. But uh again, it's a little point, but it's a point that matters. Because if God's Bible really is flawless, theirs has a lot of holes in it. They need a new re-read translation. Also, they believe there is only they say that there's only one God. This is very important for uh rebutting the uh Trinity. They say or rebutting the Claim that there is no Trinity. They believe very, very staunchly, they are monotheists, they believe there is one God. And they believe that Jesus Christ is not a part of that Godhead. Yet in uh 1 John or in John 1 1, it says that in their Bible, it says that Christ was or that the Word was a God So if there's only one God, why is there God and a God if there is no Trinity? The only way you can be monotheistic, the only way you can believe there is one God And believe Jesus Christ was God, and believe God the Father was God, is if they're together as one. But they say, nope, we're monotheists, we only believe there's one God, but there are two gods. That is a complete contradiction. They believe Jesus Christ was a created being. They believe that Jesus Christ is actually Michael the Archangel, and his brother is Satan. You guys didn't know that. Brother Lucifer. Uh here's the rebuttal for that, and I forgot to put that in red, I apologize. Here is the rebuttal for that. Hebrews 1 sa 6 says, let all of God's angels worship him. Here's the thing. The Bible uses English very well. Even in and and even the words that weren't in there in the King James, the words that they were like, well this makes more sense to say it this way, they would put it in italics that way. Just in case, you know, that that way um and by the way they were very honorable putting in italics. They were saying these are not our God's words, these are our words. But even italics they didn't put other angels You see, if all of God's angels, if all of God's angels worship him, then he can't be God's angel because it would have said all of God's other angels. Again, a minor point, but the fact is that Jesus is not an angel, he's the Son of God. And he's pa and he is God. And by the way, which is he, Jehovah's Witnesses, is he a God or is he an angel? He can't be both. They contradict themselves constantly. And again, this all goes back to the fact that their founder was, you know, between the ages of 19 and 25, and he decided he was going to start his own religion that everyone else had to be wrong. And so he changed a bunch of things. And made it all look different. And and made it different out of pride. But he wasn't quite as smart as he thought he was. They missed v uh For Christ being a created being, they misuse verses like John 14. 28, Revelation 3. 14, and Colossians 1. 15 to prove it. However, each of these verses are misread and mistranslated Again, I will let you read all over that. I did that uh last time. I'll let you read all over that whole next section. And we'll get on to what tonight and again I'll be short tonight because like I said I got four pages left and that's not very much. Um But uh on to the Holy Spirit. They believe that the Holy Spirit, and this is down on the back side of the sheet, about two-thirds of the way down. They believe that the Holy Spirit is not part of the Godhead, but just a means of saying God's Spirit. Throughout the entire New World Translation, throughout the entire Jehovah's Witness Bible, they don't capitalize the Holy Spirit, making it seem like it's just God's Spirit, not a separate personality of God. But what's weird, and I said this earlier, what's weird is that every time it talks about the Trinity, and I what we would say the Trinity, God the Father, God the Son, the Holy Spirit, it does mention then three, and they don't take that away. They actually mention the three. Well, the question is, why does it mention God twice then? I've already read you a couple of verses where it talks about God's Spirit. Why does it mention him twice? Or when you're baptizing people, why does it say Of baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. And by the way, that's even a quote from their Bible. They didn't change that part. It's uh baptizing them in the name of the Father and And of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Except they uh except they uh they lowercase Holy Spirit. Well, here's the thing In such a short verse, why would God be so redundant? Unless it was a separate entity, which he mentions, God the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, multiple times in the Bible. Why is he so redundant every time he mentions it? Unless it's a separate personality. Listen, we believe that the Holy Spirit is a separate personality. He does a lot for us. Alright? He's a comforter. He leads us. He guides us. He lives inside of us. The Holy Spirit, again, this sounds silly, but the Holy Spirit's the most underrated part of God. We don't talk about him enough. We don't sing praises to him enough. But he is such a powerful being. He affects you so much in your daily life as a Christian. And they said and and by the way, he's so underrated that Jehovah's Witnesses said, Yeah, he's not real. Oh he is, but he's just like a minor part of the other God we already mentioned. And that's not fair. I mean uh turn to John fourteen twenty-six. John fourteen twenty-six But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all Things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you. Now here's the thing, they don't change this verse too much. Even in their Bible, they don't change this verse too much. It's weird that he says, but there's a comforter that the Father's going to send you. Wouldn't it say if if they were right and there wasn't a Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit was just God's Spirit, wouldn't it say then And God the Father's Spirit will come down and or then they would say Jehovah. And Jehovah's Spirit would come down and comfort you. Wouldn't it say that instead of making a distinction like there's a different personality there? But the comforter, which the Holy which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, This is Jesus talking. He shall teach you all things and bring all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you. Blaspheming the Holy Spirit is uh is the unforgivable sin, if you will. Um Blaspheming is to is to bring God down to our level, it's to insult God. Saying God doesn't exist, or part of God doesn't exist, saying the Holy Spirit doesn't exist is a major sin. Now, uh do you want to go to Ephesians four thirty? Ephesians four thirty It says, and grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby ye are sealed unto the day of redemption. Isn't it interesting that it says and again it says it says basically the same in their Bible it talks about the Holy Spirit of God. Isn't it interesting it's not just and grieve not God? But the Holy Spirit is a separate entity. And he's treated like that throughout the entire Bible. Now, next we have salvation. Which uh salvation you can go down to your next point. Um, according to Jehovah's Witnesses, salvation is not a free gift. Instead, everyone pays for their sins by their own death, and salvation is by works, not grace. This is greatly disproven by Ephesians 2, 8 and 9, Titus 3, 5 and 6, and many, many other verses. Um let me read to you what they uh what they said in studies and sc what Charles Tater Russell said in Studies and Scriptures In Watchtower theology, salvation is not regarded as a free gift from God based on Jesus Christ's work on the cross. Let me read that one more time. Actually, if you're still in Ephesians, flip over to Ephesians 2, 8, and 9. But let me read that again. In Watchtower theology, salvation is not regarded as a free gift from God based upon Jesus Christ's work on the cross. Now, Ephesians 2:8 and 9 It says, For by grace are you saved through faith, and it is not of yourselves, it is the gift of God. But they say it is not regarded as the free gift of God. Well, that's just stupid. Uh let me keep going. Rather their literature Rather than literature stresses us up. And by the way, this was written before they had their New World Translation. They were using the King James Bible at this point. And yet somehow he gets from the Bible where it says it is the gift of God to it is not the gift of God. Rather, their literature stresses a salvation by works. Russell wrote, they must be recovered from blindness as well as from death. That they, each for himself, may have a full chance to prove, by obedience or disobedience, their worthiness of eternal life. Now, let me just say, you will not be worthy of eternal life at any point in your life. You cannot be worthy of it. That's why it's by grace. But they believe, no, you need to prove that you're worthy of it. They believe that, and again, the Mormons are very similar to this in their bel in their beliefs about salvation. They believe that it's not about It's not about grace covers everything, that God's blood covers everything, and that's why you're on your way to heaven. It's the grace is that you are allowed to work yourself to heaven. That's a dumb gift. Man, that's like a gift that's like, alright, I'm gonna give you this gift, but I'm gonna need you to pay on it for the rest of your life. Why don't I just go out and buy it then? A gift is free, and we know that as Christians. But they believe no, you have to prove yourself to God. And uh they keep going To say, um, and that was by the way, um in Volume 1, page 158 of Studies and Scriptures, all who by reason of their faith in Jehovah God and in Jesus Christ dedicate themselves to do God's will, then faithfully dedicate their sorry, then faithfully carry out their dedications, will be rewarded with everlasting life May I say one more time, for by grace are you saved through faith, in it not of yourselves. You don't earn your way to heaven. By the way, this is a right next to, if you're wondering, this is right next to theology with you have to keep your salvation, with it that you can lose your salvation. Because by the way, if you can lose your salvation, that means that your salvation is of you. That's a dangerous theology. And mind you, that's much more to us that's much more acceptable. Not I'm saying the b we Baptists do not believe that, but like we know, you know, other religions that are or the other denominations that are closer to us, they do believe that and we're like, well you're not as crazy as Jehovah's Witnesses. It's actually the same thing. It's saying that, sure, God saves you, but you need to uh live a good life to get to heaven. That's not grace, and their God isn't very powerful then. Now, salvation, like I said, it's completely disproven in the Bible. And this was all written, like I said, before they had their new translation. Which means the guy just listen, he just the Bible's a big book. He didn't get to this part when he wrote the book when he wrote his uh uh doctrines on theology. He just didn't get to that part yet. Listen, if you guys are going to start your own religion, make sure you read the whole Bible first at least twenty times. And then cross-reference everything. And then, forty years later, you can start your own religion. And it will be the same as what you had when you started this. So, we'll go on to uh belief, false prophecies. One of my favorite um things that Jehovah's Witnesses believe is that Jesus Christ actually came back in 1914. So sorry guys who missed the boat. In fact, some of my grandparents missed the boat. And uh my great grandparents maybe missed the boat. But uh sorry guys, we uh we we missed we missed it. It was a hundred years ago. It was a hundred and one years ago. Christ came back, we had no chance of being raptured. But they believe that he did come back. They still believe this. He just came back in a spiritual form. Now here's the thing. It started out when they said, well, Christ is going to come back in 1914. And he didn't. And they said, Well yes he did. We all just didn't see it. Did you all miss the tr the tribulation period? Because I did. And I'm kind of glad too, because it sounds terrible. But uh and then apparently we're in the thousand year I just I I don't understand that. Um but uh let me go Let me just read you some of this where they say this. When Jesus said he would come again, he did not he mean he would return in the flesh, visible to men on earth. He has given up such that earthly life as a ransom, therefore he cannot take such life again. The news, good news today is that Christ is has come again and that God's kingdom By him has been set up and is now ruling in heaven. Can I oh, then ruling in heaven. All the evidence shows that Jesus took up his kingdom power and began his reign from heaven in the earth. 1940. Now here's the thing. Christ's go when Christ comes back, he's going to reign on earth. Alright? And everybody will know his name. When Christ comes back and we're with and all the saints are with him, everyone will know who he is because he will be king of the earth. Now they're like, nah, he's just ruined from heaven. Here's my problem with and again this is this is where I this is where again if you're gonna go start your own cult Don't, because you look stupid. Because you'll have people like me coming up to churches like this and be like, this is why they're wrong. You ever realize how every like and again the uh Uh Christian uh Christian scientists are like this, the Mormons were like this, and the Jehovah's Witnesses are like this. All their prophecies and things that they say are going to happen, and then don't happen, but and they are going to happen happen within their lifetime. Or things happen within their lifetime because they're very self-centered. Well the the obviously the rapture took place when Charles H. Russell was alive, not before or after. That would be crazy. They're very self-centered. And it's just listen, I I believe will the rapture happen in my lifetime? I don't know. Maybe, maybe not. But here's the thing. It doesn't it it to me it it matters because I guess you know it'll end my life But uh or or begin my life anew it depending on how you how you look at it. But to them it's like, no, this is gonna happen during my life because I'm so self important. That's how this guy was. Um let's do other uh other beliefs. Everlasting punishment does not exist. Uh disproven by and this is on your sheet, so if you want to take notes, you can. Everlasting punishment does not exist. Um Uh by and that's disproven by uh 2 Thessalonians 1 through 7 and Matthew 25, 46. Only 144,000 Jehovah's Witnesses are going to the highest type of heaven. By the way, in case you guys were trying planning on becoming Jehovah's Witnesses, sorry, because of the ones that they've written down that say that say that they got the vision that they were going to be the 144,000, there's been like half a million of them So they're already over count. I wouldn't become a Jehovah's Witness just based on the fact that they won't let me in the highest heaven because they're already full and have been for a long time. Sorry guys. Um everyone else stays on earth because you're not good enough. Uh although I've always wondered if you're like a really good Jehovah's Witness like a really good Jehovah's Witness and like God like and Jehovah and God Or their God, which uh never mind. And their God's like, Well that guy's really good. He's like, Let's take up Billy. Billy's a terrible Jehovah. He's not I mean he's okay, but he was just like in the early days. Did we kick him out of the higher heaven and take this guy up? Like I'm just wondering. Does that how it works? I don't know. But um oh uh by the way, this is very important. Go and this is something that okay, this is actually a very serious point You guys need to take very seriously because if you're going to try to win a Jehovah's Witness to the Lord, you need to realize what you're up against I I I have several Mormon friends who I can discuss Mormon theology with and tell them that, you know, you guys are really wrong. You know, Catholics, if the you know the ones you know, if you can if you have a really good friend you can discuss that. Jehovah's Witnesses, if they go to another church or church or discuss their differences in faith and hear you out on your faith They can get in trouble with their kingdom hall and perhaps get disfellowshipped or shunned. And it's so bad when you get shunned from a church, it's so bad their church, that unless you are a family member living in the same household, no Jehovah's Witness is allowed to talk to you. They take us very seriously. Now here's the thing. You wanna know the easiest way to keep someone from switching religions? is to put earplugs in their ears that tells them that they can't t listen to anyone else's point of view or they'll or they'll get kicked out of their religion and and they'll lose all their friends. It's uh it's highly discouraged to have friends that are not Jehovah's Witnesses. Um And for that very reason they keep a lot of their followers. Now here's the thing. Um like I said On and I said this last time. Mormon uh Mormons go after smart people. They they they've engineered their system to find the smart people. Um Jehovah's Witnesses actually are engineered to attract lower IQ people or people that don't question things or think critically. And this is one of it because smart people question things. Smart people think critically. Smart people say, well is that true? But Jehovah's Witnesses, they track people who say, you can't do that. You you can't do that. And then they tell them, you can't do that. Other beliefs. Jesus was killed on a stake, not a cross. Um, and they and they changed uh Matthew ten, thirty-eight. It says, Oh, this is actually one of my favorite verses out of the um out of the New World Translation. And whoever does not accept his torture stake and follow after me is not worthy of me. Like I said, they believe that Christ was killed on a stake, not a cross. And again, it's not it's not funny, but instead of cross they want to use the word torture stake. Which is I don't know, it's a funny translation of the Bible, I guess. Um I think this is disproved. Um I think by historical data, by John twenty, twenty-five and Luke twenty-three, twenty-six. It's not a point that'll send you to hell. Uh then believing that he was crucified on a stake versus a cross is not something that will send them to hell. Then believing that he wasn't actually God will But it's just an interesting fact. They're not allowed to serve in the military. They're not allowed to have or wear the American flag or salute the American flag Um, they're not allowed to uh use a gun to uh protect uh human life. That was uh that was decided in July fifteenth, nineteen eighty three in the Walktower Watchtower magazine. They're not allowed to attend social functions sponsored by their employer unless they're required to. That was decided in May first, uh, two thousand seven. By the way, isn't it great to be in a uh denomination, in a religion, in a true religion, where all of our rules are kind of written like, you know. By God, 2,000 years ago says no more new rules. It's just by what the Holy Spirit leads you? They add rules every week, man And it's hard to keep up. It's like our tax code. You're like, how do I keep up with this? But um in fact it Jehovah's Witnesses would be running our tax code, it seems, if they didn't believe and not government. Um but um they can't accept or give blood transfusions um which is awful um Just and not for any other reason than that's uh that's killed quite a few of them. Um they're not allowed to attend other churches, they're not allowed to celebrate any holiday other than the death of Jesus Um they're not allowed to believe in miracles um outside of in the Bible. So if it didn't happen in the Bible, it can't be a miracle. But I think it's funny. Because like, I don't know, it just makes me want to be like every time I meet Joe Swan's like, You wanna hear about a miracle? And they'd be like, No, because I don't believe it. And then I might make up one, which would not be alright. Like, alright, but my car drove on the water And yes on a miracle, but that's not true. But the fact is they can't they can't believe in miracles. What a sad life. But you can't believe God intervenes in stuff. Why do you pray if God's not going to intervene? What little faith do you have if you don't believe that God can uh create a miracle? That one actually kind of makes me mad. I just realized that. Um Torture stake still kinda makes me laugh though. Um they're not allowed to say good luck. Now listen, w if you have a problem saying good luck, don't say it. But I'm not gonna say you're not allowed to say good luck. But you do that, you might get disfellowshipped. They're not allowed to play com competitive sports or chess. So uh all the chess clubs, all the nerd fests in the nation, not full of Jehovah's Witnesses, I'll tell you that right now. And here's the reason why. Because they think it it com uh creates a combatative spirit. Now I'm gonna be honest, if you ever play sports, especially with guys, even Christian guys, it does create a combative spirit. So I will say this, that combative spirit, like that that wanting to kill each other because someone was fouled and the ref didn't see it, that is wrong. I think you're still allowed to play sports. You just have to get your temper under control. Um, and my and last and I'll end out right here, is they're not allowed to associate with former Jehovah's Witnesses. They're not allowed to talk to them. If you know someone who has left the religion or is this fellowshipped, they are not allowed to talk with them, associate with them, or be friends with them. Again, this instills a lot of fear in them. I hope I've helped. Um we're gonna have a short invitation and uh well uh every time um While you're praying, um, here's what I would pray about. First of all, if you have anyone in your life that you know that's a Jehovah's Witness, um I I pray that you'd be able to uh get through to them. Pray that God would give them the courage to hear you out. And and secondly, just uh I mean it's not wrong to pray for Jehovah's Witnesses just in general. I mean, 'cause there are I mean, listen, I I have I have There's a lot that I again we can make fun of a lot of their like silly that their sillier rules. We can make fun of that. But You know, some of them are I mean, and there's a bunch of them. They're really good people. They're just misguided. There's misguided as Muslims, there's misguided as the people who don't believe uh Just don't have Jesus Christ as their savior. There's misguided as atheists. And pray that you'd be able to find someone. The next time someone comes to your door, you'd have the knowledge. To uh to win them. Because they are people. And I like I said, I I had fun, I have fun with just some of the little things, but we are talking about people's souls. Just praying that you'd be able to be a witness to them. Um is uh Jennifer PlayZ you come