Make you faster. It's a joy to be with you. Feel guilty I didn't bring my message on hell now. I'm I got something else. Ah, this is great. I've never been here before. I've never been in western uh Maryland before. I was shocked when your pastor said the closest place to fly into would be Pittsburgh. I thought you got to be kidding me, man. That's Well, on the other side of Pennsylvania. What are you talking about? But uh beautiful country. This is beautiful country. It's good to see you folks here on a Monday night. I always like to give my testimony when I'm at a place for the first time I think that folks ought to know that the preacher's saved. Amen. Uh and I'll give it briefly, but I was brought up in Sturgis, Michigan, so I have a I have Yankee in my background, and the Southerners forgive me for that I've learned to talk with a little bit of a draw and I don't eat their grits, and so we're fine. But um I was brought up in a little town called Sturgis, Michigan, which is about halfway between Chicago, Illinois, and Detroit, Michigan on along US twelve, a hundred and twenty miles from each of those places. And my mom and dad were both factory workers. I was brought up basically in a home of drinking and cursing, and the only time that I heard the name Jesus growing up was as a curse word. Now I don't I'm not upset with my mom and dad about that. Bless their hearts. They just did not know any better. They didn't know God. And I grew up not knowing God. I was a rock and roll disc jockey and then I went into country western music And I did shows with all those old country stars like Tom T. Hall and Ernest Tubb and n none of you know those names I know, but anyway Um I I did a show with with uh with Kenny Rogers uh just as he was getting into the country music part of the field. He had been a rock and roll artist and so on. But anyway, I had an announcer at the radio station ask me if I wanted to play softball with his church team. And I love sports, man. If you can throw it, kick it, hit it, whatever, I love to do it, and so I said I'll play. He said there's one catch. You have to go to church once a week in order to play I said, well I don't know about that now. I like sleeping on Sunday morning and but I did really want to play softball, so I thought I'll um I'll go home and ask my wife and she would see what she thinks about it. And we talked about it a little bit and thought that it couldn't hurt us just to go once a week So I'd slip in for Sunday school and then slip out. Or I'd get up a little bit later and just go for the morning service and then slip out. But I heard some things I had never heard before, 21 years of age And I did not know that I was a sinner in the sight of God. I thought one day I'd stand before God and He'd put all my good works on one side of a big scale and all my bad works on the other side And I was really such a good guy, I just knew that the good would outweigh the bad, and God would let me into heaven. Now even though I wasn't brought up in a Christian home, I did believe that there was a God. As a matter of fact I would pray every night when I went to bed. I didn't do it out loud. I would have been embarrassed for my wife to have heard it. But I would pray the only prayer that I'd ever heard on TV Now I lay me down to sleep, pray the Lord my soul to keep. If I should die before I wake, pray the Lord my soul to take. That's the only thing I knew. And they never prayed any longer than that on TV back then And so that but I would pray that every night. Well, going to that church, I not only found out I was a sinner, but as a sinner I was going to hell. That was a shock to me right there. That I was lost, that all my righteousnesses were as filthy rags. And this may seem like a surprise to you, but at 21 years of age, it was the first time in my life. That I found out who Jesus was. Now, we had a lot of Catholics that were around us, and if you would have shown me a crucifix, I would have identified the person on the cross as Jesus Christ. But I did not know that he was the Son of God. I did not know that he died on that cross to pay for my sins. Twenty-one years of age. I did not know that three days later he rose from the dead. I had no idea that Easter was about the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. I had no idea about that. Twenty-one years of age. You know there are a lot of people like that all around the world. Have absolutely no clue. I had no clue Well, I got to mulling over the things that I heard, and the preacher there at First Baptist Church about Seagull, Brother Ted Phillips, he was faithful in preaching the gospel. Uh and he would challenge people to get saved and uh as a matter of fact on the Sunday, the Saturday before he came out to my house later the next week Uh he would come out to try to win me to Christ, but on the Saturday before that, I had my five hour shift there at the radio station. I'd played four and a half hours of country music, and a preacher had a half hour broadcast from four thirty to five o'clock. At the end of the broadcast, he said, if you want to trust Christ as your Savior, you can do it right now, right where you're at. Well, I sure didn't want to go to hell. I mean, if you find out that you're going to hell and hell is real, I mean only an idiot would want to go there. Isn't that right? I wanted to escape hell, didn't want to go to hell. And so there at the radio station, I bowed my head and I asked the Lord Jesus Christ to save me. You say, preacher, how do you know you're saved? It's not because of some feeling I have. How I know I'm saved is the Bible says, whosoever should call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Now I can't tell you that I had a laughing fit or a crying fit. I can't even tell you that I felt anything. I didn't have goosebumps, but the Bible doesn't say whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall have goosebumps. It says Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Now, thing is, I can't even tell you what day it was, as far as I can't say it was on November eighteenth, nineteen seventy one. I know it was in November and it was nineteen seventy one, and I know it was a Saturday night, and I know it was at WAOP radio station in Otsego, Michigan Now that but I didn't know what to do next. I mean I was ignorant. I still called Psalms Palms and Job Job. I remember the pastor saying one time, turn to 1 John chapter 5 First John of my Bible was the book of John, that's what I turned to, and I thought he's messed up. He he didn't find the book he was trying to read. But I was the one who was messed up But he came out, we were living in a mobile home, and he came out to our mobile home to win me to Christ. He came in, sat down, went through the whole plan of salvation. And I said, but Pastor, I did that. And he gave me that look like, yeah, right, you know. And I he said, Well when? I explained about the radio station. I trusted Christ as Savior. I said, but I don't understand. I don't know what I'm supposed to do next And he said, well, that's because you're a baby in Christ. Now the next thing you need to do is you need to come forward and make it public in the church. You need to let other people know that you've trusted Christ as Savior. So I said, okay, that's what I'm supposed to do, that's what I'll do. So that next Sunday, uh, I went forward in the church at the end of the message, and I got to the front, and he said to me, He said, What are you coming forward for? And I thought, man, you got short-term memory loss. We just talked about this. I'm coming forward to let people know that I I've asked Jesus to save me. And then I said to him, I said, now we need to pray that my wife will get saved. Well, he let the people know know that that radio announcer from that uh from uh the radio station there in town had gotten saved and and then that next week he came out to our mobile home again And this time he led my wife to Christ in our living room. And we just began growing in the Lord. I mean, it was exciting. This book was alive. You know, I can remember as a I can remember as a child, I was probably about 10 years old. I was thinking about, you know, probably ought to read the Bible sometime And my grandma and grandpa had a Bible. Now my grandma and grandpa didn't read the Bible. They weren't Christians. And so I got it off the shelf And I but where do I read? And I thought I'll start reading here in the New Testament. So I turned to the New Testament and I began reading the book of the generations of Jesus Christ, the Son of uh the son of Abraham the son of David the son of Abraham and Abraham begat Isaac and Isaac begat Jacob and Jacob begat Judah and his brethren Judah begat Ferris and Zer Tamar and Ferris begat Ezra and Ezra begat Aaron Aaron began a Menadab begat Naesam Nasam got Salmon Salam began Obedabru. And I just closed it up. I thought, who wants to read this? But I'll tell you what, when I got saved, I wanted to read the Bible. I mean, in the first few months of being saved, I rent through my New Testament five times. I wanted to know what God said in His Word. Boy, it was exciting, that growth, learning things I had never known before. And this is such a deep book. There's still things you're going to learn. You know that? It's wonderful. With that in mind, turn please to Mark chapter ten. Mark chapter ten. I want to bring a message tonight. Jesus loves you. Now that's a wonderful saying, isn't it? Don't we like hearing that? Jesus loves you. It's great the Apostle Paul could say he loved me and gave himself for me, Galatians chapter 2 and verse 20. Jesus loves me. But what does that mean? How does that work out? In your life, because I am convinced that most of the world, even the religious world, has no clue what it means for Jesus to love us. And it's important that we understand things correctly. I want you to notice here in Mark chapter 10, verse 17. The scripture says, and when he was gone forth into the way, there came one running and kneeled to him and asked him, Good master, what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life? And Jesus said unto him, Why callest thou me good? There is none good but one, that is God. Thou knowest the commandments. Do not commit adultery. Do not kill, do not steal, do not bear false witness, defraud not, honor thy father and mother. And he answered and said unto him, Master, all these have I observed from my youth Then Jesus beholding him, underlined those next two words, loved him And said unto him, one thing thou lackest. Go thy way, sell whatsoever thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven, and come and take up the cross and follow me. And he was sad at that saying and went away grieved, for he had great possessions. So the text tonight really comes from verse 21. Then Jesus, beholding him. Loved him. Let's pray. Father, we come to you now in the name of the Lord Jesus. And I beg you tonight for the filling of the Holy Ghost of God. Lord, I recognize I only have the ability to speak to the ears of men and women But for it to do any good, the Holy Spirit of God has to take it into the heart. So God, please fill me and take these truths, drive them home to our heart. That you would have an impact on our lives. If there's one without Christ, we pray they'd come to Jesus tonight. And for believers, dear God, may they have a deeper understanding. Of what it means to have Jesus love us and what it means for us to love him. Have your way in our lives tonight, and we'll thank you for it. In Jesus' name, amen. Jesus love. Those are two words that definitely go together. Isn't that right? He would be the master of love. He'd be the epitome of love. He would be the example of love. Now, the word love in the Bible has a number of different forms. Loved, loveth, loves, so on. And it appears with not only the forms of love, but also the word charity, almost 220 times in the 260 chapters. of our New Testament. Now, the overwhelming majority of time, however, that the word love is used in the Scripture, it has to do with our responsibilities. To love, to love God, or to love our fellow man, to love our neighbors, to love our enemies, to love our wives. I mean, there are a number of statements like that. Now, strangely The first usage of the word love is not until you get to the book of Matthew, chapter 5. And that again has to do with our responsibility to love in a certain way. We don't find the word used in connection to God or Jesus loving anybody until the passage that we just read. Mark chapter 10. Now, to be sure, the story of the rich young ruler is also told in the book of Matthew. But we do not find the statement in the book of Matthew that Jesus Loved him. As a matter of fact, in the first three gospel accounts in our New Testament, this is the only reference that Jesus or God Loved anybody. And you say, preacher, why would that be significant? Well, do you know until about 90 AD, the first sixty years of the New Testament church? They didn't have the book of John until between 90 and 100 A. D. So for the New Testament believers in those early days, from Matthew, Mark, and Luke They did not have a mention in their gospel accounts that Jesus or God loved anybody. Now it doesn't mean he didn't. Of course he did. John Of course, in his gospel, he says a lot about it, John 3. 16. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life You get to John chapter 11, and there you find a statement that Jesus loved Mary and Martha and their brother Lazarus. In John 13, 23, we read of the disciple that Jesus loved. Jesus told his disciples in John chapter 13 and verse 34, As I have loved you, that ye also love One another. In John 15 9, he says, As the Father hath loved me, so have I loved you. And then in 1512, he says, I have loved you. Now, the Lord Jesus Christ spoke of the love of God a number of times in the book of John. Oddly enough When you get to the now think with me for just a moment. I don't know if you've noticed this or not, but you you just do a word search on any form of the word love in the book of Acts when the New Testament church went out to preach. It's not found in the book of Acts. In all of the messages that were preached and mentioned in the book of Acts. Not one time did the apostles ever say to the lost, Jesus loves you. Is that not astounding? I mean, when I realized that, I sat there just stunned. Not one time. When the apostles went out in the book of Acts. They talked about the people and their sin, who Jesus was, what he did, and what the and that judgment was coming and what they needed to do to get right Those were the subjects of the disciples when they went out. And I would say in those first few years that the church was going out, they were pretty successful in bringing people to God. Now, having said all that, I want you to understand that the epistles have an awful lot to say about the love of God for us. Especially in the epistles of the Apostle Paul. But in each of those epistles, he wasn't writing to lost people. He was writing to saved people. You've got statements like Romans chapter eight, verse thirty-five, Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or nakedness or uh apparel or famine or sword. He says in verses thirty-eight and thirty-nine, he says, For I am persuaded, uh, and I just lost the verse, you know, that happens when you become an old person that uh I'll get right at the beginning of it and then the first words just leave me. For I I am persuade persuaded that neither death nor life nor um angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. In 2 Corinthians chapter 5 and verse 14, the Apostle Paul says, For the love of Christ Constraineth me. In Ephesians chapter 5 and verse 2, he says, and walk in love, as Christ also hath loved us. and given himself for us. The Bible says in Galatians 2. 20, He loved me and gave Himself for me. In Ephesians 5. 25, husbands of your wives Even as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for it. Even in the book of Revelation, chapter 1 and verse 5, it speaks of him that loved us and washed us from his own blood. Now, obviously, there is a lot of misunderstanding about the love of Christ. And I want to give you three particular instances in the gospel accounts where we have mention of his love and what that should mean to us. Now first of all, I want you to notice about the truth and the lost. In this passage that we read, we get back to this rich young ruler. He comes to Jesus and he says, What must I do to inherit eternal life? Now you and I know that you can't do any kind of a good work to gain eternal life. For by grace are you saved through faith, that not of yourselves it is a gift of God, not of works as any man should boast. The book of Galatians is very clear. that we cannot keep the law, that no man can be justified by the law in the sight of God. Now it it can't take place. It can't happen. Then why did Jesus start out by giving him the law? Well, first of all, he directed the young man to himself. The young man came to him and said, Good master. Jesus said Why callest thou me good? There's none good but one. You see, he wanted the young man to realize who he was talking to. Jesus is the Good master, and the good master is God. Jesus is God. Isaiah 9. 6 and the prophecy of his coming. Unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulders, his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, the mighty God The everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace, that's Jesus. In John chapter 14, when Philip said, Lord, show us the Father, and it sufficeth us He said, Have I been so long time with you, and yet thou hast not known me, Philip? He that has seen me has seen the Father. How sayest thou then show us the Father? He was trying to get the young man to recognize he wasn't just a teacher He wasn't just a somebody like the rabbi, somebody just to be respected, that he is God. We say, then, preacher, why, when he said, What must I do to inherit eternal life? Why did he quote the last six commandments? And I believe the reason he quoted them comes from Galatians chapter 3 and verse 24. For in that passage it says, the law was our schoolmaster to bring us to Christ, that we might be justified by faith. After being justified by faith, we're no longer under the schoolmaster. Because you see, the law tells us we're guilty. I mean, you read the law and you say, I've broken that, I've broken that, I've broken that, I'm guilty That's why I can't get to heaven on my works. I already stand condemned by my own sins. Definition of sin is given for us in 1 John 3 and verse 4. When he says, Whosoever committeth sin transgresseth also the law, for sin is the transgression of the law. So when you share the law with people, it's to show them that they are guilty before a holy God. They cannot save themselves. And what that does, it then turns us to the only one who's ever obeyed the law in everything. I mean in thought, word, and deed Jesus obeyed it all, the perfect one. Hey, I need him then for my salvation. That's what the law does. Young man didn't get it. He said, I've kept all those things. Liar I mean, who hasn't lied except Jesus? We've all lied. The Bible says we come forth from the womb speaking lies. And this young man says, I've kept all of them from my youth up. So Jesus takes a different time. He then simply goes to the great commandment. You remember in John chapter, or Matthew chapter 11, and let's see, that's not the right one. Chapter 22, verses 37 through 39, a lawyer comes to Jesus and said, Master, what's the great commandment? And Jesus answers him. He says, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. Now, what Jesus did was he put it practically. If we are to love him, the great commandment, we're to love him with our entire being. Jesus puts it down to practical living. He says, Go sell all that you have, come follow me. And the young man went away sorrowful. Now wait a minute. Why did Jesus say that to him? Because he loved him. But wait. Didn't Jesus know? That if he said that to this young man that he loved, that the young man would leave him and not get saved. Didn't he know that ahead of time? He did. And he said it anyway. Why? He loved him. I want you to get this. Jesus would never compromise the truth to get somebody saved. You understand that? We we've got people trying to figure out different ways to convince people that they need Jesus, but they don't want to offend them by letting them know they're sinners. And that they're on their way to hell. How do you know that when Jesus is talking to the woman at the well, it is Jesus that brought up her sin? After he got into a discussion about this living water from which she would never thirst, and she said, I want that water. He said, Well, go call your husband and come hither. She said, I have no husband He said, You've well said you've had five husband that you've had no you have no husband, for you've had five husbands, and the man you now have is not your husband. Jesus went right to her shift. You see, the truth is until we get confronted with our sinfulness, we're not going to get saved. Only lost people get saved He didn't come to call the righteous to repentance, but sinners to repentance. And so because he loved him, he told him the truth. Jesus is all about truth, he is the way, the truth. And the life. You say, here's the one who said, and you shall know the truth. And the truth Shall make you free. Jesus would never compromise the truth to get people saved. And he wouldn't compromise the truth To get followers. In John chapter 6, he says some of the most difficult things that are read in the gospel accounts that come out of his mouth. When he talks about whoso eateth my flesh and drinketh my blood hath eternal life, and he says, If you do not eat my flesh and drink my blood, ye have no life in you. Now I understand it, but I'll tell you what, the disciples, when they heard that, a number of them were troubled. And they murmured about it. He asked them the question, Doth this offend you? What niphy shall see the Son of Man ascend up where he was before? And the Bible says in John 6. 66, from that time many of his disciples went back and walked no more with him. You see, a pastor's job is to get up and preach, thus saith the Lord. It's not to get up and figure out, well, how who would listen, Tice? Will this make the church more palatable for them so that they'll they'll want to come and be a part of us? No, our job is to give the truth. It's the truth That sets them free. And we're to put it out there straight. I don't believe in beating around the bush. I have found if you beat around the bush, people never get what you're saying. Matter of fact, even when you give it straight, sometimes they don't get what you're saying. You know what I mean? I think one of the biggest problems that we have today is people come to church and they don't listen to what you say, they interpret what you say And you end up being guilty of inter of what they interpret you as saying instead of what you said. I've had every preacher here has had somebody say to him from time to time, Preacher, it's just like you said last Sunday And then what they say isn't anywhere close to what you said. And you wonder, who were you listening to? Because people interpret what you say. I mean, we do that all the time in this world, don't we? The person comes downstairs in the morning and says, Good morning. What do you mean by that? Good morning. Man, don't interpret it, just take it for what it is. Boy, some of you are nudging one another now. You're telling on yourself, look out. So isn't it interesting with that in mind? Here's Jesus, because he loved him, he told him the truth, even though he knew that the young man would go away. Now, I think of these disciples. You take the day of Pentecost. They go out there on the day of Pentecost. They are filled with the Holy Ghost. You don't find the word love anywhere in their message. What they first do is give Scripture, then they give the meaning of Scripture, talking about Jesus' coming and of his resurrection. and of his death, and they talk about that. He says, whom you slew and hanged on a tree. They talked about coming judgment, and they were so bothered, they said, Men and brethren, what must we do? And Peter spoke, repent and be baptized. Then Peter was not soft about any of it. He's talking to the very people that had a part in putting Christ to death, and man, he just nailed them. With their sin, with their coming judgment, and 3,000 got saved. I don't know about you. I'd love to have 3,000 get saved in one day. I'd love just to have 3,000 listen to me in one day. That'd be something. Yet alone 3,000 people get saved in one day. You see, they went out and they simply told the truth. And after the day of Pentecost, the Lord added to the church daily such uh as should be saved. He the mul the believers were multiplied unto them, and one day in chapter four they had five thousand men get saved. By going out and just simply thundering out the truth. When Paul writes to Timothy to tell them to preach the word, he says, preach the word being in season out of season, and here's the New Testament definition of preaching. He says, Reprove. Rebuke. Exhort with all long suffering and doctrine May I suggest to you today that even though that's not necessarily using the word love, that that is the message of love When you point out their sin, point out their guilt, point out the judgment, and point out the remedy for their sin, that is love. When we understand Jesus and the truth, he'll never compromise the truth to get somebody to be saved or to get somebody to follow him. We can learn volumes from that. Well, there's another one. I want you to turn over to John chapter 11. I love John chapter 11. It's one of my favorite chapters in the Bible. For that matter, I love the I just love the Bible. But I want you to notice, Lazarus gets sick. Matter of fact, the chapter begins. Now a certain man was sick. Named Lazarus of Bethany, the town of Mary, and her sister Martha. Go down to verse 4, or verse 3. Therefore a sister sent unto him, saying, Lord, behold, he whom thou lovest is sick. When Jesus heard that, he said, This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God. And the Son of God might be glorified thereby. Now notice this statement, very clear. Now, Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus. That's very important. Now Jesus loved You get to the next verse. When he had heard, therefore, because he loved them, when he heard that Lazarus was sick. Because he loved them, he abode two days still in the same place where he was. Now think about this. Lazarus dies. When Jesus does get to where Mary and Martha are at, the first one to meet him is Martha. She's out of the house, and you can just tell she's not happy. And she walks up to him and says, Lord, if you'd have been here, my brother had not died. Hmm. He said, I'm the resurrection of the life. He that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. Whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die. Believest thou this? Oh, yea, Lord! But she was looking forward to the other resurrection to come. She wasn't not right then. She didn't get it. So she sends a note to Mary to come. And Mary comes out to him, a little different attitude She falls at his feet, but she says exactly the same words. Lord, if you'd been here, my brother had not died. You know, you can always tell when people have been talking in the church because they say exactly the same thing You know, they're coming to you like this is their idea, but you've already heard it from somebody else, so you know they've been talking to other people. That's just the way it is. Well, Mary and Martha, they've had four days to talk about this They sent a note to Lazarus. Lazarus is sick. Lazarus died for four days. They have been in mourning And in confusion, why wasn't Jesus here? Now the answer to that is he loved him. You mean he let them go through the agony of mourning the death of their brother because he loved them? Exactly. We go through trials and troubles. We go through heartache. And I have dealt with too many people That somehow they begin to doubt God's mercy and God's love for them and God's care because they're going through a heartache. Why may you be going there? May be someone right now tonight, you're going through a heartache, you're going through a trial, and you can't understand why Jesus doesn't show up and just make it better. And the answer may be: because he loves you. Whoa. Now think about it for a minute. They're suffering. We know because we've read the book That they're about to see the greatest miracle of all: a resurrection. But you can't see the miracle of a resurrection until first you've seen death. So for them to see the joy and be able to talk about, hey, our brother Lazarus was raised from the dead, he had to die, and they were sad. They were broken. They were hurting. Now they still trusted Jesus, but it's obvious that they weren't happy with him when he first shows up. I guaranteed they are happy with them when Lazarus rose from the dead. Understand this about Jesus' love and our trials. He knows exactly what we need. Romans 8. 28 is true. For we know, not we think, not we hope, for we know that all things work together for good to them that love God. To them with a call according to his purpose. We know that. Now, we don't have to understand the ins and outs of it all. God takes care of that. That's above my pay grade I mean, really, I just believe God's going to work it all out. And one way or another, I don't care what sickness I may get, I'm coming out of it alive. He may either heal me and let me live a while longer here, or he'll just go ahead and take me home, and I'll be more alive there than I've ever been alive down here. God works it out. He takes care of it. There are people that get in financial trouble and don't understand why God just doesn't let them win, the readers digest sweepstakes. I don't get it, Lord. I signed up for the HGTV home. I mean they were given $250,000. That'd take care of all my needs. And you let some person win it that's got all kinds of money already. That's not fair. No, they'd have ruined you if you'd have got that. That's why God's never going to give anything like that to me. No sense in me registering the publisher's clearinghouse. Not going to happen. Now I already know that and I'm fine with that. Don't need it. I know this. If I did win it, I'd have all these relatives I haven't heard from in 50 years come knocking on my door. And I really don't care to see them. So there you go God knows what he's doing. But unfortunately we don't trust him. You take you take, for instance, Hezekiah. Hezekiah the king has Isaiah the prophet come to him with a message from God. God says to him, put your house in order. You're going to die. Isaiah leaves the room and Hezekiah turns his face to the wall and he begins crying out to God, Oh God, haven't I been a good king? Haven't I served you and all of that? He gets to crying so much, God says to Isaiah, before he even gets out of the palace, he says, You go back and tell him I've heard his prayer, he gets to live fifteen more years. Now, what was God's will? God's will was that he die. His God's will was given by the prophet. But you know, God has a promise in the Scripture. He says in Hebrews chapter 11 and verse 6 that without faith it's impossible to please him, for he that cometh God must believe that he is, and that he's a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. He was diligently seeking me. Got his prayer answered, but then he invites the ambassadors from Babylon into the temple to see the things of God. He then has a son by the name of Manasseh, who becomes the most wicked king in the history of Judah. Everybody would have been better off if Hezekiah would have died. When he was supposed to die. Why did God send him a message he was going to die? He loved him Hey, what about Paul? Here's Paul. Man, you read his account in 2 Corinthians chapter 11, you look at all that he went through for us preachers who think we've suffered in the ministry Read what Paul went through in 2 Corinthians 11, verses 23 through the remainder of the chapter. Man, he was beaten, he was jailed, he went through all kinds of things And so in chapter twelve he says, he says, Because of the abundance of the revelations, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh. A messenger of Satan was sent to give me a thorn in the flesh. And then he says, For this thing I besought the Lord thrice that it might depart from me. Now you would think if anybody could get their prayer answer, it'd be Paul. The reason he had the thorn in the flesh was because of all the scripture he had written, he'd probably get proud. And then God wouldn't be able to use them anymore, for God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace unto the humble. And so he says, Paul, my grace is sufficient for thee. So how does Paul respond? Not like us, buddy, we'd be we'd be pouting, we'd have that old poochie lip out there, and we'd be so upset God's not taking care of this. But now Paul, he said, most gladly therefore will I glory in my infirmity, that the power of Christ may rest upon me. For when I am weak, then am I strong. He got it. He understood it. The trials that come our way, that come from our God, it's because God loves us. Praise him. I'll tell you, some of the greatest testimonies I've seen have come from dying saints, dying with cancer, dying with great trial and trouble, but dying praising God. Those are the people that we remember. Not those who go out whimpering and whining. Let me give you one last thing. Jesus and the truth. He'll not compromise it to get the lost saved. He'll not compromise it for believers to get them to follow him. Jesus and our trials, because he loves us, yes, he'll have us go through them, but he'll go through them with us Not only that, then there's Jesus' love in our obedience. I want you to turn over to John chapter 14. John chapter 14 and verse 21. Jesus is speaking on the night before the crucifixion. And he says, He that hath my commandments and keepeth them He it is that loveth me. And he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him. Now, people normally think that loving Jesus has something to do with this little tingle that takes place in your heart when you hear his name. Jesus says, He that hath my commandments and keepeth them, he is that loves me. Not he who has a tingle at the name Jesus. But wait, he doesn't stop. Verse 23, Jesus answered and said unto him, If a man love me. He will keep my words, and my father will love him. Verse 24: He that loveth me not keepeth not my sayings. And the word which you hear is not mine. But now wait a second. If you were to ever to go to one of those singings where people get to sing, there's invariably some musician who will get up and say, Hey, clap if you love Jesus. That's not what Jesus says. He says, if you love me, obey me. And he says, if you don't obey me, you don't love me. As a matter of fact, you know, I saw a bumper sticker a while back, and it was one of those that had honk if you love Jesus, but on the bumper sticker, the honk was crossed out, and underneath it was written tithe. If you love Jesus, anybody can honk. Amen. As a matter of fact, turn over to 1 John chapter 5. 1 John chapter 5. This is a powerful verse. I've preached from verse 3 a number of times. Matter of fact, I've got one message on it that I call the message that doesn't seem to verse that doesn't seem to be true. And you'll see why when I read it. But let's read verse 2, first of all. But this, we know that we love the children of God when we love God and keep his commandments. For this is the love of God. That we keep his commandments. And look at the next rest of the verse. And his commandments are not grievous. Boy, that's not the way it's presented in a lot of churches today. You think that the pastor's up there talking about obeying a command of God? Oh, he's putting us under bondage Well, I got news for you. Jesus obeyed every command of God, and he wasn't under bondage. He was free. Do you understand that? You see, Jesus didn't look at the commands of God as something bad. They were good. They were right. The book of Romans, chapter 7, tells us that the law is good. The law is holy. The law is right. And in First Timothy he says, the law is good if a man use it lawfully, use it correctly. You don't keep the law in order to get saved. But the Bible says all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness Yes, it doesn't just tell me what to believe. It tells me where I'm wrong. It tells me how to get right, and it tells me how to stay right. Why? That the man of God may be perfect, that is complete, mature In all good ways. Boy, I tell you, what a great word. And he says, he says, this is the love of God that you keep his commandments. Let's see, there are a number of commands we could call out, and we obviously don't have time to preach on the commands of God. How about this one? Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. And somebody says, that's not my gift. No, you're right. It's not your gift, it's your command to go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. That just settles it. Now he's not talking about plays. He's not talking, man, preach the gospel to every creature. Give it straight. Give it true. Give it right. So they can come to the Savior. It's our command. Do you realize you cannot witness to the wrong person? Some people say, well, you know, I'm afraid if I just go up and do that, I'll scare them away. Where to? Hell two, hell three, hell four, they're already going to hell Where are you going to scare them to? But give them the gospel, you might scare them to heaven. Amen. I got news for it like when I preach. I want some people to leave mad. And it's not because I have a mean spirit about me. I know if they lead leave angry at what they heard, they'll think about it. But if they leave unaffected, they won't think about it at all. I met a whole lot of people that left mad, ended up coming back several times to see if I'd say it again, only to end up getting saved You just give the truth. You see if we love him. And his commands are not grievous. Why? They're his. They're right. They're true. You see, this is Jesus. Jesus and the truth. Jesus and our trials. And Jesus And our obedience. He wants us to be obedient Christians. When your pastor gets up and reminds you of the word of God, oh, it may sting. You might go, ooh, ouch. Man, that that hurt me, but I needed it. I need it. Man, you take it. And then you hit the altar and get right. If we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Jesus wasn't kidding. Jesus means business. And we need to be in business with him as well, standing for truth. When we go through the trials, clinging to Him and making our walk one according to His Word. Let's pray. Father, we come to you in the name of the Lord Jesus. Lord, I love you tonight. I thank you for your precious word. I thank you for our dear Savior. Lord, tonight may the love of Christ truly do a work on our hearts. Deal with us about truth. Lord, that we be a people. We don't have to apologize when our pastor preaches the truth and we know he's hit certain people in the congregation. We praise the Lord that he gave the truth anyway. God, please. I pray, Heavenly Fathers, there may be some dear saint tonight who's been going through such trial and they're discouraged. And they're down. And I pray tonight that the reminder, those trials are there because he loves us. I pray tonight they'd come tonight and just say, Lord, I needed that tonight. Thank you. Thank you for the reminder from your word. That this trial is not to hurt me. It's because you love me and you'll work it out. And then God for each of us where we see areas we're not being obedient to you. I pray we'd be quick to get right with you tonight. Have your way in every life, I pray, in Jesus' name. With our heads bowed, let's stand to our feet. I have the invitation in just a moment. Let me ask tonight, with our heads bowed and our eyes closed, God's people praying, how many tonight could say by simply raising your hand, well, thank God, preacher? If I died right now, I know I'd go to heaven. I've been born again and I know it. Praise the Lord. Would you slip your hand up as a testimony to the Lord? You know you're saved. That's always a wonderful sight. I love that. Thank you. May put your hands down If you couldn't raise your hand, the Bible says, these things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that you may know that you have eternal life. He wants you to have eternal life and know it Is there someone tonight, young or old, makes no difference? You say, preacher, I don't know if I died right now I'd go to heaven. Please pray for me. I sure don't want to die and go to hell. Pray for me. Would you slip your hand up where I could see it, please? Just a moment. I'm not going to come to you and embarrass you, but I do want to pray for you. Preacher, pray for me. Is there some Christian tonight? Man, you've been going through trials. You've gotten discouraged. You've got a little down. Maybe you've gotten like Mary and Martha wondering why Jesus hasn't intervened. You say, preacher, I needed that tonight to be reminded of his love for me in this trial. Please pray for me tonight. Would you slip your hand up, child of God? Would you do that God bless your hearts. There are several of you tonight. And God knows, believe me, He knows exactly what you're going through. He does love you and He will show himself strong. Maybe there's some believers tonight. You've seen those scriptures about if we really love him, we'll obey him. You say, preacher, there are some areas of my life where I'm not obeying him Please pray for me tonight. I need to get right about some things. Child of God, would you slip your hand up tonight? Would you admit that? Alright, deal with it tonight. Get it right tonight. Leave clean. Father, now you have your way in every heart. As the invitation begins to play, may they respond and may a great work be done in each life, for I ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.