Number 8. Brother Grant just read from that. If you would, whenever you find John chapter 8, mark that. We're going to come back to that, but I would like to read from Psalms 130. Psalms 130, just a short little chapter. So get John 8, mark it there, then go to Psalms 130, and then we're gonna, our message is actually from John, but I want to read Psalms 130 first. Little boy went to his first wedding he'd ever been to. Uh we got a wedding coming up here in a few weeks and uh brother uh Uh Elizabeth uh and uh Ben Spangler are going to be getting married the twenty-second of October and they are what did I say? Brother Elizabeth and Sister Ben But uh married and I hate 'em both because they're moving to Texas. That is not fair. We've invested all in Elizabeth. This bum comes by, grabs her and takes her off So, but we're happy for them. But little boy is at a wedding. He's very first wedding he's ever been to, after it was all said and done, his cousin came up to him and said, for some reason, ask him this question. He goes, how many women can a man marry? Well the little boy said 16. I said, what in the world? How do you know that? He goes, well it's easy. All I have to do is add it up. The preacher said, four better. Four worse, four richer, four poorer. How is that, Mary? It's bad, huh? Well, horrible All right. Psalms 130, if you would follow along. I'm going to read down through this chapter. Psalms 130 Beginning in verse 1. Out of the depths have I cried unto thee, O Lord. Lord, hear my voice. Let thine ears be attentive to the voice of my supplication. Now look at this. If thou Lord shouldest mark iniquities, O Lord, who shall stand? And the answer to that question is what? Nobody. If God's going to mark our sins, none of us are able to stand. But there is forgiveness with thee, that thou mayest be feared. I wait for the Lord. My soul doth wait. In his word do I hope My soul waiteth for the Lord more than they that watch for the morning. I say more than they that watch for the morning. Let Israel hope in the Lord. Look at this. For with the Lord there is mercy. With him is plentious redemption. He shall redeem Israel from all his iniquities. And if you would, come back to John. Chapter number eight. We have this story. For most of us, it's a pretty familiar story. I think it's fascinating. I want us together verse, I would like for us to read together verse number 11. The Lord is asking this woman, taking an adultery, she goes, uh, where is He says in verse 10, he says, Where are thy con uh accusers? Hath no man condemned thee? Let's read verse eleven together, would you? John 8, verse 11, all together, here we go. She said, No man, Lord And Jesus said unto her, Neither do I condemn thee. Go and sin no more. What a statement, huh? I'll preach this morning, I hope, with the Lord's help, on Jesus and an adulteress. Jesus and an adulteress. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now our time in your word. Music has been a tremendous blessing to my heart, Lord. We thank you for the gift of song, the gift of music, that we can praise you in song. Thank you for the choir special and Jennifer's. Thank you for the congregational fellowship's been good. Now, Lord, we have our Bibles open before us, and we are asking you to speak to our hearts. Teach us, Lord, something about you. Teach us, Lord, your love for us, your will for our lives. Help us to understand from this passage how this applies to us. And uh so please, Lord, fill me with your spirit. I present my body anew. I yield my will to yours with all my heart. I pray you'd fill me. And be our preacher this hour. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Every Christian should read their Bible every single day. The Bible is the Word of God, it is God's Word. And every Christian ought to schedule, ought to discipline ourselves to take some time during the day. I believe in the morning is the best time. But whatever works for you ought to be sometime throughout the day on a daily basis where we get into the Word of God and we read it very carefully, asking the Lord to speak to our hearts. Psalms chapter 1, he says, his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. God told Joshua in chapter 1, he says, This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest prosper and have good success. He goes on, makes some great promises. In fact, there was a day in our country where even the presidents would encourage people to read their Bibles on a daily basis. We have many presidents in our history that read their Bibles. They testified that they read their Bibles. on a daily basis. I think every Christian ought to read their Bible every single day. Ought to spend some time in God's Word every day. If you do that and you work your way through the gospels And by the way, I say this often, I want to reiterate it here, at some point in our Christian life we ought to start reading the whole Bible. Genesis to Revelation. We ought to read through that whole thing uh at some point. Early on, first get saved. You might want to, you know, focus on specific ch uh books, but at some point start reading that whole thing through. If you do that, you're going to read through the first four books, excuse me, first four books of New Testament. They're called the Gospels. They are a record of the life of the Lord Jesus Christ, particularly his three years of ministry here on this earth If you read through those four chapters, those four books very carefully, you will notice some things about the Lord Jesus. You will notice that Jesus loves individuals. How many people understand that God loves the whole world? Sure. Understand, oh yeah, God loves everybody. God loves the whole world. And that's true, no obviously. But I'm here to tell you God loves individuals. Individual human beings. Somebody could say, well, I understand God loves everybody. I don't know that he loves me personally. That's not true. God loves individuals. All through the Gospels you find Jesus leaving the crowds And going to spend time and to interact with an individual person. You'll find him staying up late at night. To spend time and interact with an individual person. He didn't just address crowds In fact, much of the record is him one-on-one with individuals. I am glad God loves us individually. I'm glad God deals with us as individuals, not just as a mob. I was by myself, individual, just me, me and God, the night God saved my soul Wasn't a big crowd. Wasn't a mob of people God was dealing with. It was just one 19-year-old messed up kid on his knees before a holy God, crying out for mercy, and God loved me, and God heard me and God saved me. Individuals. God loves individuals. The night that I uh when I dedicated my life to the Lord Jesus Christ, years later, 1985, August. of nineteen eighty-five. There's a big auditorium, the Highland Park Baptist Church, six thousand seat, the place is packed on a Sunday night. But when a preacher is finished preaching, I net alone at an altar between God and I, I say, God, here's my life. I'll dedicate my life, the rest of my days will be lived. For the gospel of Jesus Christ, live for the Lord Jesus Christ. It was an individual interaction between me and God. It wasn't a whole crowd making that decision. Individual. Um, the night God I surrendered to preach, October of 1985. Again, I got alone with God. What I'm trying to say is this God deals with individuals. He'll pull them aside alone. Jesus does it over and over and over. One-on-one. Let me say this. It is good for you and I to get alone with God. It's good for you and I sometimes to withdraw ourselves. I think on a regular basis, withdraw ourselves, turn the TV off. Turn the radio off, turn the computer off, turn the phone off, and get alone with God with the open Bible, and you'll be amazed how God would speak to your heart through the pages of His Word. God deals with individuals. So I'm reading through the Gospels and I notice that God, Jesus, loves individuals. He deals with individuals. He spends time with individuals. But I notice something else. Jesus loves not just individuals, but he loves individual sinners. You notice the people that God invested time with on a one-on-one basis. Many of them were some of the worst sinners in society. Many of them were absolute misfits. As far as society was at that time. Absolute moral outcasts, if you will. You find Jesus spending time with publicans. Now that word means little to you and I in our day and age, but back in the context of where it was of this taking place, publicans were hated people They were traitors to the uh to the nation of Israel. They had sold out to Rome. They'd steal. They'd lie. Nobody trusted a publican Nobody respected a publican. Nobody wanted to be like a publican. But you find Jesus over and over and over again spending time one-on-one with these publicans. Sinners. You find Jesus addressing harlots and giving them attention and showing them love and compassion. Jesus was ridiculed one time by the self-righteous Pharisees. He said, if she, if he knew, and I'm not quoting this verbatim, but if he knew what kind of woman this was coming to him, he'd have nothing to do with her Jesus loved her. Sinners. Some of the worst sinners in society. Immorpe people. We find in John chapter 4, he goes out of his way to sit by a well waiting on a woman who had had five husbands and was living with a man at this time. Samaritan, hated by the Jews, hated by just about everybody, morally outcast, yet Jesus loved her dearly. And gave her attention, interacted with her, and she came to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ, her personal Savior. Jesus dealt with folks who were possessed of devils. And he would address them and deliver them from the possession. What I'm trying to say is this, God loves the world. Jesus loves individuals, but he loves individual sinners. The most wicked people you can imagine, God loved them. And he would interact with them. I think John chapter 8 What Brother Grant read a few moments ago, verses 1 through 11, we have a classic example of the Lord showing compassion for an individual sinner. Get the context of what's taking place here, and you go back and look at the chapter before, you find that Jesus is beginning the day at the temple. He shows up in the morning at the temple And uh he begins teaching people the things of God. We're not given what the content of his teaching was, what the subject was. Just began teaching people. It says he sat down and taught them whatever's taking place and as he's teaching a bunch of scribes and Pharisees come in, no doubt with big fanfare. They want everybody to see him. They want everybody to see him. They interrupt the Lord Jesus Christ as he's teaching. Somehow they had come up with this woman who was taken in adultery. Now, for whatever reason, they could not or did not come up with the man. You know it takes a man and a woman to commit adultery, right? All they had was the woman, for whatever reason, and we can speculate on that. And they forcefully bring this woman to him, this woman taken in adultery. And they bring him to the Lord Jesus Christ. And they address the Lord Jesus. Now here's my outline as I look at this. Number one, I want us to notice the magnitude of the sin of this woman that they brought to the Lord Jesus Christ. Look at verse number three with me, if you would. And the scribes and the Pharisees brought unto him a woman taken in adultery. So they're interrupting him, no doubt, as I said, with big Great fanfare. They want everybody to see. We've got this woman. She's taken in adultery. What an ungodly woman. It says a woman taken in adultery. And when they had set her in the midst. Now, would you agree with me? This is no doubt against her will. Right? They are forcefully doing this to her Set her in the midst. They say unto him, Master, this woman was taken in adultery in the very act. Now, how in the world they came up with this woman, I do not know. How in the world They found her in this situation. And again, there's a lot of speculation on whether they set her up, whether one of them was involved in this. We don't know But nevertheless, they bring this woman to him. And this is the point I'm trying to make here is this was serious sin this woman was involved in. This was not something trivial. There is nothing trivial about adultery. There is nothing pleasant, there is nothing light, there is nothing funny about adultery. Adultery is a hideous crime, sin. It is nothing to be made light of. I want to suggest to you that adultery may be perhaps one of the most devastating sins against mankind. Perhaps one of the most wicked sins against mankind. We live in a day and age where adultery is don't make movies about adultery. Heroes about adulterers, rock and roll and rap music and country and western music will often praise The sin of adultery. I'm here to tell you this morning, regardless of what society may say, regardless of what this world's attitude is about it, as far as adultery is concerned. It is a terrible, terrible sin in the eyes of God. In fact, it's such a terrible sin that God says, even the thought of it in our hearts and minds is condemned and wicked. In Exodus chapter 20 and verse number 14, we are given, Exodus chapter 20, we're given the Ten Commandments. This is God's standard of acceptance for the humanity. God created us. He says, This is what I expect from you. This is what I demand of you as my creation. You live up to these commands. The eighth commandment is very, very clear. The eighth commandment is very blunt. It is right to the point. Thou shalt not commit adultery. This woman that they brought to the Lord Jesus Christ, her sin was not some trivial sin. It was not just some little mistake. This was something very, very serious. The magnitude of her sin in the eyes of God. It's very, very serious. In Leviticus chapter 20 and verse 10, the Bible says that both the man and the woman that commit adultery under the Old Testament law were under the death sentence. God's judgment on adultery was the same as his judgment on murder. This is not a trivial thing this woman is involved in. It was such a horrific sin. It is such a harmful sin. God says it is not to be tolerated under any circumstances at any level. The death penalty is the consequence of adultery. What a different attitude the world has today about the sin of adultery that God has About the sin of adultery. Matthew chapter 19 and verse 9 says that adultery is the only legitimate ground, the only legitimate grounds for divorce. It is so devastating to a marriage, such a violation of the marriage vows that God, the one that instituted marriage, says, in that situation, with that sin That is only, and that alone, grounds for divorce. Now let me be quick to add, God hates divorce. It's not God's will, I don't believe, it is God's will in any circumstances for a person of divorce. The Malachi says God hates putting away But he does in this situation, in this circumstance, with adultery being effective, he says, all right, in this situation I will give you the option you can. Now, it's best if you work it out and develop it and heal that thing and go forward, and many marriages have, thank God for that. But God says in this case, if you would, take your Bibles. Now keep your place here, and I'm trying to lay some groundwork here. Come with me to Proverbs. It's amazing to me, the book of wisdom, Proverbs, how often this book addresses the sin of adultery. Uh Proverbs, chapter number five, if you would, turn there with me. Proverbs chapter five By the way, you don't hear a lot of preaching on adultery today. Uh I venture to say you're going to hear this very seldom, if ever, on television. I would venture to say the majority of the churches across our land are not going to address the sin of adultery. But I'm telling you, somebody needs to stand up and start preaching against this sin. It is killing our country. It is killing our ministries. It is killing our homes. What this woman was involved in was not some trivial little thing. That can just be overlooked and just excused and just brushed aside. This was a sin of horrendous magnitudes This was a very serious sin. Look at Proverbs chapter 5 and verse number 3. Notice what the Bible says. For the lips of a strange woman, this is an unfaithful woman, the lips of a strange woman drop as a honeycomb. And her mouth is smoother than oil. But look at this. But her end is bitter as wormwood Sharp as a two-edged sword. Look at this. Her feet go down to death. Her steps take hold on what? Hell. Serious, serious crime. Look at chapter six with me if you would, and notice verse number twenty-nine. Here he elaborates a little bit. It's kind of don't don't you think it's kind of ironic that Solomon, under the inspiration of God, is recording this then later in his life He commits these very sins and destroys himself. Look at chapter number six and verse number twenty-nine. So he that goeth in to his neighbor's wife, whosoever toucheth her shall not be innocent. I put in the margin of my Bible, cannot escape the consequences. There are consequences of this sin that cannot be escaped. Verse 30, then he illustrates here. He kind of compares it to other sins. Men do not despise a thief if he steal to satisfy his soul when he is hungry. But if he be found, he shall restore sevenfold, he shall give all the substance of his house In other words, what he's saying is, listen, if a guy goes he's hungry, he doesn't have any food, he doesn't have money, he steals something, some food, he eats it, listen He can pay that back. He can restore that. He can work that up and pay off what he did and make it right. Verse 32. But In comparison to that, in contrast to that, whoso committeth adultery with a woman lacketh understanding. I put it in my margin of my Bible, is a fool. He that doeth it destroyeth his own soul. I put in the margin of my Bible, adultery is self-destructive. A wound in this honor shall he get, and his reproach shall not be wiped away. What about David and Bathsheba? For jealousy is the rage of a man. Therefore he will not spare in the day of vengeance. He will not regard any ransom. Neither will he rest content though thou givest many gifts. It is impossible to restore that which adultery takes away. It is a horrendous sin. It's a devastating sin. Notice with me, if you would, chapter number seven and verse 24. Now bear with me, please. Chapter 7, verse 28. Hearken unto me now, therefore, O ye children. Oh, listen up. It's what he's saying. Attend to the words of my mouth. Let not thine heart decline to her ways. Go not astray in her paths. For she hath cast down many wounded, yea, many strong men have been slain by her. Her house is the way to hell Going down to the chambers of death. Chapter 9, if you would, verse number 13. He picks up this subject again. A foolish woman is clamorous, she is simple and knoweth nothing. For she sitteth at the door of her house on a seat in the high places of the city to call passengers who go right on their way. Whoso is simple. Let him turn in hither. As for him that wanteth understanding, she saith unto him, stolen waters are sweet. You put beside that, that's adultery, is what they're addressing Stolen waters are sweet. Bread eaten in secret is pleasant. This is describing an adulterous act. But he knoweth not that the dead are there, and that her guests are in the depths of hell. How many folks are getting the picture here? This is a terrible, terrible sin. Anybody see it? Her depths, her step- her uh her guests are in the depths of hell, or this pathway leads to hell. Consequences, the judgment on it is death. 1 Corinthians 6, verse 9 and 10 says that the adulterers shall not inherit the kingdom of God. What is God saying? What is he telling us? He's telling us that this is a horrendous, horrendous sin. Listen, we get worked up about sodomy, and we should. We ought to preach against the sin of sodomy. We ought to preach against Sodom marriage We ought to preach against that. That is wrong. It is wicked. It is ungodly. But I'm here to tell you, God hates adultery. God hates any kind of uh uh physical, uh sensual sin along these lines It is condemned of God. This woman's taken in adultery. I want us to understand the seriousness of what she had gotten herself involved in, the seriousness. Of the sin that she had committed. This was not some trivial little thing that she had messed up with. This was a wicked, wicked sin that God hates. And so here we have Jesus' teaching in the temple. The scribes and Pharisees come busting through and they interrupt and no doubt, as I said, make a big deal, and they say, Oh, here we go. We've got this woman here taken in adultery in the very act. Look what they say. Come with me back here, John chapter 8. Verse 5, they say, now Moses in the law commanded us that such should be stowed. Were they right or wrong? They were right. God hates this sin. God has severe judgment on this sin. This is not something to be taken lately. This is not just some trivial thing, as we've been saying over and over again. But what sayest thou, Jesus? Here's my question. Why did they do this? Were they concerned for this woman that she be dealt with correctly? No. Were they concerned that God's law be carried out and we do exactly what God says? No. We're told here what their motive was. Look at the next verse. This they said, what? Tempting him, Jesus, that they might have to what? Accuse him. What they're doing here is they don't care about this woman. And I'm suggesting you they don't even care about the law of God. They don't care about what's right or wrong. They don't care about what is good and helpful. They hate Jesus Christ. And they are attempting to back him into a corner, where he will say something that will violate the law of God. So they can discredit him and they can reclaim the crowds and reclaim their authority. This is all out of envy and jealousy and hatred for the Lord Jesus Christ. These self-righteous scribes and Pharisees viewed themselves so superior to others That if somebody did wrong, the only solution to another person's sin is to condemn that person. You watch out for people that go around condemning everyone else's sin Be very, very careful about that. Turn with me if you would, real quickly. I wanted to notice something. Luke chapter number 18, just a few pages earlier in your Bible than what we are. If you're turning, you would turn from your left. Go to Luke chapter 18. And I often find myself coming back to this illustration. This is such a classic illustration of a self-righteous mindset. Luke chapter 18, and I want to begin reading verse number nine. Was this woman a sinner? Yes. Had she messed up seriously? Yes. But what were these guys? What was their motive? What was their concern? It wasn't concerned about right and wrong. It wasn't concerned about what's best for her. Look at verse 9. He spake this parable unto certain which trusted in themselves. Look at this. That they were righteous and what? Despised others. Huh. Sounds like what we're dealing with in John 8. Two men went up to the temple to pray. The one a Pharisee, the other a publican. Here's this crowd. Member? Everybody hated publicans. Nobody respected. No one would be a part of them. Look what happened. The Pharisees stood and prayed thus with himself. I think it's interesting. God didn't hear a word. He prayed. He's just talking to himself. God, I thank thee that I am not as other men are: extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican. I fast twice in the week. I give tithes of all that. I possess. Wow, impressive guy, huh? He was impressed with himself. Look at the next verse. And the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so much as his eyes to heaven, but smote his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me a sinner. Wow. Two different attitudes, huh? Two different, completely different views of themselves. Look what the Lord says. I tell you, verse 14, I tell you this man, this publican, wouldn't even lift his eyes to heaven, smote his breast, God be merciful to me. This man went down to his house justified rather than the other. For everyone that exalteth himself shall be abased. And he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. These Pharisees were not concerned about keeping the law. These Pharisees were not concerned about the well-being of this woman. They just wanted to take down the Lord Jesus. They just wanted to prove to everybody that they were better than Jesus Christ, that they knew more than God. That they were better than this wicked woman, that they were holy and righteous. That's all they were concerned about. So they bring this woman, however, they came up with her, they bring her to the Lord Jesus Christ. Knowing that the law requires her to be stoned, and they back Jesus in the corner and say, What do you say, Jesus? Now why would they ask Jesus that? Why would they not just assume that Jesus To say, hey, if that's what the law calls for, then then that's what we got to do. They knew he wouldn't say that. I believe they had seen, they had watched Jesus Christ interact with individual sinners enough to know that he would not instruct them to do what the law said. They knew that this man, whoever he was and whatever he was, they knew one thing about him. He was compassionate. He was merciful. They knew that he would say, do not stone her. And how would they respond and say, ah This man's not of God. He violates the law of Moses. They accused him that other places over and over. Oh, he doesn't keep the law of Moses. He doesn't keep the law of Moses. He doesn't keep the law. He can't be of God. They're trying to take down Jesus Christ. They're trying to discredit the Lord Jesus. So nobody would believe him. Nobody would follow him. They were so focused on the law of God that they failed to see the love of God. Would you take your Bible again? Now keep your place here because I want to look at some more of this, but turn with me to Romans chapter 8. Romans chapter 8, and a lot of you are familiar with verse number 8. I'm sorry, it's Romans chapter 5. Romans chapter 5 and verse number 8. If you've been through our soul-winning training, you're familiar with this verse. You've been around uh gospel preaching churches much, you've heard this verse before. Romans Chapter 5, verse number 8. I love this verse. But God commendeth his love toward us. Look at this. In that while we were yet What? Sinners died for us. The statement that we are sinners, that's the law of God. It is God's law that tells us we're sinners I look at the law of God. It says, Thou shalt have no other gods before me. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart. He says, Thou shalt not bear false witness. He says, Thou shalt not covet. Honor thy father and mother. Thou shalt not steal. I look at God's law and I come to this conclusion. I've not lived up to that. I haven't kept the law of God. I failed it repeatedly throughout my life. I am a sinner. I can't deny it. There's no argument. I have no defense. I have broken God's law. I'm a sinner. And the Pharisees were so focused on the law of God. The fact that they were the this woman was a sinner and failed to see the love of God. But God commendeth his love toward us. And that while we are yet sinners, yes, we failed. We've broken God's law. But God loved us. While we are sinners, Christ uh while we were yet sinners, God commanded love toward us, not while we're yet sinners, Christ died for us. We have to be careful. We don't get so caught up in condemning sinners that we forget that God loves sinners. And so we have the magnitude of this woman's sin, and it's horrendous. It is a terrible, terrible sin. Doesn't matter how common it is in our world, doesn't matter how celebrated and excused and justified it might be in this world. God condemns it. It's a horrific sin. Then we have the motive of these self-righteous Pharisees, these religious folk, and they're not concerned about the woman. They're really even concerned about the law. They just hate Jesus. They just want to discredit him. And this is what I'm trying to get to in the message. This is what appeals to me. Number three, the magnificent mercy of our Savior. Look at chat look at come back here to John 8 again with me and look with me at verse number 6. This they said, tempting him that they might have to accuse him. By the way, in Revelation, we're told that Satan is the accuser of the brethren. Let me just give you this little aside. This doesn't cost anything, it's just extra. But um This is like one of those little jars there, but the cashier where they have a little thing. Put a penny in. If you need a penny, just take it. That's what this is. Anyway, I forget what I was gonna say. This is what this is it. They said they're trying to accuse Jesus. Revelation tells us Satan is the accuser of the brethren. You know what I find in the Bible? I never find a godly person in the Bible going around accusing others Read through the book of Acts. You never find Paul accusing anybody. You always find the Pharisees accusing Paul. Look up that word. Get your strong coordinates out. Look it up. Look how it's used. You never find a godly, humble, spiritual person. Accusing others. That is of the devil. Going around accusing others, accusing others, accusing others. That is not of God. You do not find God doing that. You only find the Pharisees and Satan doing that in the Bible. So we need to be very, very careful. So, says this, that was the little jar on the side, so if you want it, take it. Not, that's fine. That they might have to accuse him. Look at this. But Jesus stooped down. Now he's in front. He's in by the temple. He's been teaching the folks. Pretty big crowd, no doubt. We don't know what he's talking about. We don't know what he's teaching. We don't know the subject. These guys come busting in, Big Fanfare, uh, set this woman out there. Uh would you agree if if uh we were having church and Bunch of self-righteous came in and they had a woman they sent them right down in front of the whole church and said, This woman was taken in adultery the very act. How many of you agree with me? They'd have our attention. Yeah, I'd say So everybody be looking, I mean they're all looking at this, everybody's attention. And they say, The law says we need a stoner. What do you say, Jesus? And what does Jesus do? Doesn't say anything. And I d I think this I don't think this happens quickly. This is my impression. I think they stand there for a little bit and they're watching and waiting The Bible says the Lord just kind of stoops down, starts writing in the sand. So they repeat their question. Look what it says. And he does it as though he heard them not It's like, what's this guy, deaf? So they when they verse seven, so what so when they continued asking him, well Lord, what do you say? Lord, what do you say? The law says killer. What do you say? Lord's just acting like he doesn't hear them. And I mean to tell you, it inflames them. And they are demanding an answer. And I get the impression that they're kind of coming to the conclusion we got him. He doesn't have an answer for us. And they're pretty confident. Now let me stop here just a moment. Here's the question. How many people are wondering, what did he write in that sand? What is he right? I'll tell you I don't know. And I'll tell you something else. Nobody else knows. The Bible doesn't tell us. And I've read all the explanations and all the speculation, and there's some people who are very confident I know exactly what he wrote. No, you don't. The Bible doesn't tell us. We don't know anything about this other than what the Bible tells us. And anything else is speculation. It's thawed on it might be some uh I was reading some. One guy said, well, he was just doodling there, giving time. to come up with he didn't know how to respond. He was just dooling trying to think of something to say to him. That's hogwash. Jesus never does not know what to say. God never does not have an answer. This is all deliberate, I assure you, this is all deliberate, this is all part of his answer This doodling, this acting like he doesn't hear him, behaving as if he doesn't hear him, this writing in the sand, all of that, this is all part of his response to their accusation. It's all deliberate. Someone said he was writing the names of the accusers. He was putting the names of all the Pharisees down there. Now, I am confident he knew what their names were. He's God for peace's sake. He's all knowing. But I don't know that that's what he was doing. Stop that. He was writing their names from the oldest to age-wise, putting them all down, and these guys saw it and said, Good night, he knows everything about me. And that's why they walked off. That's speculation. I don't know. Some suggesting he was writing a passage from Jeremiah. Others suggest maybe he was just frustrated with their self-righteousness and he's just I don't think I I have a hard time seeing God frustrated. I imagine he does, gets frustrated I think, this is my speculation, I think he's doing all this deliberately to get their focus on him so they pay very, very careful attention to what he says. I think this is a technique. Now this isn't my opinion. This is a technique he is using. Whatever he wrote, I have no idea. But I think this is a technique he is using, and they are focused in on him, and they're going to pay very, very careful attention to what he says. They will not be able to ignore the statement he's about to make. That's what all this is about. I found in working with children, and it and it's a technique you can use in any situation. But I've found that if you're losing the attention of people, and some of you school teachers know this, if you're losing the attention of the kids, sometimes if you just go quiet They'll all stop. I've seen in Bible time. Well, I did a rally in Denver. We had uh six hundred fourth, fifth, and sixth graders in this thing. Six hundred of them And they were just, and if Bible time works, I'm doing the program and I had their attention and stuff was we did a game or something, it was all chaos, and I just stopped and stood there for a second and I started whispering a little bit. And terrible Terry. was up on the rim. Six hundred kids all of a sudden, z what is he doing? What's he saying? Listen You're doing it right now. I think that's what Jesus is doing. This is my opinion. I think this is all a tool, a technique he's using, so that they will pay very, very careful attention to them. He is forcing them to do two things. One, pay attention to him. Now look at verse 7. Then and so when they continued him, he lifted up himself and said, Do you agree with me? He's got their attention. They're done. They've thrown everything they had. They're no longer in control. He is now taking control of this whole situation just by using that technique. And he makes this statement. He that is without sin among you, let him cast the first stone at her. Huh? He's got their attention on himself. Now he's turning that attention off of her sin onto who? Their own sin. Hers was horrendous, absolutely. I'm suggesting you the sins of their own hearts and lives before a holy God were just as horrendous. He's forcing them to judge themselves. We're told in 1 Corinthians chapter 11, the Bible says this, judge yourselves. That ye be not judged. We're told in Matthew chapter 7, Jesus said this in the Sermon on the Mount. He says, I'm putting my own words, he's saying, the measure that you judge others It's what you're going to be judged by. You want total fulfillment of the law on this woman, then the same thing goes for you. You're condemning her for her sin? Alright, let's consider your sin for a moment He is getting their eyes off the sins of another and getting on their own sins, our own sins. Jesus' actions, I believe, in not responding immediately, but taking his time, and like I said, I don't think any of this is rushed. I think he's very deliberately His actions and this statement: he that is without sin, let him cast the first sin. All that was used of God to prick their own conscience. Now it's interesting, look at verse 9. And after he makes that and again stooped down and wrote in the ground, what's he doing? I think he's letting him chew on that for a little bit. And I believe this is me, this is my understanding. When the Lord stooped back down again, I see those guys standing. There's poor woman. Shame and embarrassment, guilt beyond comprehension. Public I see those guys standing there, and all the wicked, ungodly thoughts and hidden sins, covered sins of their own heart and life are suddenly coming to mind. It's called conviction. And standing before a holy God, they begin to realize I have no justification for For condemning this woman, I am condemned myself. But here's the interesting thing. Rather than acknowledging that Rather than confessing and saying, Lord, you know you're right, I need forgiveness as much as she does. I need mercy as much as she does. Lord. I'm looking to you, Lord Jesus, and I'm trusting you for full pardon and full mercy and full rather than doing that, what do they do? What's it say? They walk away. They walk away. Here was their opportunity to be saved. Here was their opportunity to have their sins cleansed and forgiven. had nothing to do with this woman's horrendous sin. It was it was their standing before God that needed to be dealt with. It was their sin before a holy God that needed forgiveness and cleansing. And rather than accepting the gift of God The Lord Jesus Christ and the mercy of God personified in the Lord Jesus Christ, rather than accepting that, they walk away from it. In their sin, condemned the very thing they're trying to do to this woman, they bring upon themselves. As far as we know, these men died in their sins today as I stand before you are literally burning in a devil's hell. Contrast that is this woman. Everybody knows she's guilty. Everybody knows she's a sinner. Good night. That's been embarrassingly plain. But the interesting thing is she doesn't run away. That's what captivates me about this. Let's put ourselves for a moment, if you would, put ourselves in her shoes. You have been humiliated and shamed and unbelievable guilt upon you in front of God and the world. And your accusers now walk off and leave you there. My thinking is, man, I would hightail it out of there as fast as I can. I would want to go find a rock and crawl under it. I want to find a cliff and jump off of it. I don't want. But she doesn't do any of that. She stands there before the Lord. And she just stays there. What's happening? I believe this woman understood that this man, Jesus, whether she comprehended who and all he was and what all he was, I don't know. But I think she understood this man is merciful. This man cares about me. This man is where I find forgiveness. And grace and mercy. And you know what? She was right. The best place for her to be was standing before Jesus Christ. The most merciful being in all of history, the Son of God, the magnificent mercy of our Savior. The Pharisees, they had hidden sins. Nobody could perhaps name what the Pharisees' sins were, but they knew and they knew God knew and they knew Jesus knew. And rather than confess it and forsake it and deal with it, they walked away. This woman, everybody in the world knew where her sin was. And she stood still, acknowledging it and seeking the Lord. Look at verse 11. She said, no, he says, verse 10, he says, Where are thy accusers? Had no man condemned thee? She goes, no man, Lord. Isn't this a great statement? Neither do I condemn thee. I don't know about you, but imagine standing before Jesus Christ, the God of creation, the most holy being in existence, perfectly holy. It says to Dennis Leatherman, Dennis, I don't condemn you. I know me. You know your heart. You know your life. We deserve to be condemned. We've sinned against God. And he says to this woman who's trusting him so much, I don't condemn you. I don't condemn you. Before a holy God, all of us are condemned. All of us are guilty. You say, preacher, I've never committed adultery. Praise the Lord. Glad. I wish there were more people who could say that. But the fact of the matter is, just the thought of it in a heart and mind is just as condemned. I'm suggesting to you, all sin is equally condemned before a holy God. Now it doesn't all have equal consequences. There are some sins that have greater consequences than others. I've said this often over the years. I would uh Jesus said he that hates a man in his heart is just as condemned as he that kills a man I would rather somebody hate me than kill me. Right? But Jesus said they're both equally condemned. There's not equal consequences. Killing me has more consequences than hating me. But before God, they're both condemned. And whether you and I may have not committed this horrendous sin or that Horrendous sin. We all have some sin in our hearts and lives that is just as condemned as we want to look down on others for We all have sin in our hearts that is just as hideous to God as that which others we like to look down on others for. Oh, she's an adulteress. Ah, he's an adulterer. Oh, he's this, he's that, she's this, she's that, oh, I would we talked about this in Sunday school. I would ni I'm not perfect, but uh praise the Lord, I've never done that Better be careful, you're saying the exact same thing these Pharisees are saying. Exact same attitude Say, preacher, are we saying we shouldn't condemn sin? Are you saying with just, well, whatever's fine? No. He says, neither do I condemn thee, but he doesn't stop there. What's he say after that? Go and sin no more. He says, listen, don't do this anymore Stop it. We can come to the Lord Jesus Christ as our Savior and we accept it and He forgives us and He removes the condemnation, the just condemnation. There's now therefore no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus. We trust Christ, that condemnation of our sin is removed. We're no longer condemned. We're no longer fearful of hell. We're no longer uh uh judged and go to hell. I know my sins every day. I know them all my heaven when I accept Jesus as my Savior. Then he says to us, listen, now you need to start living right Start doing right. Living godly life. Do right. Please the Lord. Live for Him. Doesn't mean we don't mess up. Doesn't mean we don't sin, but it does mean he's uh I guess what I'm trying to say is this God's mercy and forgiveness does not justify continue living in sin. He expects us to go and do right. Her humility and faith applied God's mercy to her. The Pharisees could have received mercy. And they didn't. They walked away. I've seen it so often. For 23 years I've preached my heart out from this pulpit, this platform, preached my heart out. I tried my best to preach the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. That people would understand how to be saved and receive Christ. And I've seen it often, often, often over the years. People heard that, understood it, and rather than trusting Christ, they just walk away. Walk away. I've stood at people's I've sat in people's living rooms, stood at their doors and shared as best Yes, I know how, with an open Bible, share with people how to be saved and how they can have forgiveness and not be condemned for their sin, but have new life and have a home in heaven and show them and invite them to make that simple decision and put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Say something like this. Oh, not now. Not now. Oh, I understand. You're right, preacher. I'm a sinner. I know it. I need to be saved. Someday. Thanks for coming by. So long. And they walk away in their sins. Others in the church witnessing soul winning, you've seen the same thing. This woman accepted what Christ offered her. In spite of how horrendous her sin was, she found forgiveness and cleansing and marvelous mercy from our Savior. And she simply received it. Simply accept it. Don't condemn you. Go and sin no more. Don't do that anymore. Stop it. Forgiven. Condemnation removed. One last thing before and and I this fascinates me, and I kind of came up this after I prepared a message. I was going back over and I noticed something. These Pharisees had unwittingly woman to the best person she could ever possibly meet. They wanted her to come to Jesus Christ so they could condemn him along with her. And lo and behold, she ends up getting saved. They were unwitting soul winners. How about that? I'm telling you, God will use even the reluctant, even the numbskulls. They bring them to Jesus. Isn't that something? Alright, so preacher, what do you want me to do? Well, what does God want us to do? I put this down. We need to be careful about condemning others. How many people agree? We need to be real careful about that. How many of you agree with me? It's pretty easy. We can always find somebody that's worse than us, quote unquote. Oh, good night. Look at that guy. He's got all that. Wait a minute. Be careful. You might be glad to know this. Uh maybe I shouldn't say You might be glad to know this your pastor, I don't have any tattoos. And I ain't going to either. Now don't get mad at me. I don't have any earrings. I don't have any nose rings. I don't have lip rings. I don't have any any rings. I raised all these things. But you know what? I'm just as bad a sinner as the guy in front of me with all the tattoos and all the metal and all the loud music and all the green, purple, red, yellow hair. All that stuff. You know what? Before God I'm just as much sinner as the worst one you can find. You follow what I'm saying I probably made somebody mad at me. I didn't mean to. What I'm saying is this: we're all equally condemned before God as sinners. And so be real careful about finding someone else that might be doing a sin. I'm not doing a sin. Oh, they're terrible. You that are out sin, cast the first stone. So my point is this. Let's be very, very careful about condemning others. Number two, I put this down. We need to be aware of our own sinful heart. Beware of my own sinful heart. What makes that person such a quote-unquote horrendous sinner is a sinful heart, the very same thing I have. Number three, let's bring others to Christ. If you and I have trusted Christ and we found forgiveness in Christ and we found He's no longer condemning us because we've accepted Jesus. Let's rejoice in that. Hey, let's go find others. And not like the Pharisees be unwitting soul winners. Let's do it on purpose. Let's go find people and bring them to Christ and show them and introduce them to the Lord Jesus Christ. And then if we're saved, let's go and sin no more. Now we can't we'll never get to that point where we're sinless. I understand that. We all understand that. But I am saying this, as a sane person, as a child of God, I ought to be living right. Amen? Simply out of appreciation for what Christ has done for me. How to do right, how to be very careful, how to be uh try and be pure and have a testimony. That is pleasing to God and a life that is pleasing to God. And we need to work at that. Father in heaven, I ask you to help. Lord, take these thoughts. God, maybe you'd challenge us, maybe you would help us to understand our own hearts and lives and how great your mercy is and how desperate others need you. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many say, Preacher, I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. I've accepted Jesus Christ as my Savior. That's a settled matter. I have biblical basis for that. But you'd say, Preacher I want to be a soul winner and be able to bring others to Christ that are just as sinful as I am. We're all in the same boat. I want to bring others so that they can find forgiveness and they can find salvation in Christ like this woman did. Is there any like that? Say, preacher, pray for me. I want to be that soul winner. God bless you. If all of us would give ourselves to this, we'd see a lot of people saved, I'm sure of it. How many would say, preacher, I'm saved? But God's Holy Spirit has spoken to my heart about Samaria in my life. I need to go and do no more. So Mary, my life, it's not what it ought to be. And God's been very clear and is dealing with my heart about it. And it's between you and him. But you'd say, preacher, pray for me There's some areas in my life I really need to get straightened out. Some areas in my life that are not a good testimony, not what God would have me to be. Anything like that by the uplifted hand. God bless you. Actually, if the truth were known, it'd be every one of us, no doubt. And I'm not going to ask you to raise your hand on this, but if we've got caught up in condemning others, and there's no doubt if that's the case, the Holy Spirit is bringing that exactly to our minds right now. Let's confess that is sin. We don't want to be like the Pharisees under any circumstances. Confess that is sin. Let's forsake that. And rather condemning, let's start blessing. Doesn't mean we're compromising our sin or we're justifying. No, we hold it line against sin. But we don't go around condemning others. Or we bring them to Christ. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Now before we stand our heads above as close, one last question I failed to ask this. Would there be any here this morning say, Preacher, I'm not sure I'm going to heaven when I die? Preacher, I don't want to go to hell. I'd like to know for sure in my heart that God has completely forgiven me and saved me, that I'm going to heaven one night. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. That's a real concern of mine in my heart and life. Any at all And you're all father blessed now our imitation in Jesus' name. Let's stand together