Matthew chapter number eighteen. I don't want to keep you long and I don't remember it's been so long. I do remember that Pastor Lutherman usually goes longer than Pastor Bowman. But I don't remember what time he actually ends or not, so but I'll try not to keep you too late. I know what it's like. I work with school bus throughout the school year. And it's I know what it's like to you have to be able to uh get up at five o'clock the next morning. So I don't want to keep you too late, but I do want to give you something that the Lord will speak to all of us, I hope. Uh as I was thinking about what I was going to preach, uh actually when Pastor Leatherman asked me to preach, I didn't have to think too much about what I was going to preach. I was telling my wife that the Lord has laid this message on my heart for some time But he's not yet allowed me to preach it. And I thought I was actually preparing this message for some time at Calvary Baptist Church. But the Lord's not allowed me to use this message yet. And then when Pastor Lutherman called asked me to speak The Lord said that message is for here. And I thought I don't know why, because of a church that I think about this message, I feel like this church is Involved in this message. And in fact, on Wednesday night, I feel like I'm preaching to the crowd, so or a choir, so to say, but I don't know why, but the Lord's really impressed my heart. I could not get away from this message tonight, and this is what I'm going to speak on. From Matthew 19, we'll start, and we're going to begin reading in verse number 13. And is this the mic you want me to use, Jamie? Which one do you want me to use? Which one would be best? I don't know if I will or not. You know me, I sometimes wonder. So you say it's behind me? I'll get wired up, but we're going to begin reading verse number 13. Is it working? Testing 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. There we go. Alright. Matthew 19, verse 13, it says Then were there brought unto him little children that he should put his hands on them and pray. And the disciples rebuked them. But Jesus said, Suffer little children, and forbid them not to come unto me, for of such is the kingdom of heaven And he laid his hands on them and departed thence. I thought about a title for this message, and the title I give it is Jesus Loves the Little Children. In fact, if I had to give another title, this is my subtitle, is America's Most Neglected Mission Field. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you so much for the opportunity to preach here tonight. And Lord, I pray that you guide my words. Help me to only say what needs to be said here this evening. But Lord, I pray what I'd say would be a help to your people. I pray now, Father, that as we come and gather around your word, that you would have your way. And I'm asking, Father, I'd just be a vessel in your hands I pray for Pastor Leatherman right now that you be with him. Speak through him. I pray for my pastor back home as he teaches the Bible. Lord, I pray that you help your people. And now we as we gather around your word, I pray that you guide and direct us. as the Spirit sees fit and teach us all something here this evening. In Christ's name. Amen. I'm definitely not one for Socrates, but I thought he actually did say something good when he said this Socrates once said, could I climb to the highest place in Athens, I would lift my voice and proclaim, fellow citizens Why do ye turn and scrape every stone to gather wealth and take so little care of your children to whom one day you must relinquish it all to? And I feel like that describes a lot of Americans today. They scrap and they work so hard to get the American dream. Endeavor think once to take care, to put effort into who is going to receive that blessing. Proverbs 22, 6 says this: train up a child in the way he should go. And when he is old, he will not depart from it. But as I look at churches across this land, I'm 36 years old now. I've got the opportunity to serve the Lord here at Mountain Lake. I've had the opportunity to help different churches across West Virginia. I've had the opportunity to help churches in other states. I've had the opportunity to preach in our church. And one of the things I see struggling is that we are not training up children in the way they ought to go. I look at our nation and it's falling apart, and I believe it's because we have forsaken generation after generation in helping young people to see the truths that they need to see in God's Word. There's been many studies done about people leaving the faith, and I know when they say the faith, they consider different things from Catholics to Protestants. But overall, as a whole, from those studies, I find some say as low as 50%, and I say low, that's a big number in my opinion, to as high as 80% of young people leave the faith when they become an adult. Now you think about that. Most of you here today, you know what children are come here to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church Think about the fact of all those little kids you see here on Sunday, and 50% of them most likely won't be here when they're an adult. That's heartbreaking. We have a generation who does not even know the basic concepts of the Bible. When I was started going soul winning at the age of Probably fourteen. I was saved at ten years old here in the bus ministry, like I mentioned. When I started going out door to door knocking on doors, most people at least had some sort of concept of God's word. Nowadays when I witness to people You really got to go back to the basics, back to the beginning, all the way back to Genesis, because there's people that don't even have a concept of what sin is anymore. It's because we have not taught them the truths of God's Word. We have neglected to train the children, and they have departed from the truth. And I believe it's because we just like our convenience. I've talked to people, there's some there's a lot of people today that would rather go on a mission trip to a foreign land and try to reach the heathen for Christ. than to invest in a child and keeping them from becoming a heathen in America. It's pretty clear in our society the direction it's going, and it's because I believe children could tell when they're not wanted. Children can tell when they're seen as a burden, and a lot of churches that's what they're viewed as. You go to the public schools, they want the children there. I work for a public school, I drive a school bus And you can see the all the fun they want to try to promote to the kids to try to teach them things. This world wants the children. There's a lot of wicked lifestyles out there that's trying to draw the children in It's time that God's people wake up and they care about investing in the next generation, that they care about children like they ought to. Like I said, I got the opportunity to help churches. Sometimes we just apply pulpit, uh the fill in the pulpit when places are without a pastor. And a lot of these churches I travel around to help with that that Pastor Bowman allowed me to help I found one thing in common with a lot of them when I showed up at is where are the kids Now, there's nothing wrong with our elderly. I thank God for elderly people in churches that give godly wisdom. I thank God for the elderly people of this church that helped train me and guide me in God's Word to help me be what I ought to be. But I tell you, if we don't have young people in our churches, our churches are going to dry up and shrivel up in the next few decades How can I help you say? And by the way, let me say this tonight, and this is just an introduction. We can help young people. We can have an influence in young people One of the studies I came across, they found that 75% of people leave church. Like I said, some said 50, some said as high as 80, but this one said 75%. But the reason why this one caught my attention, and though I may not agree with everything they believe, I thought it was interesting they wanted to look at the 25% They looked at them and said, why do they stay? Why didn't they leave? Again, this isn't the message, but I thought this might be helpful. That those twenty-five percent of children, they had five things in common, believe it or not. And when I heard the first one, it was just like, that makes sense, but I would never have thought of that Five things that why they said they stay. Number one, sitting down with a family for dinner five nights a week. Imagine that. The 25% that said they sat down as a family. I believe our nation has neglected the family What God views as the family, the home. And those young people said, I remembered that as a child. Those times we get the fellowship. In fact, in our home, that's some of the best times and conversation we can have is just around the dinner table. The second thing they said was they were serving in ministry as a family. Can I ask you, do your children see you serve God? Do they see you actively involved in ministry anywhere? There's a lot of people out there that encourage the children to go to church. You need to go to church. That's good for you, but for me, that's not going to cut it. Well guess what? It's not going to cut it for them either I thought this was an interesting way of saying this, but they said having one spiritual experience in a home once a week, and by that what they mean is they either had a prayer time, they had devotions, they talked about spiritual things at the home. And you are robbing your children if you don't spend time in God's Word at your house with them. They need that time with you and the family. You say, well, I don't have kids. That doesn't apply to me. They said the fourth thing they noticed about all of them that they had in common, they had one faith-focused adult in their life other than their parents. Someone that wasn't their mom and dad that had a big impact on them and they shared their faith with them. I think of the many Sunday school teachers I here had here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church My mind rolls back to Jerry Vogel while he uh on that bus ministry reached my family and would come and uh keep get me for church and would teach you. Those car rides just weren't just for fun. Those car rides were times to teach me God's word. I think of Ed Davis and Chester and just going to McDonald's, the spiritual talks we would have there. They may have clogged my arteries, and my arteries may not be good right now, but they really helped me spiritually Someone outside the home, you know you can have an impact on somebody's children that comes to this church. My own children, I mentioned we just had a vacation Bible school with Joe Kaiser. Joe Kaiser is a man that has an impact on young people. But I can tell when I asked my kids, do you remember who Joe Kaiser is? One of the first things they remember about him is says he's the guy that always smiles. And he's the guy that has a lot of candy. But they remember the his truths that he teaches will impact them for life because of the care he shows to them. Someone outside the home. And then the last thing they know is to all the five of these They are this 25% of the kids that stay in church, they're seeing their parents actively engaged in their faith. You know, if church isn't important to you, the children of this generation aren't going to see it as important. If soul winning is not important to you, they're not going to see it as important. If you're not telling others about Christ, why should they? Now I shared all that to say this: you can have the opportunity to have an impact for others. I believe God wants us to have an impact for others based on the scripture we just read here tonight. Let me read it again to you in Matthew chapter 19. Then were there brought unto him little children that he should put his hands on them and pray, and the disciples rebuked them. But Jesus said, Suffer little children, and forbid them not to come unto me For of such is the kingdom of heaven. You and I have the opportunity to impact children, and I believe that's something Christ would enjoy very much based on the scriptures. God loves little children and wants us to reach little children. I have another statistic here. There was a pastor who once tabulated 253 believers in his church that came to know Christ. I don't know how long he was there, it doesn't say, but he said he calculated 253 believers. In this calculation, he found that 138 of them were under the age of 20. And of those between 60 and 70, only one of them was that age. Most studies I find find that the age of fourteen is a good age where a lot of young people come to know Christ. So let me ask you this. If that's a age group that is Fertile that wants to come to know the Lord Jesus Christ, why are we not doing much to go after that group? Why do we brush it off and say, oh, why don't we just let somebody else influence those children? Why don't we just say, oh, let somebody else that's the youth leader's job. That's let him handle that Why don't we try to have an impact on children when they are so ready for the gospel? And by the way, I've had people tell me, oh, you're just trying to indoctrinate them. Yes, I'm trying to indoctrinate them in the truth This world has no problem indoctrinating kids on the television set, on the radio, anywhere you go, you can see they're trying to indoctrinate the kids for the what's false. Why can't we indoctrinate them on what is right that's going to help them? There's three kinds of influences I see on children in our passage here this evening. And let me share them with you briefly. Number one There are those who brought the children to Jesus in verse number 13. Then were there brought unto him little children. Now, I don't know who these were. I almost put the parents who brought the children to Jesus. In fact, if you were to look at Mark, or not Mark's Luke's gospel, Luke says that some of these children were infants, this little babies So it would be reasonable, I believe, to say, yeah, that these people that brought these young children to Christ, it's probably the parents, but I couldn't say it because that's not what it says. It just says they brought the children The first influence I see is those who brought children to Jesus Christ You know, you and I can have that influence on the Lord Jesus Christ. As I mentioned, Jerry Vogel was a man that brought me to church on a bus as a young child. I am where I am today because somebody said I can go and influence young people to come to church. And we all have that opportunity. We can influence people, little ones, and bring them to Jesus There are people who want to bring children to a good social life. They'll have social workers trying to get children. They need a better environment. Now I know they mean good intentions, but what young people need more than a good environment is they need the Lord Jesus Christ as their Savior. There's a lot of people out there that have good environments, good money, good homes, good cars, good everything, but they don't have Christ and they're empty and they're miserable And that is the direction you're taking these young people if they don't have the Lord Jesus. As I mentioned, we live in a pawn-off responsibility in our society. A lot of parents, they just want to pawn off the responsibility of children. They want to have someone else teach their children. Let someone else educate the children. They want to have someone else watch the children, have the babysitter, have the daycare, somebody else watch the children. Even in our churches, they want to have someone else provide for them spiritually. Oh, that's the pastor's job That's the youth pastor job. Let them teach them God's word. For sake of time, I'm not going to turn to these scriptures, but you can mark them down. Deuteronomy chapter number six, it says this In verse 4, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord, and thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart and with all thy soul. And with all thy might. And these words which I command thee this day shall be in thine heart. And thou shalt teach them diligently. unto thy children, and shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up. Now I'm not saying that Moses didn't have an influence on the people of Israel But it sounds like there God didn't say, hey, people, it's Moses' responsibility for you to teach your children the law. He says it is your responsibility to talk about in your house, to share with God's word with those young people. And we have parents, so many parents today that just say, let the youth pastor do that, let the pastor do that, and they don't have the Bible in their homes, and the young people are starving for truth and they're not getting it How about Ephesians chapter 6 verse 4? And ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. The word nurture means correction. If you don't correct your children, you're setting them up for great disappointment when they come to reality in life. Because guess what happens when you're an adult and you do things that aren't lawful? You're going to suffer correction. We have a lot of young people that don't know what correction is until it's too late in their lives. The word nurture there means correction. The word admonition there means warning. We need to do our job in warning young people. It's not his father's. I love what 2 Timothy 1 5 says. When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois. And thy mother Eunice, and I am persuaded that is in thee also. Grandparents, don't underestimate your influence on a younger generation. You can influence young people. Moms and dads, you can influence young people. You say, well, that's not my kids. It's not my problem. Again, the passage didn't say parents. We don't know who brought these children to Christ. You know, we go out soul willing to tell people about Jesus. Why? Because there's some adults out there that didn't grow up in a Christian home that don't know about Jesus, and we know they need someone to share the truth with them. Guess what? There's children like that too. Yes, that's the parents' responsibility, but we can be there for those who are not getting that and reach them. I love bus ministry. I love seeing kids come to church on the buses. I love junior church. I love these activities that we do. I'm all for those things. Why? Because I'm in four young people coming to know the truth. Just like these people who were wanting to bring these children to Jesus, that ought to be our heart that we reach young people of this generation that they come to know Christ. This church, which it was when I was a child, and I believe it still is today, but I'm saying this to encourage you, this church ought to be a place where children can find hope and they can have peace. This ought to be a place where they can find a lighthouse that's going to direct them and this world that's leading them astray. These people, let me just mention some characteristics I see of them. First off, I already mentioned they brought people to Christ. Is there someone that you know that you can bring them here to church? I don't just mean children, but anybody, but especially children. Is there someone that you could be bringing with you to church? That you could be helping by just getting them here to those doors? They brought them to Christ. I like this. They bathed them in prayer. Why did they bring them to Jesus? We find in Mark's gospel it says this in chapter number 10. It says, And they brought young children to him that he should touch them His disciples rebuked those that brought them. I love what says in Luke's, it says and they brought unto him also infants that he would touch them And then, of course, in our passage here, it says that he brought him to Jesus. They brought unto him little children that he should put his hands on them and pray. Oh, the young people of this generation needs our prayers. I've Samuel mentioned the fact that he said it was a sin for him to not pray for the people, and how much more of it is a sin for us if we do not pray for this generation to come. Our young people today are bombarded with things that even when I was a child that we didn't have a problem with. And we need to pray for God's protection on these young people, that God would send people to reach them We need to pray for these young people. They brought them to Christ. They bathed them in prayer. I like this. They wanted God's blessing on them. In Mark's gospel, it mentions this as well. It says in Mark chapter number 10 And they brought young children to him that he should touch them, and his disciples rebuked them. When you study the word touched, I think it's interesting, and as well as in this passage here. The best way I know how to illustrate this, this was something that was important to the Jewish people. Go back to Genesis chapter number 48. I do want you to see this. We're going to come back here to Matthew. But Genesis 48. I think this is a good passage. This illustrates what they're wanting to go on in this what these parents, these people are wanting to go on with the children here In Genesis 48, Jacob is coming to the end of his life, and before the end of his life, he wants to bless Joseph's children. I love what it says in Genesis 48, verse 14. And Israel, speaking of Jacob, stretched out his right hand and laid it upon him, upon Ephraim's head, who was the younger, and his left hand on Manasseh's head. Guiding his hand wittily, for Manasseh was the firstborn. What we see taking place, and most of you may be familiar with this passage, is Jacob blessing his children, giving his blessing upon them He wanted God's blessing to be upon him. Most of us are familiar with Isaac as well, with Jacob, how he blessed him. They wanted Christ to give his blessing on these children. Let me ask you this. Do you desire the next generation to have God's blessings like you had it? Do you desire young people to have a church that you went to? I tell you, I thank God for this church, and I was able to grow up in this church But I want the young next generation to be able to have a church like this that they can come to and have the light and that they can get the truth and that they can have their lives change and that they can enjoy the blessings of God in their life And that's what these people wanted. They wanted Christ to give his blessing upon those young people. They were bringing them to Christ. I need to hasten on. Not only was those that brought pe the children to Christ, Well, I see these kind of people as well, those who turn the children away from Jesus. Now I'm speaking more specifically about the disciples. And chapter 19, verse 13, it says at the end of the verse, and the disciples rebuked them Now I'm going to be perfectly honest with you, studying the life of the disciples and studying the scriptures, I don't think the disciples were the kind of people that just wanted others to turn away from Jesus. In fact, I I studied them. I feel like they wanted others to come to Christ. I don't think they were doing this as an intent of harm they wanted to do to these children As I study this passage, I find it as if it's almost an inconvenience for them. If you study the context of Matthew chapter 19, Mark chapter number 10, and Luke 18, What you see going on in Matthew and Mark is the situation that's going on. Christ is doing some serious teaching. It's like one of those messages you're really getting into. He was talking to them about marriage and divorce, and they were really into this stuff. And also in Luke, he mentions that he was talking about prayer, and they were really hanging on, learning about how to pray So these kind of things Jesus Christ is teaching on, and all of a sudden these people show up with these kids wanting Jesus to bless them. It's almost like they were saying, Come on, can't you see he's teaching us? We're into this. We want to hear about this. We're excited about this. This is not the time for that. It was almost as if it's an inconvenience for them. And I'll be honest with you, if you're going to help in reaching young people for Christ, it is work. It takes work to get young people here for the Lord Jesus Christ. And it's easy to just want to go to church, enjoy the music, sit and listen to the preaching, and just have your soul blessed. But if we are going to reach this next generation, if they are going to have the truth, it does take some work I think about what I do at Calvary Baptist Church and I and by no means am I somebody to put on the pedestal, but I can understand from working and I'm sure some of you have worked with young people, you know what it's like Instead of sitting and listening to the preaching, you're down there teaching the Sunday school class. Uh you're in the junior church room. You're uh working with those young people instead of being the one that's listening to the message Uh nursery workers, no, I don't work in the nursery, but uh the ladies that work in the nursery, I'm sure you know that sometimes that can be work. Toddler age, that can be a real lot of work. I get to teach those little guys It's a lot of work, yes, but the rewards are great. And by the way, if that's you, do not forget, Christ knows what you are doing. He says in Matthew chapter number ten, and whosoever shall give to drink unto one of these little ones a cup of cold water, only in the name of a disciple, verily I say unto you, he shall in no wise lose his reward. Hey, the Lord Jesus sees you when you're working for young people. He knows what you're doing. It's not, he's it is not in vain. It is worth the investment. I would love to see Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church go on for years to come. I love to see Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church reach its 100-year mark. But if you don't reach the next generation, it will never make it there. So many people are like the disciples and just love the convenience of what's going on around them instead of taking the time to invest. And by the way, let me I don't know why I put this in my notes in this spot, but I just thought it needed to be said. Just because we want young people to be here does not mean we want it to be chaotic. Chaos is not a blessing for young people. You know, some people don't like the idea of church bus kids coming because all they're unruly. Well, how are they going to learn if nobody teaches them You know, we can share with them the truth. And we can show them what order is, and we can show them what true peace is when they obey the rules. They need someone to help them, someone to be a lighthouse for them. Not getting involved, not participating, not praying, what a devastation that will have upon it. You see, how can I be involved? What how can I not be like the disciple? There's all kinds of ways we can participate. Something as simple as just giving snacks to kids. I tell you, I pr uh do they still pass up a sign-up sheet for snacks around? I knew they did that one. Hey, those snacks are wonderful for kids. They love those things Praying for them. Just talking with them. You have no idea the impact it has on a little child, just to say a few words of encouragement to them, to show them something they don't know We can have an impact and get involved and not be like the disciples. I want to say this about the disciples. I need to really hasten on, but I want to say this about the disciples. Notice Christ's response to what the disciples did If you're here today and you think, oh, I just don't want to get involved with those children. I just that's just too much. That's just not for me. Look at Christ's response in Mark chapter number 10. I want you to see this in Mark chapter number 10. How did Christ feel about when those disciples said they rebuked? And by the way, the word rebuke there means to correct. They thought they were in the right. They were saying, look, this is not the time and the place for this. You just know you're not to be here. In Mark chapter number 10, and look at me if you would, in verse number 14, but when Jesus saw it, he was much displeased. I tell you what is Christ's response when you don't want to be involved with children, it hurts his feelings. I can't imagine causing my Savior grief. But Christ says that causes them grief. In fact, it goes a step further just the chapter before. In Mark chapter number nine, verse 42, it says this and whosoever shall offend one of these little ones that believe in me, it were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck and he were cast in the sea. You say, Brother James, what does it mean to have a millstone cast about your neck? I say, I don't know what it means But I really don't want to find out. I know one thing. I know Christ is getting a message across. That does not please him when someone offends a little one and turns them away from the faith. We ought to have compassion and care and love for the young people and not be like the disciples. Now I'm thankful that Jesus didn't take those twelve disciples and throw them away. Well he did help them. And I'm hoping that's what I'm doing tonight with you. Hope that I can help you see how Christ feels about young people. And that's the last individual I want to look at. We see the ones that brought the people to Christ. They were soul winners for of the children. We saw those that turned away young people from Christ, the disciples. The last one I see is the Lord Jesus Christ Himself And what I see in him is the care for children. He cared about children. We could spend a lot of time on this, but I'm not going to. One of the ways he showed care is he showed affection to them. It says in verse number 16 in Mark chapter number 10, and he took them up in his arms put his hands upon them and blessed them. You know, he took them up in his arms. We find that when you look at Mark's gospel, he gets into details. He sees responses of the Lord Jesus Christ and how he responds. He put them up in his arms. Now, I know we have to be careful in our day and age because of how people are and the lawsuits they like to bring, but I tell you what, we could still show children that we care about them. We could still write them a card, a thank you note. We could still call them on the phone, invite them to church. We could still teach them. We could talk with them. We can still show them that we care, just like Christ showed those young people that he cared about them. I like what he said to the disciples because it says, Suffer the little children to come unto me. The word suffer there in the Greek means to leave. In our day and age, we'd say like this, leave them alone. He says, forbid them not. You know what he wanted? He wanted their presence. You know, one of the ways we can help young people the best is we can be there for them. I tell you what, I mentioned Jerry a lot because he was one of the people that influenced me as a child in this church. But I tell you one of the things he did, he didn't just see me on Sunday morning. He would stop by and visit, see how I was doing. He would come and talk. He would come do things for us in our family. Just to help us out, like a number of people in this church. You know, we can show our presence to the young people, show them that we care. Show affection. He blessed them I like that word blessed. I got to study that word blessed. It has a lot of meanings. I think they all are very fitting of this passage. Number one, it means to speak well of. The young people of our generation get a lot of discouragement from the world. It's a nice thing when we can see have a place where young people can come and just be encouraged. To speak well of, say, hey, you did a good job with that project. Now we don't have to lie to them, but we can be encouraging to young people. We can point out the good that you see in them, encourage them to do what's right. I love what Pastor Leatherman always asks. How many have your Bibles with you? How many read your Bible every single day? We can do that with young people. It means to speak well of, it means to thank them. He can thank the young people for what they do. It means to pray for them. It means to praise them He cared for young people, and that's what we can do as well. I'm really trying to wrap this up. I'm going to conclude with this D. L. Moody is a preacher I I get encouraged pro by a lot of by. You know, growing up or In the last ten years or so of ministry, you know, I get asked quite a bit, you know, what's where are you going from here? What are you gonna do? I'll be honest with you, God's had me work with young people and I love it. I enjoy working with young people But you know, it's like some people you tell them that it's like, but you're not a pastor or you're not like the main guy in the church You know, that never really bothered me. I never took any offense of that when I was told that. But you know this really encouraged me when I heard this about DL Moody. For those who don't know, D. L. Moody preached the thousands. He had an impact on a lot of people. You know, if somebody was a preacher trying to look up to a preacher, D. L. Moody was that kind of guy. But I thought this was interesting. I found a quote. It was actually, I think back in March, I found a quote by him, and it stuck with me. It's impacted me. And I really love this quote. I have it on my phone. D. L. Moody had this to say about all his ministry, you know, how he had impacts on thousands. He's preached to thousands at a time. He said, if I could relive my life. I would devote my entire ministry to reaching young people for God That's the man that had such an impact on our country by preaching to thousands. He said, if I could start my ministry over today and I could do the whole thing over again, I would give my entire life to invest in young people that they follow after God. You know, you look at those Solomon, wisest man that ever lived. And he went and wasted his life toward the end. But when he wrote his last book, Ecclesiastes, in Ecclesiastes number 12, you know who he addresses? He addresses the younger people in his generation. And you know what he encourages them to do? Remember thy creator He tells them, fear God and keep his commandments. For this is the whole duty of man. You know what he's doing? He realized. I want to have an impact on the next generation. I want them to fall after God, not make the same mistakes that I did. And you and I have that opportunity to reach young people for the Lord Jesus Christ. Are you going to take that opportunity? There's a lot of them around here in Mount Lake. There's a lot of them around here in Oakland, Terra Alta. And you can have a part in that in some way, shape, or form. Will you be involved in reaching on people? Jesus loves those little children. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you so much for the opportunity to preach this message. And Lord, I have no idea who this was for But Lord, I pray to help me and others around me here tonight. Lord, I thank you for their faithfulness on a Wednesday night. That they love you enough to be here tonight. Lord, I pray they have that same love and care toward the young people around here, that they would teach them the truth of the Bible. Lord, I pray that you help us to love your word. Heads by eyes closed, no one looking around. I never want to pass up the opportunity. I tell our young people I don't like passing up an opportunity for someone to come to know Christ. And maybe you're here tonight and you say, Brother James, I don't know for sure. I'm going to heaven. And as you finish praying, would you pray for me in that prayer? Saying, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven, but would you pray for me? Anybody like that? Oh, that you would slip your hand up and I'll pray for you. Anybody else says, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven. I want to pray for you as I get ready to close in prayer. Anybody like that at all? And I'll pray for you Father in heaven, as we have this invitation now, I pray that you uh work in our hearts. I pray that we would be submissive to your spirit in Christ's name. As the music begins to play, let's all stand.