Luke chapter 15. I'd like for us to look at the first two verses there. Luke chapter 15. I sure wish Brother Forney was here preaching, but he can't be, as we said. We'll pray for him. So we'll ask the Lord to speak our hearts and challenge us on this matter of missions. Verse 1 says, then drew near unto him. Now think about that. These people are being attracted to the Lord Jesus Christ. It says, then drew near unto him, oh, where he's going. These people are showing up and they're coming and gathering around them. They're sitting under his teaching. They're looking for miracles. They're asked, looking to him to meet needs and help them. And look who it is that's being attracted to him. Then drew near unto him all the what? Publicans and Sinners. Now you need to understand when the Bible references publicans and sinners. Now we're all sinners, right? We understand that. We're all sinners. There's none righteous. No, not one. But when the Bible references publicans and sinners, generally the Bible is speaking about, God is speaking about folks that are absolutely living in sin. Anybody know what I mean? It's one thing to be a sinner. It's another thing out there living in sin. And not that we're better than anybody else, but that's their lifestyle. These publicans uh ha are often folks sold out their country and and uh dishonest and thieves And just a very, very sinful lifestyle. And these are the people that are attracted to Jesus Christ. Isn't that something? Now you would think, in my mind, just my natural thinking, this is the Son of God. This is a man, a God man, that is without sin. That is pure and holy in every way. And it looks to me that the pure and the godly and the righteous in our minds anyway, would be attracted to that, right? Looks like that is, you know, people that are living right and doing good and all of that, not these what we might refer to as low-life, man, these wicked lifestyles. But yet the exact opposite took place. The sinners, you know what it was? Those in need of forgiveness. Those who saw that need, saw what they were, understood where they stood, and they came to Jesus Christ because they saw in Jesus Christ there was forgiveness. In Jesus Christ there was new life. In Jesus Christ there was salvation. So these publicans and sinners, they're attracted to Jesus Christ. Look what it says. It says, There came unto him all the publicans and sinners, for to hear him. Now look how the Pharisees responded, the self-righteous, the holier than thou, the judgmental. The Pharisees and scribes, what'd they do? Murmured. I circled that. They murmured, saying, This man receiveth sinners and eateth with them. I'm here to tell you this morning, Jesus loves sinners. Jesus loves. How many people are glad for that? You know, there was a day, and still I guess humanly speaking, I still fit the category, but there was a day I would have been one of those publicans I was one of those sinners, living in sin, away from God, as lost as you can be. I'm so glad Jesus loved me. I'm so glad he received me. Amen. Can I get a witness? Anybody else in those same shoes? What a Savior. Jesus receiveth sinners. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to challenge our hearts. Father in heaven. I thank you, Lord, that you love us, Lord, as sinners as we are, that you receive us, anybody, regardless of our background, regardless of our behavior. Regardless of what we've said and done, if we'll come to you in humility, you'll receive us And you'll bless us and save us, give us eternal life, and you'll use us to bring others. So I pray now in this hour, you would speak to our hearts, you would challenge us, open our spiritual eyes. To see ourselves and see this world the way you see it. Help us to have an eternal mindset, a spiritual values. And so I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. And I pray with all my heart, dear Lord, that you would fill me with your spirit and you would speak through me in this hour. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I get a lot of literature in the mail and a little a lot of correspondence from mission agencies, uh different Bible colleges, and um Uh I've noticed and and and these missions agencies and the Bible colleges, those preparing uh young men and women to serve the Lord, whether it's In the ministry is a local church or maybe on the foreign field as missionaries. There's a real disturbing trend That the mission boards and the Bible colleges are telling us. And that is this. They're finding fewer and fewer young people, or actually of all ages, fewer and fewer Christians are willing to give of themselves to the ministry or to go to the foreign field and take the gospel to those that have no gospel, that have no word of God. And they say the numbers are going down each year, less and less and less. Now, I don't know about you, but that's a disturbing trend. That bothers me. I get out and preach a little bit, not a lot, and the overwhelming majority of the churches I get into are very strong on missions, are very strong on soul winning, and I'm grateful for that But he get out a little bit, and I get in some churches sometimes, and uh more than ought to be, enough that it bothers me, is there's little or no emphasis on missions. There's little or no emphasis on the God's people being involved in the Great Commission, whether it's locally winning souls in their community to Christ. Or it's being a part of a worldwide mission and getting missionaries and getting the gospel around the world. Little or no involvement. Sometimes I'll be in a church and there's not one word spoken about soul winning or missions. There's nothing in their literature, there's nothing on the walls. There's no mention at all about missions. And uh I wonder why that is. Sometimes Christians just have little heart For the Great Commission. This isn't very high priority in my thinking, not very high priority in my life. Oh, it's something nice. We sing about it. So little time. Like Mark sang here a little bit. Send a light. Oh, we like to sing in. And oh Yeah, missionary, but it's really not a very high priority in the hearts and minds of some Christians, God's people. And I wonder why that is I ask myself, why is that? Now I would never try I'm not trying to guilt anybody. I would not try and guilt anybody to being a part of missions. But I think I want to try and answer what I believe to be a legitimate question this morning. Why so few? Are involved in getting the gospel to a world that desperately needs it. Why is it such a low priority in so many circles of God's people, of Christianity? Now I'd like to believe that our church uh I'd like to believe that our church missions is a high priority in our church. I uh we work towards that, and I think I'd like to believe that we're we're there Uh I mentioned I think it was in Sunday school, brother Scott Hall is with the Lord now or missionary to Africa, but he was come, he was speaking for us one time. I tell you, it just stirred my heart. Just such an encouraging thing. He walked in and I don't know if you remember, he said from the pulpit, he says Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church screams missions. I don't know that we scream it, but uh that encouraged my heart But I wonder why is there so few? Why is there so few? I put a few reasons down here why maybe a Christian might not be real concerned. About being involved, praying for, and supporting, or even going to the mission field. One, I wrote down this. Maybe it's because they fail to see the value of a soul The value of a soul. Look at verse number four here in this passage. Now the Pharisees criticized the Lord Jesus because these publicans, these sinners, were coming to them. And he received them and he sat down and ate meals with them. He interacted with them. And they criticized them for that. And they murmured. And he responded with a series of parables that are absolutely profound. And the first parable is here in verse number four. Verse 3 says, he spake a parable unto them. He's responding to their criticism of him reaching the loss, getting after sinners. And he says this, what man of you, now he's applying it here, what man of you having a hundred sheep If he loses one of them, doth not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness, and go after that which is lost Look at the last three words. Until he find it. Four words. And when he had found it, he layeth it on his shoulders, rejoicing. And when he cometh home, he calleth together his friends and his neighbors, saying unto them, Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep that was lost. You know what I see there? I see he sees the value of that sheep. That one sheep. He has 90 and 9. He has a hundred. And one is lost. And in the mind of that shepherd, that one lost sheep that's in danger of perishing. That is in grave danger, is of greatest value that he's willing to leave the others. Go out, no doubt, maybe in the dark night, it's at the end of the day. He realizes one is missing I can imagine some hireling shepherds would say, well, it's just one. It's not a big deal. It's dark. We're tired. Nighttime, well, uh, we can afford to lose one. No, no, no. This shepherd says that one is of tremendous value to me Can I suggest to you that one person that is unsaved in their sins is of tremendous value to the Lord Jesus Christ? We often say this, if I was the only one on planet Earth, Jesus Christ would have still died for me. The value Of one. Of one. Say, oh preacher, we send missionaries out and we give money and uh all this uh logistics and effort and inconvenience and sacrifice and they get out on the mission field And they just have a handful of people saved. Hey, praise God for a handful of people saved from the fires of hell and find eternal life in the Lord Jesus Christ. I think sometimes we as Christians missions and soul winning and reaching the lost is not a high priority to us because we fail to realize the value of one soul. How many folks here you're saved and you know it? Say amen. How many people, if you were in the middle of Russia, in a city with no gospel preaching church, no witness? How many people would wish, that was your case, you'd wish somebody would come and at least tell you how to be saved from hell. Anybody like that? Sure. Sure. You know what? There's billions. Of people around the world, just as loved by God as you and I are. Jesus died on the cross for their sins just as much as he died on the cross for your sins and my sins. And God wants them to be saved also. The value of one soul. I think sometimes we fail to see uh uh the importance of missions Because we fail to see the value of a soul. Look at verse number 8. He has a second parable. He says, Either what woman having ten pieces of silver. Now you understand, this is big bucks here Ten pieces of silver. This is significant. If she lose one piece, doth not light a candle and sweep the house. And look at this. Seek, what's the next word? Diligently till she find it. And when she hath found it, she calleth her friends and her neighbors together, saying, Rejoice with me, for I found the peace which I had lost. She stopped everything. This finding this coin, this coin was so valuable, this coin was so important. She stopped everything. Altered her schedule, inconvenienced herself, and applied herself to finding that coin. Why? Because it was valuable. Listen, I'm saying again, souls around the world are valuable to the Lord Jesus Christ. I was glad to get a report this morning. One of our buses was picking up the kids and there was a lady walking along the road They stopped and uh where's Zach at? Stopped and picked her up, correct? She walked along, gave her a ride into town. She needed a ride, she was in a little rough shape. And um uh brought her in and um she had to be dropped off somewhere so they just gave her right. But on the way, I'm glad to say, bus worker shared the gospel with her and she trusted Jesus Christ her Savior Isn't that a wonderful thing? The value of one soul. People are glad they picked her up and shared the gospel with her. Yeah. What about people in St. Petersburg, Russia? What about people in Johannesburg, South Africa? What about people walking in the streets in Santa Domingo, Republic, uh Dominican Republic? What about folks walking the streets down in Argentina, San Juan, Argentina? People just like this dear lady. There's no bus to go by. There's no Christian to share the gospel with them. I think sometimes missions and soul winning isn't a very high priority for us because we just don't see the value of that one person. We just drive on by. Yeah, well, tough for them. God loves them dearly. Would you turn over? Keep your place here. Come not far. Over to Mark with me. Mark chapter number 8. Here is an absolute tremendous statement by the Lord Jesus Christ. This is a statement that ought to grip every one of us, and maybe there's somebody listening Listening in or maybe here in the auditorium, you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. You've never been saved. You don't have assurance of sins forgiven, a home in heaven Listen carefully what the Lord Jesus Christ says in Mark chapter 8 and verse number 36 and 37. Look at this. For what shall it profit a man? If he gained the whole world, and what? Lose his own soul. Look at verse 37. Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul? And far as God's concerned, the most valuable thing in the world is the soul of every man, woman, and child. God says I'd give the whole world for somebody to see that soul saved. God gave his own son. I don't know about you. Do you ever stop and think about anybody here have a son? Anybody here have a son? I do. I got two. Do you ever stop and think about taking your son? And putting them through what Jesus Christ was put through, so that some old wino drunkard could find new life. Be forgiven and go to heaven. How many people agree with me? That'd be a tough thing to do. You know what? Jesus Christ thought that old wino drunkard, those sinners and publicans, he said they're worth putting my son through that. Jesus said, not my will, thy will be done. The value of a soul. You think, oh, I don't think I'm worth very much. Look at the cross. There you'll see what's your worth to God. Every single person in the world. Why does a church, why does a church not have a strong soul-winning emphasis? Why does a church not have a strong missions emphasis? I tell you one reason might be because they fail to see the value of a soul. How important to God every lost sinner is. There is nothing as valuable. As a man's soul, the salvation of a man's soul. There's no possession we could have. Listen, there is not one thing you and I can possess that's more important to God than the salvation of a soul. There's not one pleasure. Oh, we like to have a good. . Would you agree with me? We live in a pleasure-made society. And we've exalted pleasure and enjoyment and entertainment. We have exalted that to a Godhead status. In our society, in our world, but I'll tell you what God's more concerned about. God's more concerned about saving souls from hell and finding eternal life. So, number one, maybe one reason some Christians and churches don't emphasize missions or aren't involved really much in missions, they fail to see the value of a soul. Buildings are more important. Activities are more valuable. Listen, I'm grateful for our new building we're working on, and it's coming along slow right now, but it's coming. And uh I'm grateful for that, but I'll tell you what, far more important than Anne Activity Center is getting missionaries out on the field What we're doing today is ten times more important. He said, Preacher, would you rather have a nice building or ten new missionaries? I'll take the missionaries over buildings any day. Say, oh what if uh uh what if we have fancier chandeliers and nicer lobby. I'm all for fancy these are pretty fancy. I'm all for pa fancy chandeliers And I'm all for nice lobbies. I think we have a nice lobby. I'm all for nice decorations. Isn't it look nice in here? Ladies did a good job. Uh Carol and uh Ray Lynn decorated. Well actually Ronnie did the work. They stood there and told him what to do. One of our little girls came in, uh I think she's down in children's church Wednesday night. I was putting stuff away, turning the lights off. She came in, she went like this. She said, it's a Christmas wonderland in here. Listen, I'm all for that But as far as eternity is concerned, as far as God's concerned, that salvation of that dear lady is far more important than God than nice decorations. Amen or not? Getting missionaries out on the field, Joy Weston down in Dominican Republic winning those deaf people to the Lord in the slum projects of Santa Domingo winning them to the Lord. That's far more important than how fancy our carpet is. The value of a soul and the mind of God. It's far greater than anything this world offers to us. Sometimes we forget that. We forget the value of the soul. We fail to see the value of the soul. I got a second reason down. And this one's a little sobering. I don't like this. I think sometimes Christians fail to get involved in missions is because we forget the reality of hell. We forget the reality of hell. I say this every time I preach on it or discuss it. The worst, the most disturbing thing in the Bible to me. The most upsetting truth given to us in the Bible is the fact that a sinner dies unforgiven. Is they are separated from God for all eternity in a very real place called hell, ultimately the lake of fire. And we forget the reality. That the unsaved who die in their sins are separated from God forever in a place called hell. Hell is an awful, awful place. Listen, you can't take the Bible for what it says and not understand there's a real place called hell. People try and deny it. People try and dilute it and and uh do away with it. Say, ah hell, that's old fashioned, ah hell, that's just uh extremists, oh you guys still believe in hell. Listen, if the Bible says it, it's so. And we can deny it all we want, and we can ignore it all we want and we can forget about it all we want But every day, sinners die in their sins and are separated from God in this horrific place called hell. Now, there's not a person right with God that enjoys that thought. That is a great grief. That is disturbing. And here's the thing, never ever escape. I mean for eternity. It would be bad enough. By the way, the Bible talks more about hell than it does about heaven. Do you know that? Jesus preached more and warned more about hell than he talked about heaven. Now he did talk about heaven How many people believe in a literal heaven? Yeah. Praise the Lord for that. Amen. If there's a literal heaven, then I'm here to tell you there's a literal hell also. And I think sometimes we don't, winning the lost and world missions and soul winning, sometimes that's not very important to us because we forget about the reality of hell. If we knew that next door here was a house burning down and there was somebody trapped in that house and they're going to be burned to death, if we knew that, every one of us would be out there trying to do what we could to get that person out of that house. Amen or not? We'd stop everything. We'd say, hold it, there's somebody trapped in the house, they're going to die, they're going to burn We'd shut down the services. We'd call whatever we needed to call. We'd do whatever we needed to do. Get that person out of that house. I'm here to tell you, we are surrounded by people. Who are still lost in their sins, and all they're waiting for is that heart to stop beating, and they're in a real place called hell. Now listen, I don't like preaching. I'm telling you, I read that, I'm studying, I'm preparing this, and I'm thinking, man, I wish that wasn't true. I just can't imagine. Do you ever stop and think about, did you ever put yourself in the shoes of a lost sinner and think about your heart-stopping beating? And everything going black. And next thing you wake up and you're in this place called hell. Read Luke chapter 16. And in hell He lifted up his eyes, being in torments. Did you ever put yourself in that man's shoes and realize I'm going to be here? Not for a few weeks or a few months or a few years or a few decades or a few centuries, but never, ever ending. Tell you what, the only way a person can escape hell is by trusting Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. Muhammad can't save anybody from hell. Islam's not going to keep anybody out of hell. Catholicism isn't going to keep anybody out of hell. The Baptist Church isn't going to keep anybody out of hell. Only Jesus Christ. Can save souls and keep people out of hell. And if hell is real, I heard a preacher years ago said this And this has rung in my ears all these years and years. He said this, if hell is real, then what else really matters? If people who die in their sins go to hell forever, then what else really matters other than reaching them with the gospel of Jesus Christ? And I agree with them. I agree with them. I think sometimes we forget about missions and we pl and we downplay soul winning and we don't get involved in reaching the loss because we forgot about the root reality of hell. Cannot take the Bible for what it says and not understand there's a literal heaven and there's a literal hell One thing I don't I like to joke anybody notice I like to joke around a little bit. In fact it just happens. I don't even know. And um it took my wife a while to get used to that. She's still not totally used to it I'll joke around and say, oh, what are you joking around about? I said, I can't help it. It just happened. But I'll tell you one thing I don't joke about. You'll never hear me joking about people going to hell. That is not a joking matter. You'll never hear me tell someone to go to hell. You're never going to hear me say that to anybody. And by the way, I can't imagine any child of God ever wanting that on anybody To die and go to hell. You get out in the store and you hear people ask God to damn someone. They're asking God to send them to hell. I said, what in the world kind of child of God would ever want God to damn someone to hell whom Jesus died for? I mentioned in Bible Institute the other week, we were talking about Jesus Christ and the atonement. And I don't think there's a greater tragedy. In all of history, I don't think there's a greater tragedy in existence than a being that is created in the image of God and is loved so dearly by his creator. To end up in a place that's prepared for the devil. What a tragedy. A man, woman, a child created in the image of God. And they die unshaved, and they end up in a place prepared for the devil. What a tragedy. What a tragedy. Nobody ever gets saved apart from the preaching of the gospel. And God has given to you and I and His church the responsibility of preaching the gospel to every sinner that they can be saved and escape hell. You're not going to hear a lot of churches preaching on hell this time day of age. TV, these guys who health and wealth, get big houses, buy fancy planes, all this stuff. I'll tell you what, every day there's people dying and going to a devil's hell that is as real as heaven or what you're sitting in right now, the building we're sitting in right now. Let's never forget the reality of hell Good Bible-believing churches do not reject the reality of hell, but sometimes good Bible-believing churches forget The reality of hell. And you know what the end result is? Say, oh, we don't reject hell. We just forget about it. And you know what the end result is? The end result of a good Bible-believing church that forgets about hell is no different than a terrible liberal church that rejects hell. The end result is people still die in their sins and go to hell. For God, oh even think about it and going to hell No soul winning, no missions. Sometimes missions isn't a high priority because we fail to see the value of the soul. Sometimes Missions isn't a high priority because we forget the reality of hell. Let me give you a last one real quick. Sometimes we missions isn't a high priority. Get this, because we focus too much on ourselves. We focus too much on ourselves. You look at these parables back here in Luke chapter 8, every one of them, the focus was off themselves and on the object that was lost. In the first case, the shepherd, he got his eyes off himself, and there's a sheep out there that is lost. We've got to get it And it was no it was on it wasn't about his comfort, it wasn't about his convenience, it wasn't about his schedule he had made. Well I just don't have time. Tonight's my favorite show, I can't go get the sheep And it's not about us. It wasn't about the shepherd. It wasn't about his convenience or his comfort. It's about the desperate need of a sheep that's in danger. That dear lady lost that coin, she had 10. It was no longer about herself. It was no longer about what she had planned that day. We got to find that coin. We don't know. It might have been her children's inheritance. And she diligently sought for it until she found it. And then you go to the third parable of the lost son, the prodigal son. You read that, you read the account of the father there, you find out it wasn't about him at all. It's about that son coming home. That lost son, my son was lost. He's come home I tell you, we get so focused on ourselves. We get so worried about ourselves. Philippians chapter 2, verse 4. We memorized this last year. It says, look not every man on his own things. But every man also on the things of others. How many folks are saved? You know it? Say amen. Did you ever think about that unsaved person that needs what you and I have? Man, we'll praise God for our salvation. There's churches, oh, they're just limited up and hooting and hollering and having a great time with our salvation, and I'm all for that But how about we get our eyes off ourselves and start seeing a world out there of sheep, little sheep lost out in the wilderness? Anybody follow what I'm saying? We focus too much on ourselves. Philippians chapter 2, verse 21. Paul said this. Listen to what Paul said. For all seek their own, not the things Which are Jesus Christ. We get the idea, us four and no more. Well, we got to take care of number one I'm all for taking care of number one if number one is Jesus Christ and what he tells us to do, but we get caught up on our you know if I gave if I gave to missions, I wouldn't be able to get that blizzard Every week that I get. If I gave the missions, I might not be able to drive as nice a car as I drive. I might not be able to wear as nice clothes as I wear Yeah, maybe not. By the way, uh these guys that go around and say, well, if you give, God will make you rich. If you give, you'll drive a fancier car. Now God may choose to do that for you, but there's no promise in the Bible that if you sacrifice to get other people saved, that somehow you're going to be a millionaire. I can name you people who could live nicer lifestyles if they didn't give so much to getting lost people saved. But you know what I found out? Getting lost people saved is more important to them than living a luxurious lifestyle. Our focus is on ourselves. And man, we have our fellowships and we have our game night and we have all that, and that's all fine. But if that's a higher priority, and that's more important to us than carrying out the Great Commission and getting the gospel to lost people, then something is wrong. We go by churches and they have these huge facilities and these ornate decorations and all this lavish stuff. I'm not doing one thing to rescue a lost sheep and get someone in. We were talking, we had deacons meeting Friday night, we were talking about the buses and the price of gas going up, how much it costs our church to Pay the gas for the buses. You know what we decided? Running the buses and reaching people for Christ is more important than this uh a budget, uh financial status And I say amen to that. Reaching the lost. Our focus gets on ourselves. Selfishness is perhaps the greatest curse on a church Selfishness is perhaps the greatest curse on soul winning and missions. It's a missions killer. Selfish Christians do little for the Lord. Selfish churches have little impact on the world for the gospel. In chapter 15 of Luke, verse number two, all the publicans and sinners came to hear Jesus. And he received them. He received them. I wonder how many sinners there are in Amsterdam, over in Europe, or in Dublin, Ireland. That Jesus would receive if they only knew about him. And they would come to him. I read a fascinating story. I believe it's a true story. In fact, Paul Harvey told it. Not not our Paul Harvey, that's heaven, but On the radio, the rest of the story. How many people remember Paul Harvey the rest of the story? Look at that. None of these young people remember him. Bless their hearts. Google it, you'll find it. He told the story about a young couple in the Midwest. And they were going to go to California for their honeymoon. They got married and went to California on their honeymoon. And they were out, the weather was nice, they walked on the boardwalk and little shops there, and they went in one shop, and it said this out in front. It said, genuine imitation So they went in and got looking and they had some necklaces there. And so they didn't have a lot of money and they got looking at it and the wife saw one of these necklaces in the selection there that she really liked. And she said, I'd like to get that. So they got it, and they thought, well, this would be a nice memento of our honeymoon in California. So he bought it for her. She loved it. It meant the world to her And she wore that thing for special occasions and different uh different uh activities and events and things and she just loved that genuine imitation. It was um uh genuine, let's see, it was amber. Imitation Amber was the stone. Twenty years went by. She had the necklace there and it broke. So she took it down to the jeweler and she goes, this isn't worth much, but maybe uh could you restring it? It just means a lot to me, a lot of a lot of um uh what's the word I want, sentimental value there. And he says, sure, that's not a problem. So he unstrung it and says, pick it up tomorrow. I'll have it ready for you. She came back the next day and he had it fixed up real nice. He said, by the way, he said, I'll give you a thousand dollars for that necklace She said, what? So I'll give you a thousand bucks for it. Right here, I got it, cash. I'll give you a thousand dollars. She goes, no, that's one, it's not worth that. Number two, it's very precious to me. I'm I'm I'm not going to sell it. He said, okay. Some time went by, her husband had to go to New York on a business trip, and they got talking about why in the world would this guy offer $1,000 for a genuine imitation necklace He says, sweetheart, let me take that with me. There's some high-end jewelers in New York City. I'll take it to them and see what they say He goes, all right. So he got up there and he had some time. He went and found the jewelry store there and he took it in. He got the jewelry. He says, I'd just like to have this appraised a little bit I said, okay. And he got out and uh he got his little spectacles and everything, and he got looking at it. He goes, well, he said, I'll tell you what, I'll give you $3,000 for that necklace. He said, you've got to be kidding me. He goes, I'll give it to you right now. He goes, what is it about this necklace that you want to give me so much money for? He says, let me show you. And he took his little spectacle and he put one of the little beads on there, and on the bead It says that Jordan went on to explain that the beads were actually carved amber. They weren't imitation anything. And on each of the beads was inscribed to Josephine from Napoleon. That necklace wasn't worth $1,000. That necklace wasn't worth $3,000. It was worth hundreds of thousands of dollars. How it ended up in their hands, they have no idea. You know what? We have an opportunity That the world thinks is just nothing. To give to missions, to invest my life in taking the gospel of this whole world, this whole world says That's nothing. But I'm telling you, in the eyes of God, giving ourselves and our resources and our lives, investing it in the gospel, as far as God's concerned, is worth more than anything. This world could ever offer. We've got to see things from God's perspective. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to stir our hearts in this matter. Of reaching the lost, this world missions. I pray you'd help us, Lord, to not to fail, help us, Lord, not to fail to see the value of a soul. Lord, help us never forget the reality of hell. Lord, I pray you'd help us get our focus off ourselves and on others And their need of Christ. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder if someone here would say, Preacher, you know, I have a tendency to start thinking of things more important than people. I need God to help me get that realigned and see the value of others. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God spoke to my heart. And my job and my this and that. It just takes priority in my mind Over the needs of others. Maybe there's some say, preacher, you know, I know hell's real. But I really didn't think about it maybe like I should. That reality doesn't crit my heart like it ought to And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. God will help me remember that when working with the unsaved, when taking omissions. Any like that? Preacher, help me remember that. God bless you. It's not some morbid thing, but it's reality. We keep in mind. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I have a tendency to get my eyes on myself, my comfort, my schedule, my wants, my desires. I need to get my eyes off myself and see the needs around the world. Is there anything like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray with me. Sure. Sure. We do that. There's someone here this morning say, Preacher, I'm not saved. I don't want to die and go to hell. I want to know my sins are forgiven all my way to heaven. You'd say, preacher, pray for me. I've got to get that settled. I don't want to risk it. I don't want to play anymore. I want to get that settled. Any at all? By the uplifted hand, preacher, I need to be saved. I need to get that settled. Father, I pray you bless our invitation time now. Have your way, we ask in Jesus' name. Amen