In Revolution Chapter One The Apostle John has uh been on the Isle of Patmos. He says in verse 9 of chapter 1, about halfway down through there, he said he was uh he was in in the Isle that's called Patmos And the reason he was there was for the word of God and and the testimony, uh for his testimony of of Jesus Christ. In other words, he took his stand for God and it cost him something And uh it's gonna cost you something whenever you take a stand for God. Is that uh and if it doesn't cost you anything then you're not really standing for God. I mean it's just that simple. Uh in this world uh you're you're bound to uh run across the the fact that uh uh The world's an entity with God. And uh in other words an enemy of God. And when you s take a stand against the world you're bound to make some enemies. So uh that's what happened to the Apostle John. In verse ten it says, And I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and I heard behind me a great voice as a trumpet. saying, I am Alpha and Omega, the first and the last, and what thou seest, write in a book and send it and send it to the seven churches which are in Asia, Ephesus and the Smyrna. uh and unto Pergamos and Thyatara, Sardis, Philadelphia, and also uh unto uh Laodicea And I turned to see the voice that spake to me, and being turned, I saw seven golden candlesticks. And in the midst of the seven candlesticks, one like unto the Son of Man, clothed with a garment down to the foot, and gird about the paps with a golden girdle, and his head and his hair uh and his hairs were white like wool, as white as snow, and his eyes were as flame of fire. And his feet were like in a fine brass, as if they burned in a furnace, and his voice as a sound of many waters. And he handed his right hand seven stars, and out of his mouth went a sharp two-edged sword, and his countenance was as the sun shineth in its strength And when I saw him, I fell at his feet as dead. And he laid his right hand upon me, and he said unto me, Fear not. I am the first and the last. I am he that liveth and was dead. And behold, I am alive forevermore, amen. And have the keys of hell and death. Let's pray. Father in heaven, when we see that mental picture that the Word of God gives us of the Lord Jesus We see him standing there in all his glory and his power. And it makes us marvel and it makes us glad that we serve such a God Lord, I pray that tonight that you'll help us as we preach. We ask for your filling. You know what our needs are. And then Lord, even as important or more so, is that you know the need of every heart in this building. There's some here that are aching tonight for one reason or another. There are some here that uh are having physical problems. There are perhaps some are having emotional or mental problems. But Lord, I know that uh you do care. As we talked about last night, you are a high priest that does have concern and feelings for our infirmities. And so, Lord, I pray that you would minister to us tonight through the Word of God. May the Word of God find a lodging place and find a warm place in our hearts tonight And I pray that you'd save that soul that is here tonight without Christ. In Jesus' name, amen and amen. Most of us are familiar with the portion of scripture we're getting ready to read. Here in the verses that we've already gone through, We have a picture of the Lord Jesus Christ in the midst of his church. It says there in that one verse. It says in uh in the midst of the seven candlesticks, one like unto the Son of God. In this the candlesticks are the are the seven churches that he mentions in the scriptures that we read In the next couple of chapters in Revelation, chapter 2, and then into chapter 3, you have his critique of those seven churches. These are seven churches that literally existed in the Apostles' time, in the time of John And uh they are also a a picture of the last the church age uh in the in which we are uh the church ages that have taken place uh since uh the the uh uh since uh the time of John. And then the very last age there, of course, is a Laodicean church. And he gives critiques of all these these seven churches and they're not good. It shows the the the the downhill slide of of our churches and we look around us today and we can see types of these seven churches uh uh that are still alive today that are dead and trespass than sin, really. But they're lukewarm and they're not not serving God. And and then we we read these verses here in verse 20 where it says this. He says, Behold, I stand at the door and knock. And if any man hear my voice and open the door, I will come into him and will sup with him And he with me. So here's the condition of the church at the end of the church age In the day that we live in, it's Jesus Christ standing on the outside of the church, knocking on the door, wanting admission and finding no one to open from the inside. It's a sad day when our churches get to that place where they've allowed the modernistic teachings of today, the liberal philosophies of the day, where uh the the gospel has turned into just simply a g a social gospel where people just gather together to have a good time and And uh where the true gospel of death, burial and uh uh and the resurrection of Jesus Christ is not even uh really uh emphasized or preached as because uh Without the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ, there is no gospel. There is no gospel If preachers are just getting up and talking about uh the uh uh we need to be good one to another and uh put a big smile on the face and and make them feel good when they walk out the door. And that's what a lot of churches are doing today. Preaching a social gospel that just makes you feel good inside. And so that uh you go outside saying, well, isn't the world just wonderful? And isn't everybody just I mean, everybody is so nice and so sweet. And they've lost the sense of of uh that jo that uh uh Jesus spoke to his disciples about there in John chapter four. When the disciples were concerned about food and about whether Jesus was talking to this Samaritan woman or not, Jesus said, I want you to look on the fields. They're white and ready to harvest. And we've gotten our churches have gotten away from that. Which is why we're here. It's why the church was was uh uh developed, why the church was organized, why the church was given was to to go out into the fields and preach the gospel because the the uh uh Because they're white and ready to harvest. In this verse, there's several different applications you can make. Now, as I just said, basically, verse 20 there has to do with Jesus standing on the outside, the church, and uh he's knocking on the door to gain entrance to it. But the church is cold and indifferent. It's lukewarm as the Laodicean church was described there in the previous verses. And so Jesus is just standing there knocking, but no reply. Now, there's also an application that you can make to that that picture. And I uh that's one that I want to make application to tonight. And that is that this door that Jesus is knocking on is not just a heart door. Because here's the thing. Even though the church itself may not open the door to Christ and invite him to come in, individuals can open the door to Christ. And invite him in. As many as received him, to them gave you power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. That individual who sees himself in need of a Savior All they have to do is answer the door, open the door, and allow him to come in to their heart. And they can have a salvation that cleanses them That gives them a reason for living and that can change their life. And so that's the application I want us to look at tonight. Yes, he's standing at the church door. And we can make application to church. The church needs revival. So let's open the door and let him in. and and d and uh uh and minister to the needs of the many here tonight. Let's do that tonight. The first thing I see in our verse there, where it talks about, behold, I stand at the door and knock. And if any man will open the door, I'll come in and suffer with him. The first thing I see is uh a gracious Savior. Can now I want you to envision this if you can. I want you to see. I want you to get to go to the the Hubble telescope. website. And I want you to to see the the uh the the photographs that they have taken from the Hubble telescope Where there are absolutely millions, billions of galaxies, not not stars, I'm talking about galaxies And each one of these galaxies, these sperm galaxies, which which the Milky Way is one, is one galaxy. And the Milky Way has how many millions of stars or billions of stars? I have no idea. But every galaxy has all these billions of stars and millions of stars. And at the same time Uh there are billions of galaxies and billions of clusters and the immensity of the the universe is something that There is no way the human mind can wrap their mind around it. And this this one who stands at the door, at your heart's door perhaps, at the door of the church. Is standing there knocking is the one who simply spoke the words, and all that exists came into existence Ponder that just for a moment. Think of that just for a moment. And you'll see a gracious Savior. Gracious in that he uh he's God. What's he doing knocking on the door to gain entrance? There isn't anything else in his creation that he must stand and wait to be uh entered into. Nothing in this world can stop him from walking through whatever it is that holds him back or would hold him back. Except for one thing, and that is the heart door of that one who is created in his image. Mankind And that heart's door remains shut until you as an individual open to him. He's a gracious Savior, isn't he? He didn't have to, and yet there he is, humbly standing there, knocking on the door. And I notice this. Number one, he is standing there. He doesn't just come up and knock on the door. It was years ago I sold insurance door to door. Please don't hate me. I don't sell it anymore. But but I've knocked on a lot of doors. And when you knock on that door They come to the door, usually with a smile on their face until you tell them what you're there for, and then it's like that right in your face, sometimes, sometimes. But uh you you learn you learn uh how to approach those situations. The point I'm getting at is that is that uh that the door That Jesus is knocking on is your heart's door. And you have the privilege, and think about this. You can either let him in or and you don't have to. Your decision determines whether he enters in or not. But I see him, number one, as a gracious, as a gracious Savior. He's he's there, uh, number one, uh near to the soul of man The Bible says he's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. He came to seek and to save that which is lost. That tells me that he cares about individuals. And as he comes to that that individual, and perhaps you're here tonight and And and you've never you've never trusted Christ as your Savior. You don't know him personally. There's never been a time when you saw yourself lost and on your way to hell. You know, I know a lot of good people That have never seen himself lost. Now that that wasn't hard for me at all. I had no problem at all knowing and seeing that I was a lost person. When I was uh uh about twenty nine years old, uh, you know, I I had a family and uh wife and my good wife and family and and everything, but uh down inside I knew there was something that just wasn't quite right. I just wasn't where I ought to be, spiritually speaking. But uh Jesus cared about me. He cared about me. And he sought me out. Came to my heart's door. And that one night at an old-fashioned revival, just like this, he knocked on my my heart's door. And I said, uh Come on in. And he did. He did. There's some of you out there nodding your head because you had that same experience. You realize you were lost, you did something about it. He changed things. He was one who who can't he stands at that door near. What I'm getting at is that he cares enough to be near So that when you call, he's right there. Whenever you open that door, he's standing right there, ready to step in. All you have to do is open it. Open that heart's door. He knocks at the door. Not merely standing there, but he knocks. He's concerned. Wonder how long he's been knocking on your heart's door. You know, uh I I see this this gracious Savior Waiting. Can you imagine him waiting on little man Man doesn't uh uh man who has rebelled against him, man whose heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked, and yet he stands there next to that door. Knocking, said, won't you let me in? Won't you let me come in and make that wicked heart right again? He knocks at the door, not merely just standing there. You see, the soul is is like a it's like a uh now don't misunderstand what I'm saying. The soul is like a like a huge palace and has all kinds of doors into it Now salvation is not like that. Salvation only has one door. Jesus said, I am The door. There's only one door to salvation, and that's Jesus. He's the way, the truth, and the life, and no man cometh to the Father but by me. There's none other name under heaven given among men whereby you must be saved under this man, Jesus. There's only one mediator between God and man, the man, Christ Jesus. Jesus is the door. Jesus is the only way that you can get saved. But your soul is a little bit different. And Jesus knocks at different doors in your soul to get your attention. Sometimes he uses emotions. Sometimes love will change a person's mind. Sometimes with fear, the Bible says back in the book of Judas, and in some uh That's awful when you just forget the verse. It's not uh in some save with fear, hating even the garments spotted by the flesh. So there's God uses different ways to speak to people's hearts. Maybe you're one of those people that that uh uh and I I I've talked to a few people that that uh the only way you can decide talk to them is through the intellect. And of course, didn't God say, come, let us reason together, saith the Lord. So your sins be as Scarlet, they'll be white as snow, they'll be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. Come let us reason together. That speaks to the intellect. And sometimes God, you know, the people uh have to be reached through the intellect There's some people that I've talked to that that they wanted to talk about something scientific, you know, because that's where their mind was. And I was able to give them some books and some things that would help them in that area that spoke to someone who is intellectually, you know, uh reached. Sometimes he he reaches people through their conscience. I remember he that's one way he spoke to me, it was through my conscience. When he finally got me to see myself for what I was, it made a change in my life. When he came into my heart, he's he did a he made a f uh a flip flop out of me, I mean, just right now, right off the bat. But he uh he speaks to us through our conscience sometimes. So there's different ways that that God approaches different individuals. Each of us are different. Each of us have to be uh dealt with in a different way. I speak I speak to the lost parti particularly You and I who are saved when we get sort of out of sorts with God, there's only one or two ways that God deals with us. One way is that He He speaks to us through the Word of God And he takes the Spirit of God, and he takes the Word of God and the Spirit of God and He speaks to our hearts directly and He points out our sin and our and where we're deviating from the Word of God. And if we do not change, then He chastens those whom he loves. He has a way of catching our attention, but he does get our attention Back in the Old Testament, time and again, you see God using uh pestilence and and uh droughts and and things like that. uh to catch Israel Israel's attention to to bring them back to where they needed to be. The book of Amos says That uh fourth and the fifth chapter of the book of Amos talks about how the how God dealt with the nation of Israel and they wouldn't return and he dealt with them and he wouldn't return and they dealt with them And and and and finally he said uh uh I've done about all I can do. Uh prepare to be God. And so he uh he had uh uh death had to be the answer for many of them. So he tries to reach us through our intellect, he tries to reach us through our conscience and also our emotions. Sometimes through the Word of God, and of course the Spirit of God, and sometimes through providence, sometimes through the daily circumstances that we find ourselves in. Have you ever been brought up short by s the something God put in your path? Some circumstance that has uh come into your life that uh uh just tr just like uh just like a a horse's reins, you know, you jerk those reins and the horse just almost does a backflip. That ever happened to you It's happened to me. And most Christians have experienced that when they've gotten out of line and uh didn't want to come back. God had to uh bring them up short, so to speak. He'll do that same thing with the lost person. Sometimes the tragedies in the in an individual's life are the things that God uses to bring them to where they ought to be. The second thing that I I see uh uh in in our in our verses there is uh That we're dealing in in uh the way we're we're preaching this today with our our soul. Our soul is the object of Christ's focus When the Bible says that he came to seek and to save that which is lost, he's talking about the soul of man. The soul of man that when Adam sinned against God died spiritually in trespass and sin. And from that day to this, mankind has been under the curse of sin. For as by one man sin entered into the world and death by sin, and so death passed upon all men for that all had sinned. That verse of scripture tells us that every one of us, every one of us are born sinners. And I know there's some people, uh Uh I know we've held quite a few meetings up in the Northeast, up in uh New Hampshire and and uh Maine and up in that in that area in New York, uh Massachusetts. And up there you have a a a different type of person up there. It's they're not like down here. They say wash. They don't say worsh. No. They wash their hands. They don't wash them. All right. But they also have something else, and that is the uh they uh uh They go to these these high churches up there. That's where they sort of walk around like this. And when you talk to him about salvation and you say, has there ever been a time when you saw yourself lost? Me lost? Of course not. And they'll they talk about the church, but they won't ever admit that they ever saw themselves lost and on their way to hell. What was the what was that church that that uh that they you were witnessing to? It w it was initials. It wasn't a uh AR ARP it could be. I I can't remember what. But anyway, it's what it's one of those but but when you talk to them You have to realize that these are people that never really understood that verse of scripture I just quoted. That uh by one man sin entered into the world. That we're all sinners. They didn't understand that. They didn't understand that all of sin had come short of the glory of God. Talking to one lady one morning and she uh she's she listened to the whole plan of salvation And we went through the whole thing with her and and uh finally asked her if she would like to pray and if she would need help. to pray. And she said yes she could use the help. And so we helped. And we we said, Dear Lord Jesus, and she repeated, Dear Lord Jesus, I realize that I'm lost and on my way to hell. I realize I'm lost and on my way to hell. Oh, I'm sorry, did you did you not understand? Yeah, but you're not going to get me to admit it out loud As if that you know made a difference. Some people just never can come to that you know that realization that uh that they were ever lost. But the truth of the matter is, ever since that incident back in the book of Genesis, First thousand years of mankind didn't help it uh at all, because according to the the Book of Genesis It talks about that how the imagination of their heart was only evil continually. That was in the first thousand years. And that's what brought the flood on. And I look at mankind today and I don't see it any better, do you? So the problem still exists. Our soul had a uh had us an infinite value to Jesus Christ. That's why he died on the cross. Because he saw within the soul of man the potential, the potential to love, the potential to worship in spirit and in truth. He saw that which was actually something that we could not even understand. Our soul has the uh extraordinary power to fight against God. Because the soul can say no to his knocking. That's pretty uh astounding to me But that's what that's how powerful the soul is. And it was given by God to man. We can either yield our will or not. So the question is tonight, whether or not you've uh, number one, have seen yourself lost and on your way to hell. And is Jesus knocking at your door? And how long has he been doing that? How many times has the Holy Spirit tapped on your heart's door? And you've you've uh failed to open it. Many other guests are allowed in To the heart, but not Jesus. I guess we're all guilty of one time or another saying no to the Holy Spirit. To open the door just simply means salvation. If it was a church, it would mean that when Jesus walked through the doors of the church, that there would be life in the church once again. If Jesus walked into the the doors of the church, it means that that people would care about one another in the church. If Jesus was allowed back in to the church, it would mean that they'd no longer be lukewarm. But they would be excited about the things of God. They'd be able to say with the Apostle Paul, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it's the power of God and the salvation. It's one of those things that that uh God uh God just keeps knocking and it's up to us to open. Such are some of the chief elements of the banquet of which Jesus is going to come in. Whenever we allow him to come in, we are his host, but there's nothing that we can offer him. Except what the what the uh the Bible says in Psalm 51 and verse 17. It says the sacrifices of God Or a broken spirit and a broken and contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise. So when we we allow him to come in and we are his host, Then the only thing we can offer him, because we can't, there's nothing else that he needs from us except this contrite heart and a willingness to yield ourselves to him. A broken and contrite heart, O God, wilt thou not despise. And then the Bible says that that he says when when we open the door He will come in and sup with us. He becomes the host once we let him in. And he has a whole myriad of things that he can Offer us, and here's a few of them. There there is full and free pardon for every sin. Next is the assurance of his love that he has accepted us. The power to become like him renewing, regenerating grace, his peace, so that in all trial and sorrow we may rest in the Lord. Power to be a blessing to others, a bright hope, blessed, outlooks Blessed outlook to the eternal inheritance. And at last, in due time, the inheritance itself Some are such are some of the chief elements of the banquet that Jesus has for us when we open the door. There was a poem that I read across, and if you'll allow me, I'll read it. To me, it had meaning. Perhaps it will for you. In the silent midnight watches, lest thy bosom, uh, list thy bosom door, how it knocketh, knocketh, knocketh, knocketh evermore. Say not, 'tis thy pulse is beating. Tis thy heart of sin. Tis thy Savior knocks and crieth, Rise and let me in. Death comes on with reckless footsteps to the hall and to the hut. Think you death will tarry knocking where the door is shut? Jesus waiteth, waiteth, waiteth, but the door is fast. Grieved, away thy Savior goeth Death breaks in at last. Then 'tis time to stand entreating Christ to let us let thee in, at the gate of heaven beating, waiting with thy sin. Nay, alas, thou guilty creature, hast thou then forgot? Jesus waited long to know thee, and now he knows thee not That's a solemn, a solemn poem, isn't it? You're here tonight and you do not know what it means to have The free pardon of sin. You don't know what it means to have a peace that passeth all understanding. You don't know what it means to know that if you was to die right now, that there'd be no fear. But only peace. Because to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. You're here tonight and you don't know Christ. And my man, you are most miserable. Because there's only one thing that's waiting for you. And whenever the death angel comes to your door, he's not going to wait for you to open it. He's just going to burst right in and take over that soul that has rejected Christ. And off to a place called hell you'll go. The Bible talks about the man who died and lift up his eyes being in the torments of these flames. Died and went to hell instantly. You're here today without Christ. Then I beg you, I beg you, answer the door. Answer the door. He's there knocking, knocking, knocking. We can have these lights out. I'll show you this chalk drawing.