And Pastor Matt just a moment ago read verses thirty-five down through forty-one, this account of the disciples out on the Sea of Galilee with the Lord Jesus Christ. And the storm blows up and um and the events associated with that. To get us started this morning, I'd like for us just to note again, verse number 39, and this is in the midst of the storm. The disciples are extremely fearful. And verse 39 says, And he, speaking of the Lord Jesus, he arose and rebuked the wind and said unto the sea, Peace, be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm. Then he turns to the disciples, and he says unto them, Why are ye so fearful? How is it that ye have no faith? I want to talk to you this morning about Jesus calming this storm. Let's pray. Father, we ask you to bless now or time in your word. I thank you for the Bible. I thank you for the honesty of the Bible and the truth that is given to us in your word. And I pray that this morning you would use your word, maybe perhaps particularly this Portion of Scripture to challenge our faith and Lord address our fears and Lord how we live our life and how we think about the events of life. And so, God, I ask that you would be the preacher this hour. I yield my will to you and my mind. I pray that my thoughts would be set aside and your word would be spoken through me I pray that I present my body new to you, and I pray your Holy Spirit, with all my heart, I plead, Lord, that your Holy Spirit would fill me. That you would speak through me and help. Help us, Lord. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I have a feeling we tend to think too highly of ourselves. We think we're more than what we are. Sometimes we think we're more important than really what we are. The Bible warns us about that. In Romans chapter 12 and verse 3, it says, For I say, through the grace given unto me That every man that is among you not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think soberly And you say, wow, I don't think too highly of myself. Well, here's the thing. We will say, well, I don't think too highly of myself. And then somebody comes along and criticizes us, and we strike back like a rattlesnake Somebody finds fault or or says something critical of us and we find out how highly we think of ourselves, how we respond to that. I think we have a tendency to think more highly of ourselves than we ought to. I think we have a tendency to think that our understanding of God and his ways is sharper than what it really is. Sometimes anybody here ever get to the point you say, you don't really say this, but you think I think I got this God thing figured out And then something happens and it completely blows your thinking away. Can I get a witness? Anybody understand what I'm talking about? And sometimes we think, oh, I see this. I got this figured out And then God does something in a way that I don't think I don't agree with. Or God operates in a way that I don't understand. And then I get bitter. I get angry. God, why this? Why did you do it this way? Why did you allow that? Why did And we get bitter and angry and we find out that we really don't understand the ways of God as much as we think we do In fact, Isaiah tells us that God's ways are higher than our ways, and God's thoughts are higher than our thoughts. So sometimes we think we got it all figured out and we know how it should be, and then God does it a different way and throws us into a spin. I think sometimes we think our love for the Lord and our love for our neighbors and one another is stronger and purer than what it really is. I love God. I love my neighbor. And then a sharp word comes or an unkind word is said and we strike back again like a rattlesnake. We find out that I'm not quite as loving as I thought I was. And I don't really love the Lord as strong as I think I do. I think sometimes we tend to think our faith in God is stronger than what it really is. Then a storm comes and knocks our feet out from underneath us and we collapse in fear. I think that was a situation with the disciples. I think over and over again through the Gospels as you follow the life of Christ, particularly the last three and a half years of his life, when he calls the disciples to himself and he spends that three and a half years discipling the disciples. and training them and mentoring them and preparing them for the leadership role they're going to play in the book of Acts in the beginning of the church. Over and over and over, they were rebuked for their lack of faith. Yet they always thought, like you and I often, they always thought their faith was stronger than what it really was. When Jesus, towards the end of his life and he was preparing them for his crucifixion, he was preparing them mentally, emotionally, spiritually for the fact that he was going to be crucified. He made the statement, he says, You are all going to forsake me. And every one of them to a man, particularly Peter, but every one of them said, We will not forsake you. Peter, of course, as was characteristic of him, he went over the top. He says, I'll die before I forsake you. Jesus says, Oh no, no. He said, before that cock crows three times, you're going to forsake me three times. And Peter did. All the disciples did. Not one of them had the strength of faith that they thought they did. And sometimes we convince ourselves that our faith is much stronger than what it is, and then a storm comes. And we start cowering in fear, and our feet go out from underneath us. I think that was the case here in the account that we read here from Mark chapter number four. They had heard Jesus' teaching. If you'd go back, if we had time, we could go back in previous chapters. They had just witnessed, not too long before this experience, Jesus performing miracles. I mean, they were right there. They saw it firsthand. Jesus performing miracles. They sat there and heard the Son of God speaking the word of God. To the people of God. And they heard the Lord speaking and they saw these miracles. And I'm convinced when they climbed in that boat in verse number 35, their faith was they thought their faith was much stronger than it was, and then the storm came. Then the storm came I have six thoughts, and it's more than I normally have in a message, but I have six observations from this storm, and I want us to consider now in the little bit of time we have. Number one, I want us to notice the other side. Look with me if you would at verse number 35. The Bible says, In the same day, when the evening was when the even was come, he saith unto them, these are his disciples, that he's called out, they're committed to him. Let us pass over unto the other side, the other side of the Sea of Galilee. Just a couple miles across. It wasn't long. We're going to go to the other side. And when they had sent away verse 36 the multitude, they took him even as he was in the ship. In other words, they didn't go and make preparation. They just, where they were, they just hopped in the ship. Even as he was. And there were also with him other little ships around there. So Jesus says to his disciples, he's been teaching them, and he says, listen, fellas, it's the end of the day It's winding down. Let's get in the ship. We're going to go over to the other side over there. Now why did he do that? Was it just an arbitrary thing? Listen, we just want to get away. Are you listening? Are you with me folks? Is he just saying, well, let's take a little trip? No, I believe Jesus had an agenda. I do not believe for one minute that the Lord just does things haphazardly or meaninglessly. He had an agenda. He had an objective in getting to that other side. Now what was that objective? As we look here, we can uh Figure out some things what his reasoning was, what his objective was. And again, Jesus always has a plan. Jesus always has a purpose. When he says we're going to the other side, there's a reason he's going to the other side. I think one of the reasons was, and just simply was, he needed some rest. He had been teaching and serving all day long. And I think he just needed to get aside a little bit and rest all through the gospels we find on numerous occasions. Where Jesus needed to get aside and rest a little while. He sat down on the edge of a well and he was weary And so, a full day of hard work and teaching and preaching his heart out and giving himself to serve others and help others, he was tired. He just wanted to get away for a little bit and just rest a little bit. I think another purpose for him going over there was on that other side there was a fellow, we're not giving his name But he's referred to as the maniac of Gadera. Anybody recognize this fellow? On the other side was a man who was possessed of a legion of devils He said, Preacher, you believe in devil possession? Absolutely. The Bible teaches it very clearly. You think there's still people today possessed of devils? Absolutely. Now that does not mean they look like the way Hollywood presents a devil-possessed person. But the devil is alive and well on planet Earth. He is still very real. And he is not running out of ammunition, and he is not on the run. He's like a roaring lion walking about seeking whom he may devour. And the devil got a hold of this fella over on the other side of the lake of the Sea of Galilee, and he had saturated this man's heart and soul with thousands of devils. Can't imagine the turmoil that was in the heart and mind of this fella. Now we'd have to save it for another message. How does that happen? How does a man get in that condition? Well, I'll say this, it doesn't just happen overnight. There was events and reasons why this was, and we're not told, and that's another another message But nevertheless, Jesus knew this fellow was over there, and Jesus knew he was in a desperate condition, and Jesus knew that he, Jesus, could help that man. So he said, let's go to the other side. The other side of the Sea of Galilee is where the Gentiles lived. The other side of the sea where they were, this other side where this maniac of Gadera was, some of the Jewish commentators tell us Was a very, very pagan society, a very godless society. Devil worship in the forms of various idols was very, very prominent. Over on the other side. And uh that it may explain a little bit why this demonic uh this maniac of Gadera was there But Jesus wanted to go over there. There was a society there that needed to hear about the Lord Jesus Christ. The Jews believed that over on the other side, where Jesus is heading, is where the devil lived They said, that's where the devil dwells. That's where the devil lives. So one, he needed some rest. Number two, there was a salvation of this poor man. Number three, I think there's another reason he wanted to go to the other side, another uh part of his agenda. There was a community over there that we just referenced, and they needed the gospel. If you would, come to chapter 5. This is after they're over on the other side. He encounters this maniac of Govdera He confronts him, and he casts these devils out of them. And uh, and the man, look if you would, there. Verse number 15, chapter 5 of Mark, and he says, and they came to Jesus, and they see him that was possessed with the devil And had the legion sitting and clothed and in his right mind, and they were afraid. The people of the community there were afraid. They saw what happened to this man. He got saved. God changed his life dramatically and miraculously. And now he has peace of mind and he's dressed decent and he's a presentable human being. And these people, we can't figure this out. How did this happen? And they were scared. And they told the Lord, go away. Go away. This fellow that was saved, this maniac, he wants to go with the Lord Jesus. Look at verse number 18 When he was coming to the ship, he that had been possessed with the devils prayed him that he might be with him. He said, Lord, I want to go with you You've changed my life, you've saved my soul. I want to go with you. Wherever you're at, that's where I want to be. Now notice how Jesus responds. Howbeit, Jesus suffered him not. He didn't let him. He says, No, no, no, no. No, no, don't come with me. But he said this. Go home to thy friends. And tell them how great things the Lord hath done for thee and hath had compassion on thee. Look at this And he departed, and to began to publish in decopolis, that's this area there, how great things Jesus had done for them, and all men did marvel. You know why Jesus wanted to go to the other side He wanted to get this fellow saved, and he wanted to leave somebody behind to be a witness to the power of Jesus Christ to save souls and change lives. There was a society that needed to hear about Jesus. There was a society, there were people there that needed to know of the power of God and the love of Jesus Christ. There was a mission field. That needed a witness. That needed a witness. Jesus said, let's go to the other side. The other side, he needed rest. The other side, there was the salvation of this man. The other side was a community that needed to hear about the Lord Jesus Christ, a spiritually dark place that needed a missionary. And Jesus won this fellow, saved this fellow's soul, and said, you stay here and you be a witness to what I've done for you. I think there's a fourth reason Jesus went to the other side is these disciples needed more training. He knew they were not prepared for what they were going to need to do after he ascended ascended to heaven. These disciples are going to be the footer, so to speak, of the church. They are going to be key in establishing the Church of Jesus Christ. And they need training. And they need to see firsthand who Jesus Christ is and what he's capable of doing. And so he says to his disciples, let's go to the other side. Let me ask you a question. Did Jesus know there's a storm going to hit in the middle of the night? Sure. Nothing catches Jesus by surprise. He knew perfectly well when he said, let's go to the other side. He knew perfectly well in the middle of the night a storm's going to blow up, and he saw that as an opportunity to teach the disciples something about himself. So the first thing I notice here is this other side. Get some rest. See this man saved. Leave a witness there in that community for Jesus Christ. Further training of the God of the disciples, by the way, every event, every lesson Jesus taught, every miracle he performed. during the three and a half years that the disciples were there with him was designed to strengthen their faith and develop them for future service. So number one, the other side. Number two, I notice in this event here in Mark chapter 4, the great storm. So we're going to the other side. Now the great storm. Look at verse 37 of chapter 4. There arose a great storm of wind, and the waves beat unto the ship. Now look at this, so that it was now what? It's full. The ship. The waves are the wind is blowing. The waves are coming over the sides of the ship. The other accounts in Matthew and Luke say that the ship was full. The waves were covering the ship. This was not just a little thunderstorm blowing over. This was not just a little squall blowing through This was a full blown, scary, deadly storm. This great storm I put this down considering this storm. Number one, the storm was in the center of God's will. Now think with me a little bit. These disciples are doing exactly what Jesus told them to do. They're exactly where they're supposed to be. He said, let's go to the other side. They said, okay, Lord, yes, Lord. And they did exactly what he said. And he says, Well, in the ship, and they're in the ship. They're doing what he said to do. They're where they're supposed to be. And yet the storm blew up. Did you know sometimes storms come even when we're right with God? Sometimes trials and difficulties and heartaches and afflictions and setbacks come even when we're living for God with all our heart. And you say, preacher, I don't understand. I'm trying to live for God, and I'm trying to do right, and I'm trying to do what he says, and I love the Lord. And I want to be where he wants me to be. Why does he allow storms to come? God allows storms to come even when we're doing what he says and we're where we ought to be Now sometimes, and we all know this is true, sometimes we bring our own storms upon us, right or wrong. Sometimes we do stupid things and it blows up in our face. Can I get a witness? I'm not talking about the person beside you. We're talking about ourselves now, alright? I quote them often, probably too much, but old uh John Wayne said, uh, life is tough and it's even tougher if you're stupid. And every time I quote that, I always modify it a little bit. Life is tough, and it's even tougher if you're sinful. Sometimes we bring storms into our own lives. Sometimes we bring we we're the we're the architect of our own storms. Because we behave stupidly and we make bad decisions and we make foolish decisions and we disobey God and we're not where we ought to be and we're not doing what we ought to do and storm, we cause our own storm. But often storms come even when we're doing right. Storms come even when we're doing what God says to do and we're where He tells us to be These disciples were doing exactly what the Lord instructed them to do. As I said, sometimes storms are the result of our own disobedience. I thought about Jonah. Jonah faced the storm. How many people familiar with this Jonah's experience? And God called him to go to Nineveh. Instead, he went the other direction. He says, I'm not go there. And he the Bible says he fled from the presence of the Lord. He was not where he was supposed to be. He was not doing what he was supposed to do. And he brought a storm upon himself. Sometimes we bring our own storms, but then again, sometimes storms come when we're doing right. I want to remind you it's safer in the will of God in a storm. than it is out of the will of God without a storm. What if these disciples, and there's this is just total imaginary on my part, but what if these disciples Jesus said, let's get in the boat. Let's go over to the other side. He knows why he wants to go over there. He's got a purpose. He's got an agenda The disciples, most of them have been involved in the sea. Fishermen, they were highly experienced men with ships. They were highly experienced on the Sea of Galilee. They knew it. What if they had looked at the sky a little bit as the sun was setting, it's getting dark, and they saw some ominous clouds heading their way? And maybe they saw on the tops of the mountains the trees were blowing hard. And what if they said, Lord, it looks like there may be a storm out there. Maybe we're just going to stay on the shore here And try and avoid that storm. I'm here to tell you they would have been safer in the boat in the storm, in the will of God, than staying on shore out of the will of God. So storms come even when we do right. It's better be in a storm in the will of God than out of a storm out of the will of God. So the first thing I noticed about the storm was they were in the center of God's will when it showed up. Second thing I noticed, the storm was a surprise to the disciples. Now, I gave a hypothetical situation where they anticipated it, but that's not what took place. They never saw it coming. Look at verse 37. It says, And there rose a great storm out of nowhere. I mean, everything looked good. The sailing was going great. And then all of a sudden, boo! A storm showed up out of nowhere. They never saw it coming. Some of us have been around for a little while. Some of us have been through a few storms, amen or not. And I found a lot of times the storm shows up when you least expect it. Things are going well and you think everything's good. And then out of nowhere it broadsides you, a storm hits and and uh and absolutely shakes us, our very frame. These disciples never saw this storm coming. Everything was good. They're with the Lord Jesus. They just had some phenomenal preaching. They're heading the other side, they're going to rest. They don't know what all is over there exactly. But Jesus is with them. Everything's going good. Out of nowhere, the storm hits them. They never saw it coming. I want to remind you, this storm was no surprise to our Lord. When they told them to go to the other side, he knew there was a storm involved. I want to remind you, our Lord is all-knowing. The term we use is omniscient, all-knowing. Science is knowledge. Omni is all-encompassing, unlimited. Jesus knows everything. He knows everything about you, he knows everything about me. There is nothing hidden to our Lord Our hearts and our minds and our lives are an open book before the God who created us. And He knows what tomorrow holds And he knows what next week holds. And nothing ever comes to Jesus by surprise. Jesus never says, ooh, uh-oh. Do you ever have a bar? Some of you guys ever had a barber and the barber goes, oops? We mean oops. Hey, nothing catches Jesus by surprise. The disciples never saw it coming. He say, Oh, preacher, I don't know what tomorrow holds. I don't either, but I know Jesus knows what tomorrow holds. We can trust them. This storm, they were in the center of God's will. The storm was a surprise to the disciples, but not to the Lord. Isaiah 46. 10 says that the Lord knows the end from the beginning. He knows how every scenario is going to turn out. He knows where every decision leads. He knows what the consequences of every action I take. He knows what the consequences are going to be. You and I do not know, but the Lord does. Number three, this storm was severe. Notice again, verse 37, there arose a great storm of wind, and the waves beat unto the ship. I mean, that's violence. They're beating on this ship. And then it says, so that it was now full. These disciples, you don't really pick it up just reading through here, but I'm telling you, they're fighting for their lives. This in their mind, now these are seasoned sailors. They know what they're doing. They've been through some storms before They knew how to handle a storm. They knew what to do when the waves were beating. And the intensity of this storm was such that they were in a hopeless condition. They were fighting for their lives. Look what they said there in verse number 38. And he, Jesus, was in the hinder part of the ship, asleep on the pillow. We'll touch on that in a moment. But look what they say to the Lord. They awake him and say unto him, Master, look at this. Carest thou not that we what? What they saw, the only outcome that they saw from this situation, this circumstance, was perishing. The word perish means to be destroyed, to die. Notice it doesn't say, Lord, carest thou not that we might perish. It doesn't say, Lord, carest thou not that we could perish. They had already come to a conclusion. The only outcome that they could possibly see from their situation with this storm is they were going to die. There's no other scenario. There's no other options. There's no other outcome. That was their conclusion. We're destroyed. We perish. We perish. The storm was severe, and it brought them to a point of absolute hopelessness. And then they come to the Lord. And of all things, look at verse 38 there. They come to the Lord, and he was in the hinder part of the ship. What? Asleep. What in the world? And uh, you know, they're there the ship's full of water. I mean, they're soaking wet And they look around and where's the Lord Jesus? And they make their way back to the back of the ship, and here he is, sound asleep. Um I think the disciples were unaware of what Jesus was capable of doing. They didn't know. They didn't understand what Jesus could do. They did not understand. Let me put it this way. They did not understand the resource that they had in that ship with them. The potential that was there in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. I their questioning, they didn't question whether we were able to calm the storm or not. They didn't even I don't think they even comprehended that he might calm this store. They were concerned that he wasn't concerned. They thought, Lord, don't. Did you see what they said? Carest, thou not. Did you ever find yourself in a situation in life? When you just looked up to heaven and you just said, God, don't you care? God, don't you care about what's happening to me? Lord, look, I'm going to be destroyed. The situation is hopeless, Lord. Don't you care? I'm here to tell you the Lord cared far more than they ever dreamed. But they didn't just yet see it. Lord carest thou not. They weren't thinking about how he would solve the problem. They just wanted to know that he cared. That he was concerned for them. I'm here to tell you, I don't know what situation you may be in, I don't know what storm you're going through, I don't know what trial you're dealing with, but I'm here to tell you you have a Savior that cares about you And cares deeply about you, and you say, Well, I don't see it. We walk by faith, not by sight. We trust them. We trust them. The disciples were concerned that Jesus was unconcerned. They were concerned that he was unconcerned about the situation. Now, I do want to stop and say something about this pillow. For all these years, I've been reading the Bible for many 45 years now, coming up, 45 years, and I never figured out a pillow in a ship in the midst of a storm. I mean the pillow this is my thinking. It would be soaking wet. Right? How do you sleep on a pillow that's soaking wet? And I thought, what in the world is this pillow? So I did a little more digging than I normally do, and I tried to figure out what in the world is this pillow he's laying his head on. What would he be doing with a pillow out in the middle of a ship? Well, I come to find out that the pillow here, that in these ships, they had, in particular in the back, they would have a often a leather seat For the steersman that would steer that ship. He would sit on this leather seat, often it'd be a wooden seat or a leather seat. He would sit on that. I'm told by people that know more about it than I do, that that thing was movable. That depending, I guess, on the size of those steermen or uh where what positioning they were in, they could move that seat around And apparently, Jesus was using that seat, for the stearman is what his term was using that seat to pillow his head upon. It doesn't necessarily mean a cushion type pillow, just something he's laying his head on. In fact, the Bible references a couple occasions about people using various things as a pillow. Back in Genesis chapter 28 and verse 11, Jacob laid his head on rocks for a pillow. I don't know about you. I'll take a wooden seat over rocks for a pillow any day So whatever the case was, it was most likely a seat here for the Jesus to lay his head on. Now my question now is, what's the pillow? My question now is, why was he sleeping? Why was the Lord asleep? Well, I think, number one, as a man, he was tired. He was tired. I'm going to remind you, Jesus Christ is 100% God, and he is 100% man. You say, how can that be? And my greatly, highly trained theological answer is, I don't know. There's a lot of things about the Lord Jesus Christ that are beyond my ability to comprehend. But I do know this, Jesus is one hundred percent perfectly God in every degree. He is to be worshipped as God, he is to be served as God, he is to be recognized as God, he is to be honored as God. He is God But Jesus Christ, through the incarnation, taking on flesh, became 100% man. Philippians chapter 2 addresses this a little bit and says he laid aside his prerogatives of deity, and he took upon him the form of a man. Became obedient even unto death. So Jesus 100% God and 100% man, that means as 100% man, Jesus would get hungry. And we have that account through the Gospels. God being hungry, but it was God as man. Setting aside his self-sufficiency and becoming dependent humanly on food Jesus hungered. The Bible says, as we touched on this a little bit before, there were times when Jesus was fatigued. And he had to sit down and he had to have a little bit of food to eat. We're not told this specifically, but we can justly assume that Jesus experienced pain. If a bee stung him, it would have hurt as a little kid. How many people here when you're little, you run around the yard and there was um clover out in the yard. Anybody here in your yards had clover, little flowers, and there'd be honeybees in there and you step on one of those things. Woo! Can I get a witness? Woo! Yeah I feel bad for these kids these days just sit inside all day playing a video and never got stung by on their little toe by a honey bee. Or yellow jacket worse yet If Jesus got stung by a yellow jacket, it hurt. If he went a period of time without food, he got hungry. If he worked hard all day and stayed up all night and slept and pressed and pressed and pushed himself physically, he got tired. And I think Jesus is sleeping in the boat. One reason is he was simply just tired as man. I think there's a second reason he's asleep in the boat. As man, he was tired, but as God, he was unworried. None of this bothered him a bit. He is completely at peace. Verse number 35, he said, let us pass over unto the other side. He knew they were going to get on the other side They're going to pass over. Come down to verse number one of chapter 5. And they came over unto the other side. He knows the end from the beginning. When he got in that boat and he made his way to the back of the boat and he found that seat perhaps there for the steermen and He uh the disciples are d doing their stuff and he positions that thing around and he gets that seat uh where he wants it and he's so exhausted and he lays his head down on that seat and he knows there's a storm coming. He knows what's going to happen and he is completely unworried about it. Anybody here ever worry about something? I'm telling you, that's one of my besetting sins, and I'll admit I'm not proud of it, but I tend to worry. I'm glad I have a God in heaven that's never worried. I'm glad I have a God in heaven that knows everything I'm going to face and everything you're going to face. And he never gets worried. He says it'll be alright. It'll be alright. It's God, it didn't bother him. He was unwurried. Man, he was tired. I want us to consider number four, the Supreme Lord in verse number 39. And he, the disciples, come to him verse 38. They said, Master, carest thou not that we perish? In verse 39, he arose and rebuked the wind and said unto the sea, Peace, be still. And the wind, and there was a the wind ceased, and there was a great calm. Disciples come to them, Lord, don't you care? Lord, wait, what are you doing? Why sleepest thou? Get up! Don't you care? Look, the ship's full of water. We're dying. We're gonna die First thing he does, he sits up. And when it says he arose, I think he looks at those disciples. Whether he stood up or not, I'm not sure. But the first thing I noticed was he gave them attention He arose, he got up, he gave attention, is what that word means. I'm glad he didn't just brush him off They were in the will of God and they had Jesus in the boat. They were not going to perish. But they didn't know that. I'm glad the Lord got up and he gave attention to the concern. You know, he could have just stepped their sleep and said, listen, fellas, did you ever do this to the family? Would you just let me sleep for a little bit? Anybody ever know what I'm talking about? Just let me sleep. The mothers know what we're talking about. The wives, would you just let me sleep? Huh? Right or wrong? Jesus doesn't do that. He gives them attention. They're concerned. They're scared. They're worried. And he lets them know that he does care, that he is there with them, he's aware. And so he gives attention I thought of this. The storm didn't wake Jesus up. He sound asleep through all this horrific, violent storm. And that didn't wake him up. But the cries of his disciples woke him up. And he heard them. And he heard the fear in their voice. And he heard the concern, he saw the concern in their faces and woke up and gave them attention. I'm telling you, God doesn't have to give us any attention at all. He is God. But he loves us enough to look down when we're afraid. We don't know. He loves to look down. Says, you have my attention. I've often thought this. If I just know If I just know that Jesus is paying attention, that sure helps a lot. Sometimes we pray, not sometimes, every Saturday night we pray here at the altar. I've done it for 30 Over 30 years, since first Saturday night is here. I prayed at the altar Saturday night for Sunday services. Sometimes I'm praying, I just tell, I just think that God holy, all-powerful creator God of this whole universe, hears my voice when I'm talking. He's listening to me. I tell you, that in and of itself is a phenomenal thought. Just an old punk from Philadelphia made such a mess of his life. God listens to me God listens to you. He gave him attention. He didn't have to wake up. They weren't going to perish whether he woke up or not. First thing he gave attention, second thing I noticed he took action. This is where it gets interesting And he arose, and then he rebuked the wind and said unto the sea, Peace be still. Now he rebuked the wind And then he said to the sea, two different responses, two separate entities, so to speak. He addresses the wind, and the Bible says he rebukes the wind. And that word rebuke means to charge sharply. Just like a parent, a child does something that's wrong, and he says, No, stop that. A sharp rebuke. That's the word Jesus got up. He looked at the disciples. And whether he stood up or whether he's just sitting there on the edge of the boat, I'd picture him standing up. And the wind is blowing in his face, the clothes are blowing, blowing that thing around. And he looks at and he says, peace. Very sharply to the wind. Peace! But the waves are still blowing. The wind was stirring up the waves. And he says to the waves, Be still. What a savior. What power? Just the word of God. What a sovereign Lord we have, supreme Lord we have. Then when he said to the sea, the idea there he said to the sea, it means to speak normally. The wind, peace. The sea? Now be still. Be still. The wind ceased. It's interesting. The word cease there means to grow tired or fall asleep. The wind just in other words, he knocked the wind out of the wind. All the energy and power behind that wind. was deleted, deflated. It's gone, just still, just still. And a great calm comes over Brother, what a savior. What a savior. I'm so grateful for that night, May 7, 1979, 1030 at night, the God that can calm rebuke the wind and calm the sea. Heard my prayer and saved my soul. Throw so many in here, same thing. The Supreme Lord. And then quickly I'll give you my last two. The searching rebuke. Look at verse 40. Says there was great calm. And he said unto them the disciples, Why are you so fearful, fellas? I think it's interesting. First thing he did, he helped them, calm the scene. Then he comes and he rebukes the disciples. He says, Why are you fearful? He didn't say that before when the wind was blowing and the store and the waves were crashing over the edge. He didn't say, Why are you guys being so fearful? He took care of the problem. Then he comes back and addresses them. Why are you fearful? And then he asked them, Where's your faith? If they just knew who was in that boat with them, they'd have no justification for their fear. They'd have no excuse for their lack of faith if they just understood who this man was. I think the two greatest storms The two greatest threats in the Christian life are fear and faithlessness Nothing will hurt you and I more in our walk with God. Nothing will hurt you and I more spiritually than being fearful and not having faith in God. And that's why over and over and over and over and over and over through the scriptures we're told to have faith in God. Trust God. Have faith in God. Because when we fail to trust God and we do not have faith in God, then we stagger and we're hurt spiritually. One of the greatest lessons you and I can ever learn, and it seems like our whole life we're having to learn it, but that is to have faith in God. To trust him. He says, why are you so fearful? Why have you no faith? Where's your faith? And then last of all, the shock to the disciples Verse 41. And they, the disciples, feared exceedingly and said one to another, They're standing, I mean, as far as I know, the boat's still full of water. And they're standing maybe up to their waist in water. The sea is like glass, and the wind is perfectly still. I picture the brilliant stars that are over above them. And they look at one another and look what they say. What manner of man is this? That even the wind and the sea obey him. Their fear of the Lord replaced their fear of the situation. Here's my thought. This is what I got from this. What was their conclusion? When they were in the midst of the storm, their conclusion was that they were going to what? We're going to die. We're going to perish. Not might, not could, not possibly. We perish. It's over. Our lives are done. That was the only outcome. That was the only scenario they could comprehend. But the Lord had a solution they never dreamed of. And that was the word of God being spoken to this storm and Jesus solving the problem. I'm here to tell you, sometimes we look in a situation and we think this is absolutely hopeless. My only scenario, the only conclusion, the only outcome is disaster. And we forget that we have a God in heaven that has far more solutions than you and I will ever dream of. And they look at one another and say, What kind of man is this? What kind of man is this? The Lord had a solution to a problem, to the problem they never dreamed of. I know we all recognize the name Titanic. April 15, 1912, the Titanic sank. Now the Titanic, it wasn't a storm that sank the Titanic. It was an iceberg. And actually, some have suggested it wasn't even the iceberg, it was the arrogance of the builders. And the people running the thing were careless and could have avoided that. There had been warnings But like one of the employees of the Titanic had told some of the guests coming on, even God can't sink this ship. So I'm not convinced it was a iceberg that took the Titanic down. I'm afraid it was the pride of man. That brought that thing down. Nevertheless, it was a disaster. It sank on a Monday. That following Sunday At the Dewey Presbyterian Church, there was great sadness because sixteen of the men who were members of that church were engineers. Who worked on the ship, and all sixteen of them had drowned in the waters in the North Atlantic That morning, following the Monday when the Titanic sank, that next Sunday morning, the church house was packed. Pastor Andrew Smith, the pastor of the church, preached on the text that I preached from this morning. Mark chapter 4, The Storm in the Sea. And he made a profound statement. He said: there's only one vessel in all of history that was truly unsinkable, and it was that little boat occupied by the sleeping Savior. The only boat in all of history that was unsinkable. And then he added this: And the only hearts that can weather the storms of life. Are the hearts with Jesus inside? We can't avoid the storms of life. But I tell you, we can invite the Lord Jesus Christ to commit our hearts to be our Lord and Savior. And if we've trusted the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, we have the most powerful, greatest resource that exists dwelling within us. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you'd help us. Help us not to be fearful. Help us to have faith. And Lord, when the storms of life hit us so hard and so unexpected. Help us not to come to our own conclusion. But Lord help us to look to you and let you determine the outcome. Let you Determine the conclusion. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, let me be real general in this invitation. I wonder how many this morning would say, Preacher, I have to admit I tend to be fearful Troubles come and storms come and I tend to get scared. Any like that? I tend to be fearful. Sure. We're honest. We get scared. We're worried. I wonder if some would say, Preacher, I know I look at myself honestly from Scripture and I examine myself and you say, Preacher, I see that my faith really isn't as strong as I often think it is I really need my faith to be stronger. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that my faith would be stronger. So when the storms come, I don't get thrown. Any like that? Uplifted hands, sure. I'm telling you, it's a lifelong endeavor in Christian life to strengthen our faith in God. I don't know what's going on in your life, God does. But I'm here to tell you, if he could calm that storm for the disciples, he can calm your storm and my storm. But we have to trust him. It's a verse been on my heart recently. Be still and know that I'm God. Father, bless our invitation I ask in Jesus' name.