Of the Bible, first chapter of the last book of the Bible. I haven't told hardly anybody this, probably didn't tell anybody this, but you know, some time ago I was thinking about being a banker. And uh but I decided not to I lost interest. And being a banker. Oh boy Teacher was doing tea teaching psychology to her class, young children, and she was trying to introduce psychology to them. So she was going to try and illustrate something. She said to the class, she goes, if you as an individual person, you think you're stupid, stand up. Everybody just sat there for a while and finally little Johnny stood up and she said, Johnny, do you think you're stupid? And he says, No ma'am, but I felt bad you standing there by yourself in front of everybody. So I'm the only one standing here this morning. All right. Revelation chapter number one, verse number seven is going to be our text this morning, and I'd like for us So read that together, if you would, uh in unison, Revelation chapter 1 and verse number 7. You got it there all together. Ready? Behold, he cometh with clouds And every eye shall see him, and they also which pierced him, and all kindreds of the earth shall wail because of him, even so. Amen. Jesus is coming again. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless our study now this morning, and I pray you'd speak to our hearts. And I pray, dear Lord, that the the reality, that the truth of the statement I just made, that you are coming again, I pray that would grit every one of us And Lord, I pray it would be more than something we just sing about, more than just something we talk about. I pray it would be more than something we have on our doctrinal statement. I pray it would be a truth that grips our hearts and minds that has a profound effect upon how we live our lives So please, Lord, I present my body now anew for this hour, yield my will, and I pray with all my heart that you would, in your mercy, would fill me with your Holy Spirit, and that you would speak through me And teach us this truth, ingrain it in our hearts and minds, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. I want to take the first few verses of the book of Revelation here and just try and make some observations about the book itself. There's a lot of misunderstanding. There's a lot of misconceptions about the book of Revelation. And uh I want to uh make a few observations. Now we're going to use our Bibles this morning a good bit. How many folks believe a church ought to use the Bible? Sure. So we're going to keep them handy there. We're going to go to various references, Old and New Testament, and I want you to see some things that the Bible teaches us for yourself in your Bible there. But the first thing I notice in verse number one is the precise title for the book of Revelation. Now, how many folks have a title above verse number one? Somewhere there, you have a title that goes something like this The Revelation of St. John the Divine. Does anybody have that as a title for there? Anybody not have that? Anybody have something maybe a little different there? Okay. I believe God has given to us the title for the book in the first part of verse number one. Look at verse 1. The Revelation of Jesus Christ. I believe that is the more accurate title. You understand the titles up there are man-given. Those are not part of the inspired word of God. Man puts them on there. And I believe a more accurate title for the book of Revelation is what God gives us. in verse number one, the revelation of Jesus Christ. Now what does the Bible mean when it uses the term revelation? As we refer to this book and it's used throughout the book, the word revelation itself simply means this, to unveil something. For instance, uh uh uh at many weddings, the bride will come down, the husband will be up there, the groom's the the husband the uh the the groom and the groomsmans, right? The best man, and th those guys uh are up there with them You can tell I I I I I are very educated. I don't want you to know that. And then of course uh then the um bridesmaids come up, right? And uh the best The gal and uh maid of honor and all they come up there stand there and then the bride's in the back. Everybody stands, she comes right down, and she has a what over her face. She's a veil And they come down and finally they go through a ceremony and he gets the part says, you may you may kiss your bride, and he pulls that veil back. And he sees who it is he's really getting married to there You know, there's a guy in the Bible got the wrong one, remember that? That'd be rough. But that act of pulling the veil off of her face, that is what the word revelation means. To reveal what is behind, to reveal that which is veiled, to unveil it. Another word picture in your mind to help us see what he's saying here is kind of like if there's a play or something going on at Christmas, we'll do a cantata. We'll put some curtains up here and we'll pull them close and you can hear noise back there and people whispering before the thing and you're wondering oh I wonder what's back there. And uh then finally it comes time to start and they pull those curtains back. They are unveiling, they are revealing. what was previously unseen, what was previously you could not see. And so that's what the word revelation itself means. It means to unveil or to reveal something, a truth that was not there before. Now, keep your place here. If you would come to me, come with me to Philippians chapter number two. Philippians chapter 2, we have a tremendous passage in Philippians chapter 2 about the Lord Jesus Christ. And I believe Philippians chapter 2, what we're going to read here in just a moment, is very key to the book of Revelation, the unveiling, the revealing. Philippians chapter 2, and I want to begin reading in verse number 5. Then we'll work down to the passage I actually want to get to. But verse number 5 says: let this mind be in you which was also in Christ Jesus. Now when he says, let this mind be in you, we might put it this way, let have this attitude. Have the same attitude Jesus had. Let this mind be you, this way of thinking, be in there that was in Christ Jesus. Now he goes on and expands on that. Verse 6. Being a form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross Now what's he saying there? He's saying Jesus Christ, as God, the second person of the Trinity, as God, humbled himself. He was God. He had full claims to God. He's equal with God the Father. But he humbled himself and he came down and he took on the form of a man. We celebrate that event. It's called the incarnation, the taking on of flesh. We celebrate that went Christmas time, the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so he became man. He lived for about 33 and a half years, an absolutely perfect life for you and I. He kept God's law perfectly. Now he was doing that not just because of he's the perfect son of God, but he was doing that on your behalf and my behalf. He was keeping the law for us because we cannot perfectly keep the law. The law teaches us that we can't. We see the law of God, we say we fail to live up to it. So Lord Jesus Christ, on our behalf, In our stead kept God's law for us. And then, as he went on there, he became obedient unto death. And then the Lord Jesus Christ, willingly, deliberately, of his own volition, gave himself to die for our sins. When he was dying on that cross, he was not dying for any sin he had ever committed. He was dying for the sins of you and I and for all of mankind. And I believe on that cross there was a darkness came down upon the uh when he was hanging on that cross, the darkness settled in the earth, and uh in that darkness he cried out, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? And I believe it was that point that God turned his back on Jesus Christ and the wrath and judgment of a holy God The eternal wrath and judgment of the Holy God was poured out on Jesus Christ as he hung on that cross. An eternal separation from God in hell, what man would suffer, Jesus Christ suffered. on those few hours in that darkness on the cross. After a period of time, he cried out, It is finished. And the debt for your sin and my sin was fully paid. Jesus Christ suffered the judgment of hell for us on that cross so that not one person in all eternity and all of humanity has to go to hell. We can be saved, the debt's been paid. Now it doesn't mean everybody's automatically going to heaven. God leaves that option up to us. We can accept what He's done for us by faith and trust it, receive it. I believe that's true. Or we can say, no, thank you. I'll just go on my merry way The only way to be saved, the only way to be saved, the only way to escape hell and have my sins forgiven, go to heaven, is by turning to the Lord Jesus Christ, fully, completely, trusting Him as my personal Savior. So that's what he's talking about there. Then, as a result of that, come back to Philippians, look with me at verse number nine. Wherefore, because Jesus Christ did that for us. God hath highly what? Exalted him. You see it there? And given him a name which is above every name. Look at verse 10. That at the name of Jesus Christ, how many knees? Every knee shall b should bow. Things in heaven, things in earth, and things under the earth. Look at verse eleven. And that how many tongues Every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. How many people here have ever met an atheist? Anybody here, how many people know somebody that claims to be an atheist? Maybe you tried to witness somebody claims to be an atheist. Atheism is a temporary condition. Think about it. According to this verse, even the most hardened atheist is going to one day acknowledge, yes, Jesus Christ is Lord Their tongue's going to confess that. They're going to bow the knee. They're going to. And so and I got thinking about, I was going over my notes earlier this morning and before I come over, and um I got thinking about that. And I don't mean to be unkind, but the arrogance of somebody saying, I know that there is no God. I've had people say that to me. I know that there's no God. I said, well, how do you know that? Now think about that. To say that I have all knowledge, I know every feasible possibility That exists. And I and I know that there is no God. I often ask them if somebody says that I know there's no God, I'll often ask them that says, well, would you allow for the possibility maybe there's a God and you just don't know it No no, I'm sure there's no God. One guy in particular, I'm sure there is no God. Now think about the arrogance of that. Think about how much you would have to have perfect knowledge to come to that conclusion. Suppose I would say, and I've used this illustration before, suppose I would say, I know for certain there is no gold in West Virginia. I know that. I know that for certain. Well, how much information would I have to have to be able to come to that conclusion? I would have to know every particle of mineral that's in the ground all through West Virginia. I would have to absolutely know every square inch of mineral that's in the ground, because there's possible there may be some gold in the ground I would have to know what's in every bank. I would have to know what's in every savings deposit box, some gold, maybe coins or whatever. I would have to know what is in every tooth Now West Virginia might not be that difficult. I'm sorry, that was uncalled for. That was uncalled for. But you follow what I'm trying to say. I would have to know every facet of existence in the boundaries of West Vinia to say definitely there's no gold there. And for a person to say, I know that there is no God, I know that there's no God, that is the epitome of arrogance. You would have to be so, you would have to know everything about everything to come to that conclusion. And the fact of the matter is, to me, it's very obvious that there is a God. It's very obvious. Now if somebody says, I don't believe there's a God, that's a whole nother That's it. I think they're foolish. I think they're blind to the obvious evidence all around us. But I said all that to say this: there's coming a day when even the most hardened atheist according to the Bible is going to acknowledge, yes, not only does God exist, but Jesus Christ is Lord. They're going to bow the knee and acknowledge that. So you say, well what does that have to do with the book of Revelation? Come back to Revelation. And the revelation of Jesus Christ. And I believe what the title here is telling us is that the book of Revelation is the unveiling of how the exaltation of Jesus Christ is going to play out in the future. How this all comes about to where every knee is going to bow, every tongue is going to confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. You see, the book of Revelation is about Jesus Christ Through and through. It is one of the most Christ-centered books of the Bible. I know all the Bible points to Christ. I know that. But it it is about Jesus Christ, Jesus Christ, Jesus Christ. People get hung up on the on the uh Antichrist And people get hung up on the beast and the false prophet, and those are all part of it. But the book of Revelation is about Jesus Christ. Being exalted above all other names, and every knee and every tongue confessing who he is. That's what the book is about So I notice the I'm using the term precise, the precise title of the book of Revelation. Then the second thing I notice very quickly is the purpose. of the book of Revelation. And look at verse number one again, the revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave unto him, look, to show unto his servants things which must shortly come to pass. And he sent and signified it by his angel unto his servant John, who bare record of the Word of God and of the testament of Christ and all these things that he sought. So the purpose of the book of Revelation, it's revealing Jesus Christ Him exalted, but it is written to believers. It is the servants, you notice, which God gave unto him to show unto God's servants, believers, the thing which must come to pass. It's written to churches. Here you get into chapter 2, 3, and 4. You get into the seven churches, literal, actual, literal local churches. And he addresses that. And so the book of Revelation is written to believers who were struggling, who were suffering, and we'll look at that here in a little bit. It was written to some churches that were drifting. From the Word of God. They were allowing sin. They were tolerating sin. I tell you what, every church ought to have a pastor that preaches against sin Ought to have Sunday school teachers that teach what the Bible says about shit. Some of these churches early on that are being addressed here, they were tolerant, they were getting, they weren't addressing. the sins that were going on. And then they were allowing unscriptural leadership in the church. Listen, the government of a church ought to follow God's plan. They do not have the right to come and say, well, we think a church should be run this way or that way or the other way. No, it's the body of Christ. It's God's church. It's the church of Christ. It needs to go by the Bible. And so some of these churches weren't doing that. So Revelation is is addressing these churches that were drifting, getting away from the authority of scriptures, allowing sin, having unscriptural uh structure to the church And uh all that is being addressed there. What I'm trying to say is this the book of Revelation is an important book for the believer It's addressed to the servants of God. It is not necessarily an evangelistic book, although it addresses salvation all through it. All the Bible does. But it is written to believers. And no Christian should neglect the book of Revelation No Christian should uh we should not uh uh and and the book of Revelation uh sh can be understood. I've had people say to me, well, I don't read Revelation because I just can't understand it. Listen, God gave it to us for a reason, for a purpose, as servants of God. It can be understood. And really, once you get into it, it's not that difficult to understand. And so the purpose of the book is to believers. I believe Satan tries to distort and confuse What the book of Revelation is about. Some of the most bizarre doctrines out there and most unscriptural doctrines out there, they'll go to the book of Revelation. I got thinking about that Why does Satan hate, well he hates the whole Bible, but why does he hate the book of Revelation so much? Why it exalts the Lord Jesus Christ. It tells of Satan's thought, of how Christ ultimately dominates the world and how Christ ultimately deals with the Satan And Satan doesn't want you and I to know that. Satan wants you and I to believe that he has the upper hand on all of this. And he's wrong. Satan is a defeated foe. No, he's a he is a formidable foe. And he's very real, Satan is alive and well on planet Earth, there's no doubt about that, but he is defeated And he wants you and I either to be ignorant of that or to forget about that and then live our lives as Christians, so defeated, so beat down, uh servants to sin, and uh not even realize that we have the victory. And so the book of Revelation is written to believers. It's not to be neglected. Don't let Satan keep it from us. It is written to believers who are suffering for their faith. And we'll see that here in a bit. The third observation I want to make very, very quickly about the book is the penman. of the book of Revelation. Now I use that word penman on purpose. John is not the author of Revelation. We say this all the time. God is the author of every book of the Bible. John is simply the penman. And God, in a very direct way, in this case, came to John and said, This is what you need to write down. It is almost dictated to him Uh how many uh how many people here are familiar with maybe uh uh uh an office man or a boss or somebody and he dictates a letter to his secretary. You know what I'm talking about there? Maybe the secretary. And uh uh take this letter down, dear so-and-so, dear President Trump. Uh Send uh send a million dollars to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church so we can build a new building. She types it down, right? What? Not exactly the same, but that's kind of what's here. God came to John uh to John and says, write this down. So John's the penman. He's recording down what God is telling him to say. Now John is a great fellow He's one of the apostles. John suffered dearly for the Lord Jesus Christ. Did anybody here ever have someone sneer at you because you're a Christian? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Uh you offer them a track? Oh, a track. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Did anybody here ever, maybe somebody was rude to you because you were a Christian Anybody ever have that? Yeah. Anybody here ever have somebody cuss you out because you're a Christian? Anybody here? All right. Um Anybody here ever have somebody throw you in a boiling vat of oil because you're a Christian? John did. Don did. Now stop and think about that for a minute. What if you knew when you left here, you went into town or whatever, that if you mentioned the name of Christ, or if you gave out a gospel tract, or you claimed to be a Christian you would be tortured and thrown in a vat of oil. How many people say that would take some guts to deal with that, knowing that that's going to happen? John was incredibly tortured. In fact, it was miraculous he even survived it all because of his faith in Christ. All because of his faith in Christ. Now here's the thing. You and I have brothers and sisters all around the world, in brothers and sisters in Christ, all around the world, that are suffering dearly because of their faith in Christ. They are paying dearly some cases with their lives. For no other reason than that they are followers of Jesus Christ. You and I, what I'm trying to say is this, you and I have got it pretty good here in the old United States of America. We've got it pretty good. And that's the man whom God is using to record down the book of Revelation. He is a tremendous example for you and I as believers. faithful to God in spite of intense persecution. Then the fourth observation I make here is this. The promise concerning this book. Now to be honest with you, when I first started Giving attention here to this passage. I thought about preaching on verse number three. What a tremendous promise here. Look at this. Blessed is he that readeth And they that hear the words of this prophecy, and keep those things which are written therein for the time is at hand. Here is a tremendous precious promise that God gives to those who will read the book of Revelation Or back when this was first given, illiteracy was uh uh was uh uh uh was a um uh was rampant Um the majority of the people uh could not read at the time of this. Now that's hard for us to under comprehend in our day and age And so he says, blessed are they that read and that what? Hear. So even listening, uh Uh some of you all remember Nina. I referenced her recently, Nina McRoby. Remember some of you remember Nina and uh charter member of the church here. And when she was getting older, her eyesight was going bad, and she had a hard time reading the scriptures And I always said, read your Bible every day, read your Bible every day going on. And she came to me and says, Pastor, I feel bad. I can't read my Bible every day. I just listen to it on the cassette I said, Nina, that is, you have just as much blessing by listening to it as reading it. And some people listen to it and read it. And I think that's a double blessing. Um Romans uh says, um faith cometh by Hearing and hearing by the Word of God. Here's the great thing about it. The Bible is for all levels of education And God says, listen, if you can't read it, you can hear it, get somebody to read it to you, listen to it, whatever it is. But God gives a special promise of blessing So those who will give attention to reading and hearing and following what this book says, living by its truths. The book of Revelation is a very important book in the life of a believer. And if you want God's blessing, back in 2000, year 2000, remember Y2K? Everything was going to shut down, the whole world's going to explode, you know, it was just terrible. Everything was going to happen. And um well I decided we're going to preach on Revelation. And I think I called the series Revelation 2000. And like most of my series, it lasted about 2,000 years. It took forever. But the great thing about that, what I really enjoyed doing that was, is we read every verse of the book of Revelation publicly from the pulpit throughout that series. And I always thought that God says there's a special blessing that comes along with that. And so uh and the word blessing there simply has this idea. It means to be filled with joy and fulfillment and stability. God gives special promises to those who will read not just the book of Revelation as he promises here, but really the whole Bible. Joshua chapter 1, God told Joshua, Thou shalt meditate, this book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night. That thou shalt make thy way prosperous and have good success. And I don't think I quoted that last part exactly right, but he says, I'll promise if you will meditate in the Word of God day and night, throughout the day, God says, I'll give you a special blessing. Prosperous, good success spiritually. Psalms chapter 1, he says, Blessed is the man that walketh not in the council of godly, nor standeth away of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. But his delight is in the law of the Lord And in his law doth he meditate what? Day and night. And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of waters. Leaf all foods shall not wither, and whatsoever he does shall prosper. So God gives a special blessing. So I'm throwing this in here real quickly to challenge every one of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior to commit ourselves to spend some time every day in the Word of God. I think it's best morning and evening. I like to read a little bit in the morning and then a little bit at night before I go to bed. Day and night. Day and night. Day and night. And God has promised to bless that. And then I want to challenge us, we ought to give attention to the book of Revelation. When you're reading your Bible, don't say, oh, Revelation, that's hard to understand. I can't, I'm not going to read that. You're making a terrible mistake. You ought to read that. Every Christian ought to be very familiar with the book of Revelation, I believe, and ought to study it and read it very carefully. One of the most important truths one of the most important books in the Bible. It's the book of Revelation. Now I said all that. I wanted to get through that. And now I want us to look at verse number seven. There's incredible truth for every Christian in verse number seven. Behold, he, Jesus, cometh with clouds. And every eye shall see him, and they also which pierced him, and all kindrens of the earth shall wail because of him, even so. Amen. I believe this verse number 7 is giving to us one of the most important truths in all of Scripture, and that is this. Jesus Christ is coming back again. He's coming again. He's coming again. The reality of that truth. Now here's the danger. Some of us have been around Bible preaching and Bible teaching for years. We've heard that and heard that and heard that. And after a while, if we're not careful, it just becomes something that goes in one ear and what? at the other. Oh yeah, Amen. Jesus is coming again. Amen. Then we go out and live as if we that's not true. We never give it another thought But the fact of the matter is, the second coming of Jesus Christ is vitally important. And it was a powerful truth in the lives of the early believers. It stirred them. That truth that Jesus Christ is coming back again gives hope to the believer. Gives hope to the believer. Take your Bible with me now. Keep your place here. And come with me to Titus. Just a few books back there. You get back to Hebrews, and then before Hebrews is Philemon, you get to Titus, going backwards in your Bible from Revelation. Titus chapter two Find it there, Titus chapter two And notice with me, I'm going to begin reading in verse number 11. Now, our thought is this: Jesus is coming back again someday, and as a believer, that gives tremendous hope to my heart and life. Regardless of my circumstances, regardless of how dark the valley is I'm going through, the fact that Jesus is coming back again someday Brings great hope to my heart and life. Now look at Titus chapter 2, verse 11. For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared unto all men. In other words, anybody can be saved. All people can be saved those who trust Christ. Verse 12 Teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lust, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world We are saved by grace. It is undeserved favor of God. He does it, we don't deserve it. And because he does that for us, we ought to live godly lives. Amen. Listen, this is a flawed thinking that says because I'm saved by grace, then I can go, it's all by grace, it's not by anything I do. I'll just go out and live it up and live in sin, live an ungodly life because I'm saved by grace. Paul said, God forbid. The grace of God teaches us what? To live godly lives, to live obedient to the Lord. That's what the grace of God produces in us. Then look down verse number 13. Look at this. Looking for that what? Blessed hope. What blessed hope is that? He explains. And the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior, Jesus Christ. Who gave himself for us that he might redeem us from all iniquity, purifying himself, appeal to people, zealous of good works, these things speak, he sort of rebuked. But he says, looking for that blessed hope. That blessed hope. Um uh listen, it doesn't matter how dark our situation is. You say, oh, Brother Letman, this week is going to be a nightmare. I dread it. Oh, this week's going to be terrible. Hey, we have a promise Jesus might come back before all that even takes place. When I was in Bible college, we'd have uh finals. I hated finals. I always prayed the Lord come back the night before finals. And I had this blessed hope. Maybe God will come back today. And it brought a little gleam of hope in there. And so the idea is this: as believers, at any moment, the rapture could take place. At any moment this could turn around. I was reading about a preacher saying that um uh their uh their church was too small and they needed a activity center. They needed a place to do activities and They had to raise money and all of that. And sounded vaguely familiar. And uh he's talking about that. And what they were doing is they were uh renting the public school gymnasium for some of their activities And they had some weekly events for the young people and they go down there and uh they do this. And he said every time we went down there, one of the janitors of the public school had to be there while they were renting it. He had to be on the premises setting right there. And so while they're doing their stuff, this janitor every week was sitting over in the corner in a chair just waiting for him to get done. And he was reading something And every week they looked, he'd be reading. So one of the fellows finally went over to him, he was very elderly, and he went over to him and says, Sir, what are you reading? He says, I'm reading the book of Revelation He goes, really, your uh revelation. He said, um he says uh uh um he says uh uh The man answered the book of Revelation. He says, Sir, do you understand? The book of Revelation, that's confusing. Do you understand what the book of Revelation says? And the old man says, Oh yes, absolutely. I understand it. And the fellow said to him, okay, what does it mean? And the janitor smiled ear to ear and pulled the fellow down and he whispered into his ear, he said this, it means that Jesus is going to win. And you and I, as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, we know he's coming back someday and he's going to win. He's gonna win. How many people how many people recognize this whole world's getting pretty messed up? How many people sometimes get the idea evil's taking over, evil's winning? Looks that way, doesn't it, sometimes? Ungodliness Looks like uh the the folks perverting marriage and all of that and you say oh they're winning. The abortionist crowd, they're winning. The atheists, the unbelievers are winning, the mockers and scorners they're winning. The rioters, they're taking over. Hey, you and I got to hope someday Jesus comes back. He's going to take care of all that. He's going to take care of all that. And so the fact that Jesus is coming again someday gives hope to the believer. Gives hope to the believer. Not only does it give hope to the believer, but it also purifies the believer. Turn with me if you would to 1 John. Now go back towards Revelation. And just before Revelation, you have Jude, and then you have 3 John, 2 John, and then 1 John. 1 John comes right before 2 John. And I want us to notice chapter 3 of 1 John chapter 3. And let's begin reading in verse 1. Let's begin in verse 1. 1 John 3, verse 1. Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us. that we should be called the sons of God. Therefore the world knoweth not us not, because it knew him not. The world doesn't understand the believer Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know When he shall appear, when he comes back again, we shall be like him. For we shall see him as he is. Now look at this. And every man that hath this hope in him, what? Purifieth himself. That word purify there means makes themselves morally clean. Every man that hath this hope, Jesus coming back again, we're going to be like him. Purifieth himself even as he, Jesus, is pure. Nobody, let me make a very blanket statement here Nobody that seriously believes Jesus is coming again lives a careless life. If a person as a Christian is, if I'm being careless with sin, if I am being careless with my obedience to God's clear instructions in his word. If I'm playing with sin, if I'm dis uh deliberately disobeying God and I'm hoarsing around in my spiritual life and with disobedience to God, if I'm not taking that seriously, that tells me one thing I don't take seriously the fact Jesus is coming back again someday. I have pushed that out of my mind. Maybe I don't even believe it, or at least I don't even take it seriously. Because every man, this verse tells me that every man that hath this hope purifieth himself in as he is pure. I mentioned this before when throughout m most of my teen years, it was just my dad and I living together. My dad drove trucks, so he'd leave Sunday afternoon, sometimes Sunday night, he wouldn't get back till uh Friday sometime during a day, sometimes it was Saturday. So I had all week long. You know, a young teen at home all week long, that was a disaster in the making. And dad on occasion would give me a list of things to do. I had some stuff I had to take care of. And I knew he wasn't cutting back till Friday. So guess what I did all day Monday? I jumped right on that list, got it all taken care of right away, and uh so no I horsed around Monday, horsed around Tuesday, horsed around Wednesday, horsed around Thursday. Suddenly Friday, I started taking seriously The fact that dad was coming back. And I'd jump on that list. And inevitably I waited until it was too late. I'd never get the list done. And then the consequences were there. And what I'm trying to say is this. When you and I understand, and it and we understand the reality of the fact that Jesus Christ could come back at any moment, that rapture could happen at any moment. We're not going to be careless in how we're living my life our lives. Do you agree you understand what I'm saying? We're not going to be careless. So if we see so many Christians, if we're living so carelessly And we're just disregarding what God says. What does that tell us about the hope we have in the return of Christ? We don't take it very seriously. We don't take it very seriously. And my Bible says that every man that hath this hope purifieth himself. So the second coming of Jesus Christ, it It brings hope to the believer. It purifies the believer. And then I put this down, it motivates the believer. It motivates us to serve the Lord. To serve the Lord. I found, and this ties in with the last statement, but I found that when the reality of the coming of Christ grips my heart, I'm more diligent in serving God. I'm more diligent in applying the truths of Scripture. Now I'm not trying to say anything, you know, everybody, you have to make your own decisions. I know this probably isn't a very popular uh practice for a lot of Christians in this day and age. But I got saved in nineteen seventy-nine. Shortly after I got saved, it was in May. Did I ever tell you about that? Um it was in May Sometime that summer I started going to church and they had a uh group in the church, it was a pretty large church and they had um, I think they called it a college and career group, and there was about twenty-five, thirty, thirty-five of us in this college and career group. It was out of high school, college age in that range, 20, 18 to about 26, 27 years old. And a bunch of them in the group, they said, hey, there's this movie. It's the life of Jesus. And it's in all the movie theaters. And uh we're gonna we're gonna go see this movie, The Life of Jesus, and uh why don't you come along I never gave it much thought and I said life of Jesus and I used to go before I got saved I was every Sunday night, Sunday night we'd go to movies. Whatever it was, every Sunday night we went to movies And so now I got saved and I just had no interest to do that. And they said, we're going to go to the movie theater and we're going to watch this movie. So as the time approaches, a Friday night or something, we're getting, and we're heading there and I'm outside the movie theater, I started getting uncomfortable. I thought, boy, I don't know. But it's about the life of Jesus. So we went in there, bought the tickets, and I sat there and I was so uncomfortable. I felt so out of place. And it was, I guess it was a nice movie, I don't remember, it was about Jesus, the life of Jesus. And I get in there about halfway through, now this was me, but halfway through, I thought, man, if Jesus Christ would come back right now. I'm sitting in a movie theater. I would be so ashamed to be in a place like this And when I came out of there, I made a vow to myself and I decided I am never ever going to go into a movie theater again. I wouldn't want to be in there when Jesus Christ comes back again. I would be ashamed of that. Now again, I know that's not a popular position with a lot of Christians, but that is a decision I made years ago So, understanding Jesus Christ could come back at any moment. Now we need to stop and think about that. How do I use my time? Where are the places I go? What do I do? We don't know when Jesus Christ is coming back again. We don't know. And how many places do we find ourselves, young people? How many places do we find ourselves, young people, where if Jesus Christ would come back, and I'm in that situation As a believer, and then I have to answer to God in a moment, that rapture, for where I'm at and what I'm doing. And when we take seriously, you follow what I'm trying to say here? When we take seriously the fact that Jesus Christ is coming back, we will be much more diligent. And being careful what what we're doing. Again, uh when I got saved, uh we used to go We go to nightclubs and stuff and all night long, Friday night, Saturday night, and sometimes during the weekdays, we go all night long. And um I w uh I I wasn't much of a dancer, at least not while I was sober. After I wasn't sober, I was I didn't care But we go to those places and it was unbelievable. And I'm joking, but it was incredibly shameful. I'm not I'm I'm I'm ashamed of of this. But I tell you, when I got saved Suddenly, my whole approach on all of that changed. And I thought, you know, I would hate to be in a place like that when the Lord Jesus Christ comes back. I would hate to be dancing and the Lord Jesus Christ comes back. What I'm trying to say is this the reality of Jesus Christ coming back again. Ought to grip us and make us very, very diligent. I want to be very, very careful how I'm living my life and the places I go and the things I do and the situations I allow myself to get into. Jesus Christ is coming back. Now think about it. The holy, pure, righteous judge of all the earth. Boom, I'm there. What that isn't that sobering? Isn't that sobering? You say, Well, I don't agree with what you're saying there, preacher. That's fine. But I'm telling you, Jesus is coming back again, and we don't know when. And wherever we're at, that's where we'll be when he comes. And if we're saved, boom. We're right there. We're right there. And uh we don't want to be as uh the Bible talks about us, we don't want to be ashamed at his coming. Amen. Amen And so, uh the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is coming back again. I w I wish I had more time. I wanted to talk about the certainty of his coming. You say, well, how do you know he's really coming? I'll tell you this, over 300 references in the Old Testament refer to the return of Jesus Christ. We are told, now I can't document this, but Bible scholars tell me that one out of every 20 verses in the New Testament reference the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. Listen, you cannot believe the Bible and not believe that Jesus Christ is coming back again. Because to believe the Bible means I believe that Jesus is coming back again. Are you listening, girls? To believe the Bible, I have to believe that Jesus Christ is coming back again. It is as sure. The coming of Jesus Christ is as certain, his coming again is as certain as the fact that he came the first time. It's as sure of happening. It's as sure of happening. Jesus said he would return. The Old Testament prophets declared he would come the second time. The angels proclaimed his return. The apostles believed and taught his return. The coming of Jesus Christ is certain. And by the way, let me throw this out there. The coming of Jesus Christ is scheduled. Now the church that I was in as a young child that taught that my father he got saved and came out of, that church taught at the back at least back in the day at least, I don't know what they do now. But uh they taught that there was just a general return of Christ. He would just show up, judge everything, just one event. But if you study the Bible very carefully, that's not how it plays out. The return of Jesus Christ comes in stages. And I'll just have to do this quickly, and I think most of us are pretty familiar with this, but the next event And God's timeline in prophecy is what we call the rapture of the church. The word rapture is not in the Bible. The truth is in the Bible. That every believer, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, the archangel is going to shout, the trump of God's going to sound, and we are going to be caught up out of here. Poo! Instantly gone, and we're caught up to be with the Lord in the air. Now we don't know when that is. We have no idea. The Bible says very clearly: no man knoweth the day nor the hour. The crucifixion took place. We are living in what's called the church age. And the next event is the rapture of church. It could be before I finish this sermon. May not be for another hundred years. We have no idea. But it's going to take place in a moment. And the thing is, when that rapture takes place, it's not like we're going to hear the trumpet. Oh man, I quit got to get ready. Uh the trumpet sounded. I need to clean things up. No, no. That trumpet sounds boom. Right? You gotta be ready when it happens. And we don't know when it is. So the rapture takes place. All believers are caught up off the air. I often thought if that happens during a church service. Wonder how many folks would be left behind sitting in church. Often thought, I wonder if that if that rapture would take place at nine o'clock on a Sunday morning. I wonder how many church folk would show up at church at 9. 45 for Sunday school, 10. 45 for church service. Listen, just suppose you go to church doesn't mean you're going to heaven. Just because you're a member of a good Bible preacher, the independent bachelor's doesn't mean you're going to heaven. It's only by trusting Christ And those that are saved will be raptured. We'll be caught up here. We have the judgment seat of Christ. That begins the seven-year tribulation period. That is when God judges this earth. Israel in particular And he pours out his wrath. Much of revelation deals with that. At the end of that seven-year period of time, then Jesus returns to earth. The rapture, he just comes in the clouds. We meet him. We're with the Lord in the air, the tri the judgment seat of Christ, the marriage supper of the Lamb. Down here, the tribulation has taken place. You think things are bad now. Wait till the church and the Holy Spirit and all Christians are removed from this earth. What do you think it's going to be like then? Couple kids horsing around in church is nothing Compared to what the tribulation is going to be like. And then at the end of that seven-year period, then Jesus Christ comes back, and all the saved people come back with him. Down here on earth, you've got the Antichrist wreaking havoc. He's there attacking what's left of Israel, in the midst of that battle of the arm again. Christ comes back, he speaks a word, he destroys the armies of the nation, he judges all the nations, he sets up a 1,000-year reign where Jesus Christ reigns here on earth. personally from Jerusalem. Time of peace and prosperity and blessing that this world has never known. However, at the end of that period, Satan rises up an insurrection against Christ. He speaks a word, it's wiped out immediately. Then the the dead and the unsaved people are brought up out of hell. They stand before the great white throne. God sentenced them to eternity in the lake of fire, creates a new heaven, new earth, and we go out into eternity future. So that's the prophetic timeline. So the next thing that you and I are looking for in the return of Jesus Christ is the rapture of the church. Rapture of church. In a moment, boom! Everything just a pile of clothes, some dentures. Glasses, and we're out of here with glorified bodies. That's what we're looking for. That's what we're waiting for. That's what as believers we're preparing for, we're living for, with that in the forefront of our mind. And so what's the significance? The certainty, the schedule, what's the significance? It has profound significance. And I kind of got ahead of myself, but we ought to be very, very careful how we live as Christians. Jesus Christ is coming back. As a young boy, Daddy's coming home. I better have my ducks in line. I bet you're ready. Daddy's coming home. Here's the thing. I knew when he was coming home. So I could horse around five days and then get serious one day. You and I don't know when that rapture is going to be. And that's by design. God wants us to live for him every single day. Because we love him and we don't want to be ashamed at his return. This world is full of warnings. Did you notice that? We've got at an intersection. You know what the yellow light is? When you're driving up and there's a traffic light there and it's green, and you know when it turns to yellow, do you know what that means? Hurry up before it turns red. No, that's not what it means. It means what? Warning! It's about to turn red. Warning! Be careful! That light's about to turn red. You better prepare for that light turning red Um you come up to uh um uh let me find another one here. Oh, uh you get uh you're at the airport. And you're sitting there, you're going to fly somewhere. And it comes over. Flight 460 to Auckland, New Zealand is leaving in 20 minutes. What is that? That's a warning. You better get ready. You better get ready. Twenty minutes. We're boarding. Five minutes. All first class passengers and those with small children and handicap may enter now. Right? What is that? That's telling you get ready. Get ready. It's about to happen. It's about to happen. Yellow light tells me something's about to happen. Railroad crossing. Ding ding ding ding. What is that? That means hurry up and get around that thing as fast as you get. No, it doesn't mean that. It means look out, there's a train coming. You better beware. Warning. You follow what I'm trying to say And here's the thing. God has given us some warnings. Now we are from the from the resurrection, from the ascension of Christ till the rapture takes place. This is all the last days. Bible refers to that whole period. We are in the last days now. And he said there are things going to happen in the last days. That are reminders, our warnings, are alerts to us that Jesus is coming again. And we don't have time to go through them. But he says there's going to be earthquakes in diverse places Hmm. He says perilous times shall come, dangerous. People just gunning people down for no reason into crowds. People just drive by shooting down people for no good reason. Groups, uh political and religious groups coming in and slaughtering people just almost for the fun of it. Perilous times. He says in those last days, all of these are warnings Something's going to happen. There's an event about to take place. Pestilence, sicknesses, you never heard of before. You come down through false prophets. Every time you and I hear of an earthquake, that ought to be a reminder to us Jesus Christ is coming back again. Every time we turn on the news and they talk about some violence, senseless violence, that ought to be a reminder to you and I, hey, we're in the last days. Jesus can come back at any moment. Every time you turn on TBN or one of these religious stations, there's some guy teaching and preaching heresy and unscriptural doctrines, it ought to be a reminder to you and I we're living in the last days. Jesus Christ is coming back again. Jesus Christ is coming back again. And that behooves us to be diligent about living for God. Living for the Lord. Jesus is coming again. We must never leave that far from the forefront of our mind. He's coming again. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to grasp this truth and that this truth would get a hold of us. And I have no doubt, myself included, with this truth in mind, we need to examine our Christian walk. We need to be careful that we do not get careless about our obedience to the Lord and our love for the Lord and our walk with God. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say this morning, as a Christian, a saved person, you know you've trusted Christ, you have that settled, there's no doubt, and you would say, preacher, If the Lord Jesus Christ, if that rapture happened right now, there's some things in my life that are not the way they ought to be. I would like for them to be different. There's areas in my Christian life that really need attention. For me to be completely prepared for the rapture of church. Is there any like that that would be honest enough to say, preacher, I know that's true. Maybe some of us would say, if the Lord came now, I'd be ashamed. I need to give serious attention. To my walk with God. How about hands all around? How about any others? Preacher, there are some areas. Maybe some very specific things the Lord is touching on your heart right now. In your heart, He's saying, this needs to be adjusted. This needs to be made right. I wonder how many here would say, preacher, I've got some friends that I've been meaning to witness to. I've been meaning to talk to. Invite them out to church or something. They're lost. And maybe God sent this message today to motivate us, stir us, to be more diligent in our witness and to lovingly Try to bring them to Christ. Is there any like that, preacher? There is somebody on my heart. I really need to make sure I witness them before this rapture takes place. How about it? God bless you, hands all around Maybe there's some here this morning who say, Preacher, I don't know for sure I'm saved. I can't honestly say that I know from Scripture, I don't have that assurance in my heart that my sins are forgiven. If that rapture takes place, I'm afraid I'd be left behind. If I died today, I'm afraid I'd be. I wouldn't go to heaven. I'm afraid I'd go to hell. You don't have that settled. You don't have that assurance. I'm here to tell you God wants you to have that. The Bible says you can have that And you would say, preacher, pray with me. Pray with me. I need to be sure about my soul's salvation, about a home in heaven. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. Pray for me. I'm concerned about that. God bless you. How about it? Any others? Any others? Young and old? How about it? Now, Father, you know our hearts, you know where we're at. We don't know when you're coming. You told us you would. Help us to be prepared. Help us to live in light of that. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. God spoke to your heart. You raised your hand.