It seemed like we were a little uh discombobulated this morning. The children were in the in here during the Sunday school hour practicing for their program next weekend, so we kinda had a shuffle there at the last minute And uh we're not usually this confused, we're just uh usually a little bit confused. Little boy was at a his very first wedding he's ever been to in his life. And um while the service was going on, his cousin was sitting by him. His cousin leaned over and said, How many women can a man marry? The little boy, without hesitating, immediately said, 16 And his cousin was amazed and he and he answered so quickly like and so confidently. He says, How do you know that? He says, it's easy All you have to do is add it up, like the pastor said, four better, four worse, four richer, and four poorer. So the kids got it figured out. Sixteen. Matthew chapter 1, and uh I'm going to read verse 18 and 19 to get us started. Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise When as his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph, before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Ghost. Then Joseph, her husband, being a just man, and not willing to make her a public example, was minded to put her away privily. I want to read verse twenty. But while he thought on these things Behold, the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary thy wife. For that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost. I want to speak this morning on Joseph, the stepfather of the Lord Jesus. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father, we look into your word now and we're asking you to open our hearts and minds to the truths that you have for us from this portion of Scripture. Lord, as best I know how, and Lord, with all my ability I yield my will to your will God, I present my body anew, and I ask you'd fill me with your spirit, that you would speak through me to all of our hearts. Help us to be obedient to your word. Help us to claim your promises, to trust you and obey you. When we leave here this morning, I pray our faith would be stronger, our understanding of who and what you are would be greater, and our concern for others would grow. Please bless now, I ask, in Jesus' name. Amen. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, as a congregation, and I trust, at least for the most part, as individual members, We are absolutely convinced that the Bible is God's very word. Now, we believe this old King James Bible is God's communication to mankind. Literally God literally communicates to mankind the Bible. We're convinced We are absolutely convinced, there is no doubt in our mind, that the Bible is God's instruction for man. Now, as believers, and again, I would like to say I speak for all of our members. I believe I do, surely. But as believers, We seek diligently to obey the commands God has given us in his book. Now I trust I speak for all of us. That when God tells us to do something, as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, we seek diligently to do exactly what He tells us to do. Amen? I trust that's true. For those of us members of this church, believing what we say we believe, we seek diligently To take the principles that are taught in God's Word and apply them to every area of our life. Whether it be in the home The principles of the husband's responsibility to the wife. We take them seriously. We believe that what God has told us as husbands, our responsibility is. We apply ourselves diligently to do that. Amen. I'm sure I speak for us Now when I when I said we believe this, I got a ton of amens. When I said we obey it, they died off a little bit here. That concerns me a little bit. The wife, the instructions and principles God has given the wife, we diligently apply them. Amen, ladies Seek to obey God. We believe this is his word. This is instruction. This is his communication to us. God, the Creator, the Almighty, all-powerful God. Has given us his word, communicates us, gives us instruction, tells us things we should do we ought not to do. And as believers, we apply that to our lives. We diligently want to obey what he says we should do. We want to avoid that which he says we should avoid. We apply his principles to our work. We work as the Bible tells us we should work. We are the employer, employees that God instructs us to be. We are the employers that God instructs us to be. We apply it to all areas of our life: home, work, church. God has given directions and very clear instructions to church members, to the church as a body, what we should do, should not do. In society, our relationship with the society as believers, our relationship to the world, our attitude towards it. Our involvement in the world, all of this is addressed in God's word, and as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, we seek to diligently apply those principles and obey those commands so we can be the people God intends for us to be. We seek to heed the Bible's warnings. We seek to claim the Bible's promises. You know, if God says something so, hey, let's just believe it so. God promises if we put him first, he's going to meet all our needs. Hey, let's believe that. Now, none of us, myself included, none of us, would claim to have done what I've just said without fail. None of us would say we've obeyed and applied the Word of God without fail, perfectly without fail. None of us would say that. Can I get a witness here? We wouldn't say that. But we're committed. To seeking diligently to do what this Bible says, to be the people this Bible says we should be. Am I right or wrong? Is that where we're at as a church? Is that not where we stand? Now that brings us to Joseph, the stepfather. Stepfather of the Lord Jesus Christ. Joseph was not Jesus' father. God, the Father, was Jesus' Father. Jesus did not have a human father. But as a human, God knew he needed a father. And so that's where Joseph comes in. I believe. So I was thinking the last few weeks about today's message and trying to zero in on which direction the Lord would have me go. I believe Joseph is perhaps one of the most overlooked people in the events of Christmas that are involved in the Christmas event. I hesitate to call it the Christmas story. Because when you you say it's a story, it just sounds like some story, right? These are literal historical events that took place. So Joseph, in these events that took place at the incarnation of Christ, Joseph almost always is overlooked. He's set aside as almost second string. He's not crucial to this story. He's just kind of there. He's a filler. He fades off the scene, we don't give him much thought. But I want to suggest to you that the people that the world considers great and significant And the people that God considers to be great and significant are two completely different people. What the world considers greatness in a man Is the exact opposite of what God considers the greatness in a man. The world says, oh, this man has a great success. Maybe he is some type of sports figure, very successful in his field of endeavor. Very wealthy. Boy, this man is a tremendous set success. But God knows the heart. And he very well very well may be a moral failure. Huh? What the world says is great is without fail the very opposite of what God says is great. The characteristics in a person's life that the world admires, that the world honors, the world rewards, are the very opposite characteristics. In a man's life that God honors. The world says it's number one. The world says you've got to look out for number one. You've got to do what you've got to do. Doesn't matter how badly other people are hurt. Doesn't matter what how it affects others. You've got to get yourself ahead. It's dog eat dog. It's a rat race out there. You've got to take care of number one. That's the world. And the world sees somebody who does that and they they bite and claw and scratch and fight their way to the top and boy, what a success. But God says, He that is great among you, let him be your minister. Die to self. He that exalteth himself shall be abase, but he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. So, by all accounts, biblically speaking, from God's perspective, Joseph was a great man. By God's definition of greatness, Joseph isn't relegated to the backdrop of the scene of Christmas. By God's definition of greatness, Joseph steps to the front. Joseph is a great man. Greatness. Let me see let me suggest this. Greatness From God's standard of greatness is simply this. Fulfilling, I hope you'll get this, fulfilling God's will for my life. In a spirit of meekness and humility. That's what greatness is. Every one of us here, no doubt, a lot of things I don't know about you. Some of you I know more than others. But all of us here, there's many things, no doubt, I don't know about you. But I know this one thing about everybody here, myself included. God has given you life for a purpose. God has a plan for your life. God has a role for you to play in the years that you and I have here on earth That I can guarantee you. God has a plan. Now, for me to be a success in life is not necessarily making a million dollars. For me to be a success in life is not necessarily having a nicer house than the other God. It's not necessarily driving a certain kind of car. That is not God's measure of success. God's measure of success is: have I found the will He has for my life? And am I fulfilling it in an attitude of meekness and humility? Humbly doing what God has called and created me to do. That success. I suggest to you, Joseph was a successful man. He fulfilled the role that God had for him to fulfill in the events of the Jesus Christ coming to earth to become the Savior of the world. He was born. He was given the abilities and the personalities. He was given the gifts that he needed to be the stepfather of the Lord Jesus Christ. And he stepped up to it and he was what God intended to be. Was he perfect? No. But he fulfilled God's will for his life. And that is greatness. Now I want to look at a few things in this event that we read here in the portion of scripture that uh Mike read a few moments ago. I want us first of all, just quickly, to consider the trial of his faith. Now I want you, and some here perhaps may be able to relate to what we're going to look at here a little more emotionally and intimately than others might be able to. But I want us for a few moments to put ourselves in the shoes of Joseph and the trial he goes through here in verse 18. Let me read it again. Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise And I'm not going to read the entire verse. I'm going to stop where I stop on purpose. The birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise. When as his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph, and we'll talk about that in a moment. Before they came together, she was found with child. Now, put yourself in Joseph's shoes. The dreams Of his young life were about to be fulfilled. He was espoused to Mary. No doubt, as a young man, he had dreams and plans of how he and his wife were going to serve God, the home, the type of home they would have. Joseph was committed to be a faithful husband to this wife that God was about to give him. What about Mary? We know she was a godly young lady. And I tell you, the dream of a godly young man is to be able to marry a godly young lady. Godly, pure, love the Lord, humble We're not told anything in the Bible of her appearance. But I am positive she was beautiful to Joseph. And you know what I found out? I found there is a worldly beauty that appears to the flesh. And by the way, a woman can attire herself in such a way that she gets lots of attention, but it doesn't bring respect. Can dress in such a way that turns heads, but does not bring respect. We're not told the appearance of Mary. We know she was godly. And I want to suggest to you. There is a beauty in godliness that this world will never attain. There is a beauty in innocency, in purity, that displays that comes through the countenance. That is manifest in the actions and behavior, the gentle words and the sparkle in the eyes, an innocence, a godly innocence that is absolutely beautiful. To the heart of a godly man. Joseph is on the verge Of his dreams coming true. Mary, he loved her She was a godly young lady. And the Bible says that she was espoused to Joseph. Now that means several things. The period of espousal in Jewish society, particularly at this time, was generally a one-year period. Where the husband to be and the wife to be would make a commitment A covenant one to another, that they were the ones for each other. And in a one-year time They would consummate that marriage, that would that relationship, and become married, husband, and wife. Now the espousal period, they were not husband and wife. But there was a commitment there. Now you say, oh yeah, it's kind of like being engaged today. No, not anything like being engaged today. Being engaged today is very flippant for a not not everybody, but for a lot of people. I went to a college one time and they had a rule in that college, this was years ago, they had a rule in that college that um uh you could not kiss the opposite sex. And surely you didn't want to kiss the same sex, so uh the uh but the rule was You do not kiss the opposite you could not kiss the opposite sex uh opposite sex unless you were engaged Well, being college students, that's convenient. Get engaged Friday and break up Sunday. Huh? Some of y'all don't get it, but um and that's what happened. The espousal period was not like the engagement. The espousal period was a formal commitment That was legally binding. In fact The spousal period, if there was unfaithfulness during that spousal period, the one who was unfaithful under the law of Jewish land could be executed. Stoned. So it's not it's not full-blown marriage, but it is a very, very serious commitment. Now let's come back to Joseph Joseph is in love. He had prayed, no doubt. He had waited on God. Him and Mary had fallen in love. They had made that commitment one to each other. And Joseph is on the verge of his dreams of a lifetime. A godly, beautiful woman who had committed her love and her life to him and him alone. She was in every sense his. And that was about to be fulfilled. Then the bombshell hits. Then the shock wave comes. Mary is with child. Mary's gonna have a baby How can that be? Every nerve in his body is on edge. What in the world? Another man has touched my Mary. Another man has slept with my memory. How can that be? She had been untrue. She'd become impure. She was not the girl he believed her to be Never in his life had Joseph's heart been so broken. Never in his life had his mind been in such a dark, dark cloud. And the amazing thing is, I mean, put yourself in his shoes. And the amazing thing is, you read the story of Joseph, and there is not one hint of his faith in God wavering. Though his heart is broken and his dreams are shattered, yet his faith in God remains true. God had not failed him God had not been unfaithful. God had not forsaken him. And through this unimaginable heartache, this nightmare His faith in God stays true. I'm telling you, Joseph was a great man. A great man. And leads me to my second thought about Joseph this morning, not just the trial of his faith, but I notice the virtue of his faith. Look at his response and again put yourself in his shoes and try knowing yourself as you do. Anticipate how you would respond to what Joseph has just experienced. How would you react? If you were in his situation, look how Joseph did in verse 19. Then Joseph, then Now, remember, the last part of verse 18, Joseph doesn't know that. Before they came together, she was found with child. That's all Joseph knew at this point. Verse 18 finishes of the Holy Ghost. He doesn't know that. Look at verse 19. Then Joseph, her husband, now he's called husband there, but it's not been consummated, there is spouse. Being a what? A just man. And not willing to make her a public example. He was He was able to do that. Legally, he could have made her a public example. But he wasn't willing to do that. And he was minded to put her away how? Privily. Privately. Quietly. I mentioned the virtue of his faith. The word virtue means this: moral excellence and moral strength. Now, I'd like for you to listen very carefully. To this statement about Joseph. And I'd like for us to evaluate ourselves whether this statement I'm going to make about Joseph is true of you and I as individuals. Joseph's sense of right and wrong was stronger than the pain of his broken heart. His heart was shattered. His dreams are shattered. His world was turned upside down. He was in the nightmare of a lifetime, but his faith Was of such an extent his sense of right and wrong was of such an extent that it was stronger than the natural reaction of the flesh to strike back. The flesh seeks revenge. The flesh says sheep will pay for this. She has shattered my life. She has broken my heart. I will expose her for this. That's the flesh. I may be speaking to some folks this morning. The flesh dominates you. I may be speaking to some folks this morning. Your heart and life is characterized by bitterness, hatefulness. Unkindness, everything has to be exactly the way you demand it to be, or brother, they pay. That, my friend, is the flesh. That is moral weakness. Joseph's heart was shattered. His world was absolutely upside down. But his sense of right and wrong was stronger Than the pain of heartache. And he would not allow his flesh to take over and destroy this woman he loved. When many would have become angry and bitter, Joseph rose above all of that. And I want to suggest to you that God knew that that's the kind of man Joseph was. And God knew that if Jesus Christ, the Son of God in the flesh, was going to have a stepfather, he was going to have to be a man of that caliber. Joseph robes above all that. Notice what the Bible says about Joseph in verse 19. I read it just a moment ago. Joseph, her husband, being a just man. When the Bible says a man is just, there are actually two aspects to being a just man. One of those two aspects is being just in my standing before God. To be just before God, for God to look at Dennis Leatherman and say, yes, in Dennis Leatherman standing before me He is just. There is no way I can personally attain that justification I cannot do it. I am morally, spiritually incapable of being able to stand before God, in and of myself, a just man. Somebody has to do that for me. And that somebody is the Lord Jesus Christ. There is the only there's only one way that Joseph or Dennis Leatherman or you or anyone else in the world can stand before God as a just man, and that is through personal faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, trusting that what Jesus Christ did for me at that cross, he paid the price of my sins. fully and completely nothing is owed to God on my part anymore. Jesus paid it all. He was buried and rose again. And by accepting what he did on that cross For me personally, I can stand before God a just man. It is not my church membership. It is not my moral deeds I do in society. It is not my baptism. It is not the position I hold as a pastor of this church or any other church. It is nothing I do that makes me just with God. It is everything that Jesus has done that makes me just with God. So the Bible says Joseph was a just man. There's two aspects of that. One is his standing before God. Now I know what some of you might be thinking. You're saying, oh yeah, faith in Jesus? Jesus was just now being born. How could he have faith in Jesus? The same way all the other Old Testament saints had faith in Jesus. They had faith that a Messiah was coming. Their faith looks forward. Our faith looks back to the cross, but it is faith in God's Savior that makes a man just with God. So are you with me? Was it worth coming out this morning? I think Morgan singing was worth it, the choir was worth it. His donuts were worth it as far as I'm concerned. Take your Bible if you would, just quickly, and turn with me to Romans chapter three. Romans chapter three and notice with me if you would verse twenty eight Romans 3:28. Therefore, we conclude, alright, here's the conclusion of it all: that a man is justified, or we could say made just. A man is justified by faith without the deeds of the law. Well, preacher, I know how a person gets to heaven. I know how God accepts them and And uh lets them come into heaven and not go to hell. I know how they do it. If you keep God's commands, then you'll be just. That's not what that verse says. In fact, that verse says it is not, look what it says, it is without the deeds of the law. Come over just a page or two to Romans chapter 5. And look at verse 1. This is not Baptist doctrine, this is Bible doctrine, which happens to be Baptist doctrine also. Wherefore, look at this, wherefore being justified or made just with God, therefore being justified by what? Faith. We have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Look at verse number nine, same chapter Much more than being now justified or made just with God, being that much more now justified by his blood. We shall be saved from wrath through him. Come you would one more passage in the book of Galatians And chapter 2. And by the way, Galatians is a powerful book pointing out that it is completely by faith in Jesus Christ that our sins are forgiven and we're declared just before God, and we can go to heaven. Galatians chapter 2, notice with me verse 16. This will be a good verse to underline in your Bible. Acts 2:16. Knowing I'm sorry, Galatians 2. 16. Galatians 2. 16. Knowing that a man is not justified, made just before God, a man is not justified by the works of the law. Not by what he does, but by the faith of Jesus Christ. Even we have believed in Jesus Christ that we might be justified. By the faith of Christ, not by the works of the law, for by the works of the law shall no flesh be justified. I know for sure, I am absolutely certain that God forbid, if something would happen today, I'd die of a heart attack, I am absolutely positive that I would go to heaven You say, oh well you really think you're something, don't you? You think you're better than everyone else. You go to heaven. I had a family member tell me that. No, I don't think I'm better than anyone else. And you can ask my wife, she'll tell you she knows I'm not better than anyone else. But I know this. May 7, 1979, I trusted Jesus Christ, the blood he shed. I accepted him as my personal Savior. And I know for sure I'm going to heaven now because God promises that those who put their faith in Jesus Christ as their personal Savior are justified. Or just before God, just as if I kept all the law, I am welcomed into heaven. Isn't that good? So Joseph was a just man, two aspects. One is his standing before God tells us he was a saved man, but there's another aspect of being a just man. Not just just in his standing before God, but he was just in his dealings with his fellow men. And that is another aspect. That is practical righteousness. I've met some people that claim to be just before God. But are very unjust in their dealings with men. Huh? Joseph was just not only in his standing before God. But he did right in dealings with others. He did according to Scripture To be just in my dealings with others means I interact with others according to God's standard, not according to the desires of my flesh. My interactions with others is governed by the Holy Spirit of God. And the fruit of the Spirit is what? Love, joy, peace, long suffering, gentleness, kindness, goodness Joseph was a just man in his dealings with others. What does that mean? That means Joseph could be trusted. Amen. Joseph? I tell you what, that's one man you can count on. That's one man he's going to be there when he needs to be there. You can count on him, you can trust that man. What he says is so. He was a just man. He could be trusted. He was a man of integrity. He was a man, and by the way, that's a word you don't hear much today anymore. He was a man of honesty and purity. I don't know about you, but it is almost overwhelming the number of world superstars that are turning out to be absolute perverts. Right or wrong, this world is absolutely perverted Joseph was a just man. He was honest, he was clean Nothing in the words and the language he used, the subjects he talked about were upright, pure, and good Nothing nasty He was a just man. The virtue of his faith. Now his heart was shattered, his world was upside down, but he was going to do right. He was going to do right by Mary Oh, he had legally, he could have blown her out of the water. He could have destroyed her. But he was a just man. And his actions to her were going to be governed by the Holy Spirit of God. He was going to do right. Not only was he just, but he was kind and merciful. Again, look with me if you would at verse 19 of Matthew 21. Says then Joseph, her husband, being a just man, not willing to make her a public example, was minded to put her away privily. Joseph, I believe, lived as best he could by the letter of God's law. But he understood the heart of God. You know, sometimes people come to church, sometimes you have church members, sometimes it's a new believer, sometimes it's an older believer. And you know, they don't live up to what we would like to see them live up to. Am I right or wrong? But you know what? We want to go by the letter. I started the message by saying we believe this is God's word, and we want to apply it and obey it absolutely diligently. But We when going by the letter of the law, we don't lose sight of the heart of God. And the people that God has given his instructions to are a fallen people, and God loves them. And we've got to be kind. We've got to understand the heart of God. There are some people that can absolutely tell you everything that the other person does wrong. I mean they have got it down to a Science critiquing and criticizing and tearing down others. They are experts at it, but they do not understand the heart of God that loves imperfect people. And is patient and is kind with fallen humanity. I'm telling you, there are some people, if they would judge themselves by the standards they judge others, they would be absolute. Heroes in the Christian faith. Joseph was kind. He was merciful. A vindictive, bitter, angry person can know the Word of God, but does not know the heart of God. So, he was a just man, he was a kind and merciful man, but he was also a patient man. Verse number 20. But while he thought on these things, can I give you some advice? That's a good thing to do. When something happens When your world is interrupted, when hey, when somebody does something that hurts you Can I give you some biblical advice? Don't react. Just stop and think on these things a little bit. Think it through. Be patient, wait on God He waited before he acted. He thought things through. I put in the margin of my Bible beside verse 20, don't react. I believe that's what Ephesians is talking about when it says, Be ye angry, but sin not. When somebody does something and the flesh flies up, Take on these things. Step back. Don't don't sin. Don't let that anger vent itself. A few verses later he says, put it off. The word you know the old little thing is count to ten Anybody anybody ever heard that count to ten? You get made a count to ten. I think some guys we need to count to five thousand nine hundred and ten He didn't react. He gave God time to give him some direction. And I've found that most of our troubles are the result of not waiting on God. I found that most of our troubles are simply not trusting God. Maybe it's in the matter of getting married. I tell you, before you hitch up with someone, you better make sure you have God's leadership. I had someone years ago say, Well, you know, as long as they're in love, I don't believe that's true. Now you need you should be in love, amen. I tell you, I thought I loved my wife when I married her. Now I know what love is now. Anybody know what I'm talking about? A lot of times you get married, it's infatuation. Boy, she's just so beautiful, you know. Boy, what a figure. She has that coke bottle figure. Twenty years later, it's a two-liter. No court chops today Or tomorrow or the next year. Now I wasn't talking about my wife when I said I was shutting But you love her. I think you ought to wait on God and get God's direction before you say I do. Now when God says it's good, it's good. Amen? But let's make sure God's good. Let me throw that the other way. Before you divorce him. Before you divorce her. Why don't you stop and think that through a little bit? Huh? What does God say about this? How would this affect others? Think it through. That's where Joseph was. What's he gonna do? Another man touched her Good night. I need to think this through. Uh I want to do right. I want to know what God wants. Joseph gave God time to give him direction. And God did just that. Look at verse 20, the last part. While he thought on these things, behold, the angel of the Lord appeared on him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take thy way unto thee Mary thy wife. For that which is conceived of her is not of another man, but is of the Holy Ghost. Mary has not been unfaithful, Joseph. Mary has not been untrue. Another man has not touched your espoused wife. It is not what you think it is. And I see in that, and then it goes off, and she shall bring forth the son, and I like to come down to verse 24. Then Joseph, being raised from the sleep, look at this Did as the angel of the Lord bid him, and he took unto him his wife. The triumph of his faith He trusted God in the darkest days of his life. He did not react. He waited on God. His moral excellence overrode the reaction of his flesh. And God gave him the fulfillment of his dreams. And much, much more. Not only was Mary to be his wife, but he was to be the stepfather of the Savior of the world. What if he'd have done what he could have done in verse 19? Made her a public example. Put her away, demanded the priest have her executed. How would he have looked? He'd have been the fool. He'd have been a failure. But he trusted God, and the virtue of his faith produced the triumph of his faith. And as it turns out, things were not what he thought they were. God was about to do something marvelous. And it just took a little time for Joseph to see what God is doing. Our faith in trife in God triumphs when we trust and obey God. Listen, I don't know what you may or may not be going through right now, but can I suggest this? God may be about to do something marvelous in your life. And this trial you are going through may be God just testing you and just Trying you and developing your faith, if you'll just wait on him, if you'll just trust him and obey him, you may be on the verge of God doing some marvelous thing in your life. If we trust him. Joseph was the stepfather of Jesus Christ. Now here's the end of the story. We see Joseph again at age 12, when Jesus is age 12, just fleeting. And then we never read of him again in the Bible. He's off the scene. Most Bible scholars believe, and I agree, he died sometime later in Jesus' life, before Jesus reached his time of his ministry. He had a role to play for 12, 14, 18 years as the stepfather of the Savior. And he fulfilled that role beautifully. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to trust you. God, I ask that you would help us. To take your word as what it is, the very word of God for us. Help us to apply it to our lives, dear Lord. And when, Lord, when things are dark, when trials When the storms hit, help us not react. Help us not get bitter. But Lord, help us to have faith in you, to wait on you and let you lead and direct us. So you can produce some wonderful things in our lives. I thank you for the life of Joseph. Our heads bowed and eyes closed. I wonder