I'll look at it when he starts and when he stops, but I don't look at it in the middle. And twenty-five minutes or less. And I believe in the law of sowing and reaping And tomorrow night I'm first and Dr. Smith the second. And so I gotta write a new sermon that's shorter than anything I I feel a little like the fellow who was so unlucky that when he finally got his kidney transplant it came from a bedwetter. But we'll I preached one time with Dennis Coral. One time. It was in a tent meeting and I heard he was real long. And so I was first the first night, and he was second, and he was first the second night, and I was second. And so I said now, Brother Coral, do you believe in the law of sowing and reaping? We have to say yes, it's in the Bible. And I said, so if I preach a short sermon tonight when I'm first, you'll preach a short sermon tomorrow night when you're first. And I said, I'll make you a deal. If I'm still preaching 30 minutes from now, you can have anything you want from my table for free. And I was done preaching the sermon, giving a hand-raised invitation, talking about the books on my table in twenty-seven minutes. And Brother Coral got up the next night and he said, Well, I don't know. I've been looking around all day, one of those twenty minute sermons. I just don't think I have one. I'll do the best I can. I make the same deal brother what that did. I'm still preaching twenty minutes from now. You can have anything you want from his table for free. Matthew chapter nine. Matthew chapter nine verse thirty-five. Stand with me if you don't mind. I don't know what your regular custom is, but uh you'll need the little this is the time I'm not preaching first, so I don't want it to be real short. You need a little break whether you normally stand when we read the Word of God or not. Matthew chapter 9, verse 35, Jesus went about all the cities and villages. teaching in their synagogues and preaching the gospel of the kingdom. Sometimes you hear people say, well that church over there, all they do is preach John 3. 16. Well, I doubt that's true. I suspect they preach more than John 3. 16. But I don't like your attitude toward John 3. 16. Because you may preach something other than John sixteen sometime, but you'll never preach anything better than John three sixteen. Preaching the gospel of the kingdom and healing every sickness and every disease among the people, I'd like to see Benny Hinn do that. Those hooky pookie television people are such hot stuff, why don't they go down to the hospital? But But in spite of the great success, the Lord had enjoyed healing every sickness and every disease, but when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion. On them, because they fainted and were scattered abroad as sheep, having no shepherd. Then saith he unto his disciples, the harvest truly is plenteous. But the laborers are few. Pray, therefore, the Lord of the harvest that he will send forth laborers into his harvest. Our Heavenly Father, would you guide me by your Spirit as I preach the best I know, the sermon that you've directed me to for this evening? Thank you for Brother Leatherman, this good, faithful man who has labored so diligently and done so much in this place by your power for these many years. And I'd sure like to be a help to him And to the good people who have held up his hands and supported his ministry and followed his leadership. And then to all my preacher friends that have gathered and Lord to Dr. Smith and to Brother Fox But I can't help anybody except if you help me. And so I pray, Holy Spirit, you guide me and empower me. That I would say what you want said. And touch our hearts and help us to act in obedience to what you tell us in Jesus' name. Amen. It's a wonderful privilege to join with others in prayer. You've had the experience, I've too. Somebody said, Would you pray with me about this? And I prayed, and they cold ladies say, Oh, but well then here's what the Lord did. Thanks for praying. And I felt like I was part of the victory. I had entered into their prayer. Have you ever had anybody ask you to pray for something and you forgot? And they they would say, Hey, ever asked you to pray for such and such, and you're saying, Oh brother, Lord help them, please amen Yes, I remember that. I I was praying for just just earlier today. Not a lot earlier, but earlier today. What if Jesus asked you to pray for something? Would you do it? What if you already did and we forgot? I want to talk to you tonight about Jesus' only prayer request. Now, he told us to pray. He gave us a model. Look. pattern of how to pray. I read the other day uh John Phillips' commentary on the book of Matthew and he said the the Lord's prayer, what we call the Lord's Prayer is not what to pray, it's a way to pray. It's not words that you repeat But uh an outline, if you will, a pattern. But the only thing he ever asked us to pray for on his behalf was in this passage. Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he will send forth laborers into his harvest. Notice as we look at the passage the perception that the Lord Jesus had. When he saw the multitudes. How do you see the lost world? As way, way up in northern Michigan, town called Pickford. That's where Jim Norton is from. Was from. He's in heaven now. And my wife and I had gone, we're having a camp up there, and we'd gone to get some things for the grocery store. There was no fast food restaurant in that little town way up in the upper peninsula. And there had come some people, uh teenagers from the school to buy lunch there, and it was the first time I'd ever seen this kind of a hairdo. This guy had his hair in seven different distinct spikes. I mean it it looked like he put his motor oil on his head and then stuck it in the freezer overnight, so it looked like And I thought, look at but I I said, Mother honey, you gotta get a load of this. And she came around the hell and she laughed. I don't know why they do that. I guess if you turn them upside down and spun them around real fast, they could be a post hole digger. How do you react? Strange things people do. I'm glad it's strange. There was a a long time that ladies thought that the the uh Garment they were on top should stop about this far before the garment they wore on the bottom and had to show their belly button. And then had a ring in the belly button I mean they can weigh three hundred and fifty pounds and they had their belly button, right? I I suppose then if they fell down the crane would have something to hook on to to pull them back. I don't Strange. I wonder about things. People they put holes in their nose. You already got two, that's all you need. They put another one in there. And that little deal on the inside that kept the deal on the outside in place, wouldn't that make you feel like you had coagulated mucous membrane inside your nostril at all times? You see, you can preach without saying Booger. You can't. Strange things. But that's not what the Lord Jesus saw. When he saw the multitude, he was moved with compassion. Amen Yeah. As in a Target store getting the prescription from the pharmacy, the line was long and it was slow. And the lady behind the desk was real nice Happy, Job, you'll keep everybody in a good spirit. She had more metal in her face than anybody I'd seen after that time. She had about six or seven deals in each year, and she had something up here by her eyebrows and she had something here by her lips and she had something under here by her nose. Nice lady. Cheerful, happy. I gave her a tract and I said, hey, I'm Pastor Left from First Baptist Church in Bridgford. Come by, yeah, you can have it. Come by. You'd probably never seen one of those before. Um come by and see us. We'll be nice to you. And she got real quiet. And she said, thanks. Most pastors aren't. I guessed I knew what she meant, but I played dumb, which is not a hard act for me. I said, well why not? And she said, because of this. And I thought about that. Before anybody told her that God loved her, before anybody told her that she was an eternal soul that was going to spend Forever, either in heaven or in hell, before anybody told her that Jesus died, they had to let her know they didn't like that stuff in her face. How do you see the multitude? The Lord Jesus saw them as those that fainted They were weak. If somebody fainted tonight, if somebody on the aisle, if Brother Williams over here all of a sudden fainted and just clumped down into the center aisle while I was preaching Well you would you would you look at that? Oh, he's gonna be so embarrassed. Get a video and put that on Facebook. I gotta treat this picture. You wouldn't do that You'd be nervous, you'd be sorry for him, you'd try to help him. You'd fan him, you'd you'd come by and try to get some smelling salts or one of, you know, Brother Fox's socks or something and try to I'm sorry, it just sounded good. Fox the shots. And you don't make fun of people who faint. You don't criticize people who faint. They're scattered abroad. They had no leader. They had no direction. They had no sense of where to go. Years ago, a preacher friend of mine, Clint Miller, Clint Miller was in Hollywood before he got saved. He's made recordings at Johnny Cash's studio. He sang at June Carter Cash's funeral and John Carter Cash's wedding. And he was in charge of guest relations for this was your life. He's never met a stranger. And Clinton was in the Ontario, California Airport. His boys, Cheyenne and Cody, were small at that time. And they came up and they said, Dad, Dad, there's a movie star in this airport. The woman they tell me was named Nidra Voltz and she played the Maid Adelaide on a TV program that's not on anymore called Different Strokes. I don't know anything about it. I'm just telling you who they told me she was and what they told me she was on. I've never seen the program. And Clint Miller said, did you give her a tract? And they said, well no. He said, well we better go do that. So the guy in line and went up and she said, Are these your boys? And he said, Yes, ma'am. She said they're fine boys. He said, Thank you, man. Can I ask you a question? If you died today, do you know whether or not you'd go to heaven? She said no, and he told her how. And she prayed out loud in the airport and trusted Christ. And she shook his hand and she said, I want you to know this means something to me. It really does. Now long after that I got a nice picture in the mail, one of the publicity photos, and it said, to my friend Pastor Miller, thanks for what you did for me. And not long after that a young man called me and said, I'm the personal assistant for Miss Bolson. She wonders if she could come and visit your church this Sunday. He just started the church is run about eighty people and he said, Sure And she came on and he had her give a word of testimony and she said, All my life I've had it all, but now I have everything because I have Jesus, your pastor, led me to Christ. Everybody else saw a movie star. Everybody else saw a chance to get an autograph. Everybody else saw a chance to go home and say, Hey D. You know who I saw and what I ran into. But Clinton Miller saw a soul that was going to live somewhere forever. So you see the Lord's perception and then you see his passion. The Bible says when he saw the multitude, he was moved with compassion. They tell me that word compassion is the strongest word for emotion in the Greek language. They say it means to have the internal organs yearn. You ever hear about something bad happened to somebody and you literally feel a twinge inside? I'm told, and these are old statistics, that every day 125,000 people die and go to hell. What's the population of this town, preacher? Uh the whole town about ten thousand. That's twelve and a half times as many people as in the whole town. If 125,000 people died in any one place in the world, it would receive national attention for days. 3,000 people died in 9-11. Several thousand people died in the tsunami a while back, and we talked about it for days and days and days. But 125,000 people die on told every day and go to hell and 137,000 are born every day, most of whom will grow up without having one clear presentation of the gospel. They said if you could put all the lost people in the world in a single file line, it would circle the globe nine times. That's 175,000 miles. And they say the line gets 20 miles longer every day. They said if we could stop the births and stop the deaths and win people to Christ at the same rate we're winning them now, then it would take us 400 years to win the United States of America to Christ and 4,000 years to win the world to Christ The thing about that is you can tell it to people and it's interesting and it captures their attention but it doesn't really move anybody deeply. Nobody twinges on the inside. Nobody stops to think what that means in terms of their neighbor and their relatives and their co-workers and the people that they come into contact with every day. But when the Lord Jesus saw that crowd, it bothered him that they were fainting. Bothered him, that they were scattered. I'm against all the evil that goes on in the world I'm disgusted by the things that happen. We are fighting a battle and I've been drawn into it. I got a bunch of phone calls to make tomorrow about it in Michigan. They're trying to get gay, lesbian, transgender special rights added to the Elliott Larson amendment to our Constitution, which is our civil rights law. If they do that, ultimately it will be illegal for me to stand in the pulpit and say homosexuality is a sin. They tell me that law passes as it is currently being proposed, that if a man who teaches in my school leaves his wife and runs off And marries another woman, I can fire him. But if he runs off, leaves his wife, marries another man, I cannot fire him, I'd be guilty of discrimination I think that's terrible. Now, by the way, if a homosexual comes to our church, we shake their hands and we treat them nice just like anybody else. What they need is Jesus. Amen. That's right. But I'm never going to say what they do is okay. Because the Bible doesn't say that it's okay. And their problem is not that we're not nice to them, their problem is not that they're being discriminated against. We've asked them Tell us one example of somebody being fired from their job because they are gay in the state. They cannot give us one example That's not the problem. They want us to affirm that what they do is all right. Does she understand that if we could make everybody straight If we could shut down all the pornography sites, if we could stop all the garbage on the television, if we could get rid of all the rap music and if we could get everybody dressed up and looking nice and erase all the tattoos and remove all the metal that everybody who died without Jesus would still go to hell forever. We ought to be so we ought to be life. But don't forget our main goal is to tell people they need Jesus Christ. Then you see the Savior's problem. Say the Lord Jesus had problems. Well he had one here. Some people don't like that, but it's what it says. He said, the harvest is plenteous. Would you say that with me? The harvest is plentious. Would you say it? The harvest is plenteous. Say it again. The harvest is plenteous. Every once in a while for the love of the minute I hear people tell me how hard it is to win people to Christ these days. It's just really difficult. We live in a gospel hardened society. We don't have a Christian heritage like we used to. We've lost our mornings and we don't have the foundation we used to have and it's harrrrr to lead people to Christ. Whenever somebody says that you mark down two things. Number one, they haven't been doing it much. See, soul winning does not work. It fails every time it's not tried. Amen. But you've talked to enough people. You find somebody hungry, somebody open, somebody willing to trust God. The other thing you mark down is they disagree with Jesus. Because Jesus said the harvest truly is plenty of. So the opportunity is large. But you know what the problem was? The problem was the outreach was limited. He said the labors are few. The Lord in his economy has never had a harvest problem, he's had a labor problem. And so then you come to the Savior's petition. The only thing he ever asks us to pray for on his behalf, it is a singular petition. This is just one request. It's a simple petition. Pray for labors. Would you say that with me, please? Pray for labors. He wants labors. Labors are really important. It's a significant petition. You know But if I say people talk about how the devil's going to destroy the work of God, and they say, well, the government will become increasingly intrusive and they'll gradually restrict our rights. And I think that's true. I think that's happening But I would remind you that in China there were only about three to four million Christians when the communists took over, and most estimates put them somewhere between fifty and seventy million, no. There are those who say that by the year 2020, the nation with the most Christians in it, not the most percentage of Christians, but the largest number of Christians Will be the land of China, I'm telling you, the Gospel did just fine under times of persecution. It did it in China, it did it in Rome, it did it in other Places throughout the world that did it in Russia. I met people who were serving God as preachers in Russia when the communists were jailing them and breaking up their meetings and harassing them and the gospel could not be stopped. Well you say the devil will he'll go after the leader, shoot for the brass buttons. And the Bible says this might the shepherd and the sheep will be scattered. I've been to churches where the leader fell. And sometimes a generation of young people were lost and it did some damage, but I've seen those churches come back and recover and go on and do great things for God. But I'll tell you one way you can stop the work of God overnight. Just let there be no laborers. Right. Nobody to sing in the choir. Yeah. Nobody to pass the offering plate. Nobody to run the vacuum, nobody to turn the lights on, nobody to unlock the doors, nobody to clean the restrooms, nobody to run the buses, nobody to teach the classes, nobody to work in the nursery, nobody to cook the meal, nobody To knock on the doors, nobody to dash out the tribes, nobody to work in the junior church. I'm telling you, the work of God all dries up overnight if there are no labors. Labors are really important. Amen. So the Lord Jesus said, Pray for laborers. Pray ye therefore, the Lord of the harvest, that he will send forth laborers into his harvest. Last week we had, I believe, 56, I think, people saved in the services and the soul-winning outreaches of First Baptist Church of Bridgeport. We had, it wasn't a particularly good week in this and we had 157 people, was the number I saw on the board. That may have been last week or the week before, that were out soul winning in our various ministries. So let's suppose instead of 56 people being saved, next week we'd like to see 112 people saved. We made about 2230 contacts I'm not a great statistician, but it seems to me if instead of 157 we had 314 gospel winning. Yeah. And instead of twenty two hundred and thirty contacts we made forty-four hundred and sixty contacts. It seems to me we'd have a pretty good chance to see 112 people saved instead of seeing fifty-six people saved. I mean i it it's pretty simple, the more seed you sow, the more harvest that you're gonna take in. And the more gospel you plant, the more tracks you pass out, and the more doors you now come, and the more people you talk to, the more likely it is. Somebody will get saved, labor's are really important. Amen. Monday lady from our church called my name was Chris the Fram, or Beth the Frambo, his husband was named Chris. She said, my sister-in-law Julie is dying of cancer. Three priests have been by to see her, and everyone has left her more confused than the one before. Would you go see her? It was a Wednesday I was flying back from a meeting like this and I said, sure, my wife and I typically run some errands, make some visits to eat a bite on Wednesday afternoon before church. So I say Christine, I'll go see you. Now, the Laframbois family was a large family. The dad owned several Little Caesars pizza franchises and His son, Chris, who's a member of our church, owned one of them. And Chris and one sibling had been saved, and the rest of the family were Roman Catholic and hated the fact that these kids were not Catholic anymore. I thought I'll go see her. Her name is Julie White. She'd been on the Framboys Got Married and And I thought, I hope nobody from the family is there. So I went to the house and they let me in and if she is in a wheelchair skinny wig on because of losing her hair because of chemo and her mother's there and I thought, oh brother So Julie, I'm Pastor Willette. There's my wife Chrissy. Beth called us and asked if we'd stop by and see us. She said, you're having a hard time. Can I do anything for you? And she said, I'm scared to die. Oh I said, I think I could help you with that. I could show you from the Bible how to know you go to heaven when you die. Would you like to see that? Oh she said yes what's mama gonna say now? I gave her the gospel now when I give people the gospel and I get done I tell them the prayer, I'm going to ask them to pray. And I tell them the prayer is not magic. You have to mean what you say. It's not saying words. It's not an incantation. You're saved because you believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. So I tell them ahead of time so that they can tell me if they could sincerely say that prayer from their heart to the Lord. And so I said, Julie, when people don't understand this, If they want to trust Christ as their Savior, I'm happy to help them in a prayer. Told her a prayer wasn't magic. We pray something like this. We say, Lord, I'm a sinner. And she said, Lord, I'm a sinner Now normally just say the whole prayer and then if they feel like they could say it sincerely I have them say it after me but and I said I don't deserve to go to heaven and she said I don't deserve to go to heaven Well, I'm not the brightest bulb in the chandelier, but by this time I had my head bowed. She prayed and I said, Julie, did you just say that from your heart to God? And she said, Yes. I said, according to the Bible, if you died right now, where would you go And she said, I'd go to heaven, and she had a smile on her face, and I said, Julie, can we do anything before you leave? And she said, Get my Bible and write those verses in it. And she sent my wife into a room and she brought out a precious moment's new King James Bible. And she wrote the references in the front. And I just had this thought before I left. I looked over and I said to her mother, Mrs. LeFram, boys, can I ask you a question? When we prayed that prayer just now, did you pray too and ask Jesus to Savior? And she said, Yes, I did So you know what the Lord needed that day just to labor? Just somebody to be there Several years ago I preached at a Sword of the Lord conference in North Carolina, flown back on a Saturday. It was to preach that afternoon at a youth rally in Detroit and it wasn't time to go home first, so I got my car at the Flint Airport and drove on down to Detroit. But I got there a little early. I was trying to lose weight. I'm spending most of my life trying to lose weight. And I thought, well, I'll go to a subway. You know, the subway diets are great Just watch out. Most of those diets, you notice that after people lose weight, they lose clothes too. So be careful when you lose weight, you don't lose clothes like those other people do. But anyway. I couldn't find a subway, but I found a Burger King. So I went to the Burger King, I got a grilled chicken sandwich and I got a a glass of Diet Coke and I sat there eating my sandwich, drinking my Diet Coke and making my Sunday school calls and I heard this noise. Do loodoo, do loodoo, do lo-lo-loo. Now you ladies are not going to believe what I'm about to tell you If you get the CD with the four series on it, there's a series on the family that explained to you that men's minds and women's mind are different. There's a biochemical reason for it. A man's mind is like laser At a laser pointer, at aim of the wall would be one little red dot, all the energy in that pointer would be in that one very small red dot. Man can be sitting there in the house and the children will be putting the cat in the microwave and shooting babies at the television and pouring red Kool-Aid on the white carpet And the wife goes, Well honey, why'd you let him do it? You you said he said, I didn't notice. She said, How could you not notice? They were five feet in front of you. And he'll say, I was reading the sports page. That's a legitimate excuse for a man Women's minds are not like laser, they're like radar. Women can be talking on the phone, cooking dinner Answering somebody who's knocking on the front door and a child three rooms away to pick up something they shouldn't have, she'll say, put that down right now. Anything within a hundred miles shows up on the screen. That's just how you are, and it's just how we are So you not can believe this, but it's true. I kept hearing do-loo-loop, dool-loop on somebody's cell phone, ran out of die-cove, went up to go get another one, and here was this guy lying on the floor with his shirt off, gray And what I was hearing was not somebody's cell phone. They were hooking up a defibrillator. And I nah I just stood there and watched. And they hooked the thing up and bah you know it'd say, preparing to shock, stand clear, and then it'd shock him, and then it'd do it again. They must have shocked him six or eight times and no response I thought, well, I'm just being a rubber necker and I went into the restroom. When I came out, the body was gone and most of the paramedics and police officers are gone. There's one police officer left. And I went to him, I said, hey, I'm a chaplain for the Saginaw County Sheriff's Department. I've been trained in critical incident stress debriefing. Do you think I could be some help? He said, Yeah, maybe so. I went and talked to the manager and she said, Oh, please talk to these kids. I don't know what to tell them. So I got them together. There were six workers there. And I did the debriefing. It's actually called the defusing in a situation like that that you're supposed to do. And then I sticking to talk to you as a Baptist preacher from there I said, you see something like that's got to make you wonder, what if it was you? Can I tell you how to be sure you're on your way to heaven? And they said yes. And I got done, and one of them said they're already saved, and the other five trusted Christ as their Savior. You say, well, don't let nothing like that ever happens to me. Go to Burger King Right. Because my question, if you had been there, what would you have done? Didn't need anybody smart, didn't need anybody that had some deep theological arguments that they could give, just needed somebody who'd be a laborer, somebody who would pass out the gospel seat, somebody who would give a witness. Labor's are really important. He was about fifteen years old, burdened about his eternal destiny. He said, I envied the horses in the field and the toads beside the road because I knew they had no soul. It was like to perish as mine was. One snowy day he stumbled into a little chapel. The weather was so bad, the regular preacher had been unable to come. He watched his Hebrew people huddled together and it fell on one of them to preach. You could tell he was not a pastor by trade, but an ordinary working kind of man. And he stood up unprepared, but he picked a good text The text was, look unto me and be ye saved, all the ends of the world or of the earth. And the young man later said he didn't even pronounce those words right, but he said, I I saw in them a glimmer of hope. And he said, I listened as if my life depended upon what I had heard. In about ten minutes, he said the preacher had got to the end of his tether He saw me sitting under the gallery of the balcony, and he perceived me to be a stranger, and he said, Young man, you look very miserable to me. Well, the young man said later on, I did. However, I'd not been accustomed to have remarks made about my person from the pulpit. And he said, You'll always be miserable. Miserable in life and miserable in death if you do not obey my text. But if you obey now, this moment, you'll be saved. And then he shouted and he said, Young man, look to Jesus. Lord, Lord, Lord. And the young man later said, I did, then and there the cloud was gone, the darkness had rolled away. In that moment I saw the sun. I could have risen on the instant and sung with the most enthusiastic of them of the precious blood of Christ and of the simple faith which is. It looks alone to him. Oh, that somebody had told me before. And in that fashion, and in those circumstances, was the conversion accomplished of Charles Haddon's Furgeon. Every preacher in this room has read his sermons and probably most all of us have some of his sermons in our library. He went on to pastor the Metropolitan Tabernacle, started be called the New Park Street Chapel as a Baptist Church, and the church virgin and groom when he was twenty-three years old. He's preaching to crowds of twenty thousand and he influenced the world with the gospel. Why? Because one day a group of people get together And they didn't say, Well we might have said, Well the preacher's not here. We'll sing some songs and read a psalm and take the offering and we'll go home. Somebody decided to labor, somebody unprepared and unstudied and not expecting to do it, took a simple passage of scripture and stood up and preach the gospel, labors are really important. Our Heavenly Father, I pray that you guide me in the invitation and speak to all of our hearts. Your heads are bowed, your eyes are closed. Can I say you're probably just like I was? I knew the verse, but I never took it like a command. Here's a slogan for a missions conference There's a a good verse to quote. It was more than that as a command, and when I learned that I added to my daily prayer list right at the top to pray for laborers. And I pray for them to come to our church and to go out from our church and to go out around the world. And let me ask you a question. I wonder who would say It is my daily practice to pray for laborers. I do that on a daily basis. If you could say that, would you hold your hand up high? God bless you. Just a few of us, most just like everyone is. No wonder who'd say this? I see that the Lord asked me to do that on his behalf, and I want to be obedient to him, and I wish. You pray with me that I'll be faithful to pray for papers. And I'm committing now to begin to do that on a daily basis. If you'll do that, would you hold your hand up high? God bless you. God bless you. God bless you But you know that uh part of the answer to the prayer request is us. We're not only commanded to pray for laborers, we're commanded to be laborers. Now what if we can ask you this question? I wonder if we would say it is my regular practice, weekly practice, to develop soul winning through some Soul winning ministry in my local church. Not saying you never miss, but your regular general practice. If you do that on a weekly basis, would you hold your hand up high? God bless you. Oh, that's good. Thank you Now I wonder if there aren't some of us who say, you know what, Brother Lud, I could not raise my hand. But I know I should go. Now I'd like to ask you to promise you'll go forever. But I understand the hesitancy some people have to make an open-ended commitment. So let me ask it this way. I wonder who would say I'll go for the next 13 weeks. That's one quarter of a year, unless I'm providentially hindered. You may have to work. You may be sick. You may be out of town. The Lord understands that But you see, God can count on me, my preacher can count on me, my church can count on me for the next thirteen weeks, unless I'm providentially hinted. I haven't been going, but I will Pray with me about that. I'll commit to that. If you say that, hold your hand up high. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. Who else I don't go, but I will for the next thirteen weeks. God help him, unless I'm providentially hindered. Who else quickly before I go on? I think there's somebody else who ought to respond. Would you be obedient? Thank you, and thank you. God bless you. And thank you And then I want to talk to some of you who just now thought I should raise my hand, but you didn't. And the reason is not rebellion and not lack of concern about souls. The reason is because you're just afraid. You don't think you know what to do So let me suggest something to you. If Brother Leatherman and I go out soul winning together, only one of us talks at a time. The other one's a silent partner. So if we each took a silent partner with us and all they did was just smile, didn't that say a word? Just smile. Now we'd go twice as many places. Then we'd talk to twice as many people and pretty likely see twice as many people get saved. I know you didn't raise the hand and I know you feel badly about it. I'm not here to beat up on you. But I'm trying to make it easy for you to get started and easy for you to help the gospel get out And you c you could help the gospel get twice as many places just by being a silent partner. And what he would say, I I didn't raise my hand and say I would go, but I'll go as a silent partner for the next thirteen weeks unless I'm providentially into this. I can do that. If you say that, hold your hand up. Hi, God bless you. Thank you. I'll do that. And then I want to ask one more question for him, Dun I wonder if somewhere in the course of the message, or maybe just now, a name, a face An unsaved person has been brought to your mind by the Spirit of God. Maybe a relative. Maybe a co-worker. Maybe an old friend from a long time ago, maybe your neighbor. You say, I know somebody who needs Jesus Here's what I'd like you to promise. I'd like you to promise that some way you'll get them the gospel. You may call them up and talk to them. You may go see them. You may send them a good gospel presentation. The preacher would help you get one. But you say somewhere I'll get in the gospel in the next two weeks. There is somebody that God's placed on my mind. And I want you to pray with me that they'll trust Christ. And I want you to I pray that God will help me to be faithful as I commit myself, get the gospel to him somehow in the next two weeks. If you'll do that, would you hold your hand up high? God bless you. God bless you I want you to do a little something different. I saw Dr. Box do this and I was impressed by it. You write that name on a piece of paper and you give it to me. Give to me when you come to the altar in a moment, give to me when you leave. Now I got a little calendar on my phone and on my iPad. And I'll put those names in there and I'll set them so they pop up every day for the next two weeks. And I'll pray with you. That God will save them and open their heart. And Heavenly Father, I do pray that you would save many people because of the work you've begun in our hearts tonight. I pray that many laborers would go off into your service. I pray that many doors would be knocked on. I pray that many people would hear the gospel because of what you are doing in our midst tonight. And we'll thank you in Jesus' name for all that's done, Amen. Would you stand with your headsman