First Peter chapter number two, and we're at verse number twenty four, is I just want to look at this one verse tonight, and really just part of this one verse. Notice the Bible says here who his own self bear our sins in his own body on the tree. Of course the tree being what? The cross. In his own body on the tree, that we, being dead to sins, should live unto righteousness. And the last little statement there by whose stripes your heel. Talk about that next Sunday, I think. We'll preach on that. But I notice this here, and I've entitled the message, Just a Very Familiar Truth to All of Us. I appreciate the songs we sang tonight. I love to tell the story. Fits right in tonight's message. And that is this. Jesus died for our sins. That's an age-old, very, very familiar truth, but yet that's what this text is teaching. So let's pray and ask the Lord to stir our hearts tonight and help us. Father. My Lord, it's been a good day, and my heart is full, and the music and the biography of this brother Brown so many years ago and his influence And Lord, now we look at our day and look at ourselves and we ask, God, that you would help us. Lord, stir us. to give ourselves, to take the simple truth to everybody we possibly can, that you died for our sins and for the sins of the whole world. I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit. I ask your Holy Spirit would speak through me and stir our hearts, challenge us, provoke us, Lord, to serve you faithfully daily. And uh that many, many souls will be saved. So have your way now, I ask. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Peter, this whole section here, you wouldn't know it maybe by just reading this text I read this evening, but actually this whole section, going back another ten verses before, Peter is addressing the idea of suffering. He introduced it when he mentioned about uh servants obeying their masters, submitting to their masters, even if that master is treats them wrongly and they suffer unjustly. Then he kind of built on that and he talked about suffering in life, unjustly, doing uh you know, trying to do right, trying to serve God, and then people mistreating and and difficulties and and trials come. He's talking about the suffering. And if you would, remember, I just want to come back to verse number one. Look, uh just a reminder of what he said. Now we had looked at this earlier. He says, for he even hereunto were ye called. Because Christ also suffered for us. Now look at this next statement, leaving us an example. That ye should follow in his steps. Now he says, listen, you're suffering, you're going through a difficult time. Jesus Christ suffered also, unjustly, unfairly. And what Peter is saying, under the inspiration of God, he's saying, now you need to follow Jesus' example. You need to follow the pattern Jesus Christ gave when he suffered unjustly When he was mistreated, when he was falsely accused, when he was misunderstood, when he was persecuted, follow that pattern, following the steps that Jesus Christ did. That's good advice. That's God's advice to us, instruction to us. But then we come down to verse number 24, and he says here how that uh who his own self bear our sins in his own body on the cross, that we being dead to sin uh should live unto righteousness. He works into the gospel message here. Now, I don't know. I'm speculating here. But I'm wondering if the Holy Spirit of God didn't prompt and stir Peter to record verse number 24 in anticipation. Of mankind taking verse number 21, following his example, and twisting that and misrepresenting You see where I'm going with that? There's a lot of modernists and liberals who will teach. Well, you just follow the teachings of Jesus. Just follow Jesus' example. And then that's where salvation is, in words and following. Jesus wasn't the Son of God, Jesus wasn't deity. He was just a man died on the cross, a tragic death, maybe a martyr for his cause. And I'm wondering if the Holy Spirit of God isn't stirring Peter to kind of take this little uh side route and touch on the gospel in order to clarify Verse number 21. He is not suggesting in verse 21 that by following Jesus' sample we can be saved. Everybody follow with me, follow what I'm saying And so he touches here on the fact that Jesus Christ died for our sins. Verse 24 makes it clear that it's not Jesus' example that uh pays the price for our sins, but it is his substitutionary death on the cross. And so should we follow the example of Christ? Yes, absolutely. When people say unkind things and say untrue things Things people lie about us and people misconstrue what we're saying what we're trying to do. We ought to look at the Lord Jesus Christ. How did He respond? And then respond in kind. But when we're looking for the salvation of our soul, when we're looking for the forgiveness of sins and the cleansing of sin, we don't look to the example of the Lord Jesus Christ, we look to the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. You follow it? And so I I I don't think a person uh I put it this way no man can follow Christ's example until he first trusts Christ as Savior. And that's what verse number uh twenty-four is about. Uh he is telling us here that Jesus is much more than an example for us to follow when we suffer unjustly, but Jesus Christ is a sacrifice for To be judged for our sins in our place. Jesus Christ died for our sins and rose again. That's the message. That's the message. Now, I want us to look a few thoughts about this. Jesus died for our sins, number one. Put this down. Number one, he died for our sins personally. He died for our sins personally. Look at verse 24 there. Through his own self bear our sins in his own body. This is a very emphatic statement. I got looking those words up as I like to do and how they're used, and uh I found out that that statement, when he says his own self And that is a very emphatic statement. Peter is trying to get this idea across very clearly that Jesus Christ died for our sins personally, his own body, not somebody else's. His own body. This is stated. Come back to Hebrews chapter 3 real quick, just a few pages before there. I'm sorry, Hebrews chapter 1. And I believe Paul is the penman of Hebrews. Don't get me gone about that. But I think Paul is a penman of Hebrews. And notice verse number three of chapter one, speaking of the Lord Jesus Christ, who being the brightness of his glory. an express image of his person, upholding all things by the word of his power. Look at this. When he had by what's the next word? By himself purged our sins, sat down on the right hand of the majesty on high. Very emphatic statement. Here's the point I think Peter's trying to make under the inspiration of God. Here's the point he's trying to make. Jesus died for our sins himself personally. He didn't send somebody else to do it. He didn't find somebody else to die on the cross for us. Now think about that with me. Here is God Almighty. Your creator, my creator, the creator of heaven and earth, taking upon himself personally And saying, in effect, saying, I will come to earth, I personally will become a man, I personally will take responsibility. For mankind, my creation's sins, my creation's blasphemy, my creation's disobedience, I will take personal responsibility for that, and I will pay that price myself. Now I don't know about you, but that's pretty mind-boggling. You think about that. God would do that. You study some of these, study history, particularly some of the pagan and savage uh um uh religions that have taken place over the years. And what they would often do, and it's here's an interesting talk. This is Something. Um every culture ever known to man worship a god of some sort. They never in the deepest, darkest jungles of South America or wherever you go, the most backward, unreached area You go there, they worship some sort of God. You know what that tells me? That something in the heart of mankind knows there's a God out there of some sort. And so every culture has worshiped the God. And here's another interesting thing. Every culture has some understanding of right and wrong. There is a sin, and this God must be appealed. They would offer up all kinds of sacrifices and go through ceremonies. And some of these sacrifices, what they would do is they would take prisoners of war And they go find captives and they bring them and they would sacrifice them, they would kill them as a sacrifice to God to cover and atone for their own conception of their sins. And they would find other poor souls. They'd grab them and kidnap them and bring them in and kill them and sacrifice them to their God for their sin. Sometimes they would find someone maybe even in their own within their own population and maybe some exceptional terms or somebody that's a little different, and they would take them and offer them up and sacrifice them. But our God comes himself and gives himself A sacrifice, not some other poor victim. What a God we serve. What love is this? That God Himself We give himself personally for our sins. Jesus Christ died for our sins personally. He died voluntarily. Take your Bible with me if you would. Now keep your place here. Go to the Gospel of John. Gospel of John in chapter number 10. Now think about this. This is God the Creator. We're going to read about here. This is the God that is so holy, the angels cover themselves in his presence. This is the God that is so wise and so powerful and so pure. That man can't look on him. But look at verse number chapter 10, and I want to read verse number 11. Notice what he says: I am the good shepherd. The Good Shepherd, Jesus speaking, I'm the Good Shepherd, me personally. And the Good Shepherd does what? giveth his life for the sheep. What's Jesus saying here? He's saying, listen, I am personally, as God, as the creator, I'm going to give myself personally For the sheep. Come down to verse number 17, if you would. He says, Therefore doth my father love me, because I lay down my life That I may take it again. Look at this. No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of what? Myself. I have power to lay it down. And I have power to take it again. This commandment have I received of my Father. What's he saying? He's saying, I am personally, voluntarily Giving myself to be the sacrifice, to be the payment, to be the price for your sins, for your sins. What amazing salvation we have. Jesus personally died for our sins. Then I put this down, number two, I put he Jesus died for our sins by proxy Now how many people uh know what that word proxy means? Anybody proxy? Uh I'm on a couple um uh I'm on a few different boards, uh different ministries. I just did that so you see how important I am and uh you know these I'm one of these boards and um uh but anyway I am and sometimes uh I I can't always get to the board meeting And so what they'll do in advance, they will send a letter, and in that letter they'll have a uh a form where they can vote proxy for me. Everybody know what I'm talking about? In other words, I sign that and I give permission usually to the chairman, whoever's the the chief big cheese, I'll sign that, and I'm giving him permission to vote In my place, in proxy for me. Everybody follow, everybody with me? Here's my point. Jesus died for our sins personally, took them personally came down. But he also did it by proxy. And what I mean by that is simply this. He was our substitute. We have a Bible time board meeting, I can't make it, and Brother Larry Coots, he's the big Jesus. And um uh I send a letter proxy to him. And so when they're going to vote on something, he goes, I'm voting I'm voting for Pastor Leatherman, I'm voting for Brother Leatherman, and he'll do it in my place. Jesus Christ came down And he said, I'm personally going to die in Dennis Leatherman's place. Not voting in my place, he's being judged in my place. He's being condemned for my sins in my place. Jesus died for our sins personally. He died for our sins by proxy. Take your Bible with me. Again, keep your place here. Come way back in the Old Testament, Isaiah. Anyone want to guess what chapter of Isaiah I'm going to? Let's see. 53. Isaiah chapter 53. That's the gospel in Isaiah, chapter 53. All the way back to chapter 53. And I want you to notice In verse number 5 and 6, we're going to look at a few verses down in this chapter, but keep this in mind: Jesus Christ, our God, our Savior, our Creator, personally Coming and then dying in our place by proxy, taking our position, our substitute. Look at verse number five. Isaiah 53, verse 5. But he was he was wounded for what's the next word? Our translation. I circled that word hour in my Bible, and in the margin beside I put substitute. But he was wounded for our transgressions. Look at this. He was bruised for Our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him. With his stripes We are healed. Look at verse 6. All we, like sheep, have gone astray. We've turned every one to his own way. And the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. A little aside here, that verse, verse number six there. Notice what the first and last words are in that verse. Oh, we've all sinned and Jesus died for all of us. Nobody's left out. Listen, some of these theologians are wrong when they say Jesus only died for a select, elect group, and he didn't die for the others. They are unscriptural and they are wrong. All we look like we sheep have gone astray, and he has laid on him the iniquity of us all. It's not one person ever lived Jesus didn't pay their sins for. Not one person couldn't go to heaven Jesus already paid their sins for. You say, well, then why aren't they all saved? Uh listen, there's enough soak to go around for everybody. Why isn't everybody clean? Because you gotta take the soap and what? Yeah, you gotta use it. You gotta wash your hands. It's there, it's available, it's fi it's available for uh we got enough we got enough hand sanitizer to baptize the whole city. But not everybody's hands are sanitized. Why? Because you don't use it. Listen, Jesus died for the sins of all men, women, and children. Not everybody's saved, because all they need to do is come and trust him and he'll be he'll forgive them. Amen. You follow with me? But he was our substitute, proxy, our sins were laid on him. Come over there to verse number eleven, the last part of verse eleven Uh says speaking of God, God he shall see the travail of his Jesus soul, and shall be satisfied. By his knowledge shall m my righteous servant justify many. Look at this For he shall bear their iniquities. Look at the last part of verse 12. And he bare the sin of many and made intercession for the transgressors So Jesus Christ died for our sins. First of all, he did it personally. He came down and took personal responsibility for your sins and my sins. And then he was our substitute, our proxy. He did it in our place. Oh, by the way, come back here to Peter. There's an important note here. We need to point out. When we say it says, who his own self bare our sins in his own body. Don't misunderstand that. The Bible is not saying here, God's not telling us here that Jesus became a sinner with a sin nature. Alright, it's important to understand that Jesus did not have a sin nature. He was without sin. He was the pure, sinless Son of God. But that word bear there, to his own self, Bear our sins on his own on his own body has this idea to pick up and place upon And actually that word was used, I just found this out, that word was actually used to carry something to the altar. When the ju when the Jewish priests would pick up that little lamb and they would take it and bear it on their shoulders to the altar and then lay it on the altar and offer it up. That's the idea. Jesus took our sins upon himself. He didn't become a sinner. Jesus never sinned in thought or word or deed. But he took our sins upon him. And bear them up there. It's important to understand that he I I like to look at it this way. Here I am, I'm a sinner. Man, I've said things And I said things that if I was if I was have to give answer to God for some things I've said, I'd be doomed to hell for all eternity. Some things I've done, places I've gone. If I had to, if I had to stand before God and I was held responsible for some of the things I've done and places I've gone and things I've said I'd burn in hell for all eternity. And by the way, it's true for you too. We're honest. But Jesus Christ comes in my place, my proxy. And he says, I'll take responsibility for those things that Dennis has said and done. I'll take responsibility. I'll suffer, I'll take that judgment for him. I don't know about you, but it's like, oh, thank you, Lord. Thank you, Lord. It's a proxy. It's in our place. He takes responsibility for the things we've done and we do. The sins we've committed and the sins we commit. But God commendeth his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, finish the verse with me. Christ died for us in our place, took responsibility for our sin. You say, preacher, I'm such an awful sinner. There's no way I could ever be There's no way I could ever be accepted by God into heaven. I deserve to die and go to hell. I'm here to tell you, Jesus Christ already took responsibility for all your sins. He's already done that for you. Forgiveness is available. Not wonderful? What a message. Jesus Christ died for our sins. He died personally for our sins. He died by proxy for our sins all through Scripture from Genesis to Revelation. The message is the same over and over and over. Jesus died for our sins Jesus took responsibility for our sins. Jesus paid our sins for us. Jesus died for our sins. Number one, personally. Number two, by proxy. Number three, Jesus died for our sins. I put it this way, powerfully. Come back to Peter here with me, if you would, through his own self, bear our sins in his own body on the tree, on the cross, where he suffered our, paid our sins for us. That we, look at this, being dead to sins, should live unto righteousness I'm telling you what Jesus Christ did on that cross for you and me is the most powerful, life-changing event that ever took place in all of history. The change of life. The power of the gospel unto salvation. Think about this Jesus Christ died for my sins. Let me just use myself as an illustration. Jesus Christ died for my sins. All these things I've said and done and thought and and places I've gone and things that I've I've uh uh partook in and and uh and uh involved myself in. And Jesus Christ come and says, I'll take responsibility for all of Dennis's sins and all he's done, I'll take responsibility. And he bears the judgment of God in my place. And he takes the wrath of God upon himself. And he suffers an eternal hell for me, for my sins. He's buried and rose again. And the moment I turn and put my faith and trust in what Jesus Christ did for me, I say, I'll accept what you did for me. I'll accept that forgiveness and that cleansing. The moment I do that, God changes everything about me. All my sins. are transferred, so to speak, to Jesus' account, and he pays that. And get this. All his righteousness. The pure, sinless, perfect life that Jesus Christ lived on this earth is transferred. That account is transferred to my account. And I stand before God as a perfect, sinless, righteous son of God. Isn't that an amazing thing Let's look at some verses here. Take your Bible and come to 2 Corinthians, if you would, chapter number 5. What a great chapter, 2 Corinthians 5 is. 2 Corinthians chapter 5. And look with me if you would At verse number 21, I love this verse. I tell you, years ago, when this verse dawned on me and I realized what this was teaching, it stirred my heart And uh look what it says here. Verse 21, for he, God, hath made him, Jesus. Here it is, to be sin for us. That's the proxy. That's the substitute. Who knew no sin. He never sinned. He had no sin of his own. He had no sinful nature. He took my sins upon him Who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him In other words, as pure and holy, as righteous as Jesus was and is That record, that merit, is taken and in heaven put on the account of Dennis Leatherman. It's imputed to my account. Everybody follow what I'm saying Um uh I I liked it, and you you anybody been around here any length time, you've seen me heard me do this before, but it just illustrates it beautifully Let's suppose that I had Brother Mark install into the church an elevator that goes to heaven. Took him a little while, but he got it done. And uh I'd say, alright, I want you all to come to heaven. I want to show you something. So we all climb on the elevator and uh you know this, I'm just making this up, right? And uh we all climb on the elevator and hit H for heaven, uh the the one pointing up. And um and we get up there, ding, the elevator door opens, and there's Peter and say, hey Pete, he goes, hey Den. He calls me Den. And um And uh he says, What's up? They said, I want to ch show our church folk my record in heaven, the record books in heaven under Dance Leatherman. Oh short, come on over. He gets it out and he starts going through there, leatherman, leatherman, leatherman, spots of leatherman, finds leatherman. Uh Dennis, there's a whole slew of Dennis'. Wow, Dennis Lee. Okay, there it is. Ah, here it is. All right, read to everybody God's assessment, God's view, God's uh uh record of me. And he starts reading. Dennis Lee Leatherman, born in Pennsylvania. Uh let's see here. Holy, pure, sinless, good, just, righteous, absolute, perfect Hmm. You didn't know, huh? Now you say Brother Leatherman, I know you, you mean. I know, I'm not. But the record in heaven, as far as God's concerned, Jesus' righteousness, when he died for my sins, his righteousness was put over in my account. I don't make a Presbyterian shout right there. Man. How many folks here are you saying you know it? Say amen. I want you to go home tonight and look in the mirror. That person you're looking at, as far as God's concerned, is as pure and holy and righteous as Jesus Christ. I don't humble you. Pure and righteous is Jesus Christ. I'm telling you, Jesus died on that cross, being buried and rose again, most powerful thing that's ever happened in the history of the world Changing a life, changing very standing of a sinner before God, because Jesus Christ did for us. What a powerful, powerful event it was on that cross so many years ago. Come over to verse number 17 of that same chapter, 2 Corinthians chapter 5. Therefore, if any man be now notice the wording he uses here: in Christ. I'm in his righteousness. I'm in his standing. I'm in the position that Christ holds before God. I'm in Christ as a believer. If any man be in Christ, look at this, he's a new what? Preacher. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. You know what my righteous standing before God produces righteous living here on earth? God changes lives. Uh God changes not just our standing before God, but how many folks here, you're a different person now than you were before you got saved? Anyone? Maybe not outwardly. I know my daddy got saved, it wasn't a big outward change, at least not that I was aware of. But he said there was an inward change, perspective and values and priorities and principles he lived by. I found that true for me, it was phenomenal outward change and an inward change But I found this, if a person has a right standing, if they have a righteous standing before God, it affects their life down here. You know what that means? An old drunkard comes to Jesus Christ, trusts him as Savior What Jesus Christ did on that cross will take that drunkard, make him sober. Take an old liar, make him honest. Take an old thief. Make him be generous and kind. A blasphemer now glorifies God. Jesus dying on the cross changes the life. A drunkard becomes sober. The hateful become kind. The pride become humble. The liar becomes honest. God changes lives. You say, well, preacher, I still struggle. Yeah, we're still living in these old sinful bodies. Any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are becoming new, is the idea. It's a progressive We ought to be becoming more and more down here on earth what our standing is in heaven as time goes by. And so Jesus died on the cross one personally for us. He died personally for us. We get to heaven and stand before Jesus Christ. He's the one that died for us. He's the one that took my sins on himself. I'm going to see them personally. He does it by proxy. He did it in our place. He took our place. He does it powerfully. He died for our sins powerfully And then last of all, I tacked this one on. It's really not in the text here. But if you would, come over to Hebrews chapter ten And I felt like I ought to touch on this. Jesus died for our sins personally, died for our sins by proxy, died for our sins powerfully I want to add this one on here real quick as we finish up. He died for our sins permanently. Permanently. Look at Hebrews chapter 10, and notice with me verse number 10. By the which will it's the will of God that Jesus died for us, by the which will we are sanctified, set apart. Through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ. Doesn't that sound a little bit like Peter? He says his own body, Parisons in his own body, who Who sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ? I want you to say the last three words of that verse together with me. Ready? Once for all. Jesus Christ paid and died for my sins one time, and that covers it all from eternity past to eternity future. That settled it all. Jesus Christ died one time. You say, why is that such a big deal? Because the Catholic Church teaches that Jesus Christ has to be crucified over and over and over again. Because we commit a sin, then we come he dies for that sin, then we commit some more sins, he needs to come back and die for that sin. No no no no no Jesus Christ died once for all. All sins are cleansed by the blood of Jesus Christ, past, present, future, once for all, and that settles it. Amen? Whenever they uh take uh Eucharist or the Mass, they'll come. Now have that waiver. In their minds, in their teaching, their doctrine, that is Jesus Christ giving his body and his blood again and again and again and again and again. And that is unscriptural. Jesus Christ died for our sins once for all. I put it this way: Jesus' sacrifice for sin is a one-time forever event And my salvation from sin is a one-time forever event. Pastor Matt will agree with this. I'm sure many of you would agree with this. You go out soul-winning, it's very frustrating. When you get people that had some wrong teaching and you show them how to be saved and you invite them to put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ and they'll say a statement like this, oh, I do that all the time. I do that all the time. And you have to stop and back up and say, wait a minute. It's not an over and over and over event. It's a one-time decision where I trust Christ. I'm saved. I'm born in the family of God. My name is recorded in heaven, and it is settled once and for all for all eternity. So Jesus Christ died for our sins. First of all, he did it personally. He his own self bear our sins in the body. I'll tell you, just that truth right there will make you fall in love with Jesus. He did it by proxy. He took my place, my sin, took responsibility for my sins, and God judged him. Buried rose again. Jesus died for my sins powerfully, powerful enough to change my standing before God and change my life here on this old simple world. And he does it permanently. Once I accept what he's done for me, it is settled for all eternity, forever, before God. I was reading about a fellow in 1997. June 22nd, 1997. There was a parachute instructor. His name was Michael Costello. He's 42 years old. In Mount Dora, Florida, he jumped out of an airplane at 12,000 feet. 12,000 feet he jumped out of an airplane. He was and uh he was a uh expert parrot parachuter, parachuter, parachutist. Is that right? Not a paratrooper. They're that carry guns with them. He had a novice skydiver named Gareth Griffith. He was 21 years old. So Michael's 42, he's experienced at this. He has this young man, Gareth, 21 years old, and he attaches him, he straps him to his body. And they're going to jump out and parachute out, is it called in tandem, I think is what you call it. Two of them strapped together. And so this young fella can have the experience uh without having all the training The novice soon discovered just how good his instructor was, for when the novice pulled his ripcord, the parachute failed. Plummeting toward the ground, this is in the Chicago Tribune. Plummeting toward the ground, he faced certain death. Then the instructor did an amazing thing Just before hitting the ground, the instructor rolled over so that he would hit the ground first, and the novice would be on top of him. The instructor was killed instantly. The novice fractured his spine in the fall, but he was not paralyzed, and he recovered completely. That was one man taking the place of another man. One man giving his life so another could live. And people agree that's that's heroic. Tremendous respect for somebody like that. I'm here to tell you, we have a Savior who gave himself not just his temporal life, but suffered in eternal hell. And the wrath and judgment of a holy God he took in my place for me so that I can live. Jesus died for our sins. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to never ever take lightly or forget or ignore the tremendous price that you paid for our sins. And I pray you'd stir us as a church. And we would, of course, one, be sure of our own salvation. But Lord help us give ourselves and our resources and everything we have. Take this message to every single person on this planet as much as we possibly can. Stir us, Lord To share this message with others. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, and this is really the challenge I leave, one, make sure we've trusted Christ. That what Christ did for us is definitely applied to our accounts, that we've personally trusted Him. And number two, this world needs this truth. This world needs this message. Above everything else, in spite of everything else, this is what it comes down to. I want to challenge us, myself and all of us, to give ourselves in the coming months To get as many people to Christ as we can, to give this message out to as many as we can through our missionaries and our own ministries here, our own involvement Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, Preacher, pray for me? I want to be a soul winner. I want God to use me to bring others to Christ. Any like that? Any like that, sure? Let's ask God To give us that boldness, to give us that drive, that motivation to share this message with others By chance, if there's somebody here, somebody online, you don't have that peace in your heart, you don't have that assurance in your heart that Jesus is your Savior, that your sins are forgiven, we want to show you from the Bible how you can Jesus died for our sins and rose again. Father, bless our invitation. I ask, use us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen.