So I want us just to look at verse twenty-three. We read this together this morning, and I just want to continue the thought a little bit. The Bible says, behold a virgin. Now this is quoting from Isaiah, and uh what's taking place here is God is confirming to Joseph that this child that Mary is now carrying in her womb, about to give birth to, is actually in fact the promised Messiah. And he's referencing an Old Testament prophecy that a virgin uh would bear a child. And so that's what the context is here. And he says, Behold, this is the quote, behold, a virgin shall be with child. and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is God with us. And so I want to continue what we were thinking about this morning, and um I appreciate all the wise cracks about the brevity of the message this morning, and so um let's pray. Father in heaven, we ask, Lord, you'd bless our time tonight. It's been a good day. Lord, we just rejoice in the birth of of the Lord Jesus Christ. And now as we bring this day to a close and we bring our thoughts back again to that uh momentous day that uh you'd stir our hearts. Here we are 2,000 plus years later, and God, our hearts are still stirred by that event. And so please help us. I pray our faith would grow. I yield myself to you, Lord, my body. I ask with all my heart that you'd fill me with your spirit And that you would speak through me and you'd help us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. So I mentioned this morning, this is one of the names that God gives his son, Emmanuel. We don't find him referenced that way. We don't find anybody calling Jesus Emmanuel any later time, but this is one of God's name. It's a prophetic name. But I think it's interesting if you wouldn't notice here. I don't know if you you you caught this in reading this, but it says, they shall call his name Emmanuel. But he doesn't stop there. God goes on and does something. What does he do with that with that statement? He says that we're going to be called he's going to be called Emmanuel. Then God does what? What's he do there? Yeah, he gives us the reason for giving him that name. He explains that. In fact, he uses interesting terminology. He says And they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is God with us. Now why would he say that? If you'll study carefully, you'll find that the book of Matthew is written to Jews. They spoke Hebrew. They knew Isaiah. They were very familiar with this passage. They knew what the word Emmanuel meant, what that name meant. It wasn't uh secret to them. So why would he inject in here that statement which being interpreted is God with us? I want to suggest to you, of course we're not told, so I'm speculating here a bit But uh I want to suggest to you that God was concerned that everybody would know who Jesus was and what he was all about. I see in that little statement being interpreted I see a very strong missions theme. God is concerned that all languages know who the Lord Jesus Christ is. I see it very similar to Acts chapter 2, where Peter is given the supernatural ability to speak in other tongues, unknown tongues. It's not some gibberish. Everyone heard them. in their own language. God was concerned that every person there would hear and understand the Word of God in their own languages. So I see that here a little bit when he says being interpreted. God is concerned for others. God is concerned for missions. God is concerned about getting this message of the Lord Jesus Christ to all languages, to all peoples throughout the world. And so we see that there. But what does the name Emmanuel, God is with us? I just want to give you three three real quick thoughts. Very quick thoughts, Joy. And so let me share these with you here real quickly. That name Emmanuel indicates, at least to me, God's passionate love for us. Notice it says, they should call his name Emmanuel, it's being interpreted God with us. That word with has this idea, and I think we understand what that means. God with us, but it has this idea, God in our midst. Or I like the one definition in different ways it's used, it has this idea participating in something with us. God with us. God is participating with us. He's in this with us. He's in our midst. In fact, there's references throughout the Bible talking about where two or three together are gathered together. There am I in your He talks about us when we accept the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, that God dwells within our bodies. And that's an amazing thought. Another definition here is sharing in the fellowship or supporting somebody. Did you ever say this to somebody? Maybe they're going through a tough time, and you say something like this to them, hey brother, I'm with you. In that. Anybody know I'm talking? Hey, we're with you. We're for you. We're support ya. I think that's some of the idea here. God is with us. He's participating in this. He's part of us. So I see the fact that God wants to be with us. He wants to participate in our lives. He wants to be part of our daily life. He wants to be part of our home life. He wants to be part of our work life. He is not a distant, detached God that is just out there somewhere. No, he's very, very active in our lives. And the fact that Jesus Christ, God's Son, became man and the title he's given, God with us, he's involved with us. God loves us God wants to be with us. I've found that you generally you want to be with someone you love. You love that person, you try and figure out somehow, some way, I can be with them. Um you know, you remember when you were dating? Always had to figure out, all right, where's she going to be at three o'clock? I'll just happen to be in that area when she's there, you know. Uh I don't know, just trying to figure out where she's sitting in church, I know uh Highland Park, you know, is seat fi uh seats six thousand people and it was generally packed just about every service. And so I'd come in the back, I'm scanning that crowd. Bingo Oh, I'll just stroll down that aisle over there, you know. If you love someone, you want to be with them, you want to be near them, you figure out somehow, some way that you can uh interact with them, and that's the way God is. He loves us. Now he didn't sit up in heaven trying to figure out where we're at and figure out some way how to be with us. He had it all planned out from before the creation of the world. But he wants to be with us. He is not a removed, detached, distant deity. I like in Revelation chapter 3, it says, Behold, I stand at the door and what? Knock. He wants to be with us. He wants to come into our lives. He wants to be a part of our planning, our schedules, every aspect of our life. God wants to be a part of that. And He's wanting in. You ever see that famous drawing of Jesus Christ standing at the door knocking? Anybody know what I'm talking about? It's a very, very old drawing. He's standing there knocking Do you ever look at that door very carefully? If you look at it very, very carefully, that painting, it's very insightful. There's no outside handle on that door. Can only be open from the inside. And so Jesus Christ is Emmanuel, God with us. He loves us. He wants to be a part. But we have to make a decision. Yes, Lord. I'll let you be a part of my life. In fact, Lord, I want you to take over my life. And I want you to be my Lord and and uh and direct me. So I see here in the fact that he's called Emmanuel, that indicates God's great compassion God's great passionate love for us. He wants to be with us. Second thing I see here is God's power that's available to us. God's power. Virgin birth is a pretty miraculous event. I like to point out, I try to say this, I've said it often when discussing this subject, the virgin birth of the Lord Jesus Christ was not very rare. If something is rare, it means what? That's a rare occurrence. It means that what? It doesn't happen very often, but it does happen. The birth of the Lord Jesus Christ, the virgin birth of the Lord Jesus Christ was not rare. It's not just something that doesn't happen very often. The birth of the Lord Jesus Christ was unique In other words, there is no other birth like it. Now, let me back up here. Let me qualify that a little bit. The birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. There was nothing out of the ordinary about his birth, the actual birth. The miracle of God, the power of God was not so much in the birth process of the Lord Jesus and carrying him in the womb. The miracle was in the conception of the Lord Jesus Christ. That is where the miracle is. That is where the power is. That is where the uniqueness is about our Lord Jesus Christ. I referenced this a little bit this morning. I didn't really elaborate on it and I won't again tonight, but I do want to point out And in the book of Hebrews, the Bible says, and this captivates my imagination, the Bible says that God prepared a body for the Lord Jesus Christ. God in heaven, before Jesus was consumed, conceived, I should say, God prepared a little, I guess you could say, embryotic body And the Holy Spirit of God placed in the womb of Mary that little body that was prepared by God. And then of course the natural processes that God designed began to take over, and that body in her womb began to develop. Time of her birth came, and of course God was in his providence, had them at the right place, at the right time, exact circumstances, what it needed to be. And she gave birth to the child, the Son of God. Amazing, amazing thing. In that little human body, as we touched on this morning, it was God Himself, 100% human Yet at the same time 100% God. Not half and half, totally human in every aspect and way, shape, and form. We read through the Gospels. We see the humanity of Jesus Christ and when he hungered and when he and when he uh uh uh was weary. It talks about him uh um uh being weary and uh hungering. Um we see him when he needs to rest and he needs to f uh needs food. And we see the total humanity of Jesus Christ, but every now and then his divinity shone through The fact that he was God became evident periodically. I think the angels announcing his birth is evidence. This is something spectacular. This is God. Taking on human form. When he walked on water and he bade Peter come and walk with him, that was his deity shining forth through his his uh humanity. Uh when he uh fed the five thousand and just miraculously uh violated the rules of the laws of what the scientists call the laws of nature and multiplied that food. Miraculously, that was his deity shining through. When he stood outside the grave of Lazarus, and he says, Lazarus, come forth! And Lazarus had no choice but to obey and rose from the dead, come walking out with all those graves clothes on him. That was Jesus' deity shining forth, his power To raise the dead, to walk on water, his power to heal the sick. And he would touch the eyes of the blind and they could see. That was his deity shining forth. And then, of course, the greatest miracle of all is when he came forth out of that grave, rose again. Now, there's a lot of other people that have been resurrected Lazarus and others were resurrected, but you know they eventually what happened to them? They eventually died The people that were healed, the sight, eventually those eyes gave up uh those bodies gave up the ghost and those eyes decayed in the grave and all that. Jesus Christ is the firstborn is the first uh fruits from the grave, in that he rose to never die again. That is deity shining forth. That was the evidence of the fact that he not only was man, but he was God And this God is called Emmanuel, God with us. And when we accept Jesus Christ as our personal Savior, God Himself dwells within our bodies. That's an amazing thing. And the power of God that is available to us in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ, in the presence of the Lord Jesus Christ, is an amazing thing. So The name Emmanuel implies the fact that God loves me passionately. He wants to be with me. It tells me that his power is available to me. I can have victory in my life. I can see my life changed. I can have victory over sin. I can conquer Satan. I can be the man that God wants me to be through his power. Christ that dwells within me. And then last of all, I see this: God's plan for each of us. God has a plan for every one of our lives. Regardless of our circumstances, regardless of our history, God has a plan. There is a reason. Listen to this very carefully. There is a reason you and I are alive. It's not just, well, it's just, you know, it's life, whatever. No, no, no. God has a very specific plan. I am absolutely convinced that every one of us sitting here tonight, God wants to use us in this coming year. To be a witness for him, to be an impact and have an influence on this old sinful world with the gospel. God wants to use us. Now, I can cooperate with that. I can say, all right, Lord, I want you to. Actually, it's not us doing something for God. I like to look at it this way. It's God doing something through me. It's God doing it. I appreciate when folks come and say, Pastor boy, that message really spoke to my heart. Thank you for that message. Boy, it really stirred my heart. That really changed my life. And I appreciate that, and I try to thank you and all that. But I understand this. It wasn't me. It was God Almighty through me using his word to speak to a heart, to give direction. to uh to change a life, to impact, to alter the way somebody thinks about a situation and see it from God's perspective. That's God doing that. When we have the opportunity to share the gospel with somebody and we see them accept Christ and be born again, that's not us saving them. That's not us doing that. It's God working through us. And that is an exciting thought that God Almighty would work through me to change a life and save a soul. So God wants to use us. He has a plan for our lives. Let me, if you would, turn with me real quickly to John chapter 10. I see in John chapter 10 and verse number 10, I see a Christmas message here. John 10:10. Some of you are familiar with this verse. If you don't have this underscored or highlight it in some way in your Bible, you really should. This is a great, great passage. John chapter 10 and verse 10. Everybody there? You got it? Look what it says. The thief cometh not, but for to steal and to kill and to destroy. Alright, who's the thief? Who's he referencing here with the term thief? Satan. He's out to destroy us. He's out to steal our joy and to steal our testimony. He wants to kill us. We see that in the life of Job. And others he wants to destroy. But look what the Lord says. But I am come. That sounds like Christmas to me. But I am come that they might have what? Life. God wants to save us from sin in hell. He wants us to have eternal life. But he doesn't stop there that they might have life and that they might what Have it more abundantly. Abundant life. A joy-filled life. A life where God is using me and I'm having an influence in other people's lives. in this old world. Not me, but Christ through me doing that. This does not mean we're not going to have heartaches and trials. I just, my heart goes out to the Talbots and his mother passing away on Christmas Eve. And now they're traveling and their hearts are heavy. Listen, the presence of Christ in our life does not mean we're not going to have heartaches. It does not mean there's not going to be difficulties. It does not mean there's not going to be disappointments. I think about, as I mentioned this morning, a number of folks in our church who love lost loved ones and dear ones And today for some is a very lonely day, and in many ways a very sad day. If you think humanly, the presence of Christ in our life doesn't eliminate heartache and trials and disappointments and hurts. Those are very real. But the presence of Christ in our life Means that we can have victory and we can live above the circumstances and we can live an abundant life. And I can be a testimony of this old sinful world, that God is good. And that he's real and he's active and working and he can save them and give them new life. And what a wonderful thought. My prayer in this coming year, and I'm kind of a little bit uh New Year's Eve-ish message But my prayer for this coming near that God would use me to point others to the Lord Jesus Christ. That is my desire. That next year, Lord willing, if the Lord doesn't come back and my old ticker's still ticking That there would be people that are on their way to heaven that tonight are on their way to hell. That God would use me, that his plan is that I can win others to Christ. And I think a lot of you all feel the same way. Does anybody recognize the name Jackie Robinson? Anyone recognize that? What a great baseball player. He was the first black person to play in Major League Baseball. You say, what is baseball and a black guy had to do with Christmas? Well listen to this. He would uh when he would play ball, the history books tell us that in every stadium he went to, when he first started, he first got in the major leagues, the crowds would jeer him. And mock him and and uh call names. Other players would uh would kind of kick him and stomp on his feet and just treated him horribly One day he was playing in Brooklyn, his home stadium, and he made an error. And the fans and the crowd went crazy, ridiculing him and screaming and calling names. And he stood at second base, completely humiliated, while the whole stadium, thousands of people, are just jeering him. There was a short stop there. His name was Pee-Wee Reese. Pee Wee Reese came over and stood next to him with that whole crowd just mocking him. And Pee-Wee Reese reached over, put his arm around him, and faced that whole crowd with his arm around Jackie Robinson. When Pee Wee Reese did that, the crowd went quiet. Robinson said later that that arm around his shoulder saved his career You know what Emmanuel is? It's God coming down here and putting his arm around us and saying, I'm for you. I've got a plan for your life. I want to be active in your life. And this old world is going to mock you and I for being Christians. This old world does not understand our commitment to Christ. Why in the world we're in church on Christmas Day that evening. This world doesn't understand that at all. But I'm telling you, we have a Savior who loves us. And has a plan for our lives and is active in our lives. And with him in us and his presence in our lives, we can be the people we want to be. I hope that's a blessing and challenge. We finish out this, not just Lord's Day, but this Christmas Day. I think it'd be a wonderful thing. Just come to the Lord and say, Lord, I love you. I want you to be Lord of my life. I want you in every area of my life, every aspect of my being. I want to share it with you, the Lord Jesus Christ, and your will be done. Now that may mean we have to address some things. We may need to get a pure heart and a pure mind. May need to humble ourselves in some situations and get them some things straightened out. But uh uh we want the Lord uh in our lives, and the Lord wants to be in our lives. As we go to the Lord's Supper, it behooves us to search our hearts And come with a clean, pure heart, humbling, contrite before the Lord, understanding that our sin costs him dearly. I can't think of anything more appropriate on Christmas Day than taking part in the Lord's Supper, remembering the purpose. For which he came. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, that you would challenge us and help us to live every day, every moment, in light of your presence. I pray that our hearts and lives would be open to you, Lord, and you'd be able to come in and every aspect of our being would be lived and shared with you, Lord, and your will be done. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many folks tonight would say, Preacher, I know I'm saved, there's no doubt about it. I really want the Lord to have access to every area of my life. the uh God with me in every part. Is there any like that? Preach or pray with me. I really do. I don't want any private little secret areas, some little thing hidden and Separated from the Lord. I just want the Lord to have the whole area. How many? God bless you. Hands all around. And maybe some of us need to do some make some adjustments. Maybe some of us need to address some issues in our lives that are not in line with God's will and his plan for us. And maybe we need to do that. And as we come to the Lord's Supper, let's really search our hearts and uh ask the Lord to have his way. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Kathy's going to play a few verses.