Everybody knows the pastor's out of town on his way to Texas. I think he's still with uh Brother Don tonight and work tomorrow. But uh keep him in your prayers and brother Mark got some message Well believe you. We're done this. Well, as most people that know me know I get uh Which to uh to stand here and uh fill our pastor's pulpit tonight. Uh I don't take that lightly at all. Uh we were talking today, I think, with Brother Pat and some of the other guys. You don't realize uh sometimes how much the pastor means to the church until he's gone. And uh Uh we really do uh appreciate him. I know I was talking to my brother today about the church that he pastors in, and uh after speaking to him uh without going into detail, I just uh was overwhelmed with uh what we have here in this church and our our pastor and um it is just uh A real blessing. One thing I did want to uh say, uh we have uh and it's in your bulletin, but we have Sunday school visitation this week. Uh the 19th, I believe it is uh Saturday And uh last month it went really great. We got all our teachers out and we were able to go out and do a lot of visiting of our bus kids and uh I think we had uh four at least four new kids that came from that and it's just a real blessing. And I once want to encourage our teachers to be out and anyone that's available on uh on Saturday to come out and visit with us. And uh We also have, I think the pastor mentioned our Sunday school training coming up with Ab Thomas. That's the second. That's in three Saturdays, three weeks, I believe. uh is our training and uh kicks off kind of our spring revival. And uh I'm looking forward to this uh as a revival for our youth ministries, our Sunday school class, uh possibly our bus uh our bus uh ministry and uh you know we need uh we need to get some workers uh for our bus ministry I know they could use our her help and uh just wanted to mention those things. I wanted to thank mom and dad and my sister for being out tonight and for mom for playing the piano today. Uh Becky's recently defected, I think. She's from but uh uh she's back over in Morgantown now, but uh I don't know, I was telling my wife, uh I don't know how many people look forward to pastors' jokes on Sunday morning. Anybody else look forward to them? Pat didn't give us one this morning I felt badness. My wife can attest. If anybody's ever heard me tell a joke, I usually butcher them uh pretty badly. But I told her I was gonna give it a world tonight and I had a joke and since Pat didn't give one I was gonna try to give one So uh any do you guys ever hear about the golf or the golfer, the pastor who went golfing on Sunday, Sunday morning? Anyone ever hear that one? Good, I'm gonna try to tell it for you. Just uh faster, he always wanted to see what it felt like to go golfing on Sunday morning. So he woke up one morning and the sun was shining, it was warm, nice out It's a shame Paul wasn't here. He's probably can relate to this. He's probably done it once or twice himself. But uh he got up and he thought, well this is a good morning. I'm just gonna so he called in. Church said he couldn't make it to church that day, so he went golfing. He got out there and uh started playing the first uh well it was we see God and uh and the devil up in heaven. The devil looks over at God and he said, You gonna let him get away with this? uh going golfing on Sunday and God looks at him he says, No, he said, I'll take I'll take care of him, don't worry about him. So uh he goes out, he golfs, he golfs uh First nine holes and he's just shooting great. Four under par. He's just the best round he's ever shot in his life. So uh the devil looks over at God and he says, he says, you can't let him get away with this. He said He's cutting out on church and I said, Don't worry about it, I'll take care of it. I'll get him. And uh he goes out, he shoots the back nine, just still just shooting great. No bogies at all. Six under par, best round he's ever shot in his life. So uh comes up the eighteenth hole, he uh pulls back, hits it, par four, bounces and rolls a hole in one on a par four. The devil looks over at God and he says, He said, Well it doesn't look like you're punishing very much and guy looked at him and he said, Oh yeah, who's he gonna tell? So Hopefully I didn't butcher that one too much. That's uh courtesy of Bob Gray. Some of the cassettes back on the table they give away. It's probably a 30-year-old joke or better. But uh Jerry kind of caught me off guard this morning. We asked me the title of my message. I wasn't really sure what it was going to be. The message is about the cities of refuge. I thought about calling it the cities of refuge or Christ, our city of refuge, but I Just kind of settled on Jesus Christ, our eternal refuge. In Bible Institute, for those who take it can relate, Dr. Heatwall allows us to write a paper uh each semester. And uh he does it kind of interesting. He doesn't assign us a paper. He lets us write on whatever we want. If we're studying, we study Genesis through Joshua that semester And we get to write on any person, place, topic, idea, anything we want to write about, a paper. And uh as I was uh reading through the the reading for that uh semester, the cities of refuge came up I think three or four times And uh kinda caught my attention and uh so I wrote my paper on, so my my message really comes from the paper that I wrote on uh the cities of refuge. But uh as I read through and and that kept coming up, I remembered a message that my uh my uncle, which is my mom's uh brother, uh Dana Umble preached And he didn't preach on the cities of refuge, but he made reference to our security in Christ that we have. And he made a statement that's that's always kind of stuck with me, but a real comfort to me And at the end of the message, I'm going to tell you what that statement was, if I remember to tell you. So if you would turn your Bibles to November. Numbers 35 Numbers 35. I've got to get there myself. It's a fairly lengthy portion of scripture. If I could read as fast as Dr. Heatwall reads, I could zip through it in about two seconds. I've never seen a man that can read as fast as he can. Numbers chapter thirty-five, I'm gonna read verses nine through verses twenty-eight tonight I'm still not in the right place. In my Bible, this portion of Scripture is entitled The Cities of Refuge. Verse 9. And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Speak unto the children of Israel and say unto them, When ye become over Jordan into the land of Canaan, then ye shall appoint you cities to be cities of refuge for you, that the slayer may flee thither which killeth any person and unawares. And they shall be unto you cities for refuge for the avenger, that the manslayer die not, until he stand before the congregation in judgment. And of these cities which ye shall give, six cities shall ye have for refuge You shall give three cities on this side, Jordan, and three cities shall you give in the land of Canaan. Well, this was before they crossed into the promised land. They were still on the east side, which was Gilead. at that time. Which shall be cities of refuge. These six cities shall be a refuge both for the children of Israel and for the stranger, and for the sojourner among them, that every one that killeth any person unawares may flee thit thither. And if ye smite him with an instrument of iron, so that he die, he is a murderer, the murderer shall surely be put to death. And if ye smite him with throwing a stone wherewith he may die, and he die, he is a murderer, the murderer shall surely be put to death Or if he smite him with a hand, weapon of wood, wherewith he may die, and he die, he is a murderer. The murderer shall surely be put to death. The revenger of blood himself shall slay the murderer When he meeteth him, he shall slay him. But if he thrust him of hatred, or hurl at him by lying of wait, that he die or an enmity smite him with his hand, that he die, he that smote him shall surely be put to death, for he is a murderer, the revenger of blood shall slay the murderer when he meeteth him. But if ye thrust him suddenly, without enmity, were of cast upon him anything without laying of weight, or with any stone wherewith a man may die, seeing him not, and cast it upon him that he die, and was not his enemy, neither sought him Then the congregation shall judge between the slayer and the revenger of blood according to these judgments. And the congregation shall deliver the slayer out of the hand of the revenger of blood, and the congregation shall restore him to the sea of his refuge Whither he was fled, and he shall abide in it, this is important part here, he shall abide in it unto the death of the high priest, which was anointed with the holy oil. But if the slayer shall at any time come without the border of the city of his refuge, whither he was fled, and the revenger of blood find him without the borders of the city of his refuge, and the revenger of blood kill the slayer, He shall not be guilty of blood, because he should have remained in the city of his refuge until the death of the high priest. But after the death of the high priest the slayer shall return unto the land of his possession. That's kind of a maybe an interesting portion of scripture to read. There's a lot of graphic words that they use in here and that I'll be used tonight, such as the revenger of blood and the slayer. And things like that. But that's the words that that the Bible used to to describe this. So uh that's the world words we'll use tonight. I don't know how many uh pages Pat had this morning. I think I got four or five. I look at the clock, we should be out of here eight on time. So I just want to look at these cities and uh just look at the at what the cities of refuge were set up for. I don't know if anyone has ever knows much about the cities or ever studied them at all. Um that's one thing I love about writing the papers for institute is You get to really focus in on a topic and study it out. And um it's it's usually really interesting what you can. But here in numbers Moses was told by God to appoint six cities. He was told to appoint three in Canaan or the promised land. He was told to appoint three on the east side of the Jordan Which was Gilead. And uh if you remember, you might say, well why did they need three cities of refuge on the east side of Jordan if they were all traveling into the promised land? But uh in Numbers 32 God tells us, I had to call Dad the other night. I couldn't I couldn't find this uh this reference. I I I I could remember reading it, but he helped me out to find it. But uh the Bible tells us that that uh the tribe of Gad, Reuben, and the half tribe of Manasseh had went to Joshua and asked him if if they could stay on that side of uh of the Jordan and not cross in to the promised land. And they ag they uh uh Joshua and uh the elders agreed to let them do that, but they did agree for the men to go across and fight. and and help them to take the promised land and then at the time when they uh had conquered all the land then they would be allowed to go back with their families on the uh the east side of the Jordan. So that's why there was three uh three cities on on both sides of the of the the Jordan River there. In Deuteronomy 4, Moses instructed Israel and tells them the names of the first three cities on the east side, which were hopefully I pronounced these right, they were Bezer, Ramoth, and Golan. And then in Joshua 20, Joshua had then taken the place of Moses because as y'all know Moses wasn't allowed to enter the promised land. uh because of the the sin that he committed by striking the the rock instead of speaking to it. So then Joshua had taken over and um and God um Told uh told him the names of the the remaining three cities, which were uh Kadesh or Kadesh, some say it, Shechem and Hebron. And the commentary that we use in Institute is written by Warren Wearsby. And he pointed out I have a map up here, but I doubt if anybody can see it. Well you can't help but but notice when you look at the map that they were strategically placed. You know, God just didn't pick any city uh anywhere uh for it, but they were strategically placed and uh three on the like I said, three on the east and three on the west at at increments apart where they would be um not too far away from from any um Any of the tribes, which we'll get to the reason why for that here in just a little bit. And he also pointed out that the roads were very well kept The roads were kept up very well to these places. There were landmarks placed there to guide people to these cities because it was a very important uh the cities played a very important role in uh in their law back then So the purpose of the cities, let's look at that here for a few minutes. Like I said, some of these words are kind of graphic that the Bible uses. But uh God told Moses and Joshua to appoint the cities for what what they say was the revenger of blood. Uh and the what with the revenger of blood, he had the right to kill someone that had committed either we would say premeditated uh murder uh or involuntary manslaughter to put it in terms that that we would uh recognize today So he had the right. If uh say someone had killed his uh brother or something, then uh they called it their Redeemer, Kinsman Redeemer, had the right legally to kill that person. back then. And in Numbers, uh Numbers thirty five, uh Moses gave some instances that would indicate will from willful murder. And also in Joshua he gives uh each each account is a little bit different, but in Joshua he gives some instances that would um constitute uh involuntary manslaughter such as uh they were going out to chop wood or something and they uh axe head would fly off or something and hit him and kill him. That was a that was a an instance that was given in the Bible. Or you can imagine any any instance that would happen back then. that would constitute that. But it like I say in these these instances the Revenger of the Blood had the right to kill that person, whether they were innocent or or not. The cities of refuge were just what they w what just what they say. They were cities uh that this person, who the slayer is the term that the Bible uses, was able to flee to one of these six cities. And that's why where they were placed was important. So they were within, you know, it was it was close to each tribe. Um but uh they they could flee to this city and and basically it was so they could receive a fair trial. God set that up so that they could uh could receive a f a fair trial. It's kind of neat how God set up uh how he had a plan. You know the pastor was saying the other night about God has a plan. He had a plan for everything And and and this was just just the the plan that he had set up um set up for that And Joshua twenty says that any man that would flee after ending their gate he shall declare his cause in the ears of the elders, that city, and they would take him in, and give him a place to dwell in. So after the slayer was allowed to enter in the city, he was safe from that revenger. He was safe in that city. Numbers thirty five again tells us that after gaining entrance to the city, then the slayer would receive his trial. We'd be judged by the congregation. And if he was found uh I mean he was guilty, obviously, of the crime he committed, but whether it was voluntary or involuntary, if it was uh Involuntary, he was allowed to stay there. If it was voluntary, they would turn him back over and he would be killed. Um but um If found guilty of murder would be turned over the venger of blood, if found not guilty, uh or involuntary, he was able to stay there in that city. And he was able to stay there, verse 35 tells us, until the high priest died. And that that's that's significant. You could stay there until the high priest died. I was talking to my brother Steve today about the message a little bit, and he said, Well, did you ever come up with a reason why he had to stay there until the high priest died? And he said he had looked before he didn't know. I really didn't come up with anything for what why that was you know the way it was and the commentaries really didn't touch on it either. So why I I don't know why they how they determined You know that I'd be interested if anyone else had studied it to know why. But it is significant to where I'm kind of going with this message. But after the high priest died, he could then return home and he would he would be free from that revenger. However, verse 26 and 27 told us that if he were to leave before the high priest died, then he was the revenger could could still pursue and uh could still pursue and kill him. So that's kind of that was kind of the purpose and why why the the cities were set up. So now let's we'll look at uh more of a practical application. uh for us today or or for for a saved or unsaved person. This message kind of applies to to both uh both people. As we look at the cities, I don't know if you if you looked at the reading, you you can't help but see uh a type or a beautiful picture of uh of Jesus. You know, just as the uh the slayer could flee uh to one of these cities for refuge. So today an unsaved person can also uh can also flee to refuge as each one of us that are here today that are saved at one point in our life You know, we came to that realization that we needed Christ as our Savior, and we flee to Christ for refuge. If you would turn to Hebrews real quick, Hebrews 6. I think we'll probably stay there the rest of the time. But keeping in mind that that um Hebrews six verses eighteen I'm really blowing through this. I know I told uh told my wife I'll probably forget to say half what I was planning on saying or go really quick. But Pat said that this morning then he preached for another half an hour, so I don't know. But uh Hebrews six eighteen says that by two immutable things in which it is impossible. for God to lie, we might have a strong consolation who have fled for refuge to lay hold upon the hope set before us. And there's a couple of things that uh are are pretty obvious when when we look when I looked at the cities of refuge. and how uh how we could apply them um to today. You know number the first thing um the first thing that I saw that these cities were for uh for all people um They weren't for uh for the just the rich people, they weren't for the educated people, they were for all people, the rich, the poor. No matter no matter who you were, you had the opportunity, uh, if something were to happen to you to flee. Uh And Numbers, we won't turn back there, but Numbers thirty-five, verse fifteen said, Both for the children of Israel and for the stranger, and for the sojourner among them. That everyone that killeth any person unawares may flee thither. It was for all people, these cities, that God set up, just as salvation today was set up by God, and it's all it's for all people. The Bible tells us Romans 3. 23, all have sinned. So all of us are in need of salvation and the refuge that can be found as Verse 16 or what was verse uh eighteen said flee for refuge to lay a lay hold upon that hope that is set before us, the hope of of salvation. Romans ten thirteen said, For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be So God set God set up that so that uh it was for all people, just as the cities were for all people. The second thing uh that I saw about the cities was there was only one way. There was only one way to uh to get refuge for this person, this slayer, so was there only one way for him to receive refuge from uh from the the Revenger of Blood. I'll go back to my map here. Like I said, those six cities were set up. If uh if he were to flee, there's some some names on this map. If he were to flee to say Heshbon or uh Bersheba or Geezer or or Beth Shan or Pennyel, they're all right in that same area on this map. But that wasn't good enough. Um You know, uh it's not uh it's not church membership, it's not baptism. It's uh there's only one way to heaven. Uh Pat alluded to this verse this morning, John 14, 6. The Bible says, I am the way, the truth and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. There's only one way. There's only one way There were six cities, but there was only one way. You had to go to one of those cities to to find refuge. So I see that. There was another interesting thing in the uh the commentary. Um It's not really a point, but I thought it was kind of interesting I'd I'd uh I'd put it in here. Um Wearsby said that in the meanings, he gives the meanings of the names of the of the the six cities, which was very interesting and they showed the adequacy of Jesus Christ to meet our needs. And I'll give you the the meanings of the names. Kadesh meant righteousness Shechem meant shoulder, Hebron meant fellowship, Bezer meant fortress, Ramoth meant heights, and Golan meant circle or complete. Um so and it it was it was neat to that that could be a message in itself, I think, to look to look at the meanings of those neat those uh the names of the cities and how they relate to Jesus and And how he meets our uh our every needs, all our needs. So we see that uh the cities were for all, salvation is for all. And uh we looked at there was only one way to heaven through Christ. There was only one way into these cities uh for refuge. And uh there's another thing. You know, these first things would be for an unsaved person, someone who hasn't trusted Christ as Savior. But there's something for the saved that I see in uh in these verses uh in the cities of refuge. And that's the picture of uh the eternal security for refuge that we have in uh in Christ. Um We looked at the the purpose, the purposes of the cities and and how they relate to us. And you know a lot of people, you know, like we go out knocking on doors, visitation and stuff, and you get it all the time. You know, people say you can't know for sure. you know, that uh that we don't you're not eternally secure in Christ, uh and that you can't know for sure, but uh first John five thirteen clearly tells us that these things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that ye have eternal life. Bible tells us clearly that uh If we believe that we can know for sure that we have eternal life. And this just the How this this pointed to the security, the eternal security we had in Jesus Christ. The slayer was secure in these cities. This is where I said when I read about the high priest. I don't know if if anyone picked up on where I was going with that. But the slayer was secure in these cities until the death of the high priest. And uh who's our high priest? Anyone tell me who our high priest is today? Jesus is our high priest. And I said at the beginning of the message that uh my uncle, uh Pastor Dana had had had given a statement. That uh that that was of great comfort uh to me. You know, eternal security is is is a great comfort to the saved individual to know for sure. You don't have to wake up every morning and worry about whether or not uh you're saved, whether or not something happens to you if you you did something wrong that day. You know, uh the Bible's clear that we are eternally secure. The the statement that he made Oh, was that we as Christians are secure until our high priest dies, and then he said, I've got news for you, he's not gonna die. And that that uh that just always always stuck with me. Um we're still in Hebrews uh Hebrews 6, uh 18 through 20 Considering the high priestliness of Jesus, says that by two immutable things in which it was impossible for God to lie, we might have a strong consolation. who have fled for refuge to lay hold upon the hope set before us, which hope we have as an anchor of the soul, both sure and steadfast, and which entereth into that within the veil Whether the forerunner is for us, entered, even Jesus, made a high priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek. So we see the eternal refuge that we have in our High Priest Jesus Christ. So if you're here tonight and you're saved, if you've truly, sincerely, you know for sure that you've uh Trusted in Jesus Christ. You believed on him. Put your faith and trust in him and him alone to save you from death and hell. then we uh you can claim that that eternal security that uh that we have in our high priest in Jesus Christ. Um But if you're here tonight and you're lost, there's uh one more thing that I that I wanted to bring out here. The Bible said that if the slayer did not free quickly You can you imagine it doesn't the Bible doesn't tell us whether or not there was a specific time they had to get to the city. You know, he didn't say, well you have two days once you've done this to get there and then we release the guy after you Uh it doesn't it doesn't say that. It it the way uh the way I read it, interpret it, if that happened, you better get moving. Uh b you better be a fast runner too. Uh But uh if if he didn't flee quickly, the revenger of blood could kill him before he got to that city. And uh today is is if you're here and you're lost, you can't afford. You can't afford to wait. You know, we were no none of us are guaranteed to make it home tonight. Uh we don't we don't like to think about that a lot of times, but we all know people. You hear the stories, you know, of of people that uh I can't remember the pastor that told it, but uh there were three or four young people in the service that night. And uh They talked to him before they left. They said we've got plenty of time. Don't worry about it. None of them made it home that night. And we all know stories like that. You can't afford to wait. There's only only hope we have is to flee to Christ for for refuge. And uh I'll close with 1 Peter, uh 1 Peter 5. 8, the Bible says, The devil as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour. And I look at at uh at the devil as is that uh that revenger of blood coming after uh the unsaved folks. Um that's about all I have. Let's uh let's all uh let's bow our heads for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, Lord, I uh thank you for your word, Lord. I thank you for the opportunity to stand up here tonight and preach your word. I pray that it was a blessing. Father, I thank you for those here who have trusted you as a Savior tonight, Lord. Those who have that refuge fled for you to you for refuge, Lord. I pray that if there be one here tonight, Father, who does not know, 100% for sure, beyond a shadow of a doubt, that they have trusted you as Savior, Lord. I pray that they wouldn't leave here at the building tonight, Lord, without Making sure of that. Father in Jesus' name we pray. If you would all stand with your heads bowed, you're