John chapter eleven, verse number thirty five, simple, small shortest verse in all the Bible. And um if you struggle memorizing verses, this is a good one to start with right here Verse 35 says, Jesus wept. Jesus wept. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts this morning. Father, we thank you for Good service already. Lord, it's been a blessing to my heart, a joy to be in the house of God. Lord, I believe your presence is here, unseen, unheard, unfelt Lord, we believe you're here with us. We believe your spirit is in our midst. You promised it would if we assemble together in your name. And so I ask now that you, your Holy Spirit, would speak to our hearts and take a few simple thoughts from this very brief verse. And apply it to our hearts and lives, that our faith in you, Lord, would be stronger than it has been before. That our understanding of your love and compassion and understanding of us would increase. We'd know you a little bit better. And I pray, Father, that you would please take this these few thoughts. And I pray that you would speak through me. Your Holy Spirit would speak through me the Word of God. I yield my will to you, my mind, and I ask with all my heart you would control my thinking. As I process the message and preach it, I ask, Lord, that your Holy Spirit would fill me and present my body anew to you. Pray you take the truth through me, my lips. to our hearts and minds, and then change us, Lord. Mold us, make us, break us, that we can be the men and women you intend for us to be. So have your way. Help us to trust you, Lord, as we hear your word. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. The Gospel of John is perhaps one of the most profound books in all of literature. Of course, the Bible itself is a profound book. The Bible is the Word of God. It is not the word of man. It was penned by man, but the Bible was authored by God. It's perfect in every word is perfect exactly. what God would have us to be. There has never been and there never will be another book like the Bible. It is unique in every aspect. And of the 66 books that make up our Bible, I believe the Gospel of John is perhaps one of the most profound. Now we can't say that one is more important than others. It isn't. Not one part is more inspired than the other. It's all equally important, all equally inspired. But there's something about the Gospel of John That is unique and stands out. By the way, the Gospel of John, if you're not in the habit of spending time every day in the Bible And and every Christian ought to spend a little bit of time every day in the Bible. Let me say that again. Every Christian ought to spend a little bit of time every day in the Bible. There we go. Seriously. And if you're not in that habit, if you not develop that habit as a believer, the Gospel of John is a good place to start It's a good place to help develop that habit. And you don't need to read the whole book every day. Just a few passages beginning John 1. 1. Work your way through that at a comfortable rate for you where you can uh ingest what's being said, take in, understand what's being said, and uh work through there. The Gospel of John is uh as I said uh uh a profound Book of the Bible and uh unique in so many ways. The penman of the Gospel of John, of course, the author being God, as we said, but the penman of the Gospel of John is John. Now here's the interest here's a little bit of something interesting. Nowhere in the Gospel of John is John identified as the penman. The book itself does not attribute a name to who penned it. Of course, God authored it. But who God used to record down the name is not given to us. You say, well then, how do we know it's the Gospel of John How do we know John was the penman? Well, there's several ways, and one primarily is the early church when it was first penned under the inspiration of God and began to be distributed, the church, the early believers, the early church immediately knew that John was the author of it. And we have multiple, multiple manuscripts of writings between the early church pastors and leaders in the church referencing John's gospel and which is the Gospel of John. So there's nobody's ever seriously questioned or doubt that it is actually the Gospel of John, that he penned this down. Another interesting thing about the Gospel of John is there are several places in there where the penman, who we understand to be John, references himself in this way. Listen to this. He refers to himself as that disciple whom Jesus loved. Now he's referring to himself. And he's saying, and if you don't understand what he's trying to say, it might sound a little uh unusual, but he's saying this, oh, I'm the disciple that Jesus loved. And he's not suggesting that Jesus did not love the other disciples. For God so loved the world. But I think what John is saying in that little phrase, the disciple whom Jesus loved, I think he was saying this: I feel like I'm loved of him. As if I'm the only one. You follow what I'm saying? It seems like he loves me more than anything or anybody else in the world. And I tell you, when you and I can get so close to the Lord and we walk with God in such an intimate way, it is easy to get the feeling that I think I'm his favorite child. Now I know in my family I was a favorite. I had two sisters. I was the only son. Absolutely I was a favorite. I could tell by the way mom would whoop me when my sisters got in trou would would fight, she'd come and whoop me because she said I had something to do with it. Which was a Vicious lie had nothing to has nothing to do with the message, but I wanted to get that off my chest. John says, I'm the disciple whom Jesus loved. It seems like I'm his favorite child. Now, God loves us all. God loves us all equally. So the penman of the Gospel of John, we understand and reliably understand was the disciple John. The point of the Gospel of John, the book of John, or what I mean by that is the theme of the book of John is very clearly laid out for us, if you would. Keep your place here in John 11. Come back to chapter one with me. John chapter one, uh he says right from the get-go what the theme is. And I think if we understand the theme of the book, we are able to get more out of it. Sometimes some statements might help us understand what he means by that statement if we know what the theme of the book is. In John 1. 1, he starts off with this. He says, In the beginning was the word. What do you notice about the word, word? It's capitalized. He's referring to the Lord Jesus Christ, who is the quote-unquote Word of God. It's a term used to refer to Jesus Christ. And so he says, in the beginning was the Word. Notice he points out that whenever the beginning was The word already was. He doesn't say the beginning of the word. He says in the beginning. Was the Word. You follow what he's saying? In other words, whenever the beginning was, the Word was already there. Jesus Christ was already there In the beginning was the word. Then he makes it flat out clear what he's getting at. And this is the theme of the book. In the beginning was the word. And the word was with God. Here it is. And the word was God. What's the theme of the Gospel of John? The theme of the Gospel of John is this: Jesus Christ is God incarnate. In other words, God in the flesh, Jesus Christ is God. We don't hesitate to say that, we don't apologize for that. It's very clearly taught all through the Bible, particularly in the Gospel of John. The deity of Jesus Christ. God the Father, God the Son, God the Spirit, all equal and one and the same. And so the theme The point or theme of the Gospel of John is the deity of the Lord Jesus Christ. And again, I find it interesting that unlike Matthew, and unlike the Gospel of Luke John does not begin with the birth of Jesus Christ in Bethlehem. At Christmas time, we always reference the first several chapters of Matthew. It's the beginning of Jesus' life here on earth as a man is incarnation on Christmas Day. We celebrate the birth of our Lord Jesus Christ, Luke uh references the birth of Jesus Christ and all that took place, all the events. And they begin there. Mark begins with John the Baptist. But the interesting thing is John, again, under the inspiration of God, he doesn't go back to John the Baptist's ministry. He doesn't go back to the birth, incarnation or birth of the Lord Jesus there in Bethlehem. John goes all the way back to the beginning. He starts in the beginning, was the word. Another interesting thing is he uses the exact same terminology That Genesis one one uses in the beginning God John puts it this way. In the beginning was the Word The theme, the whole point of the Gospel of John, is the deity of the Lord Jesus Christ, his eternal existence as God. Now, I believe, I trust that we all understand that Jesus' existence did not begin with his birth there in the manger. That was the beginning of his experience as a man, taking on flesh, being human. That was where his physical beginning took place. But that was not the beginning of the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the eternal Son of God. There never was a time when Jesus did not exist. There never will be a time when Jesus did not exist. He is eternal God. He is the infinite He is the uh infinite, he has infinite power as the creator of the universe. Look at verse 2. It says, in the beginning was the Word, the Word was with God, the Word was God. Verse 2: the same was in the beginning with God. There's a reference to the Trinity: God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, the great three-in-one. Now look at verse three. What's the very first word in verse 3? All things were made by him. And without him was not anything made that was made. In him was life. Do you know what John is saying? John is saying you and I did not come from amoebas. You know what John is saying? Can I put it in my own words? Evolution is a lie. Now if you didn't catch that, I want to say it again. It is a lie. The biggest lie that's ever been perpetrated on the human Humanity is a lie that God did not create us, that we have somehow evolved. It's a lie. God created all things God in the person of Jesus Christ, the Son, created all things. That little baby that Mary held in her arms on that First morning she gave birth to the Lord Jesus Christ. She was holding the creator of the universe in her arms. I don't know about you, that's mind-boggling. That's mind-boggling. That little baby. In the beginning was the word John's theme, John's emphasis is that Jesus Christ is God, and he is the creator of everything That is, that exists. All things were made by Him. Our earth, this planet, Jesus created it. He spoke it into existence. Just as the Bible says. Um set six days. Created heaven and earth, all light, man, woman, created all. Just the way the Bible says. You say, what do you guys think about uh uh creation and evolution? We believe it exactly as the Bible says. The solar system, our un our galaxy that we live in, the universe that is made up of uh we understand billions and billions of galaxies We're all created by that man that hung and died on the cross for you and me, buried and rose again. The Son of God. I'm telling you, the Gospel of John is profound. Now, it's not more inspired, it's not more important than any other part of the Bible, but it's profound in that he starts right off exalting the deity, the power, the glory of the Lord Jesus Christ. You come down to verse 14, it says, and he became flesh. Jesus Christ became man. The Word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glorious of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and The Gospel of John is the account of the Creator God, the eternal, everlasting, holy, all-powerful Creator of God becoming flesh. Taking on the form of a man and walking among us. What an amazing account. So the penman is we no doubt we're very confident John for whatever that's worth. God's the author The point of the book or the theme of the book is the deity of the Lord Jesus Christ. By the way, you cannot take the Bible at face value and not believe in the deity of Jesus Christ. If someone questions the deity of Jesus Christ, you know immediately they are questioning the veracity of the Word of God The reliability of the Word of God. If they're questioning the deity of Christ, they say, well, Jesus was just a created uh being. Jesus is not God in the flesh. Jesus just one of many, many gods. I'm telling you right then and there, you know that they are that they are rejecting the clear teaching of the Bible. They can claim they believe the Bible all they want, but if they reject the deity of Jesus Christ, they are rejecting the truth of the Word of God. You can't get around that And so, the deity of Christ. What's the purpose? That's his theme. That's what the whole theme of the book is. But why did he pen this? Why did God stir and inspire The disciple John, the Apostle John, to pen down these words that make up the 21 chapters of the book of John. Why did God stir him to do that? Well, he tells us If you would, go with me to John chapter 20, back towards the end of the book, the book of John. John chapter twenty. And I don't know how this played out. God in his sovereignty and his inspiration is stirring the heart and mind of The Apostle John to pen these words down, every word, exactly what God wants. He's moving on the mind. little place in his house or wherever he may be, and he's recording this down. And I don't know. This is total leathermanism, all right? So you can You can do what you want with it, but I just reading this verse, I get the impression somebody comes by and says, Oh, excuse me, Brother John. Yeah, why are you doing this Why are you writing this? Look at John chapter 20 and verse 31. And I don't know that that happened. That's Just the thought. But look, he says, but these things are written. He goes, this is why I wrote, this is why I'm writing this. This is why God's inspiring me to write this. That ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. Look at this. And that believing ye might have life through his name. The whole purpose for the Gospel of John is so that people would be saved. That people would believe that Jesus is who he claims to be, that he is the Son of God, that he is the Messiah promised through all the Old Testament. Come To offer himself as a sacrifice for your sins and my sins, to take upon him, as the men sang a few moments ago, to take upon him the responsibility for our sins and be judged in our place And be buried and rise again the third day to be the Savior of mankind, that ye might believe that. And that believing ye might have eternal life. The whole purpose for the Gospel of John is that people will get saved. John wanted people to be saved. God wants people to be saved. God wants all people to be saved from sin and hell. God is not willing that any should perish. Not one of these little boys and girls that come in on our buses, not one of these teenagers, not one of these middle-aged, not one of these old uh uh senior citizens. God doesn't want any of them to be saved. Amen or not? God wants people to be saved from sin, a life of sin. God wants people to be saved from hell. We emphasize a message recently. There's only one of two places a person ends up when it's all said and done. It's either heaven or hell. And hell is beyond horrific. Hell is horrific beyond description. And heaven is glorious beyond description. The presence of God. And God wants people to be saved from their sins so they can know they're going to heaven and not to hell. And it's all through the Lord Jesus Christ. It's the reason he penned, inspired John to pen down the Gospel of John. So the Gospel of John is profound, significant in a lot of ways. So we study the Gospel of John, we find there are eight miracles recorded in the Gospel of John. Eight Matthew, Mark, and Luke have other miracles, some uh repeat, but uh in in John we have eight miracles recorded. The first miracle is in John chapter two, and we won't time take time to look at all these, but is when he turns water to wine at the wedding. And that was the beginning of miracles. And people began believing on him. When they saw this miracle, they began believing on him that he really is the Son of God, that he really is the Messiah, that he really is, has the supernatural power of God in himself. In John chapter 4, we have the second miracle when he heals a noble man's son. In chapter 5, we have the third miracle where he heals a man at the pool of Bethesda. And the fourth miracle is when he feeds 5,000 men in John chapter 6. And then plus women and children on top of it. Many people estimate that to be well over ten thousand people fed from one little boy sack lunch, bread and fish. Fifth miracle is when he walks on water. Same chapter. Goes out to the disciples, they're in a storm, and Jesus walks on water. The sixth miracle is in chapter 9 when he heals of man born blind. Boy, what a ruckus that causes of the Pharisees and all of that. And then the seventh miracle is this one here in John 11. That's the context of our text this morning, where Jesus raises Lazarus from the dead. Now, in the other gospels, we have other people raised from the dead, the widow of Nain's son, and there's others that are raised. In the Old Testament, you have some people raised from the dead. The interesting thing about Lazarus Jesus' miraculous resurrection of Lazarus is he was dead for four days. You understand there was no embalming back in those days. In fact, Mary, as Jesus said, Where'd you bury him? They said, Lord, I don't know what I'm putting this in my words. Lord, I don't know what you're thinking, but he's been dead four days. By now he stinks. She put it this way: stinketh. Unfazed. Jesus makes his way, makes some statement, he makes his way to the grave. He says, roll that stone away. Lord, he stinks. Are you sure? Roll the stone away. Lazarus! Come forth. Lazarus walks out of that grave alive. The power of God over life and death rested in the Son of God, Jesus Christ. The eighth miracle we find all the way at the end of the book in John chapter 21 where you have this miraculous catch of fish Jesus has raised from the dead, he's met with the disciples, Peter gets discouraged, he had failed the Lord and denied him three times I imagine in Peter's mind I have failed. God can never use me again. I've blown it so badly. I'm going back to fishing. When he says I go fishing, it didn't mean he was getting a canoe going down the Savage River catching largemouth bass. What he meant was, I'm going back to my old way of life. I'm going back to the old business. We're starting up the fishing business again. The other disciples went with them. And the Lord, they're out there all night and they don't catch a thing. And they see the Lord on the shore, and he's got some fish roasting over a fire. He says, You catch anything? Nah, throw it on the other side. And bowl, catch this great fish. And Peter says, it's the Lord. It's the Lord. Eight miracles recorded in the Gospel of John. The seventh miracle in John chapter 11 is the resurrection of Lazarus from the grave after he'd been dead four days. Now I want to stop, pause here, and make this statement. These miracles recorded in John and throughout the Gospels and throughout all of Scripture, these miracles are not simply stories, they're not myths They are actual, real, literal, historical events that happen exactly as the Bible records it. And so don't think, oh, that's a nice story, Jesus raised this. No, no, no. This actually happened. Just as literal as you got up this morning and came to church. Lazarus, they rolled the stone away, and Lazarus walked out of that grave. Jesus' seventh miracle, recorded in the Gospel of John, has been referred to by some as the greatest of all Jesus' miracles. I know this, it had a profound impact on the disciples. Look, come back to chapter 11 with me, if you would, and look with me at verse 45. John 11 verse 45. Notice as Jesus uh raised uh raised him from the dead, he says, uh Verse 45. Well let's back up. Verse 42. Jesus is praying. He says, I knew that thou hearest me always, but because of the people which stand by, I said it, that they may believe that thou hast sent me. By the way, that term believe is used in one form or another ninety-eight times in the Gospel of John He wants people to believe on Jesus Christ, that they may believe that thou hast sent me. And when he thus had spoken, he cried with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth! Now look at this. And he that was dead came forth, bound hand in foot with the grave clothes, and his face was bound about with a napkin. What did he look like? A mummy. I mean he's all wrapped up in the grave clothes. And he's coming out. And look what and Jesus said said saith unto them, Loose him and let him go. Get those grave clothes off of him for Pete's sake. Oh he didn't say for Pete's sake. Look at the impact it had on the disciples. Verse forty five. Then many of the Jews which came to Mary and had seen the things which Jesus did believed on him, the impact I said, disciples, on the Jews. They believed. I don't know about you, but how in the world could you not believe after seeing firsthand that event? This had a profound impact on people that up to this point were skeptical. Up to this point said, no, he's not what he claims to be. No, he's not who they're saying he is. There's no way. And they see this. They say, you know what? I believe. He is the Messiah. He is the Son of God. He is the creator of all the universe. They believed. It had a profound impact on the Jews. It had a profound impact on the community. Over in look at chapter 12 and verse number 10. I mean, this place is shook up. He stirred up the community. Look at verse 10. But the chief priests consulted that they might put Lazarus also to death. Well he just he already died. And uh now they're gonna kill him. They say, well, we'll kill him again. And uh Why? Look at verse 11. Because that by reason of him, Lazarus, being rose from the dead, resurrected from the dead, many of the Jews went away and believed on Jesus. This stirred up. Come back to chapter 11. Look at verse 46. The enemies of Jesus were impacted by this. We kind of referenced it there, but look at verse forty-six. Verse 45. Many believed. Many of the Jews believed on him. Look at verse 46. But some of them went their ways to the Pharisee and told them what things Jesus had done. Now I can't hardly grasp in my mind what kind of person that's being described in verse 46. They see a man, they see these sisters, Mary and Martha, and they're grieving and weeping over the death of their brother, and Jesus shows up And he speaks into an open grave. Come forth, Lazarus, come forth. And Lazarus is alive again, walks out there after dead for four days. and alive. And and Mary and Martha are just dumbfounded, overwhelmed with emotion, no doubt. And many believe this is exactly-he is who he said he was But you have these guys in verse 46. Huh. We've got to go tell the Pharisees what this what Jesus is doing. Not a hint of rejoicing over the resurrection of Lazarus, not a hint of awe and amazement at the power of Jesus Christ. All they need to do is let's go tell his enemies, we gotta take, we gotta eliminate this fellow. It's hard for you and I to understand the depth of the hatred. That these men had for the Lord Jesus Christ. They hated him And I was studying thinking over this. I come to the conclusion, it didn't matter what Jesus did, they were going to reject him and hate him. You say, well I'm glad our world's come a long way. We're not like that now. I saw a I saw an article, it's been some time ago, and they had a poster of a bunch of uh perverts, I'm sorry, protesting. And one of them was holding the banner up. And the banner said, if Jesus came again, we'd crucify him again. The world hasn't changed. Jesus said they hated me, they'll hate you. And so the resurrection of Lazarus from the dead had a profound shockwaves went through that community. A lot of the Jews who before were skeptical and resistant to what he was saying and what his claims were, their resistance was broken. Their skepticism melted. Yes, we believe that he is. the Son of God. He is the creator of the universe. He is the Messiah, the Savior of mankind. Others got shook up and didn't know what to say. But there was an element that hated him even more Wanted to kill him. This miracle of raising Lazarus from the dead shook that community. Now we come to our text, verse 35, John chapter 11. Jesus has arrived in town, Lazarus has been dead four days. Mary and Martha are frustrated, they're confused. I think I'm safe in saying they were a little irritated with the Lord Jesus. They both question them, Lord, if you'd been here, our brother wouldn't have died. Lord, if you'd have been here, our brother would not have died. And so they're frustrated with the timing of the Lord. They're frustrated with his methods, what he's doing. And he had these great verses there earlier in the chapter where he says, listen, this is for God's glory. I'm the resurrection of the life. And it's in that context that as they're making their way to the grave, Jesus, the Bible says that Jesus wept. He wept. He sees Mary and Martha sobbing over the death of their brother. He sees many of their friends and family sobbing over the death of Lazarus, but the grief Of Mary and Martha. The Bible says Jesus wept. That's the shortest verse in all the Bible You know the break the verses, the breakdown of chapters and verses, the numbering of them, that's not inspired. That was done 700 A. D. I believe by a fellow who just broke up the Bible. And we're very grateful it's helpful in finding passages. Some places where he breaks down the verse and chapter divisions and verse divisions, I think they could have done a little better job, personally. Some of kind of breaks in the middle of something, but I think he got it right. When he kept that little two-phrase part of one verse, Jesus wept. Jesus wept. It's the only time that form of the word wept is used in a New Testament. The word it comes from is not used anywhere else in the New Testament, anywhere else in Scripture. It is never used, the word wep there, is never used to describe wailing, crying out loud, bawling. That's not what the word it comes from. Does not mean that. It's not used, as I said, anywhere else. Now, according to Hebrews chapter 5, verse 7, when Jesus was in the Garden of Gethsemane He wept, and remember it says he sweat as it were, great drops of blood. Anybody remember reading that or hearing preaching on that? And Hebrews 5. 7 says that in that garden when Jesus was praying, he wept. But the word wept there means to wail out. To sob and cry out loud. Oh, Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not my will, thy will be done. That's not the word used here The word used here doesn't, there's no sound being emitted from the Lord Jesus Christ according to the meaning of this word, where it comes from. What this word here means, again, only time it's used in Scripture, it means to quietly have tears rolling down your cheek. It was a visible form of grief. It was a visible, subtle, quiet form of sorrow. He wasn't wailing and sobbing out loud. There were tears, hot, quiet tears, rolling down his cheeks, down his cheeks. We have three accounts of Jesus weeping here in silent tears, hot, silent tears. In Luke chapter 19, we have Jesus weeping over Jerusalem. He says, How often I would have called you under my wings, like a hen calls her chicks under wings, and you would not He wanted his people to be saved. He wanted his people to have their sins forgiven and come to heaven someday. He didn't want them to go to hell and they rejected them and they rejected them and he rejected them and he wept over them. And then again, as we referenced in Gethsemane, he wailed. The weeping here of the Lord Jesus Christ, and I only have a couple minutes, but I see here in the weeping of the Lord Jesus Christ, I see the humanity of Jesus Christ. It's interesting, the one book of the Bible that emphasizes the deity of the Lord Jesus Christ in these two simple words displays tenderly the humanity of the Lord Jesus Christ. I want to remind you this morning, Jesus is 100% God. Absolutely. But Jesus is also 100% man. Absolutely. You say, how can that be? I've been studying this book for almost 45 years. I've been I I um I uh I was in Bible college, I crammed Four years. I mean I worked hard, crammed four years into six, and um been studying this book a long time, and I'll tell you, I don't know how that can be. How can he be 100% pure God, absolute, and yet at the same time be 100% total man, yet two in one? Maybe we get to heaven, we'll understand that. But that is clear Bible teaching. And we believe the Bible. And so the book that emphasizes the deity of Christ in so many ways so clearly here brings out the humanity of Jesus Christ when it says Jesus wept, Jesus wept. Jesus was a real physical and still is a real physical human being just like you and I Hebrews chapter 2 verse 14 says he took on flesh and blood, just like you and I have flesh and blood. John chapter 1, verse 14, we noted a little bit ago, the word was made flesh. And dwelled among us. He is 100% God, 100% man. Matthew and Luke give us his human genealogies. We know who his stepfather was. We know who his uh his uh mother's father, his grandfather was, we know who his ancestors were. We're given a record there of his human genealogy as a man, the child of Mary. The Bible gives us, tells us he had a physical human body. Luke chapter 2 verse 52, he developed just normally like any other child grows and develops. He had the characteristics, all human characteristics in his body. He was hungry The Bible records Jesus Christ, God in the flesh, 100% God, 100% man, and he's eating. And he's drinking. He gets thirsty. He gets hungry. And by the way, he pauses and prays and thanks God for the food before he eats it and drinks it. He's man. The humanity of Jesus Christ. He wept. He became weary. He functioned as a human being. Jesus is God become man and take on human flesh. Jesus is fully man, yet without sin. Never sinned one time. He was the perfect man who lived a flawless, sinless life on your behalf and my behalf. So that his merit, his good work, so to speak, can be applied, his righteousness is put to our account. It was necessary for Jesus to become a man so that you and I could have his righteousness put to our account so we could be made acceptable to God. And then when he died on the cross, he took our sins, our unrighteousness, and took that upon himself and paid the price for that. So now our sin, our unrighteousness is removed, it's been paid for, and his righteousness is put in its place, and you and I as believers can stand before a holy, almighty God the Father as righteous as Jesus Christ. And all this was accomplished in his humanity. So I see here Jesus wept, I see the humanity of Jesus Christ. Number two, I see the humility Of Jesus Christ. Let me read to you. I wanted to us to turn there, but for sake of time, let me read to you Philippians chapter 2. And if you were in church on Wednesday night, you heard one of our young ladies quote this by memory Just a tremendous blessing. Listen to Philippians chapter 2. It says, Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. Listen to this. Who being in the form of God Thought it not robbery to be equal with God. In other words, his claim to be God was not robbing God's title. You can't rob something you already have. He is God. And so being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation, listened to this, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself, became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross Then it goes on, wherefore God highly exalt him. I tell you what, that weeping, Jesus making his way to the grave of Lazarus Mary and Martha weeping, a great crowd of mourners with them. And Jesus looks and he sees them, and somebody looks over, and there's tears streaming down his cheeks. That was God Almighty that spoke the universe into existence. And he humbled himself and joined in with the grief. Of his dear people. What a Savior. He humbled himself. Jesus Christ is no superstar. He's no superhero. Jesus is not Superman. And to be this is personal, this is just me. But this superman, super m stuff, uh what are they called? Superheroes That stuff bothers me. Man is a sinful, sorry, weak wretch. There is no superman. There is God, the Son of God, Jesus Christ. And he's no superman, he is God Almighty that humbled himself to become a man, just like you and I He humbled himself to share in our sorrows, to share in our joys, to share in our temptation. He was tempted in all points, like as we are, yet without sin. He humbled himself and entered into our experience. Jesus is the sincere Savior. who shares in our sorrows and humbles himself into our weakness and our trials. He doesn't just have knowledge of what we go through. He has understanding of what we go through. Do you understand the difference? It's one thing to know what somebody's going through. It's another thing to understand what they're experiencing. Are you with me? Everybody alright? I've done scores and scores, maybe hundreds, of funerals my years in the ministry. I've done many, many funerals. And to be honest with you, I find it tremendously fulfilling. To be able to be used of God in that type of environment, that situation, to help people lean hard on the Lord. One thing early on I tried to do, and I picked this up back in Indianapolis, I think. It's when I'm preparing for that funeral, particularly on the day of the funeral, as I'm sitting there and the family's there and people are grieving and there's grieving going on, I try very, very hard to do this I try to put myself in the shoes of the one that is grieving. I try to picture, if I'm sitting there, that's my wife. In that casket. That's my daddy. That's my brother, my sister. That's my child. And I try to, as best as I humanly can, try to enter into the experience and the grief of those who are grieving so that I can not just know what they're going through, but somehow understand. And every time I've totally failed. I could never fully understand what they're experiencing. in the death of a mother, a father, a child, a brother, sister, a spouse. I never I I I knew what was happening. I knew that I knew what it was, but to understand I'd come up short. Four years ago, my daddy died. I stood by his bed and saw his lifeless body. And then I understood. I understood, I experienced it. A level of grief and sorrow that I'd not felt before. And that is exactly what Jesus Christ is doing here. He's entering into not just as an uh omniscient God Knowing the facts of what's happening, but he's become a man and he's entering into the experience of Mary and Martha and the friends and family, and he is grieving with them And I'm here to tell you this morning, our God is not just some cold, hard, far-off God that knows all about you but doesn't understand you. I'm here to tell you he became a human Just like you and I, and he understands what we're going through. And he can relate, and he'll weep with those that weep, and he rejoices with those that rejoice. I'm glad we have a God that understands all these other religions, Buddhism and Hinduism, it's spiritism, it's just some cold Unloving imaginary God, the God of the Muslims, Allah, this imaginary God is not a God of compassion and understanding. He's a cold, hard God. But the true and living God that created you and I is a God that loves us and understands our grief. And our heartache. I'm here to tell you, you can come and pour your heart out to Jesus Christ. You can cast all your care on him because he cares for you. He knows and understands. Amen? I gotta quit. The last thing I notice here is the humanity of Jesus Christ, the humility of Jesus Christ, but also the heart of Jesus Christ. Here's the question when I'm studying this. Why did he weep? He knew Lazarus is going to come out of the grave in just within the half hour, maybe less. However long it takes to walk over there and say a little prayer and tell him to come out, Lazarus is going to be alive. Everybody's going to be in amazement and happy and hugging and rejoicing and laughing in just a few minutes. Why weeping? I think it's because the heart of Jesus Christ. His tears revealed his heart. His compassion for hurt and sorrow of Mary and Martha touched his heart. His concern as he looked and no doubt saw the hardness on the face of the Jews who hated him so deeply. I think his heart was broke over their rejection, their hardness. I'm going to remind you, Jesus loved those Jews who crucified him as much as he loved Lazarus, whom he raised from the dead. He was dying for these hard-hearted, wicked men that crucified him just as much as he was dying for the disciples who forsook all and followed him. Jesus' heart was broken. His heart was broken. If you're here this morning or you're listening online, and you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, I'm telling you, his heart is broken over you. He doesn't want you to die in your sins. He doesn't want you to end up in the devil's hell, the lake of fire for all eternity He wants you to find new life. He wants you to have eternal life. Have the peace of God which passes all understanding. His heart is for you to know him and his blessings. The heart of Jesus Christ, Jesus wept. Jesus is our Creator God, but he is also the most compassionate and understanding human being that has ever existed. Casting all our care on him. Why? For he careth for you. As I said, I had the privilege of being a member of the Highland Park Baptist Church in Chattanooga, Tennessee for a number of years. I had the privilege of attending Tennessee Temple University, which I absolutely loved my time there. It was so good for me. Help me And while we were there, I was introduced to a man, not personally, he had already died a number of years before, but I was introduced to a fellow by the name of Charles Weigel. Charles Weigel was a Baptist evangelist. He wrote over a thousand hymns. He died in December of 1966. He was 95 years old, member of Highland Park Baptist Church. The school built a music building, and they named it after Charles Weigel, the Weigel Music Building. As a young man, God called Charles Weigel to be an evangelist. Shortly after that call, and God was using them, God's hand was on them, souls were being saved, revival was coming. His wife came to him and said, I'm leaving. I don't want to live this life anymore. I want to go the other way. I want to enjoy the bright lights of this world. They had one daughter. The daughter left with her mother. Charles followed them down to the train station and Saw them leave for the California coast from Florida, I believe it was. Saw his wife, daughter, his family he loved so dearly left. His ministry, of course, was shut down. He left alone. For five years, Charles Weidel never preached a sermon. For five years, he never wrote another hymn. Contemplated suicide multiple times. His world had come to an end. One day he was sitting at a piano just plinking in the depths of sorrow and a little song came to his mind. It's five years after. And God began healing Charles Wiggles' heart. And he wrote this song. I would love to tell you what I think of Jesus, since I found in him a friend so strong and true. I would tell you how he changed my life completely. He did something no other friend could do. All my life was full of sin when Jesus found me. All my heart was full of misery and woe. Jesus came and placed his strong and loving arms about me, and he led me in the way I ought to go. Every day he comes to me with new assurance. More and more I understand his words of love. I'll never know just why. He came to save me Till someday I see his blessed face above. Then he wrote this chorus. No one ever cared for me like Jesus. There's no other friend so kind as he. No one else could take the sin and darkness from me. Oh, how much he cares for me. I'm here to tell you this morning Jesus wept, he cares about you, he's burdened for you, he loves you He wants to help you and lead you and guide you in your life. And if you're unsaved, he wants to forgive you and save you and give you a new life, a good life, a pure life, eternal life through faith in Jesus Christ. Won't you let them? Father in heaven, please bless this message and stir our hearts. Help us, Lord, to trust you. Help us to bring our cares and our concerns, our burdens to you, because you care so much for us. I wonder how many this morning would say, Pastor, I have a heavy burden on my heart, and I don't know if anybody else really understands, or maybe nobody else even knows about it But you have a heaviness and there's a grief and a sorrow there, and you'd say, Preacher, pray with me that I could take this and cast it on the Lord. And trust God to help me and strengthen me and see me through this. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, Pastor, pray for me. God bless you. Hands all around. Burdens are a part of life, grief and heartache. But Jesus cares. He cares. He helps us. Is there some this morning saying, preacher, I know someone, and they're going through a valley? And it's dark and they're down. And you'd say, Preacher, maybe God could use me to be a help, an encouragement I'd like to just give myself to the Lord and let him use me to help them. Is there any like this, preacher? I know someone, and I want to be a blessing and help to them. God bless you, hands all around. Maybe there's some this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure my sins are forgiven, that when I die I go to heaven. And listen, you do not want to go to hell. I invite you this morning. Come, we can show you from the Bible how you can know for sure your sins are forgiven and on your way to heaven. Is it ready this morning? Say, preacher, pray for me that God will help me I want to know that he has forgiven me and saved me. I'm going to heaven, not to hell. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Any at all? Now I want her across this auditorium there aren't Christians who say I want to dedicate my life to Christ. I just want to dedicate my whole life. to live for the Lord Jesus Christ. And this is a good time to do that. Father, bless our invitation. Now I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand