Alright, we got that out of the way. Verse number 46 in Mark chapter number 6, verse 46. I'd like for us to read this verse together in unison. If you have your Bibles there Mark chapter 6, verse 46. Everybody read it out now, real good with me. Here we go. Ready? And when he had sent them away, he departed into a mountain to pray. To do what? Pray. I want to talk this morning a little bit about Jesus' prayer life. Jesus' prayer life. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven. We thank you, Lord, for a good service this morning. My heart's been blessed by the fellowship and intermingling with folks. The Sunday hour was a blessing to me, Lord. I thank you for speaking to my heart And Lord, the music was good. I thank you for our young people. God, I just ask you to bless them real good and lead in their lives. And now, Lord, as we look into your word, I ask that you would speak to our hearts And God, I'm asking you to do for us what I cannot do in and of myself. And that is, Lord, strengthen our faith, change our lives, make us stronger Christians. Lord, help us to be more in line as to what a disciple is. I pray, Lord, if there be any under the sound of my voice that do not have 100% assurance that their sins are forgiven. They've never trusted Jesus Christ as their personal Savior by calling on him. I ask that your Holy Spirit would overwhelm with conviction. And that there would be real repentance turning to Christ, trusting Christ, and finding eternal life in the Lord Jesus Christ I ask that you fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew, again, this hour. Pray you'd speak through me. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. My wife and I are in the process of reading through the Gospels in our devotion time. And if you study the Gospels carefully, And if you pay close attention as you read through them concerning the life of the Lord Jesus Christ, you notice a few things about Jesus Christ's ministry, that three, three and a half-year ministry he had here on earth. Um, you'll notice a few things about that, his life. The first thing I notice is that Jesus Christ was intensely busy He was intensely busy. If you would notice in chapter 6 here, come back to verse number 30. We just get a little snapshot of a little part of the day in the life of the Lord Jesus Christ. Verse 30, and the apostles gathered themselves together unto Jesus and told him all things, what they had done and what they had taught. He had sent them out, now they come back And he said unto them, Come ye yourselves apart into a desert place and what? Rest awhile. Why would somebody need to rest awhile? Because they are Tired. And why would they be tired? They had been very, very busy. And so the Lord says you need a break We've been incredibly busy. Now look how this break goes, this little rest time, this little mini vacation, so to speak. For there were many coming and going, and they had no leisure so much as to eat. They're so busy they don't even have time to eat. I noticed very few people in this church building have that problem, but um nevertheless they were that busy. And they departed into a desert place by ship privily, privately. And so they're getting away a little bit. However, look what happens. And the people saw them departing, and many knew him, and ran afoot thither out of all the cities, and outwent them, and came together unto him. And Jesus, when he came out and saw much people, he was moved with compassion toward them because they were sheep, not having a shepherd. And he began to teach them many things. So here's a picture in a day of the life of the Lord Jesus Christ. They're busy, they don't have time to eat. So they're going to get apart a little bit and rest, but that rest never happens because the people showed up, and he is pressed in his spirit. That these people are desperate. They're like sheep without a shepherd. So Jesus was incredibly busy, incredibly busy. John chapter 21 and verse 25 says that if everything that Jesus said and did were written in books, That the entire world could not contain the record of all that he said and did. Now, his ministry was three and a half years. How many people agree with me? If the whole world can't contain the books that are recording what you said and did, you're pretty busy. Three and a half years. That that's pretty busy. That's quite a bit. So I read the life of the Lord Jesus Christ in the Gospels, his three and a half year earthly ministry here, and I see he's intensely busy. He's in uh he's crazy busy However, it's interesting to note that he was never too busy to stop and speak to an individual. How many folks recognize the name Nicodemus? Nicodemus came to the Lord Jesus Christ by night. There's a lot of speculation. People speculate why did he come at night? Some suggest he was embarrassed or ashamed to see the Lord Jesus Christ. Personally I don't think that was the case. I think it was the only time that they had time. I'm wondering if Jesus wasn't so crowded and busy during the day. And Nicodemus thought the only time I'm going to get alone with this guy is at late at night. Now I'm telling you, I know I'm I know some preachers, I'm pretty confident, I know some preachers that if somebody showed up at their door at ten, eleven o'clock at night They would say, listen, tell you what, make an appointment, and I'll see you sometime maybe Thursday or Friday at 10 o'clock during the daytime hours. Now that's between them and God. But the Lord Jesus Christ was not that way. In spite of how busy he was, in spite of how tired he was, he took time to meet with a man coming with serious questions. A real concern about his soul. So Jesus, though he was very, very busy, he never was too busy to speak to lost individuals or needy individuals. I thought about the woman at the well And he sends the disciples on ahead and he sits down and he takes a pretty good period of time and he spends it with one individual woman. And he leads her to salvation. Jesus was never too busy to bless little children. Do you remember when they brought small children to the Lord Jesus Christ? What did the disciples say? What did the disciples do? They said, take these children away. Get out of here. Jesus is too busy for children. And Jesus rebuked the disciples sharply. And he says, You suffer the little children to come unto me and forbid them not. For such is the kingdom of heaven. I tell you what, Lord Jesus Christ was insanely crazy busy, intensely busy. But he was never too busy to bless little children. I'm grateful uh I'm grateful for a church that's busy. We're a busy church. I sent a bulletin out on email to our some of our missionaries and I got a let uh e response back from one of our missionaries he said, Wow, you guys are busy. And I'm fine with that. That's by design. But I tell you what, we ought never to be too busy to take some time to reach children to the Lord Jesus Christ. In fact, that's what mostly what we're busy about. And so the Lord was was intensely busy, but he was never too busy to speak to a lost individual one-on-one He was never too busy to attend uh to bless little children. I thought the other thing was interesting. He was never too busy to attend a funeral. Several times Jesus came across funerals and he would stop. Now, what I like about the Lord Jesus Christ showing up at a funeral is generally the folks that were dead became alive. I would love for the Lord Jesus to come to my funeral. Brings them back up. And so the Lord was very, very busy. But he's never too busy to give attention to people. Second thing I noticed about the Lord Jesus Christ, as I read in the Gospels of His earthly ministry here, not only was he intentionally busy, but it was insanely chaotic. Now this dawned on me a year or two ago as I was reading through the Gospels, and there were different statements made and different events and the way they were described, and I thought, man, this sounds like chaos People pushing and shoving, coming and going. There was one record of the Lord Jesus Christ when he's going through a crowd, and the Bible says that people were pressing in on him, and there was one woman Who was very ill, and by faith she touched the hem of his garment. And the Bible says, virtue went out of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the woman was made well, and Jesus stopped You remember this story? He stopped and he said, Who touched me? And the disciples are incredulous. And I'm putting in my own words, obviously. They say, What are you talking about? There are people pushing all around us and pressing in on us, and you say, Who touched me? He says, I know. Virtue went out, and lo and behold, there was the woman, and she had touched Christ in faith, and God had made her, the Lord Jesus Christ had made her well. But picture that in your mind. Where people are shoving and pushing against him to such a degree that the people around them said, How in the world can you tell someone touched you? You were you're being pressed. How many of you agree? That's pretty chaotic Pushing and shoving and crowding in on him. One time he is speaking, he's in a house, and he's teaching the people in the house, and it is so crowded, packed in there. I'm telling you, um Who's the folks that inspect how many people occupancy of a house? Is it the fire fire marshal? Tell you what, if they had fire marshals then they'd have all been written up. That house was so packed. Out the doors, out the windows, they couldn't even get close. There was four fellas and a fellow that was sick on a cot And they were determined to get that sick guy into the Lord Jesus Christ. How many people remember what they did? They climbed up on the roof. And they began tearing the roof off. And they lowered the guy down. Can you imagine it's anniversary Sunday? The church is packed Full. There's people in the fellas in the lobby back there. Their windows are open. They're all crammed around. Folks can't even get up on the property. It's so jammed here. And all of a sudden the roof starts getting tore up and they lower a body down. How many people would say that's a chaotic service there? Good night. And everywhere Jesus went, it was like that Crowds of people, even to the extent he would sometimes heal someone and say, listen, don't tell anybody I did that. My wife and I, as I said, we're reading through the Gospels and our devotions. Last night we were reading this and I thought of the message in Luke chapter 12. Listen to this first verse here. Picture in your mind what's being described here. It says, in the meantime, when there were gathered together an innumerable multitude of people, insomuch that they trowed one upon another Sounds chaos to me. It is so packed, so many people around. They're walking on top of each other And so I look at the life of the Lord Jesus Christ and I see this insanely chaotic scene everywhere he goes. But here's the thing: Jesus was never out of control. Every time he was in control of the situation. One time it got so chaotic, the Bible says that he passed through them and just made his way out. Apparently, a supernatural way, he got out of that crowd. But he was never out of control. He was never overwhelmed. He was never stressed out. And another thing I noticed about the life and ministry of Lord Jesus is that it was incredibly miraculous. Incredibly miraculous. There are more miracles recorded in the three and a half years of Jesus' ministry than any other time in history. The miracles that Jesus did, the power that was upon the Son of God during his three and a half ministry, three and a half years of ministry. Yet in the midst of all this busyness. In the midst of all this chaos, there's one thing that stands out about the Lord Jesus Christ, at least in my mind, and it is this: His prayer life. His prayer life. I wonder how many times, and I don't want you to respond to this, but I wonder how many times you and I as Christians, you and I who would profess to be disciples. Followers of the Lord Jesus Christ, not just believers, but a disciple of Christ. I wonder how many times we had a day like this. Oh, I forgot to pray Oh, it's just so busy. I didn't even think to pray. You never one time, not one time, you find Jesus Christ too busy to pray Never one time do you find the Lord Jesus Christ so chaotic and so busy that he does not take time to pray. We talk about prayer, don't we? I bet I'll bet I had I guarantee I had at least eight, ten, maybe twelve people this morning Come to me and say, Pastor Leatherman, will you pray for this? Will you pray for that? I had somebody give me a little stack of prayer requests early this morning. They came in. Say, here's some prayer requests. We talk about prayer, we talk about praying, we talk about praying We sing about praying. Sweet hour of prayer. Sweet hour of prayer. We talk about praying. We sing about praying. Hey, I'm preaching about praying. The question is this: how much do we really pray? How much do we really pray? You look at the life of the Lord Jesus Christ, and you find a life saturated with prayer. You look at the Lord Jesus Christ and you see Jesus praying. Jesus pray. I wonder how many of us are guilty of this. Brother, sister, hey, would you pray for this? Yep, I'll pray for that. And we never think of it again. Huh? We never think of it again. Lord Jesus Christ was a man of prayer. Now, here's the question as we get up and some observations I want to make, but before I want to address this question: why would Jesus, of all people, the Son of God The divine Son of God, God in the flesh, why would Jesus pray? Why would he even have to? Why would that even be a part of his life here on earth? I think there's several answers to that question. I think, first of all, to be an example to disciples. Jesus did not come to earth to be an example. That wasn't the purpose of his coming. The reason he came to earth was to be a savior of mankind. He came to give his life a ransom for many God so loved the world, He gave His only begotten Son. Why? That whosoever believeth in Him should not perish, but of everlasting life. Jesus Christ came to seek and to save the lost. The purpose for Christ's coming was to be the sacrifice for man's sin. However, he was an example for you and I. And I believe one of the reasons we find the Lord Jesus Christ praying was to be an example to us. In fact, one point the disciples saw him praying. And they said this, Lord teach us to pray. It was an example. It was a challenge. It was a model, a pattern. For believers in their prayer life. So one of the reasons Jesus would pray would be an example to the disciples. I think the second reason we find Jesus praying is Though he was 100% God, he was also 100% what? Man And as the Son of God, in fact, the book of Luke references him many times as the son of man, emphasizing the fact that he was fully, completely, 100% man Philippians tells us another place that he laid aside much of his prerogatives as God. He laid aside much of his deity and he functioned as a man. He was tired. He got hungry. Bible says one place he weary he was weary And so, as a man, he voluntarily made himself dependent upon God and dependent upon prayer. And so his manhood made it necessary that he pray, as he laid aside his Godhead in many ways and operated as a man. But then there's, I think, a third answer to the question: why would he pray? As God, he's part of the Godhead, and you find throughout Scripture, God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, interacting and communicating with one another. Question, how many gods are there? One God. Yet there's three members of the Godhead. We call it the Trinity, God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. One God Three distinct, separate individual personalities that make up that God. You say, how can that be? I don't understand it. Welcome to reality. It is not something we can fully explain or fully grasp, but it is the clear teaching of Scripture. So, as part of the Godhead, Jesus would no doubt interact with the Father and the Father with the Son. And so, we look at the life of the Lord Jesus Christ. Nothing more conspicuous in his life, perhaps, uh, than uh his prayer life. Now, this is what I said all that to get to this. I want to make some observations about the prayer life of our Lord Jesus Christ. There are two areas in my Christian life, personally, I'm speaking personally now. May or not may not be true with you, but there are two areas in my personal life where I'm constantly disappointed with myself. One is my soul winning. I always wish I could be a better witness, be a better soul winner. I'm never satisfied. I always wish I could do it. Anybody here ever get in a situation you walk away and say, oh man, I could have been a good witness there And I'm I'm disappointed. I wish I was more aware. I wish I was more alert to that and and I work on that. But the other area of my Christian life I'm constantly disappointed is my prayer life. I've never been satisfied with my prayer life. In fact, I think maybe one of the reasons we struggle, we see so little power and so little presence of God in our ministries, our Sunday school classes, our whatever ministry. It's maybe because we're coming up so short in our prayer life. And so when I look at the life of the Lord Jesus Christ and I consider his prayer life, I want to pay special attention to that because that is an area That me personally, I need to constantly work at. I need to constantly try to do better. I'm always disappointed In that area. So, what do we notice about the prayer life of the Lord Jesus Christ? Well, the first thing I put down was this. I encourage you to jot these down. Number one, for the Lord Jesus Christ, prayer was a priority. It was a priority. I find 17 references in the Gospels to the Lord Jesus Christ praying The words prayer and praying are used 25 times in connection with the Lord Jesus Christ Now here's the thing. We always find, we always find Jesus Christ has time to pray. He's never so busy. That he cannot stop and find time to prayer. He never was too busy to prayer. Prayer took a high priority in the life of the Lord Jesus Christ. Here's the way we pray sometimes. Now maybe you don't, but here's I think sometimes for me anyway when all else fails Well, then I'll have to pray. Did you ever hear that somebody make this statement? Well, there's nothing else we can do. All we can do is just pray. That sounds to me, I I was in the emergency room, it's been a couple years ago with a fella, they brought him in and he was very, very ill, and the doctor came in. I was there with and uh and the doctor was talking and he said, listen, we've done everything we can. All I can say to you, the only thing left to do is pray. Now I understand what he was trying to say, but what does that sound like to you? That sounds like to me that prayer was the last resort. For the Lord Jesus Christ, prayer was never the last resort. It was always highest priority. It was highest priority. What does it mean for something to be a priority? We say prayer was a priority for Lord Jesus Christ. Well, the word priority means this. It means to hold in highest importance. It means to hold highest in rank of everything in my life. Prayer is a priority, is one of the highest importance, highest rank. It has this idea to take precedence over all else. For the Lord Jesus Christ, prayer was not a last resort. It was extremely important. Prayer was too important to neglect. We just came out of summertime. How many folks? Summertime seems like it lasts two and a half days, and winter lasts 17 years. It's like good night. Summer's gone. But in the summertime, inevitably, you hear a news report of somebody that left their child in a hot car. Anybody you ever hear those news reports? You hear it every year, summertime, hot child and cat and a hot cart, and in some cases that child actually passes away. Gets so hot That's a terrible thing. Now this is what got my goat. And I think it was this summer I heard this. May have been the year before. But they offer this solution. They said, why don't you put something of importance in the backseat that you won't forget, so that way you'll remember your child is there and you get your child out. Anybody hear that solution to it? And I'm thinking to myself, what in the world is more important than your child? If you're not going to remember your child, how in the world are you going to remember Well, put your purse back there, put your wallet back there. You know what that tells me? We live in a society where the dollar is more valuable than the child. And we have millions and millions and millions of children being aborted in their mother's womb because it interferes with their work life. It interferes with their lifestyle. It interferes with their quality of living. I am telling you, that is an abomination to a holy God. Now, just as that child ought to, and in a reasonable mind, that child has high priority in the life of the parent, I'm suggesting to you, like the Lord Jesus Christ, prayer. Ought to have a high priority in the life of the believer. I'll tell you what's a tragedy is that we have to set reminders. I have on my phone prayer reminders. To remind me to pray. And I'm and I I'm preparing this message. I'm studying the life of the Lord Jesus Christ, and I think, what kind of sorry Christian am I? that I need to be reminded to pray. Prayer ought to be such a priority in my life. It ought to be such a natural expression in my life. It ought to be such a vital part of my walk with God. I don't have to be reminded to pray. And Jesus Christ's prayer was a tremendous priority. And it took high priority. It ranked high in importance to the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus did not need prayer reminders. Now I understand we're fallen human beings and I'm going to keep them on my phone, my little ding. Oh yeah, I've got to pray for so-and-so I'm going to leave it there because I'm frail human beings. It's uh I guess let me say this. It's better to pray as a result of a reminder than not pray at all. But at some point we ought to get to the point where prayer is such a vital priority in our lives we don't even think about not praying. So, did you get that? Number one, prayer was a priority for the Lord Jesus Christ. Number two, I noticed this about the Lord Jesus Christ, and I'll have to explain my My point here, the words I use. Prayer was a paternal relationship. I'm trying to stick with the P's here, but this is an important truth. Important principle. Prayer was a paternal relationship. That word paternal means this: to be based upon a relationship with the Father. Father. And you pay attention when Jesus prayed, he addressed God this way over and over and over. Father. Father, Father, our Father, which art in heaven When Jesus prayed, he approached God Almighty, the all-powerful, all-knowing, eternal God of the ages. And he approached him with this relationship. You are my father. I tell you, what a way to look at prayer. It's like a child coming to their daddy. If you would, take your Bible, turn with me now, turn with me to Matthew chapter number seven. For a couple years there on Wednesday nights we were studying the Sermon on the Mount. I tell you, I thoroughly enjoyed that study. And it helped me tremendously. In Matthew chapter 7, you have the last part of Jesus' Sermon on the Mount, and this was a sermon to disciples It was an evangelistic message. He was telling his followers, this is what it means to be one of my disciples. And he references prayer. And I want to begin reading in verse number seven. Follow with me here and pay attention to what's being said. He said, Ask and it shall be given you. Seek, and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be open unto you. For everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh it shall be open. Who is Jesus talking to? He's addressing, if you go back to chapter 5, the first part of chapter 5, he's addressing his disciples. These are people who are already saved. These are people who have committed themselves to be followers of Jesus Christ. He is not talking to lost people. This is not, get this, this is not a promise to the unsaved. Now look what he says on the next verse. He says, Or what man is there of you, whom if his what? Son ask bread, we give him a stone. If he asks the fish, we give him a serpent. Let me ask you a question. Your son's hungry comes up and uh he asks for um uh your son's hungry comes up and he asks for, Daddy, can I have some bread? What kind of daddy would give him a stone? I don't know if you agree with me. That'd be a sorry father. Here, eat the stone. His son comes up, he's hungry, and he says, Dad, can I have some of that fish? Here's a serpent. Eat that. Jesus is using a very vivid illustration here. To tell us what prayer is. It's a child coming to a father. Look what he says in the next verse. If ye then, being evil, being sinners, know how to give good gifts unto your children. I circled that next three words. I highlighted that and circled. How much more shall your father Which is in heaven, give good things to them that ask him. How much more When Jesus prayed, he approached God the Father as a human being, as 100% man. He approached God not as a distant, untouchable Deity and God was that. He is absolutely God, not diminishing that. But that was not the approach Jesus had in prayer. When Jesus approached the Almighty, Holy powerful God, he came to him as a child addressing the Father. And I don't know about you, but that touches my heart. That when a saved person comes to the Lord Jesus, comes to God in prayer, we can follow the pattern of the Lord Jesus, and we look to God as our Father. Our Father. How many people have ever heard me talk about my daddy? Like every sermon. I thank God for my father. I'm telling you, and many of you feel the same way, and many of you are the are the same way as the father. There I don't believe there's a thing in the world my daddy wouldn't do if I came and asked him for something. If there was any way possible he would do it We were in Philadelphia last week on a little tour and we were helping uh Brother Joseph dealt uh canvas for the new church and we were right downtown where the stadiums are and I don't know if you're familiar with Philly, the south side It used to be the JFK Stadium and the Spectrum and all that. And before I was stayed, I was an absolute embarrassing, shameful mess of a kid. And we would take the train, we live north of Philly, we'd take the train down to South Philly, and we'd go to these ungodly wicked concerts. By the way, no Christian ought to ever enter any type of venue like that. And I was lost, wicked wretch. I'd go down there. One time we went down, it was a big concert, debauchery and wickedness, just shame. And the thing went over time and it and it went past the time that the trains ran. Trains were shut down for the night. And so we were stuck at the train station. We took the subway from the spectrum to the train station and the trains weren't running. They were done for the night. It's like one, two, one thirty in the morning, something like that And I prayed to my father. I wasn't praying to God, but I called my father up. This is back before. Remember when you the phones were attached to the wall by a cord? Anyone remember that? I think they did that so you don't lose them. And you put a quarter in. Remember that? So I got and I called and they had them in little boxes on the streets. Remember that? I called my daddy up about 1. 30 in the morning. Now he's the truck driver. Back then he was driving local. And um he's getting up in just a little bit. And I said, Dad, and I told him the situation Could you please come and get us? And we were stoned out of our mind. I mean, my dad's heart is so broken over his son. And he said, son, I'll be down there. You sit tight, you stay safe. I'll be right there. Daddy drove hours so down into inner city, South Philly, dangerous. He found his son and got him out of there And just like that sorry, wretched kid I was asking my daddy to do something, is just like a Christian, a child of God coming to the father, Father, you help me. That's the way Jesus, Father in heaven. And he sets a pattern for us and he sets an example for us. And we come to him just like a child. Say, God help me. God please give me wisdom. God, please, Father. Now the fact that he referred to God as his father tells me something else. It tells me that those who are not saved, those who are not a child of God, do not have access. To God their father, because God is not their father. John chapter 8 and verse 44, Jesus is addressing the Pharisees who claimed to be so righteous and they were hypocritical and self-righteous and they were lost as can be. Over and over he warned them that they're going to end up in hellfire. This is Jesus talking. And he says in John chapter 8, 44, he says, Ye are of your father, the devil. And he is teaching us there, as in other places, that a person who has never been born again, never been born into the family of God, is not a child of God. But is in reality a child spiritually of the devil himself, of the family of Satan. And God does not hear the prayers of the unsaved, with one exception, I believe, is that when they come to Him in repentance and faith, calling out and trusting Jesus as their personal Savior. Listen, I can't find one promise, great promise of prayer to the unsaved. Again, except for Romans 10, 13. And so when Jesus came to God, when he came in prayer, he came with a paternal relationship, a child coming to a father, a good father. That loved him and cared for him and would meet his needs and help him. I need to say this, I need to say this. If you're here, you're into the sound of my voice. And you've never been born again. You do not know for sure Jesus Christ ever. You never made that decision to accept the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. You have no access to the throne of God for the needs of life. You are outside the family of God. In fact, John chapter 3, verse 18, and again verse 36 says the unsaved are under the condemnation of God, under the wrath of God. Dead in trespasses and sin. But to the one that accepts Christ and is born again into the family of God, we have access to the throne through the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ, our Heavenly Father. And we have that relationship. Does that make us better than the lost? No. No. Every single person on this planet could come to Jesus Christ and trust him as their personal Savior, be born into the family of God. and claim God as their father. So Jesus' prayer life, first of all, prayer was a high priority. Number two, it was a paternal relationship, God as his father. And the third thing I notice about the prayer life of the Lord Jesus Christ is this. His prayer was perpetual. If something's perpetual, it means what? Just ongoing. It's perpetual. It just says ongoing. The other word I put down there was perennial. I like plants. I referenced in a message a couple weeks ago different. I like to go to um Walmart after the first frost. I'm sorry, the first frost was this week. In the spring, I like to go to Walmart and um After there's a late frost, they put all the plants out. About March, I'm start saying, put the plants out, put the plants out, put the plants out. And they put them out, and lo and behold, there's a frost, and they sell them very inexpensively. How many people remember me telling you that? I don't know why I'm telling you it again. But I get these plants, and they have two kinds. They have annuals, which means what? They're going to die and fall. Right? Or you can get perennials. And here's what I'm getting at with that. They just keep coming back. And they come back, and the winter sets in, and the dark, cold, miserable days of long winters of gloom and bitter cold and misery. But then spring comes and they come back. And I got looking at the prayer life of the Lord Jesus Christ. And he just kept praying. And he kept praying. And he would pray again. And he would pray again. And he would pray again. Jesus, I got studying this, I came to this conclusion. Jesus prayed a lot. I mean a lot. He was always praying. Just got looking through there. He began his earthly ministry. Did you know when Jesus got baptized, he had been praying? The Bible tells us. He started his whole ministry off with prayer. Did you know Jesus did no miracles before he was baptized and the Spirit of God came upon him? All that began with prayer. Jesus ended his earthly ministry with prayer on the cross. Father! Forgive them, for they know not what they do. After he rose from the dead, he's with the disciples. He appears to them in the upper room. They're gonna have they say, Ah, it's a ghost. He goes, no, ghosts don't have flesh and blood. Here, give me some fish. And the Bible says he prayed and gave thanks. From the beginning of the record of the Lord Jesus Christ, his ministry To the end of his earthly ministry, he's praying, he's praying, he's praying. He prayed at his baptism, he prayed on the cross. In fact Prayer is so perennial, the Lord Jesus Christ. Hebrews chapter 7, verse 25 tells us that he's praying right now at the right hand of God. Says he ever liveth to make what? Intercession for us. He prayed and prayed and prayed and prayed and prayed. In fact, he's praying right now. I think he's praying. Father, help Dennis not blow it in this message. He's praying. Hey, by the way, if you're here and you're not right with God, I believe Jesus Christ is praying that you'll humble yourself and make things right with God. I believe right now Jesus Christ at the right of the Father is praying for unsaved to open their hearts and minds and believe and trust Jesus Christ as Savior. He's praying for our young people. I have a little prayer list on my phone I mentioned. I have all our young people's names on there. I try to pray for them all the time. Tell you what, even greater than that is Jesus praying for our young people. Jesus praying for our senior citizens. Jesus praying for our bus ministries. And all we're doing. His prayer was perennial. He just prayed and prayed. He prayed a lot. Here is my question to myself. If somebody would look at my life, somebody outside would look at my life and they're going to analyze my ministry and my life. I wonder if they would come to this conclusion. Boy, old Leatherman, he sure prays a lot. He's always praying. I was preparing this. I thought of myself, and to be honest with you, I had to hang my head in shave. I don't know that prayer is that how much of my life how I fail and come so short of that. How many people here have ever gotten a situation after we said, boy, I wish I'd have prayed first? I wish I'd have prayed about that. Jesus never said that. His whole life was saturated in prayer. I wonder how different our lives would be. If we prayed all the time for everything. As I said, Jesus prayed at his baptism. He prayed when he chose his disciples. He prayed when he went up on the Mount of Transfiguration. He prayed before he fed the 5,000. He prayed when he instituted the Lord's Supper. He prayed in the Gethsemane. He prayed when he was tired. He prayed when he was alone He prayed in crowds. He prayed early in the morning. He prayed late at night. He prayed all night long many times. He prayed before he ate. He prayed all the time In all situations, in all circumstances, Jesus Christ saturated it with prayer. Prayer. I put this down, number four, real quickly. His prayer was precise. He was precise. He was specific in his prayers. I want you to go with me one more passage. John chapter 11 Would you turn there with me? How many everybody doing all right? Alright. How many people are rather be here than in jail? Especially if Tom's the jailer, I would really not want to be John chapter eleven and verse number forty-one. This is uh Lazarus. He has two sisters, Mary and Martha. They sent to Jesus, our brother Lazarus is sick, you love him, come and make him well. And Jesus delayed and he wouldn't go. And he let him die, and he just finally shows up after he's dead four days And the and Mary and Martha come out, if you'd have been here our brother had not died. And Jesus says, Oh you uh Uh I'm the resurrection of life. And uh he he rebukes them a little bit, encouraged them. Then he says, Take me to where his tomb is. And that's where we pick up in verse 41. And it says, And they took away the stone Well, let me go back to 40. Jesus said unto her, Said I not unto thee that if thou wouldest believe, thou shalt see the glory of God? Then they took away the stone from the place where the dead were laid. And Jesus lifted up his eyes and said, now look at this prayer, Jesus prays. Father, there's Father. I thank thee that thou hast heard me. And I know that thou hearest me always, but because of the people which stand by, I said it. That they may believe that thou hast sent me. Now look at this. And when he had thus spoken, he cried with a loud voice, and he said, What? What was it? He said, Lazarus, come forth. And you read on, and lo and behold, Lazarus comes out of there. He's all wrapped up in the grave clothes. Mm-hmm. He tells him, unwrap them, and lo and behold, a miracle. He's raised from the dead. Now I got looking at that. Why did Jesus say, Lazarus, come forth? Why didn't he just say, hey, come forth? Hey, get out of here. If he'd have just said, come forth, he'd have had a whole cemetery full of folks coming up out of their wrapped up in their grave clothes Jesus was very, very specific when he prayed. And I think there's an example there for you and I. When we pray, we ought to be specific in our request. What exactly is it you want God to do? Oh God bless me. What does that mean? How do you want? What is it exactly you want? Lord, I need $5,000 for this bill. God, I need this. God, uh, my friend needs to be saved. Bobby needs to be saved. God, please convict him. God, send a Christian by Jesus was specific in his prayers. And I believe you and I are hindering our prayer life by not being specific, just being so general. Lord bless all the ministers, all the missionaries. Well, that's wonderful, but how do you what do you want? Lord Brother Florence and his wife are in the States here. They need more support. God, would you send some churches by that would take them on for support? They can get back to Papa New Guinea. Lord Lewis Howe is down there and he's had back surgeries in so much pain. God, would you give him patience and Lord help him to uh uh make him well, touch that, and help the church to stay strong when he's out. Be specific. Tell God what you want. Some people pray so generally you don't know whether God's answering or not. I believe we ought to be specific in our prayers. Specific in our prayers. And last of all, I notice this. Jesus' prayer, and again I need to explain this word, Jesus' prayers were pliable. Say, what in the world? It started with a P is the closest I could get. If something is pliable, it means what? It's flexible, it's moldable. In other words, Jesus, when he prayed to his Father in heaven, God the Father, when he prayed, he was submissive. To how God would choose to answer that prayer. He was submissive. The word pliable means adaptable or submissive. I want you to go to one more passage, and I'm ending with this. Luke Chapter Twenty Two Luke Chapter Twenty Two And I want to begin reading in verse number 39, Luke 22, and verse number 39. Jesus is in the Garden of Gethsemane. He's about to go to the uh into Jerusalem, he's going to be uh beaten, he's going to be crowned authority, it's going to be horrific. Not just the physical torture he's about to go through But the spiritual wrath of God upon him for all the sin. This is the darkest valley any living being has ever gone through The sins of all the world he's about to take upon him. And he's in the Garden of Gethsemane, verse 39. He came out and went as his what? as he was wont to the Mount of Olives, and his disciples followed him. And when he was at the place, he said unto them, Pray ye enter not into temptation. And he was withdrawn from them about a stone's cast and kneeled down and what? Alright, so we're studying the prayer life of the Lord Jesus. Let's notice this prayer. Saying Father, there it is, the relationship, Father, if thou be willing Remove this cup from me. He makes a profound statement at the end of that next statement. Nevertheless. What? Not my will, but thy will be done. Not my will, but thy will be done. You know how God responded? God did not do what Jesus asked God to do. He said, God, would you remove this cup? If there's any other way. And it's not a record, but in so many words, God said, no. You have to go through this. This has to be done. No one will ever find forgiveness of sins. No man will ever enter the presence of God if this doesn't take place. Jesus was pliable, submissive. Not my will, but thy will be done. We are told in Philippians to make our requests be made known unto God with thanksgiving. God says, Come to me boldly with the blood of Christ. You make your requests, you ask. Bold things. Ask. But the core of our requests must be this. But Lord, not my will But thy will be done. How many people here are glad that God did not take that cup from the Lord Jesus Christ? We'd be doomed to eternity in hell. We'd be doomed to eternity in hell. How many people look back over your life? I'm talking to shade people How many people look back over your life and you thought you had to have something? God had to do this for me. And God said no. I'm not doing that. And you look back later and you said, thank you, Lord, for not answering that prayer. My son spent several years ago. He was working on, he was involved in an organization, and there was a huge financial discrepancy And he was trying to figure out where it came from, where it came from. And he called me up and he said, Dad, I really need you to pray that the bank does this certain thing. They have to do this certain thing or I'm in big trouble. Something's not right. And he said, pray the bank does it. I said, son, I'll pray. We prayed earnestly. And the next day he called me up and said, Dad, guess what? I found the mistake. And if the bank had done what I was asking God to have them do, I'd have been out. There's thousands of dollars And he made this statement to me. He says, Dad, I am so glad God did not answer that prayer. And that is the attitude that Jesus had. That's the attitude you and I ought to have in our prayers. Pour out a request. God, if it's possible, please, if you're willing, take this away. But God, if not, not my will, but your will be done. You know what's best for me. You know what I need. We pray with a submissive attitude. Let me ask you a question. If somebody studied your life as a Christian since the day you got saved till today, and they analyzed it like we analyzed the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ. Would they say this? Now that is a praying Christian. They pray all the time. They have a relationship with God. They're saved. They come to God like their father. They don't quit. And they're so yielded to the Lord. They're submissive to God. Now, Mr. Press, I wonder if anybody would say that about me. I wonder if anybody would say that about you. How's your prayer life? Maybe there's some of us disciples who need to kneel at an old altar and say, Lord, I need revival in my prayer life. I need revival in my prayer life. I wonder if the reason our lives seem so empty and we struggle with doubts and fears and we we seem so frustrated is because we're trying to do so much on our own. And we're not bringing it to the Lord. Father in heaven, help us, Lord, to follow your pattern, your example in this matter of prayer. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many this morning Say, preacher, I know the Lord Jesus, my Savior. I've been saved. There's no doubt about it. That is a settled fact. I know I've trusted Christ. I have scripture to support that. But you say, with me, you say, I need revival in my prayer life. I need revival in my prayer life. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? I need God to stir me and make me a man or a woman, a young person of prayer. I wonder if there's some this morning say, pray, say, preacher, I know there's, and we didn't really touch on this, but you'd say, preacher, I'm afraid there's some things in my life that hinder my prayer life. Maybe there's some unconfessed, unrepentant sin that is keeping God from hearing me. The Holy Spirit of God has touched your heart and said you need to deal with this. We need to deal with this if you're going to have an effective prayer life. I wonder if there'd be some like that between you and God. Say, preacher, I know there's areas in my life that really need attention. So that I can be that one that sees and hears God prayer. Any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you. Number of hands around. We need the Lord. It's ongoing, constant. There's some this morning say, preacher, I've never been born again. I cannot honestly say that I've trusted Jesus Christ and Him alone to be my personal Savior. I need to get that settled. I want to know that I'm in the family of God, that I'm forgiven. Have eternal life. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I need to be saved. I need to trust Christ. Any at all? Any at all? Now, Father, you know our hearts. You know where we're at. Help us, Lord. To respond in faith. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing the invitation. This morning, God