Chapter nineteen, if you would notice verse number fifteen with me. John or I'm sorry, John chapter twenty-one. Sorry, John twenty-one. And verse number 15, uh Jesus is rose from the dead. Remember back at the beginning of the passage that Pastor Matt read that Peter uh says, I'm going fishing. And by the way, he wasn't talking about getting his little vest boat out and go down, spend an evening. He was giving up on the ministry He's going back to his old life. He's going back to his old occupation. The Lord had called Peter to follow him earlier on, and Peter did for three and a half years. And now he gives up. And uh he says, I'm going back. I'm going back to the old business. I'm I'm getting out of the ministry. I'm hanging up the to I'm throwing in the towel and I'm hanging up the Uh what do you hang up? Your hat. Giving up. So Lord shows up, as we read here. Lord says, catch anything, fellas? He said, nah, fished all night. And they said, throw on the other side. He catches 153 fish. Pulls them in. He has a little meal for him there. The disciples are sitting around just in shock, I'm sure. And Peter, then the Lord turns to Peter. Of the eleven disciples there, he turns to Peter. And he says, verse 19, he says, so when they dine, Jesus saith to Peter, Simon, uh, Simon Peter. Simon, son of Jonas, is getting his attention. He said, Lovest thou me more than these? Now the debate is what were the these he's talking about? You know what I think? I think it was the fish. You love me more than this occupation, what you do? You love me more than that? You come down to verse number 19, the last part. Jesus has this conversation with Peter. In the last part of verse 19, he says, And when he had spoken this, he saith unto him, Peter, follow me. Follow me. That was the call he had given to Peter way back three and a half years before. When he first crossed paths with Peter, when he first Peter was first introduced to the Lord Jesus, Jesus said, hey, follow me. Now it's three and a half years later. Peter's gone back to fishing. Walking away from all that he had messed himself in. And the Lord reinstitutes that call and he says, Peter, follow me. Here's my point, here's my message, and we'll pray. This is the title, and we'll pray. Jesus did not give up on Peter. He did not give up on Peter. I don't know about you, but I'm glad that God doesn't give up on his people. Jesus doesn't give up on his disciples. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, we come to you this morning, grateful hearts, for your goodness to us, your blessing. Or we could just go on for hours praising you for what you've done for us and how good you are to us and how good you've been to us. Lord, we look at ourselves sometimes and we see where we're at. God, I pray that you would maybe use a few thoughts from this passage and encourage Some of your disciples, Lord, challenge us, instruct us and help us in our walk with you Father, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. With all my heart, I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit again in this hour. Speak through me, Lord, and help us leave here changed. Help us make good decisions based on the information we're given here. And we'll give you all the glory for it. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. In Hebrews chapter 13 and verse 10, Jesus is referred to as the great shepherd Now, there's a number of times throughout Scripture, in the New Testament, particularly in the Gospels, Jesus refers to himself as a shepherd, a good shepherd. Peter refers to Jesus as the chief shepherd. But Hebrew says he is the great shepherd of the sheep. The great shepherd. Now here's my question: get us started this morning. What do shepherds do? If Jesus is the great shepherd, what do shepherds do? They take care of the sheep. That's what I had put down. A shepherd takes care of the sheep. Now, what does that entail? Well, part of taking care of the sheep is providing for the sheep, making sure they have food to eat. And so part of the shepherd's job is uh depending on the situation, the circumstances, or the location, he needs to find good, fresh green grass for them to eat. Of course, in the Middle East here, in this time, sometimes that would be a bit of a challenge. They may have to travel long distances to find some green pastures, as Psalms 23 refers to. So a shepherd provides for the sheep, takes care of the shepherd, he provides shelter for the sheep. A rainstorm comes up or uh bad weather comes up, he has to have a place. He can get them in there And provide shelter for the sheep. So one thing a shepherd does is to provide for the sheep. A second thing a shepherd does, I put down here, is to protect the sheep There are predators that like to eat sheep. You talk to Brother Stewart, he'll tell you they got bears and bobcats and He says mountain lions out there coming in. Paul used to tell me hawks would sometimes come down and get the little lambs. I mean everything in the world wants to eat the sheep So part of the shepherd's responsibility as a shepherd is to keep those sheep safe, keep the lions off, keep the In in there in the Middle East there, there'd be lions, there would be uh mountain lions, there would be bears would come in, different various types of predators And so the shepherd would be to protect the sheep from predators, but also protect the sheep from their own foolishness. Now I'm not a shepherd. I don't have a lot of experience with sheep. I've read about them. Stuart tells me a little bit about them. And from my understanding is sheep aren't the smartest animals on the planet And sometimes they can get themselves in a predicament, and they'll get themselves in a situation where they have to be rescued from themselves. And so the shepherd's responsibility is to help make sure they break their leg or something happens to them, they get themselves in a circumstance, situation, and uh he has to uh protect them sometimes from their for their from their own selves. The Bible says Jesus is the great shepherd. And we as believers are his sheep. I'm glad our great shepherd provides for us. Amen? He takes care of us. He protects us. There are predators out there that would like to destroy your life and my life. Would like to destroy our testimony. There's three primary predators. Number one is the devil himself. He walketh around about as a lion, a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour The world is not our friend. The world is our spiritual enemy, wants us to get out of the will of God and away from God and our own sinful nature. Is an enemy of ours that gets us away from God. So Jesus helps protect us from these. And there's a third thing a shepherd does that I put down. This is getting to my point here. A shepherd pursues the wayward sheep. Every now and then a sheep would get off on its own and lose track, and next thing you know, that thing wanders off and Before you know it, he's out on the backside of Yakagani Resort, wandering around in the woods and the laurel. And uh, oh no, that's another story. Um And uh but anyway, um that's a little pri personal joke there. But uh so sometimes that shape would get off out of the out in the wilderness, get away, get lost Maybe get hung up on a cliff or somewhere. That shepherd would have to go out and find that lost sheep. Now, if you would keep your place here, I'd like for you to turn over to Luke. Chapter number 15, just briefly with me. And we're going to look at, the Lord will, and we're going to look at a lot of different verses this morning, so keep your Bibles handy. I don't know if we'll get to all of them But Luke chapter 15, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, just before John, Luke chapter 15, you have Jesus tells these series of parables here. And what prompted these parables was the Pharisees criticized Jesus for eating with sinners. They said, this man eats with sinners. I'm glad Jesus loves sinners. I'm glad Jesus comes and wants to fellowship and communicate with sinners. By the way, he was eating with the sinners. He wasn't sinning with the sinners. And so these Pharisees are critical of the Lord Jesus Christ because he's eating with sinners. Then he tells these series of parables. And I find them interesting. Look at the first one there in verse number four, if you would. It says, he spake this parable, verse 3, verse 4, what man of you, having a hundred sheep If he lose one of them, doth not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness, and go after that which is lost until he find it And when he hath found it, he layeth it on his shoulders, rejoicing. And when he cometh home, he calleth together his friends and neighbors, saying unto them, Rejoice with me, I have found my sheep which was lost. One of the responsibilities of a shepherd is the fact that one sheep that has gone astray That sheep that has wandered away, that sheep that has gotten out of the will of God. And is out there away from the Lord. And the shepherd is to go out and pursue them and find them. Now, we use these parables. The next one was about a woman who lost the coin Anybody remember that parable of the Lord? And she searched and searched and swept till she found it. She told her friends, oh, if it was lost, I found it. Then the prodigal son, we all familiar with that That boy goes astray into the foreign land and wastes his living on riotous living, comes to himself and comes back to the daddy. Daddy calls everybody, hey my son's lost his Now we use that as evangelistic messages, and rightly so. But I got looking at those three parables there. And I think there's an aspect to these parables the Lord's giving that is not evangelistic in reaching the lost, but is reaching the wayward believer. Now, this is why I come to that conclusion. If you notice in the parable of the good shepherd there, and go find the lost sheep, that sheep is a sheep. It's no different than the ones that are safe in the day. It's one of the flock. And it's gotten away. It's gotten out. The coin, it was the the widow, it was the lady's coin, it was hers. But it had gotten away from the uh the safe box it was in. It had gotten out, it was missing The prodigal son. It was the father's son. He was going by, he was part of the family. He was in the family. And so I think there's an element here in these parables where an evangelistic yes, amen. But I think there's a point there where sometimes It's possible for God's people to get out of God's will and to get out away from the Lord. Are you with me? You follow what I'm saying? It's possible. How many folks here you're saved to know it? Say amen. How many people since you've been saved, you've come to the The horrific realization that even though you're saved, even though you're a child of God, even though God has given you new life, eternal life, You still have an old sinful nature. Anybody? It took me about 24 hours to learn that when I first got saved. We have a sinful, even though we're saved, we have been dwelt by the Spirit of God, our names are written down in glory, we're a child of God, we still have a sinful nature. And it is still possible for us to wander away from the will of God. It's still possible for a believer to get out in sin. Jesus is a good shepherd. He's the great shepherd. One thing Jesus does, and one thing he is very good at. It's going out after that wandering child of God, that wandering Christian. That Christian has gotten away. Their attitudes turned sour and allowed things in their life that a child of God ought never allow in their life. They've gotten involved in things a child of God ought never be involved in They're neglecting the things that are so vital to the spiritual well-being of a child of God And Jesus is very good at going after them. He is a master at finding and restoring those who have wandered away from him. Jesus is a master at finding and restoring those who have fallen and are struggling to get back up again. Jesus is a master at helping them get back on their feet spiritually, get back in the will of God, get back living for the Lord. Jesus Christ, as the great shepherd, is a master at those at finding and restoring those who have failed and are discouraged. And fate, there's nothing I can do for God again. I might as well just give up. I might as well just go fishing Because I've failed. I'm discouraged. I've gotten away. Out of the will of God. Jesus is a great shepherd. And he's a master at finding that lost sheep out there, that missing coin, that wayward sun, and reaching them and bringing them back. What a great shepherd we have. I put this down, Jesus is a master at fixing that which is broken. Jesus is a master at forgiving those who have sinned. Jesus is a master at restoring those who have fallen. And by the way, he's a master at saving those who are lost. You're here today in this service, or you're on the sound of my voice. You don't know Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. You don't have a Assurance that your sins are forgiven. If you die now, in your sins unforgiven, you spend eternity in hell. I'm here to tell you, Jesus can save your soul. He can and he will. You just come to him. By the way, Jesus uh uh what he does in saving a soul is something Nothing else in existence can do. He is the only one that can save a person's soul. He's the only hope. He's the only way. He's the only door to heaven. Jesus is a master at fixing that which is broken, forgiving those who have sinned, restoring those who have fallen. In Nehemiah, and we won't turn there. Nehemiah chapter 1 and verse 9, Nehemiah is praying to the Lord, and he's gotten information about the walls of Jerusalem and the city of Jerusalem. And the place was in shambles, of course he was in Babylon, he was serving the king there as cupbearer in captivity And he gets word from his hometown. He gets word from back in Jerusalem. And they say the walls are down. They're in shambles. The city is ruined. His heart is broken and begins to weep when he realizes God's house and God's people and God's city is in such a mess. Israel had gotten so far from God. And he begins to pray. And in his prayer, he says this. He says, Lo, uh though there were of you, speaking of Jews, Though there were of you cast out unto the uttermost part of heaven, yet will I gather them from hence Do you catch what he's saying? He's saying, you may have wandered to the far reaches of the universe. And he says, I can still reach out and get you and bring you back. I don't know who all I'm talking to this morning. Maybe I'm talking to somebody. Say I've gotten so far from God, I don't think I can ever come back. I'm here to tell you, Jesus' arm is long enough to reach to the edge of the universe and bring you back. Nobody ever gets so far from God that he can't bring them back. Nobody ever is so broken. That God can't fix you. Nobody ever falls so far that God can't bring you back up again. He's a master at that. He's the great shepherd. I don't believe coming back to our passage here and the context here, Peter's given up on the ministry, walking away from the Lord and the service of God. I don't believe Peter ever imagined that he would get so far from the Lord Jesus Christ. Peter, of all people. I don't think Peter ever could have imagined that he would say the things that he said just a few days before this. Peter is cursing and swearing. Peter He's using filthy language. He's swearing before God that I don't know Jesus. He's lying through his teeth. I can't imagine that Peter ever thought there would be a day when he would talk like that Not far from God. By the way, Christians ought to be very, very careful how we talk There is no justification. There is no excuse for a Christian using filthy language. Am I right or wrong? God's people ought not to swear. Are yay? It ought to be yay, yay, or nay, nay. Using the filthy language of the world. I tell you, in all these years in the ministry, you'd be appalled. At the words and language, I have heard people who claim to be a child of God. Peter had gotten so far from God. That he's lying through his teeth, he's using filthy language, he's swearing, cursing. I don't think Peter ever dreamed he'd get to that point I don't think Peter ever dreamed that he would do the things that he did. He denied his Lord. I don't know him Humanly speaking, when it looks like, from our perspective, Jesus would have needed somebody to stand up for him, Peter denies him. I don't know. Of all people, I can't imagine Peter ever dreamed that he would do something like that. I don't believe Peter ever imagined that he would think the thoughts he was thinking. I'm quitting. I'm giving up. I'm giving up on the church. I'm giving up on the Bible. I'm giving up on the Savior, the Messiah. Just a few months earlier, he said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. Now he says, I'm walking away from it. How in the world does somebody like Peter even think that way? Never dreamed. Never dreamed he would get this far from God. Never dreamed he would say the things he said and did the things he did and thought the way he was thinking. How does this happen? How does somebody get into that position, into that condition, when they're talking like this and acting like this and thinking like this? Well, I think as I studied the life of Peter, I looked at it, I think there's three factors in Peter's downfall. Number one, I put this down, he overestimated his faith. He thought his faith was stronger than what it really was. Would you come back to chapter 13 of John with me? You got your Bibles with you? Might as well use them, right? Brought our Bibles, might as well just sit there on the pew. Let's get them up and use them. John chapter 13, look with me if you would at verse number 36. John 13, verse 36. John 13, 36, Simon Peter said unto him, that's the Lord Jesus, he said unto him, Lord, whither goest thou? And Jesus answered him, whither I go, this is coming up to the crucifixion here in a bit. They're just about to have the Lord's Supper. And um, or they did just had the Lord's Supper. And he says, uh, Lord, whither goest thou? Jesus answered, Whither I go, thou canst not follow me now. But thou shalt follow me afterwards. He's referencing the cross. We know that. Peter didn't at the time. Peter said unto him, Lord, why cannot I follow thee now? Look at this. I will lay down my life for thy sake. Jesus answered him, Wilt thou lay down thy life for my sake? Really, Peter? That's what the Lord's saying. Really? Verily verily I say unto you, the cock shall not crow till thou hast denied me thrice Peter overestimated his faith. In Matthew 26, and for sake of time, we won't turn there, verse 33 through 35. Peter made this statement, speaking to the Lord. He said, I will never be offended about thee He went on and said, This, I will die with thee. And then he made this flat-out statement to the Lord Jesus. He said, I will not deny thee. Would you agree with me? Peter wasn't as strong in his commitment as he thought he was. Peter's faith wasn't nearly as strong as what he believed it to be. One of the most dangerous things a believer can do is overestimate our faith. One of the most dangerous things a believer can do is overestimate my spiritual strength. And God repeatedly warns about this, about us thinking too highly of our faith, about us Thinking that we're stronger than what we really are. About us thinking, I'm more dedicated than what I really am. Go with me, if you want, to Romans chapter number 12. And I said we're going to look at a bunch of verses here. Go with me to Romans chapter 12. And right at the beginning of the chapter, Romans 12, Paul, writing to the believers at Rome, he makes this statement in verse number three. For I say, through the grace given unto me, to every man that is among you, so he's talking to believers. Not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think soberly, according as God hath dealt to every man the measure of faith. He says, don't you think more highly of yourself than you ought to. Would you agree with me? Peter was thinking more highly of himself than he should. I'll never deny you. A few days later, he's denying them. I'll die for you. A few days later, he's cursing and swearing, I don't know him. Peter thought he was a better Christian than what he was. Peter thought he was more committed to the Lord Jesus Christ than what he was. We can say that we have great faith all we want. We can say we're dedicated to the Lord Jesus Christ and we can sing all we want. But I tell you, when the rubber hits the roof and we're confronted by a cristating world How we stand is going to show how strong our faith really is, amen or not. Peter thought he was stronger than what he was. Peter thought he was more committed than he was. Go over to 1 Corinthians chapter 4. Paul is writing to a church at Corinth. Now these are two entirely different groups of people Two different parts of the world. One's in Rome, up in Italy. This is over in Corinth. And in chapter 4 of 1 Corinthians, verse number 6, notice what Paul warns these Corinthian believers about. He says, and these things, brethren, I have in a figure transferred to myself and to Paulus for your sakes. Then he makes this statement. That ye might learn in us not to think of men above that which is written, that no one of you be puffed up one for uh puffed up uh for one against another. For who maketh thee to deliver to differ from another? And what hast thou that thou didst not receive? Now, if thou didst receive it, why dost thou glory as if thou hast not received it? You know what he's saying? He's saying, Don't think too highly of yourself. Don't get out there and get this idea, well, I'm better Christian than all those. Well, I'm this and I'm not that and I do this and I don't do that. I tell you, we fit start thinking that way, we're headed for a horrific fall. Told you about the felon. Another state I was on staff at a church and in the lobby, the guy got all worked up. Leader in the church. A leader in the church. Hode Elphus And in the lobby, he says, I mean, there's probably 40 people in the lobby. The church is running four, five hundred. He says a loud voice, I know this, I'm the best Christian in this whole church. Brother, that sounds like a fool talking to me. Peter, I'll not deny you. I'll die with you. He thought too high of himself. He thought he was a better Christian than he really was. Come with me, if you would, over to chapter 10 of 1 Corinthians. Paul warns them again, this church at Corinth. And verse number 6, 1 Corinthians 10 and verse 6. He's talking about Israel and some of the events that are recorded in the Old Testament that Israel went through and some of their failures and some of the things God did for them. And he says, Now these things were our examples to the intent that we should not lust after evil things as they also lusted. So he says all the Old Testament was recorded for us, all these stories. Anybody ever read through these old stories in the Old Testament and you think, good heavens? He says that was all written, so we can learn from it. There's principles there, there's warnings there, there's lessons there. And he says, Neither be idolaters, verse 7, as were some of them, as it is written, the people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to live. Neither let us commit fornication, as some of them committed fell in one day, three and twenty thousand. Neither let us tempt Christ, as some of them also tempted, and were destroyed of servants. Neither murmur ye, as some of them also murmured, and were destroyed of the destroyer Now all these things happen unto them for our ensamples, for our ensamples, and they are written for our admonition, upon whom the ends of the world are come. Wherefore, look at this. Let him that thinketh he standeth take heed what? Lest he fall. He's warned. He says, you better not think you're a better Christian than what you really are Don't you think your faith is stronger than what it really is? In Galatians 6. 3 he says, For if a man thinketh himself to be something when he is nothing, he deceiveth himself. Better watch out. Hey Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, we better think we better be careful we don't think we're a better church than what we really are. Dad, you better be very careful. Don't get in your head you're a better Christian than what you really are. Mom, tears. Listen, if we get to the point where it's, well, I really don't need to go to church. Brother, you're thinking too highly of yourself. I don't know about you. My daddy said this to me, I'm telling you, scores of times. I heard my daddy say over the years, I need church. I need church. The church, the body of Christ, is designed by God Himself. As a place for believers to be exhorted, to fellowship, to be encouraged, to be instructed. So that we can grow in our faith and be an effective witness in an old sinful world. And when I get to the point in my Christian life and I think I don't need the body of Christ, I'll tell you, I'm thinking too highly of myself. I'm not as strong spiritually as I think I am. We get to the point we say, well, you know, I don't read my Bible. I don't really need that. I'm busy. Brother, you're full in yourself. I need that book right there. I need it every day. I tell you, I'm at the point in my Christian life, and I'm just being honest with you. I'm at the point in my Christian life where one of the highlights of my Christian life is spending time every day in that book, God speaking to my heart and God convicting me and teaching me. Jesus said, without me you can do nothing. He said, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God. If you and I think we can live the Christian life and we don't need the church and we don't need the Bible, we think far too highly of ourselves. We think our faith is a lot stronger than what it really is. Uh, if we get to the point we think we don't need to pray, we get to the point where we think we can horse around with the world and play with the world and be like the world and run with the world. I tell you, we think our faith is a lot stronger than what it really is. This world is no friend of grace. This world, this old society out there, and I'm talking about everything on the computers and on the television and all the garbage and the entertainment out there, all of that It's not going to help you and I live for God the way He wants us to. And we think we can do that and neglect the things of God and engage in the things of this world. If we believe that to be true, We're in the same position Peter was, and we think I'm a better Christian than what I really am. My faith is stronger than what really is. Fact is, I need. I need that book, I need this church, I need God's people, and I need to keep my nose out of the world if I'm going to have the faith God wants me to have. Amen or not? He done messed up. How in the world does he get where he's denying the Lord and using curse words and lying? And then a walking away from all of it. How does he get there? Well, he thought he was a better Christian than what he really was. He overestimated his faith We need the mirror of God's Word to show me. I need the mirror of God's Word to show me what I really am. I need this book to show me where I'm at spiritually. I need this book to show me what my weaknesses are, what my besetting sins are. Second thing Peter did was he forgot his position. He overestimated his faith, and then he forgot his position. Are you still with me? Everybody still with me? All right? Come over with me if you would to Matthew or uh yeah, Matthew chapter ten. And I we're not going to be able to look up all these verses. But Matthew 10 and verse 24, Jesus made this statement, and this is vitally important, I believe I have this underlined in my Bible, and I circled the number 24 because this is an important statement. Matthew 10, 24, Jesus made this statement: the disciple is not above his master. nor the servant above his Lord. Alright? Question, is the servant above his Lord? No. Is the disciple above his master? No. The master is the master, the disciple is not. The Lord is the Lord, the servant is not. Positions In Matthew 16, and again for sake of time, I wish we could look at it. But Matthew 16, verse 21-23, Jesus told the disciples, Well, I hear you turning there, so let's go. Matthew 16, look at verse 21. From that time forth began Jesus to show unto his disciples how that he must go into unto Jerusalem. and suffer many things of the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and be raised again the third day. Now watch Peter's actions here. This is insightful. Then Peter took him and began to rebuke him, saying, Far be it from thee, Lord, this shall not be unto thee. Whoa. This is the Lord. That phrase where it says Peter took him, I got looking that up. You know what that means? To take someone firmly by the arm and move them to another place. Peter! Took Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the one that spoke everything into existence, the Almighty God Himself. And he took him by the arm firmly and said, Come over here. Um out of place, forget his position. And then look what it says. He took him and he did what? He rebuked him. This is Peter talking to Jesus Christ, the one who has power of life and death, lays himself dead and raises himself up. And Peter's rebuking him. The word rebuke means to chide, reprove, to correct sharply. Peter's putting himself as a judge over the King of Kings and Lord of Lords and God of all the universe. He says, you're wrong. Whoa. Peter forgot his position. He's a disciple. He's not the master. He's a servant. He's not the Lord. He is the creature. He is not the creator. He said, this shall not be. You know what that is? You know what that attitude is? That's satanic. Say, oh yeah, where do you come up with that? Next verse. But he, the Lord, turned and said unto Peter, get thee behind me. Ooh, thou art an offense unto me. I think that's one of the harshest, strongest rebukes in all of Scripture. He called Peter Satan. He said, You're an offense to me. You are in the way of what God is doing. Would you agree with me? Peter forgot his position. He is saying stuff he has no authority to say. He's doing stuff he has no authority to do. He is not God. He is the creator created being. He is not the creator. And I think it would do Christians in 2023 a heap of good to remember we are not God. You are not God! I am not God. I am created by God for his purpose. He is not created for my purpose. Peter forgot his position. He overestimated his faith. We don't have time. Matthew 17. He's telling Jesus what to do on the Mount of Transfiguration. We've got to build some tents here for these guys. It's interesting. I wish we had more time. It's interesting when Peter, you're up on the Mount Transfiguration. How many people remember everybody familiar with the Mount of Transfiguration? Moses and Zaias appeared to them Peter says, oh, it's good for us to be here. Listen, I'll build some tents here. So we can stay in these tents. Peter's taking charge. He's telling the Lord and Moses and Isaiah what we're going to do here. All right, this is how it is, fellas. And it's interesting, the very next verse, a voice from heaven comes. God Himself speaks and says, This is my Son. Hear ye him. I think, this is Leathermanism, I think God was talking directly to Peter, and he was saying this: shut up and listen. Quit running your mouth. You're not in charge. This is my son. You listen to him. Would you agree with me? Peter's out of place. I mean, he's out there. Uh in John chapter 13 Jesus told him, uh, I think we looked at that, Jesus said that uh he's going to be crucified, killed Peter says, if you remember, he said this, this shall never be. I'll tell you right now, when you start telling God what is and what isn't going to be, you're out of place. You start telling God He's never going to do that, you're out of place. Amen or not. My mother used to say, never say never, you'll be doing it forever. Now listen, don't you dare. I must never tell God what God is going to do or not going to do. He's God, I'm not. He's the creator, I'm not. He is not, he does not exist for my benefit or for my pleasure or for my plans. I exist for his benefit and his pleasure and his plans. And you know what I found? Every person that has a hard time with that is miserable. Every person that has a hard time with God being God and me being the creature is bitter and angry and frustrated. You know why? Because we were created to serve God. And when I put myself on the throne, then suddenly I'm not functioning the way I'm designed to function. Peter overestimated his faith. He forgot his position. He had a tendency to speak and act without thinking things through. And then Peter focused on himself. We're talking about how do he end up so far from God And we don't have time, but if you go back and look at Peter's statements, everything Peter says and does up to this point in John 21, everything Peter says and does is about Peter. He's saying this. He's telling them to do this. He's telling you you're not going to do this. I'm the Lord's walking on water. They're in a storm and they see the Lord coming across. And the Lord says, It is I, be not afraid. Peter says, oh yeah, if it's really you, let me walk on the water. What's he doing? He's calling God a liar Oh yeah, oh yeah, if what you said is really true, then let me walk on the water. Or says, come on, come on. Come on down. Peter gets out and he starts walking on the water. Suddenly he realized what he got himself into. Blu, blue, blue, blue, blue, blah. And the Lord has to rescue him. It was all about Peter, all about Peter. Every conversation was about Peter. Every situation, Peter's telling everybody what to do. Everything. Even God Himself, He's telling them what to do. I, me, mine. It's all me. It's all about me. It's all about me. It's all about me. I tell you what, we get to the point where it's all about me. We are far from God. How did Peter get in a position where he's doing what he's doing and saying what he's saying and thinking the way he's thinking? He overestimated his fate, he forgot his position, and he focused on himself. Now I've got to end. We get to chapter 21 of Peter. Verse number three says, I go fishing. As I said at the beginning, he's given up. He's putting himself on a shelf. I've failed, I've denied the Lord, I've lied, I'm done. I can't do this. I've failed. I'm going to go back and do what I know I can do. I know how to fish. I can't do this, Lord. I can't follow you, and I can't be what you want me to be. I've failed. I'm going fish. But the Lord's not done with Peter yet. And by the way, the Lord's not done with you yet either. Say, preacher, I messed up. I've gotten so cold. I've gotten so indifferent. I'm saying things I never dreamed I would say. I'm doing stuff I never dreamed I would do. I'm thinking ways I never dreamed I would think. I'm on a shelf. I'm done. I'm here to tell you, you may be done with yourself, but God's not done with you. And by the way, it's a good thing when we get done with ourselves. That's a good place to be. Peter and by the way, and again I I gotta hurry here a little bit. But if we had time to come down through this passage that Pastor Matt read earlier, it's interesting. Peter is uncharacteristically quiet. Did anybody pick that up? Lord says, you got any meat? Disciples said, nah. John says, it's the Lord. Peter puts clothes on, jumps in, goes out, but he doesn't say a word. The Lord has the fire burning, the fish are cooking. He says, Come and dine, boys, come and dine, fellas. Peter doesn't say anything. Two weeks ago, Peter had been saying, uh, you need to turn those fish over. They're not quite done right. And uh, by the way, uh the Huh? Now he's not saying a word. He's just sitting there. I'm using my imagination. I see Peter just sitting there looking at the ground. Maybe looking up at the Lord a little bit. I don't know if the other disciples notice it, but Peter is uncharacteristically quiet. He's not telling anybody what to do. He's not talking about himself. He doesn't say a word. By the way, I noticed something else that Peter does. He does what he's told. Well, that's no. He doesn't he keeps his mouth shut. He doesn't say a word. He does what he's told. Get the fish. Go get the fish, he caught, bring him here. He does it. No questions, no arguments, no instructions. And then he listens to what the Lord has to say. I tell you, if you and I can get to the place where we learn to keep our mouths shut, do what the Lord says, and listen to what he has to say, we're on the road back to restoration. Start letting the Lord be Lord again. Start being a disciple. Remember what Jesus said about a disciple? Deny himself, take up his cross, follow me. Peter's being restored. The Lord reminds him of his presence and power. He went and sought Peter out. He's setting Peter, No, I know where you're at, Peter. You're going fishing, I know where you're at. I'm there. You still have my presence. He says, Peter, throw the throw the net on the other side. Great harvest of fish. I still am the one with the power, Peter, not you. We get away from God, we need to remember this. The Lord never abandons us. He told us in Hebrews 13:5: I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. Peter can go fishing all he wants. He can go out and see a gala all he wants. He can't get away from the Lord. The Lord's coming after him The Lord reminds him of his presence and power. The Lord reminds lets him know that God he can still do the impossible. The Lord reaffirms his love and care for Peter. He says, Peter, come and die. Come here. I want to take care of you. I want to help you. I want to meet your needs. It's an invitation. Peter, I want you to be with me. Listen, I don't care how far you've gotten from Christ, He wants you back. That where he is, there ye may be also. He doesn't want a broken fellowship with us. He wants us back. He wants you back. And then the Lord reassures them that Peter is still usable. I I don't know. Maybe I'm reading into Peter's mind here a little bit, but I see Peter when he says I go fishing, I see him saying, God can't use me anymore. I've nothing to offer. I've wasted it all. I've destroyed it all. And the Lord says, oh no, no. Do you love me, Peter? He says, I do love you. Go feed my lambs. Peter, do you love me? Yes, Lord, you know I love you. But I failed. Hey, Peter, who feed my sheep. Hey, Peter, do you love me? Lord, yes. Go feed my sheep. I'm not done with you, Peter. You blew it. You lied. You cussed. You swore, you denied me. You gave up and walked away. But Peter, I can still use you Go feed my sheep. And then I love at the end of verse number 19. Notice what the Lord says. He's talking directly to Peter. And when he had spoken this, he said unto him, to Peter, follow me. I put in the margin of my Bible, Matthew 4, 18 and 20, that's where the Lord, the first time he saw Peter, said, Peter, follow me. He says, Peter, I want you back. I want you back. My wife and I were talking the other day about preachers will say that God will put you on the shelf. You mess up, God will put you on the shelf. Anybody ever hear that? He can't use you anymore. You messed up. God can't use. I'm telling you, God does not put people on the shelf. We put ourselves on the shelf. Jonah put himself on the shelf. That shelf was in the belly of a whale. But when he humbled himself before the Lord and acknowledged it, God pulled him out of the belly of a whale, vomited them up with whale vomit all over them. And God used them. And a whole city got saved. Listen, God's not done. I'm glad Jesus didn't give up on Peter, and I'm glad Jesus doesn't give up on us Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to stay close to you. Help us never ever overestimate the strength of our faith. Help us to remember how badly we need you. And we need These instruments you put in place for our spiritual well-being. Lord, help us never forget our position. You are God. We are not. And Lord, help us get our eyes and our mind off of ourselves and on you and keep our minds stayed on thee. And Lord, I believe you could use every last one of us. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say Preacher, I'm no, I'm not where I ought to be spiritually. Maybe there was a day you were closer to the Lord than what you are today, and you'd say, Preacher, I need to get back. I need to get back there close to the Lord again. Any like that by the uplifted hand preacher? I know that. I know that. God's Spirit has spoken to my heart. God bless you. Hands all around. Now I hesitate to ask you to raise your hand on this one, but. Maybe there's some you've gotten so far and in your mind you're thinking, I don't think God could use me again. I'm here to tell you that's a lie of the devil. God can and will use you if we'll just close shut up, excuse me. Listen to what God has to say to us and then do what he says and God will use us. God will use us. Maybe there's some you know someone that's away from the Lord and you're burdened for him. Maybe you're not saved yourself and you need to be saved. I invite you to come. Father, bless our invitation. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.