Ephesians chapter 5, if you would, turn with me to verse number 25. Pastor Matt read this section here, and uh you notice it starts out there addressing the husbands. Husbands, love your wives. I told one of our ladies, I'm going to do a seven-month study on wives submitting to their husbands. Seven month study on that. I don't know that we need to address the husband part of it. They've got that down. That's pretty good. And uh now that bombed really bad there. I I thought all week long I was laughing at that, but But I want you to notice verse 5. Husbands love your wives. Then look what this says. Look at this next statement. Even as In fact, you go down to verse 29, and it has that same phrase, even as, husband, love your wives, even as Christ So also loved the church and gave himself for it. Down verse 29. Even as the Lord as the Lord the church. That phrase in verse 25, even as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for us. I want to speak this morning on this. This is what I'm entitled The Message. Jesus loves our church. Jesus loves our church. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to help us. Father in heaven, we do come to you this morning, and we're so grateful for your blessings. And uh I'm so grateful for our church. And Lord, we I'm sure others feel the same way, but Lord, we have I love my church Sunday. That's to me, that's not just a name of a day. Lord, it's really how I feel. And uh to think that you love our church is such an amazing thing And so I ask that you would stir our hearts, help us to grasp this truth and what it means to us. And I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. Lord, I yield my will to you And pray that your Holy Spirit would speak through me, fill me, and um, and stir our hearts in this matter of the church. I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. I want to say right up front, when I'm preaching about Jesus' love for the church or for the world or anything as far as that goes, when I'm speaking on that, I'm telling you, I am in over my head The love of God, the love of the Lord Jesus Christ for sinful mankind, is such an amazing thing. Jesus loves our church. To me, that is perhaps one of the most amazing truths in all the universe, that Jesus loves our church. I think perhaps the greatest hymn, there's a lot of great hymns, it's hard to say this. But perhaps one of the greatest hymns is a simple song we teach our children. Jesus loves me, this I know. For the Bible tells me so. Little ones to him belong. They are weak, but he is strong. Jesus loves our church. I'm in over my head. How in the world do you, how in the world can a sinful man, limited man, speak about the pure love of the Lord Jesus Christ? Charles Spurgeon said, he said, I can understand if the Bible said Jesus knows all about our church. We can understand that. He's omniscient And he does know everything about us. He knows our ups and downs. He knows our strengths and our weaknesses. He likes, he knows uh he's aware of uh of what we do well and what we do poorly He's aware of our successes and our failures. I can understand Jesus, the Bible saying Jesus knows all about our church. He said I could understand the Bible said that Jesus pities our church. And I'm glad God's a pitiful God. And He pities us, and I tell you, sometimes I look in the mirror and I think, God, uh pity me, please God pities our church. We could understand that. We could understand if the Bible said God have mercy on our church. We could grasp that. We need God's mercy, amen or not. Mercies are new every morning. He said I could I could grasp that, I could comprehend a holy God, being merciful He said, I could understand the Bible saying that God is patient with the church, and God is very patient with us, and I'm very grateful for that. And all these many years this pastor of church has been very patient with me many, many times. And um I've had to be a little patient with a few of you occasionally. Uh but uh uh God being patient with our church, we could grasp that But he said, when the Bible says that Jesus loves our church, the God of the universe, the perfectly holy God. To love a sinful wretch like you and I, sinners. He says that is incomprehensible. He said, that is, how could we grasp that? How can we, to use the terminology people use today, how do you wrap your mind around that? God loves me. Jesus loves our church. It's incomprehensible. I use that word incomprehensible. I got thinking, I don't look that up. What's that word mean? It means this: impossible to understand. Impossible to get a mental grasp of that Jesus would love me That Jesus would love Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Those of us that make up the church. Now, just a quick reminder, and I'm sure I don't need to say this, but the church, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, is not this building. Right? Uh how many people ever said this? We're going to church. You're just stopping by. I'm going to stop by the church. Now we understand that, and I'm not Rebuking or correcting that in any way, we understand this the church building. But the church is not the building. The church is not this property The church is you and I, individual members, that assemble together and we make up the body of Christ. And Jesus Christ looks down. He sees us here this morning. And he loves us. His heart is filled with love. For you and I in this body of believers. Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it. Uh I talk a lot about this uh last uh six, eight months, but uh and the evenings come out and I look up at that night sky and I don't know why at this point in my life I'm so uh my mind is so boggled by the the the universe. I look up there and look at it the other night. Now it's been a little while. We haven't seen I assume the stars are still there. It's been a long time But um uh the other night I went out and it was just clear as could be and looked up and you see these stars and you see these galaxies And the immensity of our universe and the vast distances That this universe makes up, and you think, you know, if I travel at the speed of light for millions and millions of years, traveling at the speed of light, and you still don't reach the end of the universe. What an immense place this is. And to think that God just spoke this into existence. And how many people are like me? That blows my mind. I mean, that is just, how in the world do you grasp the immensity of this thing Then we think of the love of Christ. And think of Jesus' love for us, that he would give himself for us And I tell you, it boggles my mind. It boggles my mind. I'm in over my head in trying to describe and preach on the love of the Lord Jesus Christ for the church. Would you come back to Ephesians chapter 3, just a page or two back here in the book of Ephesians? Go to chapter 3. And beginning in verse number 14, Paul is writing to the church at Ephesus there. God used him to start that church. He planted that thing. Very good church, very strong church. In Ephesians chapter 3 verse 14, he's stating to them that he is praying for them And he says what he prays for them, what his prayer for them is. Look at verse 14, chapter 3. He says, For this cause I bow my knees unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. So he says, This is what I'm praying for you. Of whom the whole family in heaven and earth is made. Now here's what is his prayer. That he would grant you, according to the riches of his glory, To be strengthened with might by his spirit in the inner man. So he wants them to be strong spiritually. He wants them to be strong in the Lord. So that's his prayer. Then look at verse 17. That Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith, that ye, being rooted and grounded in love, Okay, that's the cohesion of their church there. But look what he says, verse 18. This is catches my attention That ye, being rooted and grounded in love, may be able to comprehend with all saints what is the breath Length and depth and height, and to know the love of Christ Boy, what a prayer that you'd be able to grasp how deep and wide and high and uh uh and broad the love of the Lord Jesus Christ is, to comprehend with all saints What is the breadth and length and depth and height? And to know the love of Christ. Now look at that next statement he makes. Which what passeth knowledge? Now think about what he's saying here. He's saying, I am praying that you can comprehend, get a grasp, have a mental grasp, understanding Of how deep and how high and how wide God's Jesus' love for you and your church is And then he makes this statement, it's almost like it dawns on him, which passeth all knowledge He's praying that they would understand something that is beyond our ability to understand. That's what he's saying. The love of the Lord Jesus Christ. The love of the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm in over my head. Struggled studying this. I thought, how can I do this? If Paul, the great apostle Paul, if he says, hey, this passes knowledge, My word. How great is this truth? How deep is this truth? I've heard people say, and I mentioned this numerous times over the years, I've heard people in the ministry and uh make statements like this. They say, I love the ministry, it's the people I can't stand. Anybody ever hear that statement? We laugh about that a little bit, but I'll tell you, I think, personally, I think that's an awful, awful statement to make. If a person doesn't love people, then they don't love the ministry because people are the ministry. What they're saying is, I like studying the Bible. I like organizing. I like providing leadership and leading people to do this or that. I like all that, but I don't really like the individual people. I don't like the sheep that I'm shepherding. I like providing the food, I like giving leaders all around, but I don't like the sheep. I don't know about you, but I think that's an awful statement for somebody in the ministry to say. I wonder if up in heaven, I wonder if sometimes the Lord Jesus doesn't think, you know, I love the people, but some of those ministries I can't stand. Some of the stuff that goes on in the name of quote unquote ministry. And if we're not careful, whether we're a Sunday school teacher, a pastor, or any physician, or ministry in the church, if we're not not careful, we'll fall in love with the work we're doing and we'll fail to love the people that we're doing it for What I'm saying is this. Jesus loves the people. He loves the church. He didn't give his life for a ministry. He gave his life for people. For people. Jesus loves Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. He loves us enough that he would take our sin And he would stand before God, nailed to a cross, stand before God, so to speak, nailed to that cross, and take responsibility For every word you and I have ever said that displeases God, every thought we've ever had, every action we've ever taken. And He took responsibility for that And he says, Father, I will take responsibility. Judge me in their place and provide forgiveness for them. I love them. Greater love hath no man than this, than a man what? Lay down his life for his friends. Jesus loves us for his friends. And he laid his life down for us. Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it. That even as phrase that I mentioned a few moments ago, husbands, love your wives, even as, that means in the same proportion as It means this, to the same degree. Husbands, love your wives to the same degree, in the same proportion. That Jesus Christ loves the church and gave himself for it. Then he goes on and elaborates on that. My word, what a standard is set for you and I as husbands. What a criteria for the husband's role in the home. For me to love my wife. To the same degree, in the same proportion, that Jesus Christ loves me and gave himself for me. Now again, as I mentioned, I'm not preaching on husbands this morning. But Jesus has set for us the standard, God's love for the church and for you and I and his giving of himself. That is the standard, that is the model, that is the criteria that he calls you and I as husbands to Now, I do want to just touch on that a bit. I've studied this book for many, many years now, and I'm certainly not a scholar of the Bible, but I am a student of the Bible. And I can't find one place in this book where Jesus Christ beats or intimidates or shouts at the church to submit to him Jesus Christ does not use violence or force or intimidation to bring the church into submission to him. You know how Jesus Christ draws our church into submission to him? By loving us. By loving us. And there's a challenge there, and there's uh a severe warning, I believe, to husbands God has given us the responsibility to provide leadership in the home. God has given to us the responsibility to be responsible for the home. And at no time is it ever even remotely appropriate for a husband to try and intimidate or God forbid physically abuse his wife in trying to bring her into submission That violates everything this Bible teaches about the home. Jesus Christ loves the church. And it is his love for the church, it is his giving of himself for the church that draws us. It's the goodness of God that leads us to repentance. Take your Bible if you would. Now keep your place there and come with me over to Romans chapter number 12. And it seems like we end up at this passage fairly often. But it's a tremendous Romans chapter twelve. I want you to notice with me verse one and two. And notice what it is. That God uses to draw us and to draw the church into presenting ourselves and yielding ourselves and following his leadership. Romans chapter 12. Look with me if you would at verse number one. I beseech you therefore, brethren. Now look at this next statement. Very, very important statement in this passage. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the what Mercies of God. Notice what he does not say. He doesn't say, I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the wrath of God. He doesn't say, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the vengeance of God. He says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the what? Mercies of God. Mercy is an attribute of compassion. Mercy is love, is an expression of love. And he says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercy God has shown us mercy. God has loved us. And showed us tremendous mercy. And then look what he says. I beseech you therefore, brethren. By the mercies of God, look at this, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. What I'm trying to point out is this: what God uses To attract us, to present ourselves to the Lord, to follow his leadership, to live for him and love him in response. It's his love for us. It's his mercy he shows us Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ loves the church And gave himself for it. The love of the Lord Jesus Christ for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church is incomprehensible. Beyond our ability to grasp. But I want you to think with me this morning of three thoughts about Jesus Christ. Loving our church. I put this down. Number one, Jesus' love for our church is unique. Is unique. Go back to Ephesians chapter 5 with me. And I hope I can get you to follow my line of thinking when I say that Jesus' love for our church is unique. Verse number 25, he starts out, as I've been saying, husbands love your wives, even as The same degree, the same proportion that Christ loves the church, gave himself for it. Now, this is where I get the idea that Jesus' love for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is unique. Would you agree with me? A husband's love for his wife is to be specific, is to be unique. Question: Are we supposed to love everybody? Yes or no? Yeah. In fact, Jesus told that tremendous parable of the Good Samaritan when he approached the lawyer, and the lawyer said Jesus said, Love your neighbor as yourself. And remember the smart Alec lawyer said, Well, who's my neighbor? And the Lord went on and gave that tremendous lesson about the Good Samaritan, and he pointed out that the neighbor is anybody around me. that has a need that I can be a blessing or a help to. And so the Bible clearly teaches I'm supposed to love my neighbor. Everybody on board with that? Supposed to love my neighbor. So I'm supposed to love everybody. In fact, Jesus said to his disciples that we are to love our enemies. Wow. So my neighbor and my enemies, that pretty much covers everybody. But here he says, husbands love your wives. This is a unique love. This is a specific love. Though I'm to love everybody, my love for my wife is to be unique, is to be very specific. It's not the same as my love for everybody else. Everybody follow my thinking? Does Jesus Christ love the world? Yes. Say it with me, John 3, 16. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. Whosoever believeth in him. Shall not perish, but have everlasting life. For God so loved the world. There is not one person on planet Earth you can find the most backwards Village in Siberia or some alleyway in Thailand in a big city in Thailand. You can't find one person on this planet That Jesus does not love enough that he died for them. In fact, uh in uh in uh Second Peter chapter two verse one, we won't take time to go there. But it suggests there that Jesus loves and died for even those who deny him Jesus loves everybody. Not a person on this earth can honestly say God doesn't love me. Jesus doesn't love me. They can't say that. Jesus loves everybody. You're here this morning, you're online. You feel like you're the only person in the world? You feel like nobody in the world loves you? You've been fed a lie of the devil. God loves you. Dearly. But in Ephesians chapter 5, verse 25, he addresses a husband. He says, Husbands, love your wives even as Christ loved the church. It doesn't say even as he loved the world. He loved the church. So that suggests to me that though Jesus loves everybody more than we could ever grasp. His love for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church is as unique as a husband's love for his wife. You follow my thinking? In other words, we're not just another number on God's love list. We are unique. We are particular. We are specific. In his love for us, I love. I can almost hear Jesus saying, I love, I love Mountain Lake Independent Battle. this church. I don't know about you, but that gives me goosebumps when just saying that. And if I had hair on my head, it would stand up when I say it. Jesus Christ's love for our church is unique. It's very specific. Now He doesn't love us more than anyone else. You follow what I'm saying? He doesn't love us more than anybody else. But he loves us in a unique, intimate way. Just like a husband's love for his wife is unique and intimate and distinct from love for all others around. Jesus Christ loves the church. In fact, you may be aware of this, but if not, this might stir your heart. The church is the bride. Of the Lord Jesus Christ. Can you imagine that? The bride of the Lord Jesus Christ And someday at the rapture, shortly following the rapture, the church is going to be a great wedding in heaven. I don't know how the logistics all play out on this. But Jesus Christ and the church are going to have that married supper of the Lamb. And what a day that will be. Jesus Christ loves the church as unique and loves Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church as unique and as specific and as intimate. As a husband loves his wife, distinct from all others, we are special in the eyes of Christ. I don't know about you, but what a privilege to be a part of the local church. What a joy it is. A part of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Are we better than others? No. Are we loved more than others? No. Are we the same as others? No. I think every church has its own personality, its own unique characteristics. Now we ought to be, don't misunderstand, we need to be fundamental. We need to go by the book. Amen? We need to be a biblical church. But somebody said a church often takes on the characteristics of its pastor. My heart goes out to this church, I'll tell you right there. But we're unique in the eyes of God. Anybody get a blessing out of that? Jesus Christ loves our church in a unique, specific, intimate way. I put number one down, I put this down. Jesus' love for our church is unique. Another thought along those lines. Jesus, by the way, Jesus tells us over and over and over that He loves us All through the Bible, over and over. I have loved thee with an everlasting love. For God so loved the world. Not that we love God, but that He loved us. I love you, I love you, I love you, I love you, I love you. He says it over and over and Over. He loves us. He loves us. Don't ever make this statement. Please don't ever say this. God doesn't love me. That is a lie of the devil. Who in the world would want you to think that God doesn't love you? You say, Well, preacher, everything's going wrong, and all this and that, we're working at this and this happens. If he loved me, why'd he let all this happen to me? Listen. You don't know the end from the beginning yet. God knows what he's doing. And if God said one time, I love you, that ought to settle it for all eternity. Amen? But he says it over and over and over and over. God loves our church. He tells it to us all through his word. He shows and displays it. God displays his love to us on a daily basis. I mentioned this in a recent message, but this is true. I don't know. I I I hit 60 this past year and um My thinking's changing a little bit. My perspective on things is changing a little bit. Now I know to some of you I'm just a young kid But uh I don't know, but it seems like every day goes by at the end of the day. I look back and I'm so grateful for another day God had given me. And I find myself at the end of the day more and more now saying stuff like this, Lord, thank you for this day you gave me. I had a day this week, one day this past week. It was a little rough. A couple things took place and ugh, I've had some sleepless nights the last few nights. I'm trying to get you to feel sorry for me as pastor. That's how how difficult this is. But I at the end of the day I have to stop and say, Lord, you sure were good to me today. Plenty to eat, a nice home, part of a church. God shows us every day. He daily loads us with benefits. He loves us. Can you imagine what our lives would be like if Jesus really did not love us? Imagine. You know what it means to experience the absence of the love of God? It's called hell. God is removed. Number one, Jesus Christ loves our church in a unique way, in a very specific, intimate way. Not that he loves us more than others, he does, and we he loves us. He loves other churches. But he loves each of us and us in particular in a very unique, specific, intimate way. Number two, I put this down. Number one, Jesus' love for our church is unique. Number two, Jesus' love for our church is unselfish. It's unselfish. Look with me, if you would, at the last part of verse 25. Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church. Look at that last phrase. And gave himself for it. Gave himself for it. Now that word love there Interesting. If you've been around Bible preaching very much, you've heard this. There are various, there's different, a couple, three different terms that the Greek language used to describe love. And uh one of them is uh brotherly love. Philadelphia, Phil Phil is the word. It means brotherly love. It means I'll scratch your back if you scratch mine. You know, I love you because you're a blessing to me. I get something out of it. It's a brotherly love. I was born just outside, just north side of Philadelphia. The city of brotherly shove. I mean brotherly love. And then there's another word, it's kind of uh uh it would be a more of a sensual type love. But then there's a third word, and you find it all through the New Testament, referring to God's love for mankind. It's a very unique and it is a powerful truth. It's the word is agape. You've heard that word most of agape. And here's the thing about that word, and that's the word used here in this verse. Husbands, agape your wife, love your wife, even as Christ. loved, agape the church, and gave himself for it. That word love there means this. Agape, it means this. Without condition. To love a person unconditionally. In other words, it doesn't matter what they say It doesn't matter what they do. It doesn't matter what they are. I love them. Not because of anything I get out of them or anything they do to me. It is an unconditional pouring out my love without any qualification. Wow. That's God's love for our church. It is unselfish. Well, Jesus loves Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church because we're really something. No, Jesus loves Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church because he's really something. Well you guys, uh uh you say Jesus loves you, you must Boy, you're really uh fool of yourself, aren't you? Boy, you really think something of you. No, we're just a bunch of sinners that are loved unconditionally by our God. It's an unconditional love. It's unselfish love. Jesus Christ loves Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church because he is love. You say, preacher, what if we do things? What if we say or do things that displease God? Oh, we can quench the love of God. Or we can let me let me take that back. We can quench the Spirit of God And we can grieve God and break his heart, but there's not a thing in this world that we can do to get him to stop loving us. It is unconditional. Parents, I've said this often over the years, and I think we understand this, but every now and then you come across a parent who'll say something like this, and a lot of time it's unchurched, they're not familiar with the Lord. how things work. The parent will say something like this to their children, if you don't behave, Jesus won't love you. That is a lie of the devil. Now does he want us to behave? Yes. Does he want Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church to behave? Yes. Yes. But he doesn't love us because we behave. He loves us because he is love. Not because of anything he gets out of us. Jesus Christ's love for the church is an unconditional love. Christ also loved, unconditionally, without qualification, loved the church. And gave himself for it. Now, I you know I I like looking up the words and I just go through the verse. I look up all the words, where they come from and how they're used in other parts of the Bible And I learned something amazing. I never knew this before this past week about that phrase gave himself. That word gave himself is also translated in the Bible, betrayed. Himself. And I got looking where it's used. You know what I found out? That's the exact same term that when Judas betrayed Jesus comes from the same word. Judas said, I have nothing to do with him. I'm turning him over. If I understand this statement correctly, Jesus betrayed himself for you and I. He is holy. He says, I put aside my holiness, and I'll take on sinfulness. Now Jesus never became a sinner. Right? He never became a sinner. But he says, I'll take responsibility for their sin. We might word it this way. In fact, it's a requirement for discipleship of the Lord Jesus Christ. We must deny ourselves And for you and I, for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, Jesus Christ laid aside his glory. He laid aside uh uh all the attributes or or the the moral attributes of of the Godhead. He laid all that aside. He became a man. And he walked among us. So that you and I could be forgiven, saved from sin in hell, part of the family of God. His love for us is unselfish that he would do that, that he would do that. He delivered himself over for us. For us, we may grieve the Lord, we can quench the Holy Spirit, but we can never cause Him to stop loving us. Now we need to be careful about this. You say, man, God loves us that much. Wow, we're something. Uh I'd be careful about getting too puffed up. We're not better than anyone else. Amen. We have to be I I don't know about you, but when I get out and travel, I go somewhere. I woke up this morning. When I was getting ready, I uh it entered my mind. A year ago today, I was in Christ Church, New Zealand, preaching for Brother Lewis Howe and his soul-winning revival things. They didn't have two feet of snow. It was like 82 degrees sunshine. And uh Oh, excuse me, I was daydreaming there for a moment. But I get out to other churches. You've done it. You go on vacation. You visit another church. Do you ever think this? I don't know if you guys do, ever think this? Boy, this is a good church, and I like it. Boy, this is great. But I miss my church back home. It's not like Mountain Lake. Anybody know what I'm talking about? It's not like Mountain Lake. We're not better than anybody else. We might be a little So churches do things a little different. This one might take their offering in a different part or whatever. Have some differences. Oh, we're not better than anybody else We better be careful. We don't get puffed up and think it's anything in us. God doesn't love us because we're lovely. God doesn't love us because we're holy. God doesn't love us because we're attractive. God loves us because He is love. Take your Bible with me. Keep your place here. And go back to the book of 1 John. Back towards the back of your Bible. Shortly before you get to Revelation, you'll hit 1 John, 2 John, and 3 John. And 1 John, and look with me if you would at chapter 4. And come down to verse number nineteen. Chapter 4 and verse 19. 1 John chapter 4 verse 19. Look what this verse says. We love Ham, why? Because he first loved us. Oh, Jesus didn't look down and say, boy, there's that Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. They sure loved me a lot. All right, I'll love them too. Not how it works. Jesus, in eternity past, looked in his foreknowledge and he saw the people that make up Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. And he said, I love them before you and I ever existed. We love him because he first loved us. There's a lot of scenarios on how couples fell in love. I don't know how you met your spouse or how you ended up falling in love. Sometimes they say it's love at first sight. Right? They saw each other smitten. There was uh we had a bunch of friends when I was in college. and we'd just hang around just a bunch, there's about ten, fifteen of us and we would just always did stuff together and there was a one of the girls, she was from Hong Kong actually, and loved the Lord. She married a good friend of mine out he's out in Illinois pastoring But um some guy took her out on a date. Now this is Bible college, you know, they're twenty years old, nineteen twenty twenty-one years old and they went out in estate and he said they w they went somewhere to eat or whatever and they were coming back and he started crying She's like, she's Chinese. She goes, well I don't know what's wrong with him. And uh he's crying. So they stopped and before he dropped her off at the dormitory, he had a guitar, he got a guitar out and started playing and singing to her and all these love songs and finally says, this is the first time they ever went out together, you know. She just met the guy. He says, I love you so much, I'm gonna marry you. And uh she said, get away from me. And uh Sometimes love at work first sight doesn't work out so well, you know. It's gotta be uh cooperation there a little bit. But sometimes people fall in love at first sight, right? Sometimes people fall in love, the guy, in this case, the fella sees the gal, and boy, he wants her, and he just does everything he can to win her heart over, right? I mean he sends her flowers and cards and does everything in the world. He's going to win her heart. And uh sometimes that works. You know, and that's happened. Sometimes it's the gal falls in love with the husband And brother, she chases him until he catches her. Right? And she just goes after that How did this love relationship between Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church and Jesus Christ, how did that come about? Oh, he loved us first. He loved us first. God commendeth his love toward us, and that while we were what? Yet sinners, Christ died for us. Jesus loved us. And the more we learn of his love for us, the more we grasp his love for our church, the more we fall in love with him. The more we fall in love with Him. If Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, if we don't accomplish anything else, one thing we ought to make sure we do is love the Lord Jesus Christ. Because he has loved us so unselfishly, so unselfishly. I thought about Adam and Eve. And this stirs my heart. I noticed this many years ago, and I read it and studied it, and one day it just dawned on me When Eve disobeyed God and ate of that forbidden fruit, and then Adam joined in and ate of that forbidden fruit, and sin entered their experience and entered humanity. And they were separated from God. And what's the first thing Adam and Eve did when they sinned against God? They what? They hid themselves. They went and hid from God. They were ashamed. They didn't want to see the Lord. When Adam and Eve sinned and disobeyed God, what's the first thing God did? He pursued after them. Where art thou, Adam? You know what that was? That was an act of love on the part of God for man and woman created in his image. He came after them. Oh. Aren't you glad God didn't say, all right, that's the way you want it, then have it. He didn't. He came to Adam. And he did everything necessary to restore that relationship. I believe Adam and Eve loved God, not because they loved him, but because he loved them. And came and made it possible to be restored. Listen, you might be here this morning, you might be saved, and you're away from God, and you're backslidden as can be I'm here to tell you God loves you. Jesus Christ loves you. He wants you to come back. He wants to restore that fellowship. Maybe I'm talking to somebody today that's never trusted Christ. You're still in your sin. You're without God, without hope in the world. I'm here to tell you, Jesus Christ loves you, and he's done everything necessary to bring you into that relationship with him. You'll just come to him. Jesus Christ's love for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church is a unique love, very personal, very specific, very intimate. Jesus Christ's love for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is an unselfish love. Not because of anything he gets from us. It's not because of the offerings we give or the service we perform. He loves us because he is loved. John 3. 16, for God, I like this. I almost preached on this, for God so loved the world. That word so there is used because it's an indescribable, immense love. Her God so loved the world. Luke 19:10. For the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. He came after us. He loved us, he came after us. Number three, my third thought and final thought tonight is Jesus' love for the church is unique, it's unselfish, and Jesus' love for our church is beneficial. Is beneficial. Look with me if you would come back here to Ephesians. And look with me if you would at verse 26 Verse 25, husbands love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church, gave himself for it. Why? Verse 26: That he might sanctify and cleanse it. By the washing of the water by the Word, that he might present it to Himself, a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing But if that should be holy, without blemish, then he goes on and says, Show ought men to love their own wives. By the way, a man's love for his wife ought to be a benefit to his wife. For her good, for her benefit, for his, not for anything he gets, but for her. But Jesus Christ's love for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church is beneficial to our church. Best thing that could ever happen to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is for Jesus to love us. He loves us. It's a benefit. It's a benefit. He loves us, and because he loves us, he's working in our midst. I look there at verse number twenty-six. He might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of the water by the word. I I one of the benefits of Jesus loving us is he working to make us morally and spiritually clean. By the word, by the teaching of the word of God, and the preaching of the word of God, and the singing of the word of God, and the memorizing of God's word, and saturating ourselves with the word of God. God uses that to make us spiritually and morally clean. I don't know if anybody here ever been well maybe I shouldn't ask you to answer this question Anybody here ever been out of fellowship with God in your Christian life? I mean you just get a little out of whack. Anybody at all? If you don't want anybody to see, just wave your little finger like that We all have it sooner or later. I don't know about you, but it's a whole lot better to be right with God than be out of whack with God There's a whole lot more peace in my heart. There's a whole lot more, my mind is a whole lot more settled When I'm walking with God, when uh I'm sanctifying His Word and I'm right with God and I'm experiencing His blessing, His presence, His Experiencing his love. It's not that he stops loving us, but a lot of times we don't experience it because we're out of whack. Oh, God doesn't want us to I'm glad that we have a Savior that loves us enough to intervene when we start doing wrong. A parent that just lets their kid do wrong and disobey and never intervenes? That parent doesn't love that child, excuse me. God's chastening of us, correction of us, conviction when we sin, is evidence of his love for us. For whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth. God doesn't want us to be filled with sin. He doesn't want our minds and our hearts, our lives to be sinful. He wants him to be clean and pure and right. He loves us. He knows that's what's best for us. Jesus Christ designed us physically, mentally, spiritually, emotionally To live pure and clean, sinless lives. That's what we were initially designed, how we were designed to function. And sin came in and all starts breaking down. Physically, mentally, emotionally, spiritually, sin breaks it all down. And he loves us enough to step in We start messing up and we start getting out of line and crossing over the perimeters God has set up for us. Then he steps in, he convicts, and chastens, does what he needs to bring us back. You know why? Because he loves us. I'm glad Jesus loves me enough to correct me when I'm wrong. Remember when one of our boys was small, we we had a little process we did when we would discipline them. Always made sure they understood what they did wrong and understood why we were disciplining them. But then afterward we would always l shower them with love. Remember one time in the boys' bedroom and one of the boys had done something I don't remember, but we went through this process and he's crying and I held him up and I held him tight. I said, I love you He pulled away and he looked at me and he said, Daddy, this is the best part. This is the best part. I tell you, there have been times where God, I'd take me out to the woodshed. Maybe I'm in a revival meeting and God's convicting me and I know there's something not right and I get an older and I confess it. I'm forsaken and say, God, love comes pouring in. I have to look up to heaven and say, Jesus, this is the best part. Getting right. Being Right. I tell you, Jesus' love for our church is beneficial. Uh it helps make us morally and spiritually clean. He convicts us and chastens us. By the way, when the preacher's preaching, regardless of who it is, when he He's preaching this book, and the Holy Spirit of God touches your heart or my heart and convicts us about something. We ought to respond to that in submission and faith And say, yes, Lord, you're right. I need to adjust this. I need to address this. Why? He loves us. He's trying to stir us back. Bring us back. Morally and spiritually, he's in our midst working to make us glorious. Did you catch that there in verse 27? A glorious church. That word glorious means highly respected, honorable, distinguished, dignified. Did you know Jesus wants us to be a dignified church? Say, what does that mean? Well, dignified by God's standards, not by the world's. Right? God's standards, how many people understand this? God's standards are different than the world's standards When God says a glorious church, an honorable church, he's not talking about some high-brow, wealthy walk around, everybody says, woo In fact, the world pretty much does not appreciate a church that God says is glorious. We're going to find that out, trust me, in the coming years. You know what God considers dignified? Humility. Purity. Loving one another. God says, I want, I want, I love Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, and I'm going to convict them And I'm going to encourage them and I'm going to challenge them because I want them to be morally and spiritually pure and clean. And I want them to be glorious. I want heaven, all of heaven, to see Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church and say that is a church that pleases the Lord. That's what he wants: a glorious church. And then he says there, and then he says, a glorious church not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, that it should be holy And without blemish, the Lord wants us to be holy. And by that we mean separated from this old sinful world and totally separated to Christ. We preached on that a week or two ago. Separated unto the Lord. I read about an older man, was married for years. One day he was sharing with his family about his relationship with his wife. They were older. They'd been married for many, many years. And he pulled out a he says He said, uh this fellow, they didn't know each other. They had just met and they got introduced to themselves. He said, let me show you a picture of my bride And so in his mind, this other fellow thought, well, he's going to show me a picture way back yonder when they got married, their wedding day. Pulled out a picture, and it was a picture of a lady, she was well up in years. And you know, years take its toll on all of us. Um Fred Schindler used to say that Coke bottle figure turns into a two-liter sometimes. But um just disregard that, all right He brought out a picture and it was this older woman and she was wrinkled up a little bit and just uh you know the age was evident on there and um at first it struck him that's your bride and then he realized This guy had been married to this woman for years and years and years and years and years. She was still his bride. She was still his bride. Jesus Christ has been loving us, and you know what we are? We're still his bride. Bride of Christ. I don't know. It just stirs me to think Jesus loves Outlake Independent Baptist Church. Let's pray. Father in heaven We're talking about loving our church today. I love my church Sunday, but also Jesus loves our church Sunday We're glad you love us. And God, we're the first to admit there's a lot of things about us that are unlovely, individually, and Lord, we've got a long way to go as a church. We've certainly not arrived. Lord, we're glad you love us. We want you to help us to love you back. Lord, we want you to move in our midst and convict us and make us what we ought to be. We want to be glorious in your eyes, Lord. I wonder with our heads bound, eyes closed, say, Preacher. My heart stirred to think that Jesus loves Mount Lake Ken and Ben and Baptist Church. And you say, Preacher, I want to love my church. I want to love the Lord and love my church Like Jesus loves me. Any like that? Any like that? I want to fall in love again with Jesus Christ and with his church. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, the Holy Spirit's been working on my heart. I know there's areas in my life that need attention as a Christian. The Lord's been trying to mold me and make me, and sometimes we harden our heart and stiffen our neck and Maybe what God's dealing with us about is, listen, we need to be tenderhearted and bow the knee and bow the neck. Say, yes, Lord, you're right. I'll submit to you. I trust you. I'll follow your directions. Is there any like that, preacher? I know there's areas the Spirit of God deals in my heart. I don't want to harden my neck against him, harden my heart. I'll say yes, Lord. I want to yield to you. Any others like that? Number of hands. How about it? Others? I want the Lord to have his way. God bless you. Maybe there's some say, preacher, I'm so far from God. Maybe there's some say, preacher, I'm not even saved. I've never trusted Christ. Say, I need to get that settled. I need to know that my sins are forgiven and I have a home in heaven. I have eternal life. You'd say, preacher, pray for me. Is there any like that, preacher? I need to be saved. Or I'm so far from God, I need to get back and get right. Any like that? Online, anywhere? Let the Lord have his way. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen