For our text this morning, but uh we will be looking at a number of verses throughout the book of Job and a couple other places. So Uh keep your Bibles handy there. Uh this, as far as I understand it, is an actual uh account recorded in the police log of Sarasota, Florida, while you're getting set up there An elderly Florida lady did her shopping and upon returning to her car found four males in the act of leaving with her vehicle. She dropped her shopping bags, drew her handgun out of her purse, and proceeded to scream at the top of her lungs, I have a gun and I know how to use it. Get out of the car. That was my granny impression. Uh the four men didn't wait for a second threat. They jumped out of the car and ran like crazy. The lady, somewhat shaken, then proceeded to load her shopping bags into the back of the car and got into the driver's seat. She was so shaken she could not get her key into the ignition. She tried and tried, and then she realized why. It was for the same reason she had wondered why there was a football, a frisbee, and two twelve backs of beer in the front seat. A few minutes later she found her own car parked four or five spaces farther down. She loaded her bags into her car, drove to the police station to report her mistake. The sergeant, to whom she told the story, couldn't stop laughing. He pointed to the other end of the counter where four pale men were reporting a carjacking by a crazy elderly woman. Described as white, less than five feet tall, glasses, curly white hair, and a huge handgun. No charges were filed. Then they tack this on. The moral of the story. If you're going to have a senior moment, make it a good one. I like that lady. Job chapter 23, just one verse, as James read uh a moment ago And I'd like for us to read verse number 10 together in unison. Job 23, the verse James just read. Let's all read it together. Would you read it with me? But he knoweth the way that I take, and when he hath tried me, I shall come forth as gold. I'm entitled to message this morning, Job in the School of Hard Knocks This is the first message in a series we're going to do on Sunday mornings, the School of Hard Knocks. This is our first student we're going to look at and uh what he learned. uh in his um his time in the school of hard knots. Let's pray together, ask the Lord to bless. Father, thank you for this morning and the good music and the fellowship we've had We're excited about what you are doing in our lives, Lord. And we ask that you would help us through the message today, the truth presented. to uh understand a little bit more about the uh reasoning for the things you allow into our lives. I pray that our faith Would become stronger today as we face the future. Lord, I pray that our understanding of your love for us and your plans for us would be a little clearer. Lord, I yield myself to you and I present my body anew. I plead with you to fill me with your spirit. God, I have nothing in and of myself that could really make a difference in anyone's lives in any positive way. So I pray that you would speak through me and that our hearts would be open. We'd be receptive and willing to trust you and obey you. And the matter is presented here. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. I think there's one thing. If we're going to grow in our faith, and if we're going to be the people God intends for us to be One thing is very, very important. That is this. We must understand that God is active in our lives. God is working. Whether we recognize it or not, God is working. Through the things He allows into our lives, through the circumstances we find ourselves in, God is using all of this. To mold us and make us and work in our lives to be the people God intends for us to be. God has what I would say a toolbox. full of instruments that he uses to mold us and make us and design us into the people he he intends for us to be. And one of the most effective instruments that God has in his toolbox that uses in our lives is the tool of trials, the tool of adversity, the tool of Uh difficulties, hard knocks. And God uses them. I just uh reminder if I could have everyone's attention up here, I would encourage you to put your phones up and whatnot and all these things. And uh let's give our attention to the Word of God this morning. And uh I believe uh as I said, God is working, God wants to use his word to change our lives and uh help us grow and be the people we intend to be, but we have to open up Our hearts and minds and give our attention to the Word of God. So if we could do that this morning, I believe it would be very helpful. I you're going to be impressed by this. I graduated from high school. Well, I thought I'd get a little better response than that. Not only that There you go, you're welcome to. And while I'm bragging on myself, uh, I actually graduated with honors. Is that uh is that or display or what and uh and all these things. Uh high school, college, um uh I don't I think you make this one scary one up on the world. I said all that to say this. I have learned more about God and about who he is and what he is in the of cardinals than I have in any university class I ever took. No uh I learned more Through the trials and difficulties in life, than any lecture I heard a professor ever give me. The School of Hard Knocks is one of the most effective training institutes that God has for his people. Trials and difficulties. Here we have in the book of Job, of course, the story of Job. His enrollment, his time in the School of Hard Knocks, and uh it's recorded for us here. Now, I want to point out very few men in Scripture or throughout history have had a testimony as excellent as Job had. You read the first few verses of the first chapter of Job, and we find here a man that is praised of God and honored by God in ways very few people ever have been. He was a just man. He was a godly man. In the experience of Job, we find very few people who have been through the trials. As severe as the trials Job has gone through. Now listen, I'm talking to a crowd of folks, I'm looking at some folks this morning. You've been through some real trials. You've been through some real heartaches Um uh but I would venture to say there's not one of us here this morning have gone through the valley that Job has gone through. Very few, if any of us here, have had the heartache and the adversity that Job experienced. Very few people in history have been through this. But having said that, let me say this: very few men have experienced the presence of God in their lives like Job has. You get to the end of the book and you see some amazing things about what God was doing in the life of Job. Now, I thought this was interesting. Can you think of someone in the Bible that suffered more intensely, more deeply than Job did? Who comes to mind? The Lord Jesus Christ on the cross. Now, here's the interesting thing. This is what came to my mind as I was studying Job again and reviewing his experiences. Job, through all his trial, he had the presence of God in a very special way. But yet Jesus Christ, who went through an even deeper valley, Who went through an even darker valley? Rather than experiencing the presence of God, Jesus was removed from the presence of God. Remember on the cross he cried out, My God, my God, why hast thou what? Forsaken me. God left him. God, in a sense, turned his back on the Lord Jesus Christ. Abandoned him in his darkest hour. And of course he was doing that for us in our place as our substitute, suffering the judgment of God for our sins. But nowhere in the book of Job do you find God abandoning Job. Nowhere does God forsake Job in his hour of trial in a storm he goes through And so very few people have experienced, had the testimony Job had. Very few, if anybody, has experienced the trials Job had And very few experience the blessed presence of God, as Job did. Um Outside of the facts given to us about Job here in the book of Job, we know very little about the man Um when did all of this take place? All these things Job went through and his friends, his family being killed, all of this, when did all of this take place? Schofield has an The margin of his Bible, it was one hundred and fifty, somewhere around there, one thousand five hundred uh BC Now, to be fair, he is a far more intelligent man than I have, but that is at best speculation People come to that date, 1,500 years before the Lord Jesus Christ, people come to that date based upon the assumption that Moses was the man that actually penned the book of Job down. Now that very well could be the case. A lot of people that studied it a lot more than I have suggest that that was most likely Moses. It has been suggested that the book of Job is the earliest uh book be it written in all the Bible. If you go to Exodus, I think you find the dates there in Schofield's about 1400. What I'm trying to say is this. We really don't know when this took place. We know it was early in man's history. But we don't have any details about when it was. Um who is this man, Job? What do we know about him? We know nothing of his predecessors, his ancestors. We're told nothing. We don't know the name of his father, his grandfather, his great-grandfather. Many people in the Bible are introduced to us and are given a lineage there of uh where the line of their family comes from. We're not told any of that about Job. We're not told of his descendants We don't know any of his children's names. We don't know any of his grandchildren's names. We know almost nothing about who this man is, where he came from, or when he lived. But what we do know about Job, oh by the way, if you read uh and I believe it's in Ezekiel and you'll read the Gospels You find that other major Bible characters recognize Job as an actual real literal person that lived. Not just allegory, not just some story. He was a real man that lived in a real place, that went through real trials at a real period of in man's history. Now, other than that, we do know this. We do know this. That Job was chosen by God to prove to the devil And to prove to all of mankind that it is possible to faithfully trust and obey God, even in the most overwhelming adversity. It is possible. It is possible to do right when everything is going wrong. Job proves that. He proves it to the devil. The devil said, Oh God, Job lives for Job is living for you because you've hedged him about. You've provided for him and blessed him. You take those things away and he'll curse you to your face. And Job proved the devil wrong. And he set an example for you and I that we can do right, that we can live for God, whether we've got a big paycheck or not. That we can do right and live for God and trust Him and obey Him, whether everything's going our way or not. Job proved that when everything goes wrong, it's still possible to do right. And he's proved that to the devil and to the world. Here we have in Joe, the book of Job, we have a one-year program in the School of Hard Knocks. A one-year program. The events of Job chapter 1 through 42, we believe, took place in about a one-year frame of time. One-year program actually consists of two semesters. First thing I want us to notice this morning is the character of Job's trials, the character of his trials. Job faced four simultaneous and intense trials. One right on top of the other. If you'll go to the beginning of the book, Job chapter 1 and 2, we have recorded here. Now we're not going to take time to go through in detail to look at all that took place here, but I do want us to consider the character of these trials he faced. And by the way, uh this is God this is Satan Being allowed of God to do what he wants to Job. Most of you are familiar with the story. God allows Satan to do whatever he wants to Job except not touch his body. That's the first semester. And Job does whatever he wants. It's very telling, or Satan does whatever he wants, and it's very telling about the character of Satan when we notice what he does to Job when he's allowed to do whatever he wants. Second semester, he's allowed to touch Job's body, but not take his life. And as you would expect, Satan operates in character. It's interesting to notice when Satan is allowed to do to Job whatever he wants, he doesn't bless Job with good health. He doesn't bless Job with a lot of friends. He doesn't bless Job with prosperity and goodness and godliness. Jesus told us in John chapter 10 and verse 10, the thief, referencing Satan, the thief cometh not but for to steal and to kill and to destroy. And that is exactly what Satan does to Job. Now there's a word of caution here. Satan is a liar. You agree with that? The Bible teaches very plainly he's a liar. And he will convince our young people, he will convince our middle-aged folks, he'll convince our senior citizens. That we can disobey God, that we can do wrong, that Satan will somehow reward us, and if we'll just disregard the things of God, if we'll just disregard the commands And instruction of God that we can enjoy life and we can be happy and we can have all these wonderful things. I'm here to tell you, Satan is a liar. And if Satan has the opportunity to have his way in your life, he will destroy you. Rock and roll culture is a lie of the devil. It will destroy you. Amen. Alcohol. Drugs, uh tobacco products. Satan says if you engage in this You will be happy. You will be cool. Your life will be something. You will matter. You will be significant. And I'm here to tell you this morning, that is a lie of the devil. It will destroy you. I wish you guys were amening me a little better than you are this morning. We are in a real war. Devil has our world convinced that we can throw away standards of decency and righteousness. The devil has convinced our generation and the coming generations that there is no such thing as sexual purity. That that is old fashioned, that you can touch and hug and kiss and carry on in fornication with people who are not your spouses and you'll be happy And that's good, and you'll be just fine. And I'm here to tell you, if you engage in that type of activity, you are believing the lie of the devil, and your life will be destroyed. When Satan had his way, and he could do to Job a good man Whatever he wanted to do, he didn't bless them, he didn't make them happy, he didn't encourage them, he destroyed them. You know what my experience has been in the ministry for over 25 years now? My experience has been that those who disregard the warnings of God. That those that disregard the clear teachings and standards of Scripture end up miserable. Miserable. And those who submit themselves and submit their lives to the clear teachings of Scripture and they live in submission to God are happy. They have the joy of the Lord, they have blessing and peace of mind. This stands out in my mind so clearly. There was a young person years ago. Mocked the preaching of righteousness. They disregarded standards of principles of decency and goodness and purity of the Word of God. They engaged in the sins of the world and the sins of the flesh, raised up in a Christian home, knew the truth and rejected it. Wanted everyone around them to be like them, mocked those who were living for God. You know what I heard that person say with my own ears? I heard them say it a number of times. I hate life. I wish I was dead. Everything stinks. Of course they didn't use that type of language. I thought this is interesting. They're mocking the things of God. They are mocking the people who are trying to live for God. And then they turn around and their advertisement for living their lifestyle is life stakes. Why would anybody buy that? Can you imagine a person getting on television and they come up with a new uh electric razor, electric shaver? And they say, buy this. I really hate it. This thing really stinks. I haven't been so miserable until I started using this thing. Buy it. You'll be cool. How many people would buy that? But we turn around and do that very same thing in life. People out in the world that are disregarded are miserable, they're angry, life stinks. I wish I was dead. My life is miserable. Be cool like me. Are you listening, young people? Are you listening? The devil is a liar. He's killing our young people. When Satan had his way with Job, a good man. A righteous man, Satan did nothing but tear him up Now, what are the characteristics of these trials that Job went through? Well, first of all, Satan took his property and his possessions away. His property and his possessions. Job chapter 1, verse 13 through 17, in one single day, Job's possessions were reduced to nothing. One day he woke up in the morning and he had tremendous possessions. Scholars suggest to us he was perhaps the richest man in his area at that time, perhaps in the whole world. And at night, when he went to bed, he had nothing. It was all taken from him. Can you imagine the limited possessions you and I have? By the way, having said that, we are richer than most people in the world. I think it's important to keep that in mind. But can you imagine you woke up this morning with a house, a car, clothing, and basic the basic things that you enjoy and God has blessed you with, and tonight you go to bed and you have nothing Job reduced to nothing. In a single, everything taken. Now here's the thing. Before he can fully process that in his mind He finds out, he gets word that not only are his possessions taken, but his family was taken. Look with me at verse 18 of Job chapter 1. The Bible says, while he was yet speaking, now this is the servants coming in telling him he's lost all his possessions, his homes, his property, everything. Look at verse 18. While he was yet speaking, there came also another and said, look at this. Put yourself in Job's shoes this morning. There came another who said, uh he is yet speaking, there came also another and said, Thy sons and thy daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother's house. And behold, there came a great wind from the wilderness and smote the four corners of the house, and it fell upon the young men, and they are all dead. And I only am escaped alone to tell thee. I'm speaking to some folks this morning, you lost a child. Maybe in a wreck or sickness or whatever. I'm speaking to some perhaps this morning you lost a grandchild. As heart, I cannot imagine How heart-wrenching that would be. But can you imagine Job losing all of his children in one stroke? Every one of them dead. Interesting thing here is, by the way, Satan does that when he has his way. He destroys. He destroys. If you walk out of here today and don't take anything with you I hope you'll get this from God's word. Satan destroys lives. But why wasn't his wife killed? Why didn't Satan, when he had the opportunity, strike out Mrs. Job? Why was she left alive? This is my opinion. I think Satan knew Mrs. Job. And I think he knew that she would serve him better alive than dead. She could bring more grief to Job's heart being alive than what she would being dead. And we find that at the end of chapter 2, Satan's wife, Job's wife, comes. I thought this was interesting. Look at chapter 2. Look with me at verse 5. Satan speaking to God. Look at verse 4. Satan answered the Lord and said, Skin for skin, yea, all that a man hath will he give for his life. But put forth thine hand now and touch his bone and his flesh, he will curse thee to thy face. That's Satan telling God what Job will do if he touches his body physically, gives him physical peace. And the Lord said, verse 6 unto Satan, Behold, he is in thine hand, but save his life. So Satan went forth from the presence of the Lord and smote Job. with sore boils from the sole of his foot unto his crown. And he, Job, took a pot shirt, that's a broken pottery piece, sharp. And began to s and scrape uh to scrape himself withal. And he sat down among the ashes. Look at this. Then his wife, uh then said his wife unto him, Dost thou still retain thine integrity? What does she advise him to do? Curse God. What did Satan tell God Job would do if he touched his body? He said he'll curse God. What did Satan talk to me now? What did Satan want Job to do? He wanted him to curse God. A few verses later, Job's wife comes walking in, and she tells him to do exactly What Satan wanted him to do. Now I'm suggesting to you: Satan had in Job's wife his greatest ally. She was seeking to accomplish the very thing that Satan was trying to accomplish. Now, fellas, this is not the time to look at your wife. Alright. Thank God in the Bible there are millions of good godly wives. So this is no reflection on women in general. But Satan knew what he was doing. Satan knew what he was doing. Satan knows how to take you down. It's not stupid. He knows where you're vulnerable. He knows what you'll give into. And I'm convinced in studying this that Satan knew that if Job's wife would put the pressure on him, or let me put it this way, Satan believed. That if Job's wife would put the pressure on him, he would give in. And thus she's not killed with the family So in chapter 1, Job loses everything he has, all his possessions, and he loses all his children, are killed tragically in one brief day. Tragic day. That's the first semester. Chapter 2 is the second semester of Job's one-year course in the School of Hard Knocks. Boy, starts out rough. Imagine this. Then in chapter two, his health is taken away. And without going into detail here, we need to understand his health wasn't taken away because he did something sinful. It wasn't because he engaged in some sinful activity. You know, there's a lot of people today who are really sick because they're living in sin. Huh? There's people today who would not have to be in the hospital if they would just say no to sin. Right? I venture to say in our country there were some people injured severely last night in car accidents that would not have had to have happened if they had not been drinking. Come on now. So sometimes people are hurting, sometimes people are injured, sometimes people are sick because they sin. But not always. Just because someone has a heart attack doesn't mean they're living in sin. Just because someone has a car wreck doesn't mean they're living in sin. Job did nothing. He was living righteous. He was living godly. And now this intense sickness, these boils come upon him, and he's in unbelievable pain. All because he was faithful to God. In fact, as you get on here, you come to the conclusion that it was the intense prolonged pain of his physical sickness that troubled him the most. Um Can you see why maybe he could have dealt as devastating as it was, can you see why that the death of his children perhaps Wouldn't he could have dealt with that. Can anybody come up with the reason why maybe he could have dealt with that What's that? He can have more kids. What I was thinking was they're saved. They're in the presence of the Lord. He'll see them again. As heart-wrenching as it is to lose them in this way, it's not the end of the matter. He will see them again. And let me remind folks here, you have a loved one that's passed away and your your heart is breaking. I want to remind you, if they knew the Lord, you'll see them again. So I can see as heartwrenching as it was, he could deal with the fact that his fa his children had had been killed, they're with the Lord, they're in a better place. He'll see them again. I can see you losing your possessions that, you know, it's just stuff. It's just things. We can get by. We can overcome this But it was the physical pain day in and day out, night and day, hurting and hurting and hurting. That's what got the job That's what started to really bother him. Then the fourth trial he faced in his school of hard knocks His reputation was taken away. If you study this book very carefully, you find that Job had a tremendous testimony to the people in the community. He was recognized as a man who cared for the poor. He was recognized as a man who had tremendous wisdom and would be able to help people. He was recognized as a man of God. And when he was sick and incapacitated and unable to defend himself, vicious rumors started to be passed around. And his so-called friends started saying things about him that were flat-out lies They came up with all kinds of reasons why Job was sick, and they absolutely destroyed his testimony. So the character of his trials were pretty intense. Job is learning. That no matter how confusing life becomes, God can still be trusted. God was teaching them. No matter what other people say I can still trust God. No matter what difficulty I'm going through, I can still trust God. So the first thing I want to share this morning is the character of his trials. The second thing I want to share is found in chapter 38. Through chapters 41. Again, we don't have time to read these and break these verses down. But here we find God confronting Job finally. Now, the chapters leading up to this reveal a little bit about Job in the struggles he was having through this trial, through this adversity. He never forsook the Lord. He never did what Satan's goal was to get him to do. He never did curse God. He never did give in to his wife's pressure, lobbying for the devil, to get him to curse God. He never did that. But Job did ask some very difficult questions. Job did struggle. And this is what he struggled with. This was his biggest question. Why does God allow the righteous to suffer? Why does God allow this to happen to me? I'm not perfect, but I've tried to do right. I've sought to live for God. I've done my best to be faithful. Why would God do this to me? If God loves me, why would He let me go through a heartache like this If God loved me, why would He take these things from me? If God loved me, why would I hurt so bad? These are the questions Job was asking. Why do you write? If it's if you're still gonna suffer And he asks these over why? Why? Why? And we emphasize this often. There's nothing wrong with asking why As long as it is it is governed by my faith in God. Follow what I'm saying? He never cursed God. He never turned his back on God. He never forsook trusting God and doing right. But brother, he struggled. God, what in the world? He says in several places, God, if it was my choice, I'd have died before I ever came out of the womb. God, I don't understand this. God, if I had my way, I'd have never seen the light of day. And in chapter thirty-eight, God shows up, and he confronts Job head on. And I think it's interesting, his two big friends that turned on him and made all these unbelievable accusations about him, God just brushes them off, never gives them a time of day. And he comes directly to Job. And you know how he confronts Job? In typical divine fashion, he bombards Job with a series of questions. Series, nothing. About seventy questions. Boom, boom, boom. Joe, where were you when I created the earth? Joe, where were you when I gave the sea monsters, their breath. Job, where were you when I created the stars? Let's see God, uh Job, let's uh uh uh let's see you answer these questions. And God confronts Job head-on with questions of his own. What is God doing? Well, I think one thing, he's humbling Job. He's reminding Job who God is and who isn't God. He's humbling them. Job has to understand that God is God and that he has every right to do whatever he wants. He's the one that created us. He's the one that designed us. And he has all authority, he has all power, he has every right to do what he wants. Let me just throw this reminder out. We are not God. God has never sinned against us. We have sinned against him. And if we got what we deserved, every one of us would be burning in hell. So let's remember when we start saying, God, why would you let this happen? God, why? Maybe the question is, God, why would this not happen to me? What have I done to deserve anything better? Why should I even be allowed to have one breath of life after the way I've sinned and disobeyed and disregarded you? God's humble He's reminding him who is who here. And another thing he's doing, he's reminding Job that God's plans and God's purposes are so far above our own reasoning That we just have to simply trust him. Is everybody doing okay? Everybody alright? Don't worry, there's chili coming. It'll make everything better. Take your Bible, if you would, and turn with me to Isaiah. I love this verse. When I start getting confused, I start asking why Isaiah chapter 55 And verse number eight and nine helps me tremendously. Isaiah 50. Now it doesn't directly answer The question why, but it helps me understand that there is an answer to the question why. Look at verse number 8 of Isaiah 55. Boy, if you don't have this mark in your Bible, I highly recommend it. For this is God speaking, for my thoughts are not your thoughts. Neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. That phrase, that word thoughts there, if you do a study on it, you find out it's talking about plans and purposes. God's plans for my life and God's purposes for my life so far exceed my own ability to plan and purpose out my life that I have to simply trust Him. God's ways are beyond our ability to comprehend. And God is teaching Job that his ways are higher than man's ways So first of all, we have the character of the trials he faced, fourfold, two semesters. Then we have the confrontation of God, and God basically says, Job, listen. I've got plans, I've got purposes. You couldn't even understand them if I told them to you. There's a purpose behind all this. There's something going on that you're not able to grasp. Trust me, it's gonna be alright. Boy, how many people have gone through trials far less than Job went through and got very, very bitter? Because they would not trust God. Because they demanded to understand everything about what's happening to me. And God says, you couldn't understand it even if I explained it. You just have to trust him. You just have to trust him. I've read the book of Job. I I and I I'm just saying uh this to express something. Um I I I guarantee I've read the book of Job fifty times. or more. And I cannot find anywhere in the book of Job where Job ever finds out about the argument between God and Satan. Nowhere do I see that it has ever explained to Job why all this stuff happened. He never got the answer. I mean eventually he gets to be with the Lord, I imagine it's explained. And in this lifetime, he had no idea that he was in the crossfire of an argument between God and Satan. Never knew that. Never explained. What are the lessons we learned? What's the conclusion of his year-long enrollment in the School of Hard Knocks? Well, the Lord is proving his point to Satan that it's possible for man to simply trust and obey God for no material gain. Here's what we like to ask. Tell me if I'm correct or not. Here's what we like to ask. Are you listening? What do I get out of it? Huh? People ask that when they come to church. What do I get out of it? What's in it for me? You know, the primary reason for coming to the house of God faithfully is not for what we get out of it, it's to obey God. It's for his glory. It's to honor him. If we didn't get anything out of it, we still ought to obey God. What do I get out of it? What's in it for me? You know, thank God God has always had people who live for Him for nothing that they get out of it. In fact, the moment we trust in Christ, we've gotten more than we'll ever deserve. Anything we do beyond that point is working out of an unbelievable debt. Am I right or wrong? And God is proving to Satan there are people on this planet who love me. And live for me, not for material gain, not for their own personal pleasure, but simply because of who and what I am. And they recognize me as God. And they love me as God, and they trust me as God. Satan. And Job was able to be used of God to prove a point to the devil. That's pretty cool, I think. God honors Job's faith in a way he never expected. And you get to chapter 42, and God just pours it onto Job. He doubles the possessions he had. He gives them another quiver full of kids. He restores his reputation. God always honors faith. Maybe not in the way we anticipate, but God, you trust God, and God will honor that. It's a lot of lessons. Let me share too in closing. I've said it repeatedly. God can and must be trusted and obeyed You're going through a heartache. You're going through a valley. If you're not now, you just came out of one. If you didn't just come out of one, hold on tight, you're fixing to go into one. And I'm here to tell you, the Word of God assures us we can trust God and do right even in the darkest of valleys. We may not understand what God is doing, but we can trust Him. Job chapter 14, he says, uh uh turn uh let's turn there real quick and I want to shut this down. Job chapter 14. Boy, this is a great verse. Job 14 verse 15. My dad, my dad claimed this verse for years. I heard him reference this. Scores of times. Job chapter 14, verse 15. Though he slay me, though he slay me, yet will I trust in him Job's learning a lesson. I can trust God no matter what. I can stay faithful. I must stay faithful no matter how dark the night. So the first lesson is God can be, can, and must be trusted and obeyed. The second lesson is: life for even the most godly person consists of difficulties and trials. If you've just gotten saved recently and you've under the you you have been told or you under the impression that now that you're saved, everything's going to go your way. Uh all your bills are going to be paid. You're never going to get sick and everything's wonderful. You are operating under a false assumption. Life is tough. Nobody ever said, that's not fair. Welcome to life. We live in a fallen world with sinful people, us being one of them. And we have to deal with issues. But I assure you, all our trials have a purpose. God is sovereign, and He will only allow into our lives that which He knows will help us. That which he knows will enable us to grow and understand him better. A lot of times we don't understand what God is doing. Job in chapter 42 responds to God's confrontation. And he said, I heard thee with the hearing of the ear. But now I've seen you. What's he saying? He's saying, Yeah, I knew these things about God were true, that he was good even when everything went wrong, that he worked things out in the end. I heard all that. But now I know for a fact it's true. He saw God in a way he never saw God before. He understood God's workings in a way he never understood it before. And he was able to trust God to a degree he never was able to trust God before. Why does God allow us to go through hard times? Why does God allow us to suffer loss? Why does God allow these bodies of ours, the temple of the Holy Spirit, to suffer pain and anguish and heartache? Why? God says, even if I explain some of it to you, you won't be able to comprehend. There are purposes and plans going on that are outside your realm of ability to understand. You trust me. I will honor that. You'll be okay. Just trust me. I read about um So they graduated from seminary. I don't know his name. I know nothing more than what I'm telling you here about him. He went to China as a missionary. Apparently this was a number of years ago. When he got to China, he forsook all, left his country, left his family, his extended family. Left everything, went to China, and when he got there, first thing that happened to him was he lost his eyesight. Since that initial arrival in the country and the loss of his eyesight, wave after wave Of adversity and affliction broke over his life. His attractive wife died. His daughter was smitten with an incurable disease. The son in whom he had placed his hopes was suddenly taken away from him. He himself had been afflicted in his body. But a friend asked him about all these trials he went through, and this was his response. I would not go back to my home country. If I could and I would not go back and be as I was before. I am happier now than I was then. Because now I know more about God than I ever knew before. Isn't that something? I heard of the Lord from the hearing of the ear. Brother, I went through this trial. Now I understand. I understand how good God is, how powerful God is. How wise God is. This missionary said, I won't go back. I won't, I won't go back. I'm happier now than I've ever been before. How we respond to the hard knocks God allows us to go through determines what the result will be. We can trust God, we can obey Him, stay faithful, or we can curse God. And forsake them. The choice is up to us. Father in heaven, bless us, Lord. Help us. In this old sinful world we live, Lord, we've experienced heartache and pain. That things have happened that we don't understand. Lord, we're convinced. We've heard that you're good, Lord. We've heard that you're wise and you have a plan and purpose. Help us to see that. Help us to understand that and have faith in you. Our heads are bowed and our eyes are closed. I wonder if there's some this morning say, Preacher. I don't know why God allowed some things in my life that He allowed. I had my plans, I had my purposes, and God's just changed it all. Creature physical pain, it's something I deal with on a daily basis. And you'd say, preacher, this morning, I want to be faithful like Job. I want to be faithful. I want to trust God and obey Him. And let Him work it out. And let his will be done. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand this morning, preach or pray with me. There are some trials of it. God bless you. A bunch of hands around. Sometimes it's overwhelming. Maybe there's some this morning would say, Preacher, I've allowed Satan to have his way in my life. The Holy Spirit of God has brought to my attention some areas where Satan is messing me up. He's a liar. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God would help me make the right decisions. That God would help me. Trust the Lord and stay close to him and not believe the devil's lie. Not allow him to destroy my life. Is there any like that? Preach or pray with me. The Spirit of God has dealt with my heart in a number of areas. I need God to help me. I need God to God bless you. Number of hands around. God will help us. Satan won't. God will direct us, Satan won't. God will keep us. Satan won't Who are we going to trust? Who are we going to follow? So some here this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure that when I die, I'm going to heaven. See, I don't want to go to hell. I want to know that my sins are forgiven. I want to know that God has accepted me and that when I die I go to heaven and not to hell. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I need this settled in my heart and life. Any at all, preacher, pray. I need to be saved From sin and hell, I need the Lord any it all. Father, I pray now you'd bless the preaching your word. I pray, God That you'd stir our hearts. Help us to trust you. Help and encourage and strengthen us. Help us to be good friends to those going through trials, not like Job's friends. Have your way, we pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.