Job chapter one. Should we turn the air conditioning on? I heard yes. I heard more no's, but I did hear a yes. Should I go with it? No. Well, Mr. Ed says no. So that's I know. So there's that. I'm not going to read the entire first chapter. I think most of us are pretty familiar with Job. Um just for review's sake, we understand that um Job was a man, lived in uh Uz. And the way the Lord describes him, you read chapter one again if you want, uh just for review, but um he was upright. Um what he he he hated evil. Uh he lived for God. He he he would daily offer sacrifices even on on behalf of his children. Um and so he was upright perfect um in terms of his relationship with God and and um the Lord knew that about him And he had a bunch of kids um and he had a bunch of property. I believe it was uh seven boys, three girls or seven girls, three boys. Either way he had uh he had a bunch of kids and seven thousand sheep, three thousand camels and so on and so on, a lot of livestock. Very, very, very, very, very wealthy And um not going to read the entire first chapter again, but I think most of us remember the basics there. He i m monetarily speaking he had it all. Family speaking, he had it all. And It wasn't i i i it wasn't um for anything that he did wrong that it was taken from him. Of course we know the how the story goes that um The accuser, Satan, uh comes before the Lord and accuses Satan. Now God knows that Job Was right. Because God knows everything, right? And God pointed that out. And he he's the one that brought Job up to Satan. Have you considered my servant Job? He's perfect upright, she was evil, and um all that. And so Satan then accuses the uh Job that the only reason he loves God is because of what God has given him. And so he says, let me take everything from him, and he'll curse you. And um, I'm summarizing this, I know, but of course God gives permission. And that is important to note out. Verse 11 of chapter 1 is where he says, he gives him permission, but he says, but don't touch him. And that is important to note that nothing can happen to us without God allowing it. That is not the point of the message this evening, but nonetheless that is a true fact. There is nothing that can happen to us unless God allows it. So, you know the story, he loses everything. Uh one servant right after the other, uh, verse uh uh 14, then uh verse uh ver yeah verse 14 he loses livestock verse sixteen he loses sheep verse uh seventeen um he loses his camels and then they kill his servants. Verse eighteen, um he loses his kids. One right after the other. He whether it be from a disaster or from um um uh bandits or however you want to paraphrase it. The thing is, is is he lost everything. He lost everything he had. And uh that's where we'll pick up this evening, chapter one. And we'll start there in verse 20. So this is right after he has received all the news. All the messengers have come at this point, and he now knows that he went from A large family is the wealthiest man to no family except his wife, and nothing. Verse twenty Then Job arose, rent his mantle, and shaved his head, and fell down upon the ground, and worshipped. He worshipped. I th I I I like to think that I would, but I don't know about that. I'd have a hard time. You know what I mean? I'd have a hard time. Moving on, verse 21, and said, Naked came I out of my mother's womb. Naked shall I return thither. The Lord gave, the Lord hath taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. And all this Job sinned not, nor charged God foolishly. You talk about character. You talk about consistency. You talk about integrity. One of our heroes ought to be Job. Verse 1 of chapter 2. Going to read some more here. Again there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan came also among them to present himself before the Lord, and the Lord said unto Satan, From whence comest thou? Satan answered the Lord said from going to and fro in the earth and from walking up and down in it. And the Lord said unto Satan. You all catch that, right? The Lord said to Satan Hast thou considered my servant Job, that there is none like him in the earth, a perfect man, an upright man, one that feareth God, escheweth evil, and still he holdeth fast his integrity Although thou movest me against him to destroy him without cause. So God even admits that there is no cause for what's been done to him. Job was not being punished. Now his his buddies were trying to figure out what he did wrong, and if you go through the rest of the book A large portion of the book is a conversation between Job and his friends and they were coming up with possibilities. That was in there. You know, they were just try trying to come up with maybe you did this wrong, maybe you did this wrong, maybe But God says that he was innocent, says without cause, verse four, and Satan answered the Lord and said skin for skin Yea, that um all that a man hath will he give for his life, but put forth thine hand now and touch his bone and his flesh, and he will curse thee to thy face. And the Lord said unto Satan, Behold, he is in thine hand, but save his life. So went Satan forth from the presence of the Lord and smote Job with sore boils from the sole of his foot into his crown You know the story, he took him, potured, scraped himself with all, and he sat down among the ashes. Then said his wife unto him, Dost thou still retain thy integrity, curse God, and die? But he said unto her, Thou speakest as one of the foolish women, What shall we receive good at the hand of God? And shall we not receive evil? And all this did not Job sin with his lips. So the title of the message is Job's Response to Trial. I'm going to pray. And the the the way this is laid out tonight. It's basically there's just a few basic observations about what's happened to Job. I'm going to point out, we'll look at his response. And then I've got a few applications here. So let's pray. And then we'll look at Job's response to his trials. Lord, we thank you for this. This day you've given us, Lord, it's just been good to be here to hear the testimonies. Lord, I pray now you would use your word. Lord, uh pray that there would be nothing that I say that would contradict your word. I pray you you would just take over the service tonight and get me out of the way. But Lord, if there's something that needs to be said, um I'm available, Lord, and making myself available to you. Lord, the main thing is is we want you to be glorified. And Lord, I know that in a room this size, there are many trials happening right now. And Lord, we know how how Job responded here, and I pray that we would learn from Job. this evening. I pray that you would teach us in Jesus' name. Amen. So just a few observations here, I um I guess. I mean looking at the story of Job, tragic. I I know I know people that that have gone through like one thing after the other. And that's usually how it comes, isn't it? Usually trials come in waves. It's usually not just one thing isolated by itself. It's usually just boom, boom, boom, boom. But I I I can't think of anyone that I know of that has gone through something this catastrophic this close together. You know what I mean? Um, you know, we we we I'm not saying that no one has suffered, but I don't know of anyone that suffered this much to lose everything you have, including your children. within the space of minutes only to then shortly thereafter lose your health and then your wife turn on you too. I mean that's just it's you talk about one thing right after the other And then the to make things worse, his three friends come along and accuse him of everything that he hasn't done. And and it's it's very fascinating. If you read Job Uh uh a few semesters ago when we were going through a uh Bible institute, we looked at Job and the way it's laid out, it's it's it's um the way that the book is written It's kind of like um like a drama play. And it's it's there's dialogue back and forth and it's fascinating. And if you ever want to do something fun um assign e one person to each character in the book of Job and everyone just read their part and man it comes alive. It's pretty cool. In fact you could probably YouTube that. There's there's there's been people that have done that. But um man, powerful book. So he's lost everything and the thing the ones that he hasn't lost lost are either telling him to curse God or accusing him So just some basic observations. One, trials are just a part of life. And I don't mean to make light of it, but if you live on planet Earth, you're going to have trials. Some people have trials more severe than others, I understand that, but you're going to have them. And truth be told, there's probably a good number of us in this room right now that are in them right now uh one trial or the other, and usually like I said, it is more than one at a time. We're either we're in one right now or we have been or we will be going through a trial and that does sound cliche but it is very accurate. Trials are just a part of life. Now, with that in mind, what uh Job's friends, and again we're not going to read the all of it just for sake of time this evening, but They were under the assumption that the disciples were under in John chapter 9. Remember the story of the blind man then they said, was it this man's sin or his parents' sin that he was born blind? So there's an assumption there, and there's an assumption here that Job's friends had, and that is, well, God is fair and just, therefore The reason for your suffering is you must have done something wrong. And they're trying to explain that away. But I'm telling you, Jesus said it there, rain falls on the just and unjust. Ecclesiastes talks about this, and it what's what's again what a fun thing to do is, I should say, well it is fun, but it's very, very interesting, is to read all the wisdom books together. Proverbs Ecclesiastes and Job read those all together and you can see justness and fairness and then you see the question of what's the meaning of life outside of God. The answer is there is none. And then we get to Job who's living That it's pr it's pretty fascinating when you put them all together. But Job's friends, and then again the New Testament, the ones that question Christ But rainfalls on the just and the unjust, and um we understand that. Now trials are just a part of life. It's not and the the the assumption that just because something horrible has happened to you, it must mean you've done something wrong is a false assumption. Now, some trials are self-inflicted. That's for sure. That is for sure. Some of the trials that we go through are our own fault. You know, if you get drunk and speed down the road, then the trials that come along with that are your own fault. But just because you're having a trial doesn't mean you're at fault. Now I don't think I'm the only one here, but have you ever asked yourself when you're in the middle of something, what did I do? Or have you ever asked this question, what have I done to deserve this? Guilty? That's kind of the wrong uh position to take, isn't it? And so if again the whole book of Job is fascinating, but with the trials are just a part of life Now, another observation here, we don't really have to understand the reasoning behind our trials. The whole point of the book of Job was to ask an unanswered question. The answer of why has this happened to me was never answered. The question of why why did this happen to Job was never answered. Job never got the answer, let's put it that way. We don't see where Job was aware of the conversations that took place in heaven or anything. You know? So Job might and and we might not ever get the answers. But nonetheless are still part of life. Our minds, this is just another observation, and we're going to do some turning in the book of Job here, jumping around a little bit. But um our minds cannot grasp the level of complexity That God's mind can. Our brains are so puny. Our minds are so tiny. And we think you know, so we see as trial in our life All we see is a trial in our life. And so then you go through the whole book of Job, and he's all they're focusing on Job's trial. trioles in Job's life. And then finally Job asks God, why and what's going on? And then we get to chapter 38, if you want to go there with me. Chapter 38, then the Lord, verse 1. Lord answered Job out of the whirlwind and said, Who is this that darkeneth counsel by words without knowledge? You know what he's saying? You don't who who do you think you are? Me and Evan were discussing the definitions of vernacular and vocabulary this morning. That was fun, but Joe Job gets God to answer him, but not the answer that he he's not answering his question. He's answering his question with the question. And he says, Who is who is this that darkeneth counsel by words without knowledge? He's saying, Job, you're not aware of the complexity of the universe. And in chapter 38 He goes on in verse 3, gird up now thy loins like a man, I will demand of thee, and answer thou me. Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth? Declare it, if thou hast understanding. Who hath laid the measure thereof, if thou knowest, or who hath stretched the line upon it And he goes on in talk verse 7, talks about the stars, and in verse 8 talks about the seeds, and he talks about weather, and he talks about uh constellations, and he talks about all kinds of stuff like this Verse 12, Hast thou commanded the morning since thy days? He's talking about the order of the universe. He's talking about the stars, he's talking about the rotation of the earth, he's talking about all kinds of stuff, and Job Job and his friends, for the majority of the book Are focused on Job and Job's trial. And then God says, Where were you when I created the earth? What he's saying is There is a lot more to life than Job in Job's trials. And it's not that God doesn't care because he did, and he makes that very clear. But he goes on in in in chapter thirty-eight there, he's talking about um just the order of the earth and things like that, lightning constellations and Uh chapter 39 he talks about the animal kingdom and how he ordered it and how everything fits together and he I mean it describes it in great detail. And then chapter 40 uh talks more about just um uh natural phenomenon and stuff like that and uh verse seven of chapter forty gird up thy loins Now like a man, I will demand of thee, and declare thou unto me. Verse uh chapter forty-one, he taught then he focuses on two uh massive creatures, the Leviathan and Then he talks about the behemoth there and at the end of chapter 40. Just these great creatures that that even today people are still trying to figure out what they were. I have my opinions of what they are, but I'm going to leave it at that And you know, that's not the point of the message. The point is, it's so complex that we're still talking about it today. And so Job is having some serious trials. And trials are a part of life. We don't have the answers, and our minds can't even grasp the answer of why. If God were to tell us. In Job's case here especially. Now sometimes God will give us answers To why something's happened, sometimes we'll get an answer five, ten years later, sometimes thirty, sometimes the next week, and sometimes never. In Job's case, it was never And even after this was all over, you know the story, he was restored double everything he had. Well, it was never indicated that he did anything wrong to deserve the consequences, and it was Never even indicated that it was a reward for him keeping his integrity. It's just God saw fit to give him more. In the complexity of the universe. Another observation here is we don't get to pick our trials. Job did not get to pick his trials. Some things, like I said, are our fault. Sometimes we do pick it. Sometimes we well, we don't always pick the consequences, that's for sure. But sometimes we are the reason for the trials, but some that's not always the case. That's not always the case We do, however, get to pick our response to the trials. When you lose a loved one unexpectedly, out of the blue, like Job did. There's all these kids. Unexpectedly. No fault of your own or anyone else's. It just happens. You you didn't pick that. W when you lost your job because of something that wasn't your fault, you didn't pick that. When you got sick and were and something happened and then you end up getting behind on bills, you didn't pick that. When you go through some trials, you don't get to pick that But you do get to pick how you respond. And man, you talk about a hero, Job and this and and he is one of my heroes. By the way, I didn't write this down. Another observation is Job did ask why. If you read the whole book, he was wondering why this is happening. I would start to wonder why, too, after that many days, you had all your friends accusing you of so many different things. Just bizarre. But um anyway, so what was Job's response You know, w if if I lost everything I had, which I don't have much, but if I lost it all then I have nothing. And if I lost my family at the same time, and then I got really, really sick all at the same time, I I don't know how I'd respond. I'd like to think that I'd hold on to my integrity. But I don't want to say, bless God, I'm never you know what I mean? Because we were talking about this the other day, I mean, we're we're we're humans. We we can fall. You know, and so but man I want to be like Job when I do go through trials. I do get to pick how I respond So, just a few things to notice here on how he responded. I'm still not to any points yet or anything like that. But look at verse 20 of chapter 1. Go back to chapter 1. This is before he lost his health, but after he had lost everything else. Verse 20 Job arose, rent his mantle, shaved his head, fell down upon the ground and worshipped. You know what he did? He mourned. Well that makes sense. I think it would be strange if he didn't And the things he's doing here are symbols of mourning. He shaved his head and and he he he rent his mantle, and throughout the Bible you'll see that's a sign of distress And um you he fell upon the ground. I imagine I would probably collapse. You get that the you you lost all these, you lost all these, you lost all these, that burnt down, your kids died I'd probably fall to the ground too. And man, I I would mourn. And and and it's okay to mourn. It's alright to cry. It's all right to have a time of mourning, a time of sadness, and we see that. And that is a very appropriate response It's evident that Job loved his family. It's evident that Job loved his kids. He got up and did sacrifices just for them. He loved his kids. By the way, thank God for parents that love their kids. But just another observation, go to chapter 23 and verses 11 and 12. Job kept his integrity. Chapter 23, and we'll be in chapter 23, back and forth from there to chapters 1 and 2 a little bit. So hold your place there in chapter 1. But chapter 23, verse 11. Actually, back up to verse eight, I go forward, he is not there, chapter twenty-three, verse eight, and backward, and I cannot perceive him on the left hand where he doth work, but I I cannot behold him, and he hideth himself on the right, that I cannot see him, but he knoweth the way that I take. When he hath tried me, I shall come forth as gold. My foot hath held his steps, his way have I kept, and not declined. Did you catch that? That would be tough. But because of his integrity, his footheld his steps. His way have I kept and not declined. Neither have I gone back from the commandment of his lips. I have esteemed the words of his mouth more than my necessary food. He held on to his integrity. He recognized God's authority. He understood, if you read there in chapter one and two, and again here in chapter twenty-three, he understood that there was um uh an order. to the universe. And that God was in charge of that order. Again, go back to chapter uh one, verse twenty-one Naked came I out of my mother's womb. Naked shall I return thither. Lord gave, Lord taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. Chapter 2, verse 10. But he said unto her, Thou speakest as one of the foolish women, what shall we receive good at the hand of God, and shall we not receive evil? He understood that there was a system, that there is an order, and God points this out to him in chapters 38 through 41 He wasn't fully aware of it all, maybe, because and God pointed that out to him, but he still understood that God was authority, that God was in control. And this is my favorite thing. He recognized, now please catch this, he recognized everything that he had lost. Was all stuff God had given him anyway. There was nothing that Job lost that he had gotten from himself or from someone else. The Lord gave. The Lord took away. He didn't know, but then at the end of the story, God gave back and then gave more. But it's God that gives, and it's God that takes back. God is the one that gave him everything that was good in his life, including his children. Including his wealth. So God was the one that had the authority to take it back. Now he didn't understand And we saw that in chapter 23. If you want to look there again, I'm paraphrasing here. He's like, I look in front of me, behind me, my left, to my right, and I have no clue. But I know that he knows the way that I take. He didn't understand, but he didn't blame God. He looked for God He looked for God's hand in his trial. He knew that God had a purpose. Job believed in Romans 8. 28 before it was written. All things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are called according to his purpose, even those things that are bad. Can work together for good. God is in in control of a universe that is so complex beyond our recognition and when When Matt Trezeis is in a trial, Matt Treze tends to focus on Matt Trezeis and Matt Treze's trial. When Job was in a trial, Job and his friends tended to focus on Job and Job's trial. But God is focused on that, but simultaneously focused on the rest of the chessboard. Simultaneously focused on the rest of the complex universe. And then just the final observation about his response here. He praised God. He praised God. He fell down on the ground and worshiped. He worshiped God. Now, he did not worship God because his kids died He did not worship God because he lost everything. He worshipped God in spite of it. He did not say, Blessed be the name of the Lord, because he was covered in head to toe with boils. He said, Blessed be the name of the Lord in spite of it. Job understood this fact that God is good and God is God, and God is worthy of our praise, even if I don't see it, even if I don't understand it. Why? Because he's God. And just because I can't see the goodness doesn't mean he isn't. Just because I can't see behind the scenes and know every single aspect of everything he's doing in the entire universe doesn't mean he's not good to me. Let me ask a hypothetical question. Um not hypothetical, what's the word? Where I don't want you an answer. Rhetorical. Now everyone's gonna answer. Let me ask you a rhetorical question, and now I forgot what it was. Oh, that is bad. Um Maybe I'll come back to it later. I really did forget it. I really did. Who are we talking about? Joshua? Just Job. Alright. Oh man that it's it's that midlife crisis I guess. Yeah. That's what they're telling me. But all right. Oh, I remember. So now rhetorical, don't answer. So if God gave you A big fancy house, nice car, nice serious SR-22 turbo, cruises 212 knots, only burns 11 gallons an hour, beautiful airplane. Um, if God gave you that for twenty years, and you could do whatever you wanted, could go wherever you wanted to go. And y man, you you just you had it you had it all. And then at the end of that, you went back to your normal life. Was that not a good twenty years? You weren't supposed to answer, remember? No, I'm just kidding. Um yeah, that was a good twenty years. If God gives you everything for a length, and apparently his sons were grown here, so he had his kids for a while. And then God takes those kids from you. Job, was God not good for giving them to you? He understood that God was good. And even though in our minds they hi in his mind they were taken short, they were still his kids. I'm not going to pretend I can grasp everything because I don't. And Job didn't either. But he did understand that it is the Lord that gives. And it's the Lord that takes away, either way, blessed be the name of the Lord. So alright, now do the just a few applications and I'll be through this real quick. Number one, God is aware of your suffering. I I don't know who's suffering through what right now. I don't. I know that there's physical issues, I know there's emotional issues, and sp everyone, everyone is probab everyone has issues. Some trials are maybe more serious right now than others. I understand. But the the the point is, is God's not looking down from heaven going, oops. He knows. He's aware. He loves you deeply. He cares about you. He's aware. And If you need proof that God loves you, then you just go to Romans 5:8. God commandeth his love for us. And what were we at sinners? Christ died for us. So if if God blesses you with much and then takes it away, He still blessed you with what He blessed you with and offered you heaven. Blessed be the name of the Lord. So I should live for God, we should live for God regardless of circumstances. Just like This is just an illustration. We pledge to our spouses unconditionally till death to us part. Well, what if something catastrophic happens? We're sticking with them. They're still our spouse, right? Well, what if all of these things happen to me and God uh allows all these horrible trials into my life? I'm still his son. Blessed be the name of the Lord. That was Job's response. God can and will work all things together for good. Romans 8. 28 to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. So if I love God and I'm doing what I believe he has called me to do, then the the worst of trials God is still using for good. Even if I can't see it. Joseph couldn't see it. Right? In prison he couldn't see it. When his brothers threw him in the pit, he couldn't see it, but God was working it together for good. We need to recognize just two just three more points here and I'm done. It's after eight, I guess. We need to recognize everything that we have comes from the Lord. Everything. My wife bought me this watch uh for my birthday. I like it. It's really nice. Um alright be a nerd. Okay. Alright. So it's got two different stopwatches on it. One is for you to time your coordinated turns when when you're flying. And then uh the other one is the time, you know, for changing fuel tanks, stuff like that. This time is twenty-four hours Zulu time, which is cool. And so that way I'm a nerd. And then the the the then the other face is for all you know, all the peasants. I'm just kidding. You're supposed I'm used to talking to teenagers, okay? So just forgive me. But um I really love this watch. And um my wife got it for me for my birthday. It's awesome. But it's from the Lord. If the Lord didn't want me to have it, I wouldn't have it. Alright, that's a little that's simple, okay? My wife is from the Lord. He gave her to me. I hope he doesn't take her. But he could. I love my family. I'm gonna get kind of personal here, alright? You know when I was a kid, I thought my dad like you know, I mean was was was the was the American hero and could do absolutely anything and everything. And as I got older I realized I was right. He's a genius. Um I remember when I was a kid we went to an air show and it was one of the first time they displayed one of the self bombers. And uh he had the secure he he worked for Northrop when that was designed. He was one of the engineers on it. And he had a security clearance that some of the other guys there didn't have and I didn't even know about. I'm like, oh cool, there's daddy going up in that thing, you know. Pretty cool stuff There's other things he he he's he designed. I mean and he's just he's just he's a genius. He's taken businesses from making just a little bit to multimillion dollar businesses. I mean he's just a genius And um I I mean I think highly of it. And when I was younger I thought my grandpa uh won Korea by himself. And I got older and realized he did And then my other grandpa, um, I mean I I thought that he was the face of NASA. He worked he was in the Navy uh for twenty years and then worked for NASA. I got older and realized He did. They're my heroes. I'm not kidding ya. I I mean I I I I love my family and and not only that, they're some of my heroes of the faith. And I I am blessed. God's given me a lot, and I understand He could take it, but He's given me a lot and I'm blessed. And this is what I was getting ready to say. I I love my family I love m my wife and her family. And y'all know the story. For the past three years we we've had uh Virginia living in our house and Um man, we love her. I love these teenagers. I take a bullet for any of them. And I know I'm getting personal here, but the point I'm making is God gave me that. It wasn't cause I was slick, cause I'm not. It wasn't cause I was smart, cause I'm not It wasn't 'cause I'm good looking, 'cause I'm not Brother Ed. Yeah. It's God that did it. Why? Why did God give me such a good home and someone else doesn't? I don't know. I don't know. Why do why why has God given me such good in-laws? He's good But would he be good tomorrow if I lost it? Yes. And that's what I was saying earlier. I like to think I'd respond to Job. I haven't been put through that I've been put through trial, sure, not to that level. But I know that he's good. When I'm in a trial, when you're in a trial Don't focus, and I'm getting way off topic here, but that's okay. Don't focus on the trial and yourself. Focus on God And what God's trying to do with you and through you, and maybe just accept the fact that we might not ever understand it. Because in a world of however many billion people, and by the way, the stars that are still in orbit that we can't even see are still in orbit. We're such a small, small, small piece of the whole puzzle that God is working all together for good. Our minds can't handle his wisdom. We'll never have that wisdom, we'll never have that knowledge. Everything that I have is from God. Everything that you have, God gave it to you. Your wealth Your house, your apartment, your car, it's from God. Your wife, your children, your health. And if you lose it tomorrow God is still good. Now just another sub note here, you know most things that God's given us are all gonna be gone anyway. You ever think about that? So Job lost everything, including his kids. Now if his kids knew the Lord, he still had them in heaven, right? But all those sheep that died, you know what they were going to eventually do anyway? Die. And his kids that died, you know what they were going to eventually do anyway? And God's still good. So the point that I want to make tonight And again I got very personal, but it is very I want to use the word, and I hope you understand what I'm saying, hypocritical. Like Job's wife here, chapter 2, verse 9, then said his wife unto him, Dost thou still retain thine integrity, curse God and die? That would be hypocritical. To say God is good when the money's in the account, and to say God is good when everyone's all together on Thanksgiving dinner and we have so much food that we're about to bust But to say God's good when there is no food and there is no money and you can't keep the heat on, oh, and then someone gets sick. Oh, and then your relative dies. That's when the test of faith really comes. God is good. Now I want to close with these two statements. You can close your Bibles. I'm pretty much done. I want to s first say this. There is so much power in the sacrifice of praise. Job told his wife, You're like one of the foolish women. Job said, Shall we receive good and not evil? Job said, the Lord giveth, the Lord taketh away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. And there's so much power in that statement that affected the rest of the book. If Job would have had a response other than blessed be the name of the Lord, If he would have had a response of I don't deserve this, or why me, or he did ask some questions later, but his initial response was blessed be the name of the Lord, if he would have said, if he would have cursed God. The entire book would be different. And when you're in the trial, which many of you are right now, when I'm in a trial, when you're in a trial and it doesn't make sense Rather than cursing God, rather than being angry at God, why don't we try blessing him? Why don't we try blessing it? It'll change your story. Just like Job, it had changed his story if he would've if he would have cursed God and it chapter two. But he didn't. And ultimately, as a result, God got glory out of this. Satan is like, oh yeah, little skin for skin, and you rewarded him, Job's just working the system. God got the glory out of this. And if you respond in your trial to, you know, I don't understand, but blessed be the name of the Lord. Probably not the time to tell a joke, but this is funny. Again, forgive me, I I'm used to talking to teens, but they get my humor. No, they don't. I you most of the jokes I tell downstairs are for like two or three people. And and the rest of you guys are like, what's going on? Am I right? Yeah. One of them is your son, Dave. No, I forgot what I was talking about again. What was I talking about? I was gonna tell a joke. That's funny. Yeah, it was. Um oh yeah, so this is right before me and Courtney were married. And I w I would go to her house every day um and spend time with her and her family. That's the correct way to do it by the way. You need to get to know the family. Side note. But anyway, so I was sitting on their soap. We were watching something on T T V, I don't know what it was, but um I was really trying to, you know, watch my physique. And I was doing a really good job, right? Not really. When I met Miss Courtney, I hope she's not listening. She's in nursery, so it's okay. When I met her, I gained so much weight. Oh my goodness. Between her her mother's cooking and her cooking, it was I gained sixty pounds the first year we were married. But um we were sitting next to each other, uh me and and uh her dad were were there on the couch. No no no, it was me And then there was like this bowl of chips and popcorn, and you know when you have the two together, they go together You know what I'm saying? That makes the popcorn saltier and then you throw cheese and butter on it, because blessed be the name of the Lord, right? And so I I mean there's and I'm like, you know what? I really better watch it, you know. And I was like, no, it's alright And then um anyway I I I made this statement because her her her dad was like, oh just go ahead. It's fine, it's fine. I was like, no, it's all right, the Lord giveth, Lord taketh away. And her sister Says, blessed be the name of the Lord, and snatched it up and took it away. And um that'll always be stuck in my mind. And the way I told it Didn't do it justice. It was hilarious. But there is power and praise. So when you are in a trial, And I'm I'm done, I've said that already. The most powerful thing you can do is bless God. When you're living high or low, bless the name of the Lord. When you're living in a whirlwind or a nightmare, blessed be the name of the Lord. Why? Because God is good, but also because God is God. And he deserves our praise. I don't know if this has helped anyone tonight, but it helped me. And if it didn't, put it in your pocket. It will help you next week. God is good, Dale. Mar Mark, I don't understand everything because I got this little tiny brain. I got a big head with a little brain in it. But I understand that God does understand. Well, I have invitation here in just a minute. If you could just bow your head, close your eyes. There's a song that I really, really enjoy. And I asked Jen to actually sing it for the invitation tonight. So I'm going to ask a couple questions and then when she starts singing. The altar's open, but qu question number one would be this. How many of you don't know Christ as your Savior? Because if you're in a trial and you don't even know him, that's going to be tough to make it through. I don't know how people do that. But if you're here and you don't know Jesus Christ as your Savior, you don't have a relationship with Him, I'd like to pray for you. I'm not gonna make you give a speech or call you out or anything like that. I just want to pray for you. If that's you, because you slip your hand up, Pastor Matt, I'm not sure that I'm saved. If I died right now, I don't know if I'd go to heaven. I just want to pray for you. I'm not even going to mention your name or anything. I just want to pray for you Just slip your hand up and I'll I'll pray for you later. Alright, next question is this. How many of you say, you know what, Pastor Matt? I needed this and I because I'm in a trial right now. And I'm having a hard time. But I'm gonna do my best. To bless the name of the Lord anyway. If that's you can just slip your hand up. Pray for me, Pastor Matt. Hey, my hand's up. I'm in it I mean I'm in trial. Many of us are. Most powerful thing you can do. Bless the Lord. But ask everyone to go ahead and stand to your feet, still no one's looking around or anything.