Set in the back and something. What we're gonna do this evening, this is what I want to do. We have three apartment complexes here in Oakland and An apartment complex in Oakland is not a very big thing, you know? And uh we have three that we've not covered for Neighborhood Bible Time canvassing What I want to do this evening is I'm going to bring uh our final message from the book of Jonah. I want to give you some things. I encourage you to jot these down. Just some thoughts from the book of Jonah And you may have many of your own that you could add to this, some lessons we've gleaned as we worked our way through here. But um Uh what I want to do is is have that, give that to the uh give that take our offering, take some prayer requests. Then I would like to, if we can fill that bus up and take uh a good busload of folks, and we can hit these three apartments, overview uh yacht glades and liberty news. And I think if we had a good busload of folks would just give us a half hour, we could canvas them, sign up any kids in there, their potential and we'd be done easily by 8. 30, maybe before that. So uh I hope that you'd be willing to help us out there. This is for young and old. We have everything ready. We've got the notebooks together with all the flyers and a very, very simple thing to do. And so uh I hope you'll uh consider helping us afterward a little bit. So I want to abbreviate the message a little bit. Maybe if there's some folks that you've not physically able to get out and help us canvas, you'd like to stay back here and pray through the prayer list, that certainly would be fantastic. And so keep that in mind. But if you're able to help us We'd appreciate that. And I do need to, in between there, I need to meet with the Bible Time teachers just about five, ten minutes. And so I'll mention when we're going to do that. Jonah, uh, I really don't have a text for tonight. I would like for you to have a pen, maybe a paper, or maybe in the margin somewhere around Jonah. And um Jot some of these things down. I put down I'm just calling it lessons from Jonah. And I really was tempted to kind of open it up tonight and uh just Share some things. What was something that stood out in our study of Jonah in your mind? Some lesson learned, some practical lesson. But I jotted a list down. No doubt you could add to these, uh we could add to these many, many more I've very few studies that we've done that I've had as much feedback from church folk as I did this study of Jonah. People coming to me, making comments, observation, asking questions, a thought they had about something that uh we saw in the book. And um I've really enjoyed this. I hated to bring it to an end. I thought about going back and just doing it all over again. I enjoyed it so much, but that would be silly. So lessons from Jonah. Notice verse number one of chapter one. It says, Now the word of the Lord came unto Jonah, the son of Amittai, saying Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry against it, for their wickedness is come up before me. That is the setting for the book of Jonah. And let's have a word of prayer, and I just want to look at some lessons. that uh maybe we've gleaned from this. Father in heaven, I ask now that you would bless our final lesson from this book, at least in this series And I ask that you would help us to learn these truths that you've given to us. I ask that they would be practical in our lives. And please fill me with your spirit, Lord. I present my body new. I yield myself, and I ask that you would speak through me and challenge us on this matter. In Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, you got a pen or pencil there, margin of your Bible somewhere. I want to encourage you to jot these down. As I'm given these, I'm going to guess that you are going to think of some yourself And uh jot them down also for your own benefit, for your own help. Alright, here's some lessons going through the book. Now we understand, just a recap of the story. We all know the story of Jonah. God tells him to go to Nineveh Jonah instead goes down to Japba, he's on his way to Tarshis. Um on the way en route, God sends a storm. The storm is so violent that it's These hardened, uh, experienced sailors are convinced they're going to die. They see no hope of escape. They start crying out to their gods. Uh it's determined through casting lots that Jonah is the cause of the storm. It was of such intensity, I think, that they determined this is not something natural. This is a supernatural event. A God, B God, some God is doing this to us. In their process of determining why this God is doing this, they cast lots, the lots fall on Jonah. Jonah says, I'm a prophet of God, I'm fleeing from God, that's why it is, rather than confess his sin and forsake it and have them take him back. He says, just throw me overboard. I'm convinced, completely believing he was going to die, that that was the end. They throw him overboard. As soon as he falls in the gets in the water, began Satan, the storm ceases The sailors all get saved. Pretty clear in there. They turn to the Lord and they get saved. Jonah sinks down. I'm convinced in his mind he's dead. This is it. He's over. God sends this great whale, swallows him three days and three nights. He's in the belly of the whale. In that belly of the whale I want to say he repents from his sin, and he does to some degree, but it's more like he simply capitulates to what God's wanting him to do. His attitude really doesn't change, but he gives in The whale vomits him out, he goes to Nineveh, he preaches the message God gives him, yet forty days and Nineveh will be destroyed, and lo and behold, the whole city, from the king down to the homeless people in the streets, they all thoroughly repent from sin. A classic study in what repentance is. God shows mercy, he withholds his judgment, Jonah gets mad. He sits up on a hill to watch uh see what's going to happen. Uh while he's setting there, uh got this little uh it's real hot, there's a little east wind blowing, uh this gourd that God prepared grows up and through Shed shade gives him shade. He's happy that he has shade. God prepares a worm, kills the gourd, it all withers, and Jonah's mad. God rebukes him. That's the end of the story. So that's a recap of Joda. Alright, pretty good, huh? I did that all from memory. How about that? Number one, lessons we learn. Number one. You cannot run from God. Amen? You can't do it. That was stupid On Jonah's part, to try and flee from the presence of God. We cannot run from God. Now, most of these lessons we've touched on in our study through. It's kind of a recap. But we can't run from God. We can't hide anything from God. God is omnipresent. How many folks understand what that term means? That's a good Bible term. Omnipresent. God is everywhere all the time. You cannot escape them The Bible tells us if we would go to the farthest star, God is there. We go to the deepest hell, God is there. We cannot flee from God. And we are foolish if we think that we can. You cannot flee from God. We can't hide anything from God. He's everywhere all the time. So that's lesson number one. Lesson number two that I pick up from the book of Jonah. Now, if we can incorporate these in our lives, I believe we'll be better Christians. Um, the young people, if we could as a young person, I could incorporate this into my life. I'll grow up, I believe, and be a stronger Christian and live a better life. I can incorporate these into my life. Number one, I cannot flee from God. Number two, God is in control. You see that clearly through the experience of Jonah. God is in control of this world. Um he sends a storm by. I don't know any government in the world that can create a storm of this magnitude at least. I don't know if they can create any little ones. And send it by. God can just of his own will, just will a storm into existence. God is in complete control. God sends, prepares, and sends this whale by. God uh sends an east wind, God prepares a gourd, God prepares this worm, God is in control, and I'm convinced if you and I would open our spiritual eyes and look around We would see God's hand all around us. And that was one of Jonah's problems. He could not, or he refused, to see God's hand in all that was taking place. So God is in control. I don't know what you might be going through right now. You say, man, I'm hitting a storm. I feel like I've been swallowed by a emotional whale. I'm just getting burned up, you know, in trials and tribulations, difficulties. I'm here to tell you, God's in control. God sends a storm, he can stop the storm. God has the whale swallow a man. God can make that same whale spin him back up. God's in control. God's in control. Number one, what's our first one? Say it to me. Can't run from God. Boy, if we just learned that lesson, it would help us a lot, wouldn't it? Number two, what's the second lesson? God's in control. And these are in no particular order, these are just thoughts Number three, I put this down. Man has a free will. Now, what do we mean by free will? He can make his own decisions. He can do what he wants to do. Now I've often said this, and boy, if we can get this truth, it will help us a lot. I am free to make my own decisions. But I am not free to choose the consequences of those decisions. Jonah could follow the Lord's instruction and go to Nineveh, or he could turn and flee from it. He had that choice. But he could not choose what the consequences of that decision was. God has given to you and I a free will. I can choose to do right if I so desire. I can choose to trust God. I can choose to pray. I can choose to be faithful. I have that free will. I can choose right or wrong. You say, Brother Leatherman, if I have a free will, if I can make a choice and I can do something that God does not want done, then is God really in control? Absolutely. My free will in no way inhibits God's sovereignty. The Calvinists like to tell us that if man has a free will, then God is not truly sovereign. And my thinking is if God's sovereignty is dependent upon robotic human beings, then his sovereignty is pretty weak. But if God can be sovereign and completely in control, and yet at the same time, man have a free will, that is a divine supernatural sovereignty. And so God gives me the complete freedom, the free will to decide right, wrong. By the way, free will implies responsibility And accountability. So I can choose to, when God calls, God instructs me, God leads me to a quote-unquote Nineveh, so to speak. I can choose that I'm going to trust God and obey Him and follow His call, answer that call, or I can choose to turn and try and flee from that. God has given us that free will. And we are free to choose that. As I said, we cannot um uh We cannot choose the consequence of this. I put this is under this thought. Man has a free will. It's interesting if you'll notice carefully in the book of Nonoba, in the book of Jonah. At no time does God make Jonah do something against his will. Did you notice that? He was a little reluctant, but God didn't force Jonah to go to Nineveh. God doesn't make us do something against our will, but I'll tell you what God is good at, making us willing to go. How many folks here, you know someone that's unsaved? You're praying that that person gets saved. You're thinking of someone right now. How many folks ever thought this? I don't see any way that that person would ever get saved. I'm praying, I'm trusting God. But I don't see that they would ever choose to trust the Lord. I just don't see that happening. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Sure. Hey, I'm here to tell you, God is able to back that person into a corner and get them into a situation where they would be willing to call on the Lord and trust the Lord. So God has given us a free will. Jonah had a free will. But God sure knew what it took and how to go about getting Jonah to freely choose what God wasn't desiring for him to do the whole way. Number one, you can't what? Number two, God is number three, man has number four. I I like this one. And this one kind of picked up on Brother Grant's message Sunday night. It was a good message. Even good men struggle with God's will. Even good men Will sometimes struggle with God's will. This is what I mean by this. Jonah was a good prophet. He'd been a prophet for 30 plus years, been faithful to the Lord. God calls him to go to Nineveh, a Gentile nation, and we talked about Nineveh. And you know, obviously he struggled with that, and I think he had issues. But here's my point. Sometimes God's will doesn't make sense to us. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I know when God began dealing with my heart about preaching and going into the ministry, that made no sense to me. I was not an upfront kind of person. I was not sorry, I didn't feel like I was especially gifted in the area of intelligence or wisdom and all of that type of stuff. It just didn't make sense to me And sometimes people struggle with that, good people that love the Lord and want to do right, and God calls them to something, and they just don't see how that makes any sense. And they struggle with that. Now, I can it's okay to struggle with God's will and direction in my life And I'm getting a little ahead of myself here. It's okay to struggle with that when ultimately I submit to it and trust him. But when I struggle with that and harden my heart, That's when I get in trouble. I think that's what happened with Jonah. Sometimes God's will doesn't make sense. I put this down. This is under this thought. God's will will never contradict Scripture. Although it may contradict my plans. God's will will never contradict Satan. You say that doesn't make sense. If by that I mean it's unscriptural, then I know it's not God's will. But if by that I mean that doesn't fit into my plans, that doesn't fit into my agenda, that doesn't fit into the way I see things. Uh as long as it's not scriptural, then I need to submit to it and trust it. You follow what I'm saying? So even good people sometimes struggle with the will of God, but it doesn't make sense to them. I don't see how you do how this would work out, God. I don't see how this could possibly be the best thing. But if it's not unscriptural, then I can trust Him. Number five. One of God's highest priorities is showing mercy. God went to tremendous lengths To get Jonah into Nineveh so they can hear his word and find mercy from him And all through Scripture, you find God doing that. God going to great lengths in order to show mercy to sinful mankind And I see that through you know how many people ever thought this, you know if I was God, anybody ever have that thought? If I was God, if if I was God or you were God, we'd all be worse than we are right now. But my thinking is, you know, there's gotta be a gazillion other prophets in Israel. Why am I messing with this guy? Just put them aside. Find somebody that'll just do what I ask them to do. But God chose Jonah and he showed him tremendous mercy, all this chastisement. was the love of God for Jonah was the uh man what a privilege he ended up having. So God's one of God's highest priorities is showing mercy. We're down to number, what, six? Number number one is you can't. Number two, God is number three, man has number four, even good men Struggle with God's will. Number five, one of God's highest priorities is showing mercy. Number six, I like this one. God works with us. God works with us. It's another way of saying God is very patient. How many people here are glad God's patient? Amen. How many people are glad your spouse is patient with you? Amen. Some hands didn't go up. So um one of God's uh God works with us. I was thinking, now help me on this a little bit. I was trying to think, how many people in the Bible does God walk away from them? God just says, alright, I can't work with this guy, and walks away from them. Now see some shaking hands. I think there's a couple instances in Scripture where that's the case. Who? King Saul was one I thought. Well, God work with him, work with him, work with him. Finally God says, alright, I'm done. The kingdom's taken away from you. Now Samson was one where I thought God never quit on him. I mean all the way up to the end, God would just be patient with him, patient with him. But I can't, uh other than Saul, can anybody think of Samson maybe anybody think of someone else That God just says, I'm done with you. Well, even there he came and met him in the wilderness and he was talking to him, he gave him water. Balaam might be one that you don't hear anymore about him. But here's the point I'm trying to make. The pattern that I see in Scripture is God works with us, and God is very, very patient. I didn't give up on Jonah, I keep saying this, I'd have given up on Jonah a long time ago. But God just kept working with them and working with them and working with them. And then I stopped and I got looking back over my life. And it's like, wow, God's working with me pretty good. And God's given me how many folks here ever had a second chance from the Lord? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Third, fourth, fifth. I think I'm about to 192nd chance. God just works with us, works with us, works with us. And what an amazing God we serve. That He's so patient with us and works with us. God is kind of like, and I like this illustration, I heard this years ago as a young Christian. God is kind of like a master chess player. Do we have any chess players here? And I've used this before. A master chess player will have a plan that he's going to take your king. And he has that all, he'll generally have an idea, plan of how that's going to take place. Now, the other, the opponent, they've got their own plan. So you have a clash of agendas. One has his plan to take that king, this one has this plan to take his king. They both have an agenda that opposes each other A master chess player will begin that plan, make a few steps. The opponent counters them with his own, and sometimes he'll foil The initial plan to take that king, the method he was going to go by. But if he's a good chess player, he'll work with that guy's moves and actually use them to his advantage. To accomplish his end goal. And sometimes you and I, I know you're I know this crowd it hardly ever happens, but sometimes we make dumb decisions. And we think, and you know, it's just like, man, you know what I found out? God is God will work with me, and God can take that dumb decision I made. And turn that thing around and actually use that to help me grow and advance in my Christian life. That's an amazing thing. And so, uh, one, you can't run from God. Two, God's in control. Three men is a free will. Even good men struggle with God's will. One of God's highest priorities is showing mercy. God works with us. I put this down. God works in unexpected ways. How many people think that when Jonah left Joppa on that ship, that he would end up being inside the belly of a whale? I doubt seriously if he ever anticipated that. God does things, a lot of times we never see it coming. We never see it. And we would have never guessed. That this is how it would turn out. And uh God sometimes works in unexpected ways. Uh I found this to be true. You you it's hard to it's hard to anticipate what God's going to do. Because you just don't know. I was thinking of Sean Lunday. By the way, one of our Bible time evangelists is Seth Lunday. One of our missionary sons. I'm really looking forward to that. He's the second-year veteran for Bible time, and uh he's gonna be with us. Thinking of Sean Lunday. Who in the world would have ever dreamed putting a gospel trap on a windshield in a Walmart parking lot would end up that guy in the Amazon going up the river to unreach civilizations and seeing people safe? Goodness. God works in unexpected ways. Those sailors are throwing lots, and that's how Jodah's sins exposed. Who would have ever thought of that? And so, God works in unspective ways. What number are we on? Eight? Seven? That was seven. Here's number eight. It seems to me God has specific people for specific duties. He was determined to use Jonah in Nineveh. I mean, he was just determined. God was nobody else, Jonah, was the one going to go to Nineveh. Now, I've said this, and I'm having second thoughts on it. I've heard other people say it. Is that God doesn't need to use you. He could use a horse if he wanted to. He don't have to use you. And I guess there's an element of truth to that. But I've come to the conclusion God has prepared each of us and created us for a very specific purpose. And if I don't fulfill that purpose, there's no one else that could do it exactly the way God wouldn't use me to do it. Does that make sense? And for whatever reason, Jonah was the man for Nineveh. And God wasn't going to let anything else happen. That was the man. Now, I don't I don't know how this has come across. I don't mean it in a bad way in any way if it would be interpreted that way. But I've had since shortly after coming here at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church as pastor. I mean shortly after. I've always had a sense in my heart and mind that God had given me life and created me for the purpose of pastoring this church. I just sense that, that this is my purpose in life. This is what I was for. This is what everything in my life has led up to, is for me to pastor this church. Now I don't know what the future holds, but that's what I feel. That's what I I've sensed, that that's what it is. Are there other men who could have done a better job? Absolutely. Could have done a different job. And whatever your ministry may be, whether it's a bus route or it's a Sunday school class or a realm of people that you have influence in I'm convinced no one else in the world could have the influence that you would have with those people. And so God had a very specific Person for this time in Nineveh to hear the word of God. Number nine, let me give these real quickly. Ah, this is an important one. Submission to the Lord. Is key to the success in my service to the Lord. Submission to the Lord is key to success in my service. I'm convinced success in the eyes of God is my submission to His will, not the numeric results of what I do. Question Who was more submissive? Jonah or Jeremiah to God? Jeremiah by a thousand times. Jeremiah didn't you read through Jeremiah, he did exactly what God told him over and over. He's thrown in pr he's thrown in jail, he's thrown in a pit, he's sinking down in the mire, they throw rags down, pull him out before he dies. And Jeremiah just preached the word. He's the weeping prophet. He just stayed at it, stayed at it, stayed at it, stayed at it. One time he says, I ain't doing this no more. And he says, his fire His word burned in my heart. I couldn't help it. And he went back out and started doing it again. Question, who had more people saved? Jonah or Jeremiah? Jonah by a thousand times or more. If all we looked at the numerical results, Jonah was a phenomenal success. But if you look at submission and obedience and trust in the Lord, Jeremiah's a man. I'll be honest with you. It's better for you and I to be a Jeremiah than a Jonah. I would far rather be faithful in Oakland, Maryland, and have a hundred, two hundred professions of faith. than be unfaithful and rebellious and worldly in Baltimore and have 5,000 professions of faith. You follow what I'm saying? God rewards us at the judgment seat of Christ, not for the numbers we rack up, but what sort of service we gave. Was it submissive? Was it in faith? And so I look at this, I look at Jonah and he has phenomenal records. He is phenom man, his soul-winning Bible is all notched up from the beginning. There's not even room for all the people to get saved. But he was not submissive to the Lord. The essence of submission Is getting I like A. W. Tozer said this. Anything you can read by Tozer, boy, he says some great stuff. He says the essence of submission is getting out of God's way. So that God can do in me what He wants to do through me. And that's a great thing. In other words, God isn't just worried about something happening through me. He wants to do something in my life too, as I serve Him. Submission. Alright, I've got to go down. Number nine, submission to the Lord is key to success in my service. Now we're going to say all these together here in a minute. Number ten, God's word is powerful. All he did, all Jonah did was show to Nineveh, yet 40 days, and Nineveh will be destroyed. He's exactly verbatim what God told him to say. Kaboo! The whole place gets saved. Good heavens, the president's getting saved, the chief of staff is getting saved, the homeless guy's getting saved, the guys in prison are getting saved, the whole city gets saved. Just by a few short words that are God's words that are declared by a really rebellious prophet. I'm telling you, God's word is powerful. Say, I don't think I could ever save anyone. Well, duh, you can't even save yourself. You don't have to save anybody. We need to give them the word of God. Give them the word of God. Just give the word of God. God will do amazing things through His Word. Alright? Last one. I got eleven. I tried to come up with an even number, but I didn't. I like this one. This was kind of a last-minute one. Events in life sometimes have a greater significance than we realize. Events in life sometimes have a greater significance than what we realize. Now, this is what I mean by that. Jonah was swallowed by a whale. How many days was he in the whale? How many nights was he in the whale? And then he was, so to speak, resurrected from the whale, right? Three days, three nights. I'm going out on a limb here, but I venture to say when No Jonah washed up on that shore after being vomited up by a whale. How would you like that to happen to you? Uh, following up by a whale and he's got whale yuck all over him. I doubt him he's saying, boy, you know this event is gonna have tremendous significance for thousands of years. In many, many people's lives. In fact, the creator of the universe is going to use this event to illustrate the most significant thing that ever happens in the history of time. You know what I'm talking about? Jesus, two thousand, however many thousand years later, says, just like Noah, Noah, just like Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the whale, so shall the Son of Man. Be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. That event at the time, which I'm sure Jonah thought was nothing more than, oh, it was just being swallowed by a whale and bombed it out. But really it was tremendous significance. I look back over my life and I would venture to say you could do this too. Look back over your life Now bet you can look at events in your life that at the time really didn't seem anything other than maybe just a strange event happened right there. But you look back and how that had such an effect and impact When events. For instance, let me go straight from my life. Th third grade. I'm at I'm at Rock Hill Mennonite Church. It's where our family's attending. I'm in third grade. Sunday school, that church had church first and then Sunday school afterward. And um we'd finish church, we'd go down to Sunday school class. My Sunday school class Was on the end, the third grade class was on the end of all the Sunday school classes in the basement. It was right below the bathrooms upstairs. So all the pipes from the bathrooms upstairs came right down the ceiling and ran across and came down the wall and went across there. So we're in Sunday school and the adult classes are upstairs. Somebody used the restroom, khloosh, so everything went up. August there at it I that was very significant to me at the time. But anyway, I had a teacher, Mrs. Thelma Felton. And almost every class she would tell us, boys and girls, Jesus loves you. And we need to be saved. And she didn't go necessarily through the Romans Road plan of salvation, but she, more than any other Sunday school teacher that I remember, emphasized to us in that Mennonite church that we needed to be saved. You need to accept Jesus as your Savior. You need to accept Jesus as your Savior. At the time, it was just Sunday school. But you know I look back forty years later, forty-five years later, and I can't help but think that maybe God was stirring something in my heart, planting seeds in my heart. way back yonder, that would bear fruit down the road ten, twelve years, when a nineteen year old boy, after my daddy's witness and all that, I don't discredit that. But I just wonder if what seemed very insignificant Just statements by the teacher, you need to be saved, you need to accept Jesus as your Savior, if that didn't have a profound impact in my heart and bore fruit years later. Listen, those little things That happened that we're that God gives us opportunity to go through can be very, very significant if we'll trust the Lord and see his hand in it. Thought about, remember Naaman? The Syrian guard had leprosy. And there's a little maid. She makes the simple statement, oh, that my master was in Israel and uh see the king of Israel, and he could heal thee of thy leprosy What? That little event had such a profound impact. Now here's my challenge. Let's go through these. We got them all written down. Let's go through these real quick. Ready? Number one, you can't Number two, God is. Number three, man has. Even good men. Number five, one of God's highest priorities. Number six, God works with us. Number seven, God works unexpected ways. Number eight, it seems God has Right. Number nine, submission to the Lord. Right. Number ten, God's Word is. And number eleven, events sometimes seem far greater, or seem insignificant, are far greater than we realize. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, you'd help us to understand that we cannot flee your presence. Help us to understand that we have a free will. We can make decisions. To trust you or not trust you, to obey you or not obey you. Lord, help us understand you love us enough that you have a plan for our lives. And even though it doesn't make sense sometimes, it's best to trust you and obey you and submit to you. I wonder with our heads bound, eyes closed, is there some here tonight? I would say, Pastor, God's dealing with my heart in some areas in my Christian life. And I'm struggling with that, and I'm having a hard time just seeing God's perspective on it. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I'll trust him, make the decision to trust him, and let him lead and direct and have his way and not buck that and not fight that. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, there's some areas in my life. I can see where God is working and leading and directing, and I want to trust him. Are there any others? Several other hands Let's not be like Jonah. Let's trust him. Let him have his way. Lead us and direct us and submit to him. Father, bless, Lord. Help us to learn these final lessons from Jonah in Jesus' name. Amen.