Chapter Number One. I tell ya, I have really enjoyed these last couple weeks just digging into the book and And um I've told stories to kids from Jonah before and of course read it through my devotions and whatnot. But this is the first I've really dug down and got studying the book and uh absolutely fascinating. What I want to do tonight before we get into our verse by verse dissection of the book here I still want to lay some groundwork. Last week we looked a little bit at the background of the book and uh the circumstances surrounding it, a little bit of the history of Jonah and and uh Ninevites here and Assyrians and uh just different factors to help us understand what's going on. Um I'm coming to the conclusion more and more that I study this. This is a book about missions, foreign missions And that's going to be my approach. Lord will, next Wednesday I want to give you my outline of the book. And I'm going to approach it from that angle uh Jonah being called to a foreign mission field. But tonight what I want to do is I want to look at this guy Jonah a little bit more. Look at verse number one The Bible says, Now the word of the Lord came unto Jonah, the son of Amittai, saying, Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry against it, for their wickedness has come up before me. And uh I want to look at Jonah, just a little bit about the guide. Let's pray, and I'll give you a few of my thoughts here this evening. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, as we study this book That you would open our hearts and minds to your word and uh the truth of your word. I pray that you would apply the truths that we look at this evening to our lives, and that we could be folks, uh, individuals, Christians that you can use. to be an influence to others and to share the Word of God with others. I yield myself to you now, Lord. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. Lord, I understand the great responsibility there is in being a teacher of the Word of God, and I pray you'd help me to uh live up to that and that uh you again would build your church. Bless the teens downstairs, stir their hearts, Lord, give them wisdom and decisions. For them to make and in their lives at this point in their life and bless the Lord we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Does anybody remember what Jonah's name means? We gave it last week. Anyone remember what Jonah's name means Dove. Now I got thinking about this week because I was looking at the book and Jonah's name, Dove. contradicts his character. The more I'm looking at Jonah here in this instance that's recorded for us in these four chapters I'm not seeing much of a dove type attitude here on Jonah's part. You know what I my conclusion was? It's more of a raven. Where a raven is looking out for itself. A raven, uh uh we lived out in co do we is there ravens around here? I know there's crows. And uh I don't know that there's But um out in Colorado we had ravens. They were huge. There was no mistaking a raven out there and a Couldn't mistake with a crow. And uh but uh ravens uh they've got an attitude about 'em, I'll tell ya. And uh Jonah had an attitude here as I'm studying these four chapters and these 80-some verses or whatever it is, 40-some verses, 40-some, 48, I think. I'm looking at this. This is not a pretty picture of Jonah This is not a very flattering image we get at Jonah, at least this stage of his life Now we know earlier, we looked noticed last week earlier, he's being used of God. And um, you know, and and and his message earlier was a little more popular to the nation of Israel But in this instance, like I said, it is not a pretty picture. Jonah is filled with hatred toward these people whom God loves dearly. And God's sending him to them with a warning that they could be saved. And Jonah says, absolutely, I'm not going. I'll die before I go to the Assyrians and tell them how to be saved. And uh not a pretty picture. And I thought, man, these Assyrians must be terrible people And we looked at that last week, and they were. They scunned people alive and they did all these horrible things and they had no sympathy for anybody. I mean they were nasty people. But my conclusion, as I'm studying the book of Jonah, my conclusion was The problem wasn't with the Ninevites, the problem was with the heart of Jonah. That's where the whole issue was. God knew what the Ninevehes were. He knew what he was sending Jonah. I mean, it wasn't like he didn't know and God's making some horrible mistake. God knew exactly what they were. God loved them. He wanted them to be saved. He wanted them to be warned of the coming judgment. And so the problem wasn't on the Nineveh's end, they needed the warning, they needed salvation. The problem was in Jonah's heart And him unwilling to go there, and that comes out through the whole thing, and you get to chapter four, and good night. Uh Jonah's not happy with anything And doesn't matter what God does for him, it wasn't right. And so it's not a pretty picture of Jonah. So with that in mind, I thought, well, there has to be something good about this guy. God called him, God has a plan, God used him And I found some some things about Jonah that are impressive. I I don't know what the deal was here, why he was in this frame of mind at this point of the of his ministry, but there were some good things about him. That's what I want to share with you for a few minutes tonight. Number one, I put this down. Jonah was very public about his faith in God He was very public about his faith in God. Look over at uh verse number 16 of chapter 1. We're just going to pick some things out here, and then later on we'll start going through it. But look at verse 16 Um, I'm sorry, not verse 16, verse number nine. Look at verse number nine. This is Jonah speaking to these sailors. The storm has hit, and they're scared to death. And he says unto them, verse number nine, he said unto them, I am a Hebrew. And I fear the Lord, the God of heavens, which made the sea and the dry land. Now Jonah did not worship false gods. Nowhere in any record of Jonah did he worship the false gods. He was absolutely straight. He had the fundamentals of his doctrine down. He knew the true and living God. He rejected the false God. Now here's the thing about it. He was not ashamed of the fact that he had faith in the true God. He's not ashamed of that at all. He spoke. Nowhere in this book do you find him trying to cover up the fact or hide the fact that he was a believer in Jehovah. And uh that's a great thing. He was a very devout believer. He felt very strongly and he was very public about the uh the object of his faith, the Lord God. I tell you Uh not one time I got through this and I read through it and I read through it and I read through it and I went back to other records of Jonah and not one time do you find Jonah hiding the fact that he was a believer in Jehovah, that he was a follower of Jehovah. I don't think Jonah any time, if he was in a public place to eat, I don't think one time he hesitated for a moment to bow his head and thank God for his food. Now, do we ever get that way sometimes? Oh boy, we're worried about what people think. I I think Jonah, if he had a job, he's carrying his Bible under his hand. He is completely unashamed of the fact That he is a Bible believer and he's a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. You never find him ashamed of Jehovah. Now I tell you, in that regard, Jonah puts us to shame Take your Bibles, if you would, with me and turn and keep your place here in Jonah, but if you would, come to Mark chapter number 8. We're going to look up a few verses this evening. Mark chapter 8. He was very public about his faith in God. And I think some of these characteristics I'm giving you about Jonah tonight are the very things that made him the kind of person God could use in spite of uh his other issues that are going to come out as we work through the book. Uh Mark chapter 8. I'm going to begin reading in verse 36. Verse 36 is a very Familiar passage for us. I think we may have memorized it at some point in church here. If not, we probably will. Look what verse 36 says, For what shall it profit a man If he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul, and the answer to the question is what? What should it profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses his own soul? Nothing is not going to profit him. It's a terrible loss. So then he goes on, or what should a man give in exchange for his soul? And there's nothing worth a man's soul. But look what he says in verse number 38. Whosoever, therefore Shall be ashamed of me and my words in this adulterous and sinful generation. Look at this. Of him also shall the Son of Man be ashamed when he cometh in the glory of his father with the holy angels. That is a strong statement. God is telling me, saying, He's saying, Listen, your soul is worth more than anything this world can give. I'm giving myself for the salvation of your soul. And for you to be ashamed of me in front of the sinful world, Well, I'm going to be ashamed of you then at the second coming also. Now, this is not saying that our salvation is dependent upon our boldness of our faith. But what he is saying is God does not want us to be ashamed God wants us to be very public and unashamed of the fact that we're saved. How many folks here? You're saved and you know it. Say amen. We should never be ashamed of that. How many folks here believe the Bible is the Word of God? Amen. We should never be ashamed of that, that we are a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now I'm telling you And it seems like every week goes by, I'm hearing other Christian leaders, and I'm talking about outside the Independent Fundamental Baptist camp that are talking about the coming opposition and hostility towards our Christianity And I'm just I s I see it. I think well maybe I'm just kind of sensational. I'm a little extremist. Maybe I'm a paranoid, schizophrenic, uh Ooh, freak. What? So he said. But then I'm hearing these other normal people uh that uh are saying the same thing I'm thinking And uh, you know, we laugh about it a little bit, but um uh hostility towards Christianity has obviously increasing. And I don't see it abating in any way, shape, or form And I'm telling you, we need to write here and now, and we need to help our young people make the decision that we're going to stand for Christ. I'm going to plant my feet on the Word of God and come what may And whatever that entails, it's not going to be easy, it's not going to be pleasant, come what may, I'm going to be faithful to God and the Word of God. Now, Jonah to some degree had that frame of mind. He was not ashamed. Now, he didn't agree with what God was doing. He wasn't on board with God's agenda, but he certainly was not ashamed of his God. And he certainly was not ashamed of his faith in God. He was very public, very bold about that. And uh that's a good thing. So my number one, I'm looking for good things about Jonah here, you know. And the first thing I see is he's very public about his faith in God. I put this one down, a second thing. He is also a man of prayer. He's a man of prayer. One thing we notice about Jonah through this book is he knows how to pray. Now getting him to pray was another story. And by the way, I think if you're in the belly of a whale, you learn how to pray pretty quick You know. God can put us in circumstances where we know how to pray. He knew how to get a hold of God But the problem was in chapter one, he's sleeping when he should have been praying. They're in a storm. The very first response On the part of Jonah when this storm hit was he should have started praying and he should have got right with God. I tell you, as I'm looking at this and I'm seeing this whole scenario And I see Jonah obviously knows how to pray. He knows how to get a hold of God. He's a man of God. He's been walking with God a long time. Why isn't he praying sooner? Why is he waiting until everything is a disaster and then he decides to pray and try and get a hold of God? I'll tell you why, because he's no different than most of us. Huh? Why do we do that? Why do we wait till everything is falling apart and everything is a complete disaster? Then all of a sudden it's like, oh no, we gotta pray. I'm submitting to you, if Jonah would have prayed in chapter 1, verse 3, he wouldn't have been in the belly of a whale in chapter 1, verse number 17. He could have avoided this whole disaster if he had sought the Lord at the beginning. Now, there's a tremendous lesson here for us Now, I'm not saying if we pray like we should, we're never going to have trials, we're never going to have difficulties. But I am saying this. If we would pray like we should, and when we should We could avoid a lot of the messes we get ourselves into. Come on, am I right or wrong? We know that's true Uh I was chaplain on hospice for four years, and I tell you what a tremendous opportunity experience that was. That that helped me probably more than I helped people a lot of people, though I had opportunity to win a lot of folks to Christ before they died But you know what I found? I found folks, I'd get I'd get called up to a family where uh uh they have a family members on hospice, they're going to die. And I'd get there and they they don't have a church and they don't have a pastor was usually the situation that I was called into. And so I would show up and I'd come to find out that these people actually did at one point have a church, and actually some of the men Family members were saved people. And now they find out grandma or grandpa or uncle whoever is going to die here in a few days. And this is what I would hear time and time again. Pastor Leatherman! You've got to win Pappy to the Lord. They knew there was a heaven. They knew there was a hell. They knew Pappy needed to be saved. But they don't start praying for Pappy and they don't get concerned about his soul until he's about to go out in eternity. Then they want the preacher to come in and suddenly get him saved before he dies and goes off And I was glad to do that. In many cases, we saw them at least profess faith in Christ. I trust they were sincere. But my thinking is the whole whole time. Why are you waiting until now to be concerned about happy soul? Why weren't you concerned about it 25 years ago? Because that's sinful human nature We wait until we're in the belly of the whale, then we start seeking for God. Now, don't misunderstand. Thank God He hears us pray when we're in the belly of the whale. The whale. Thank God he's very patient. But man, we didn't we don't have to do that. He could have avoided this whole thing. So he was a man of prayer. He knew how to get a hold of God. And yet he sleeps through the storm and uh he takes the whole situation into his own hands. I got thinking about this And his prayer in chapter 2 is a tremendous prayer. It's a powerful prayer. And considering the whole circumstances he's in, and God answers his prayer and miraculously saves his life. And he's used of God. And my thinking is this: why if he would have prayed like that, with that intensity, with that with that uh concern for his own soul His own well-being, if he would have prayed for the Ninevites concerned their salvation and their well-being in verse 3 of chapter 1, Man, how how many more would have been saved? Uh I always like to point out, and this will come out in our study, but that whole period There's at least three days and three nights that goes by that he's not there preaching out of a city of pr upwards to two million people In three days and three nights, there's we can safely say there's several hundred, maybe several thousand people have died and gone out into eternity that could have gotten saved if he'd have prayed and been right with God in chapter three instead of waiting to the end of chapter two. You follow what I'm saying? And so he knows how to pray. He knows how to get a hold of God. That's a good thing. And um but too often, like us, uh us like Jonah, too often we wait, we sleep. We decide, well, I know God wants this, but I'm going to do that. I know God wants me to do that, and I'm not going to do that, I'm going to do this. And then everything's a disaster, and then we come to God and pray. What does Jeremiah 33-3 say? Call unto me and I will what? Answer thee. And he doesn't stop there and he says, Call unto me and I will answer thee and show thee what? Great and mighty things which thou knowest not. Man, what a privilege we have to pray. What promises God gives to us if we will come to Him. And pray and believe and trust him. And he says, man, I can do above even what you think. Great and mighty things. What was the situation? What was Jesus' solution when there was all these Gentiles, there were all these Samaritans coming, they're unsaved. And Jesus said the harvest is great, but the laborers are few. What was the solution? What did he say? Pray ye therefore, the Lord of harvests, that he will send forth laborers. God has this monstrous harvest in Nineveh. And Jonah, rather than praying, God, you've called me to this place, I have this opportunity to go there and warn them of coming judgment. Oh, why didn't he pray and ask God to send teams of people with him or laborers to go with him and do this? Instead, he says, No, I ain't going. A bunch of heathen, I'm not going over there And uh he could have prayed, and uh thank God God used them, and those that were still alive when he got there were saved. But um so number one, he had great faith, he was very public about his faith in God. Number two He was a man of prayer, and uh I put this one down. He had a great privilege. What a privilege it was to be God's ambassador. To these people. Um he was a prophet of God. Apparently, my impression in studying this and looking up where he's mentioned other places back in Kings He's been in the ministry a good number of years at this point. He's not a novice just out of Bible college. He's been around a little while. And uh he should have realized that for him to be able to go and represent God and in many ways be a spokesman for Almighty God was a tremendous privilege. Doesn't matter who he's speaking to, it's who he's speaking for. Is what makes it wonderful. And he completely missed the privilege that God had given to him to be able to represent Jehovah to these people. Now, I don't know. I think he took the privilege for granted. And there's a real danger, and I'm preaching it myself now here a little bit, but there's a real danger for folks When we've been in the ministry, whether it's pastor or Sunday school teacher or bus worker or soul winner or whatever, we're trying to serve God. There's a danger when we've been in a long time, we start taking it for what? We take it for granted. We've done this a hundred times. We've been through this a gazillion times. I've told this story. I've preached on this subject a hundred times. And suddenly the thrill is gone, the excitement about it, and the sense of privilege about it is gone. I tell you who the most excited person was in church Sunday night. The most excited person this past Sunday night to be in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. You know who it was? Grant Gerdom. That was, for him, that was an awesome privilege to be able to be in God's house and preach a message And you know what God spoke to my heart about? I want to be just as excited and be just as appreciative as the privilege God gives me to preach as He was for the privilege he had to preach. Follow what I'm saying? And Jonah lost that sense of privilege. What an opportunity. To be able to represent Jehovah God, be an ambassador. God gave him a tremendous privilege, and tragically, he squandered it. We as Christians, I just asked a few moments ago, how many folks here saved you know it? We all said amen. You know what? Every one of us, we are ambassador, Corinthians tells us, we're ambassadors for Jesus Christ. We represent another kingdom, we represent another king here on this planet Earth. And what a privilege we have. What if you would get a call from somebody uh in in the state and say, you know, we want you to go to Ireland and be an ambassador and represent our country? Wow. Um who would who who the owner of um was it the owner of the Pittsburgh Steelers went to Ireland? Was that who was sent over as an ambassador? Yeah, what a privilege going to represent that. The missionary to India. Oh, his name just slipped my mind. Starts with a C. Who is the guy? Gang Kerry, missionary to India. His son was following his steps. The Indian government appreciated, and I think the English government was involved in it somewhat, appreciated Kerry's impact on that country so much they invited his son to become one of their ambassadors, one of their representatives to the country. His son took it, took the position. John Kerry was furious He said, my son had stepped down from his holy ambassadorship to represent a temporary kingdom here on earth. You know what he understood? He understood the privilege you and I have to represent God as Christians. What an amazing thing. It's a privilege to share the gospel. It is a privilege to serve God. Come with me here, and I'm going to look at a few verses, and I'm going to quit. Come back to Daniel. Go back it towards the if you're in Jonah, you go towards the front of your Bible a little bit. You go Jonah, then Amos. Joel, if you're really good at memorizing the books of the Bible, you can quote them backwards. Hosea, Daniel. Go to Daniel chapter 12. Well we used to I used to hear preaching on this verse a lot when I was in college and stuff. Notice uh Daniel chapter 12 and verse number 3. Look what it says. And they that be wise shall shine as the brightness of the firmament. Now look at his last statement. And they that turn many to what? Righteousness as the stars for ever and ever. Now what is he saying in that last statement? If somebody turns many to righteousness, they're unrighteous, they're ungodly, they're wicked, and because of my influence, because of my impact, because of my representation of God They're turned to righteousness. What's happening to them? They're getting saved. And look what happens to me. If I turn many to righteousness, what happens to me? I'm going to shine as the stars forever and ever. Now what in the world does that mean? That means God is going to reward people Who win others to Christ, to represent God and speak his word and have an influence on others. Now my personal opinion is, well, let me give you my two other verses Then I'll give you, and you're on the edge of your seats. You want to hear what my personal opinion is. But let me show you the other verses first. Go to Romans chapter number 14. Come back there with me. Everybody doing all right? I'll take that as a yes. Romans 14, look with me at verse number 10. But why dost thou judge thy brother? Why dost thou set it naught, thy brother? For we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ. Alright? We're talking about the judgment seat of Christ. For it is written, As I live, saith the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God. Look at this So then every one of us shall give an account of himself to God. So he's talking to Christians here in particular that we're going to stand before the Lord. Come over to 1 Corinthians chapter 3. Alright, turn over there, just Romans, X, Romans, 1 Corinthians chapter 3, verse number 13. Now apply this to Jonah and then to us. Romans, I mean 1 Corinthians 4, verse 13. Every man's work shall be made manifest. For the day, the judgment seat of Christ, the day of the Lord, the day shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire, and the fire shall try every man's work of what? What's that next word? sort it is, of what kind it is, of what type it is, if any man's work abide, which he hath built thereon, he shall receive a reward. If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss, but he himself shall be saved yet so as by fire. Alright, so we're going to get to the judgment seat of Christ. Daniel says that people that turn unrighteous to righteousness, they're going to shine as the light stars forever and ever and ever. And uh Romans and Corinthians say that we're going to stand before God And we're going to have to give an account of ourselves. Corinthians says in particular, we're going to have to give an account of our works. What about our works? What sort they are, what type of works we did What type of of a uh of a how did I what did I invest my life in? What were my works as a Christian for the Lord? What did they consist of? What sort were they? Now, as I take the teachings of Scripture, I look at this: God is looking for at the judgment seat of Christ a particular kind of work that He wants to reward. A particular sort of work that he wants to reward. Now knowing what we know about the Word of God and our instructions concerning the gospel, what do you think that type of work is that Christ is looking for at the judgment seat of Christ? Soul winning is what I think. We're told to go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. Dan Daniel says that we're going to shine as the stars forever and ever. That's some type of reward for turning many to righteousness. And what I believe, and the more I study my scripture, the more I'm convinced of it, though that the judgment seat of Christ is going to consist of God saying, Alright, what did you do with the gospel? That is the work I'm looking for. That is the work I'm uh the sort of work, the type of work that I'm looking for to reward. Well, you know, I uh I did this, that, and the other, and there's a lot of good things to do But what did you do with the gospel? And here's the thing: you come back to Jonah. Did he do what God called him to do? Yes. Did he turn people to righteousness? Yes. But if you look at his attitude through the whole thing, he is doing it reluctantly. He is not there because he wants to. He's there because he's going to die in the scuts of a fish if he doesn't. And I as I study this, I think Jonah does not get rewards. For his ministry in the book of Jonah in Nineveh, simply because his attitude was wrong. And he went into this whole thing not with a burden, not with a love, not with a concern for the salvation of these people, but just he's going to be killed if I don't And he gripes the whole time. You know who I thought of? The exact opposite of Jonah. I thought of an individual person. The exact opposite of Jonah. Joel Michelle. Just our missionary to Holland just passed away, was killed in a wreck. And there is a video, and I want to show it in church. There is a they put together a video clip of his life and ministry And I'm telling you, it'll absolutely rip your heart out. The Saturday before he was killed, of his own free will, he went out into the streets and he's standing there preaching the gospel to these people. And just street preaching away. Forty-eight hours later, he's in the presence of Christ. That guy had a burden and a drive and a love. To reach others with the gospel. The thing I always commented about him that I admired so much was the fact that he was willing to take the citizenship of another country that he never lived in, Belgium, just so he could get into the Netherlands. Man alive. That is the exact opposite of Jonah. Jonah's doing everything he can to get out of witnessing to these people. And here you have Joel who is doing giving his life so that he can. Now you tell me who's getting crs in their crown. Of those two, you tell me who is the one Christ is pleased with. Not a pretty picture we see of Jonah here. Not a pretty picture at all. God used them, but he used them not just to reach that city, but to be a lesson for us. As I was studying this, I thought of a song we old timers used to sing years ago. And uh don't worry, I'm not gonna sing it. I don't think it's in our hymn book. I asked Jennifer, it's not in our hymn book. I'm gonna complain to You ever hear that song, Will There Be Any Stars in My Crown? Listen to the words to this I'm thinking today of that beautiful land I shall reach when the sun goeth down, when through the wonderful grace of my Savior I stand. Will there be any stars in my crown? Will there be any stars? Any stars in my crown when at evening the sun goeth down? When I wake with the blessed in the mansions of rest, will there be any stars in my crown? In the strength of the Lord, let me labor and pray, let me watch as a winner of souls. That bright stars might be mine in that glorious day, When his praise like the sea billows roll. Oh, what joy it will be when his face I behold, living gems at his feet to lay down. It would sweeten my bliss in the city of gold, should there be any stars in my crown High King of Heaven, my victory won, my I reach heaven's joys, O bright heaven's sun. Heart of my own heart, whatever befall Still be my vision, O ruler of all. And he ends with this, Will there be any stars, any stars in my crown, when at evening the sun goeth down? When I wake with the blessed, and the mansions of rest will be Will there be any stars in my crown? Say what, there's a lot of things we can invest our time and effort in down here on Earth. When I get before the Lord Jesus Christ, I'd like to know. I'd like to think that I was able to use my life to reach and influence and hopefully win as many people as I possibly can to the Lord Jesus Christ. Jonah believed in God Jonah knew how to pray and get a hold of God. He had a tremendous privilege. And he squandered it. Completely failed to grasp what an opportunity God had given him. The end of the book, you know what he's complaining about? A wild goar died. And he's whining and complaining. You know, the problem wasn't with the wickedness of the Ninevehes, the problem was with the heart of Jonah. We're going to see see that as we go through. Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us, Lord. Give us a heart for others. Give me, Lord, appreciation for the privilege you give us to give me to be a witness of the great Savior. I pray that our church will be a testimony far and wide, not of our goodness, of our greatness, but Lord be a testimony of your goodness and your greatness and your saving grace. Lord, help us. I know we're a small group tonight. Lord, if you can use one backslidden, carnal, self-centered, selfish prophet like Jonah, God, maybe you could use us to some degree. So, Lord, we ask for that. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, pray with me? I want to really grasp the privilege it is to be a witness to my Savior. And you say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me. Just give myself to the Lord, that he can take me and use me to be a testimony in this old wicked world. And uh shine like a star for the Lord Jesus Christ. Is there any like that? Uplifted hand? Goodness, of course that's our prayer. Who wouldn't want that?