A lot of the battle, a lot of the battle, for the heart and soul of our churches is music related. That's one of the avenues that gets churches headed wrong. And all of this contemporary nonsense, uh in fact, I'm going to call it heresy, that is making its way It's already hit a lot of the other denominational groups long since, but it's finding it's finding a foothold among independent Baptists too. And uh and that's that's tragic. Uh you know, we we don't have to look any further than our Southern Baptist friends to see how well it don't work. Uh now they've got forty-six, forty-seven thousand churches in the fifty states. The last 10 years, these are their figures that they just reported a few days ago. In the last 10 years, they've lost a million members Now, uh probably two-thirds or more of their churches have gone contemporary to some some degree. And I keep asking some of their people that I bump into, well, why have you gone contemporary? Oh, so we can reach people. But their baptisms nationwide are spiraling downward to historic lows. And their membership has shrunk over the last decade by a million members. So how's it working? Worldly carnalities, S. Carrant Ask the Corinthian church, how does it work to be carnal and corrupt and charismatic and all the stuff that they were into It don't work. That plane that plane won't fly. You know? Uh you you may have fun lumbering down the runway, but I'm telling you, you're gonna get the end of that runway and that that bird's not gonna fly. And uh so uh thank thankfully we have some people, of whom Brother Fox is one, who's helping us have the right kind of stuff. Music wise, your specials, your choir, etc. And uh You know, while I'm at this and I'm I'm not reading my text yet. I mean you guys you guys cut cut it just right. I mean we're not eating till twelve thirty, so I got I I got time here. But uh but uh you know uh in in in some ways uh something similar could be said by the call even about our mission boards. Uh Macedonia has a good reputation. Yeah. Have a good rep uh repent reputation. And um uh the uh brother uh the uh his name slipped my mind that was your predecessor Dr. Wade, Thurman Wade, was there a lot of years and built a strong foundation And Brother Caudle's continuing to build on that. And when you see men from Macedonia, and and the that's not the only mission board, obviously, just like it's not the only place that we've got good music coming from, but But Macedonia's got a good reputation. They've built on a solid, fundamental, independent Baptist foundation And uh they're not they're not chasing off into the wilderness, the world's wilderness. And uh and I'm and I'm glad for that. And And you and you see you see us, Brother Leatherman, and you should have seen us at breakfast this morning. I took 'em I'm telling you what, I baptized them in a good place. I took them to McDonald's this morning Brother Letterman paid the bill. I I I intended to treat, but he paid the bill. Bless his heart. That was good. But uh we y you should have seen us at McDonald's this morning, sitting there, the four of us. Well what were you doing? We had a blast, didn't we guys? We just had a blast. You you ca you can't imagine how much fun bagels and stuff like that can be. If you just sit down with the right people, you hang with the right people, run with the right people, and you're on page together, and it just it's just good. And um you know nobody nobody I I do a lot of conferences uh throughout the year and nobody does a better job putting it together than Brother Letterman. Everything's always in place. Everything's uh set up and ready to run when we get here. And uh a lot of you folks help him, and I appreciate it very much. Thank you for all that you've done through the years. I got to thinking a while ago, I've got to add up how many miles I've traveled getting here and getting back home in twenty-three years. Uh but it's somewhere in the neighborhood You know, I fly to Baltimore. That's about 725 miles on the ground, and it's another couple of hundred over here. So that's roughly a thousand miles coming, a thousand miles going. I've done that twenty-three times So that's about a time and a half around the world, actually. Told it up. And uh but uh anyway, thank the Lord for the airplanes, anyway. I want to preach this morning, if I may, the message that I mentioned a little bit ago from the reading from the first chapter of Jonah. Jonah. Both of these messages that we've heard thus far have had a direction to them that is geared to the purpose and point of this conference. Uh, you know, we we boil it all down, and there's several things that are just it's just who we are. It's what we are. And uh uh you know, we we have to ask ourselves, why do we do church? Well, part of it is Uh getting together to encourage one another, to help one another, to be motivated and to be uh fed and to learn. Part of it is is uh reaching out to other people and finding them, bringing them in, getting them into the thick of things and uh and bringing them along, helping them to grow as a Christian, and teaching them to do what we're supposed to be doing. And so that I mean that's that's what it is. Well, it's last century, this century, or next century. That's the way it is. Now, I come to the reading and I begin at the very top of the chapter, number one, of Jonah, and read just a little bit. Now the word of the Lord came unto Jonah, the son of Ametai, saying, Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry against it. For their wickedness is come up before me. But Jonah rose up to flee unto Tarshus from the presence of the Lord and went down to Joppa And he found a ship going to Tarshus. So he paid the fare thereof and went down into it to go with them unto Tarshus from the presence of the Lord. Now, Jonah, I may refer to him sometimes as Brother Joe. Just I feel pretty well acquainted with him. Little chapter, little four-chaptered book here that tells us about him. And uh and I think we do have to count him as a brother. And uh he is uh he's a servant of the Lord And this passage tells me in verse number three that I read, it says that Jonah, but Jonah. That in itself is somewhat expressive. But Jonah. And the Bible says here that he went down to Joffa. Now, he had been called to go to Nineveh, but he decided that he would hot foot it to Joppa instead of taking his orders from the Lord. Now, you say, well, they went to Joppa. Well, sure, Joppa's a beautiful seacoast town on the Mediterranean Sea. I mean, it's the kind of a place that anybody should be able to enjoy I mean you go there and you can just say, man, uh this is a delightful place. Well the problem was Jonah was on the lamb. Jonah was running from God. He ran from God because he had his own dreams. He had his own agenda He had his own worldview, and he had big issues with Nineveh, as did God. If you look into the background of the Ninevites, they were not a bunch of sweethearts. They were a bad, despicable bunch of ombre. And uh Jonah uh did not want to go there Because of the issues that he had with them. And even though he had heard from God, he did not like what he heard. And did not want to hear what he heard And so, hearing what God said, he said, I know what I'll do. I'll take off. I'll go over to Joffa. And Going to Joppa, he thought that, hey, that's a place of neutrality. A lot of us, you know, uh, I mean, it's like, hey, we're supposed to stand, but we we we look and take refuge in what we think are places of neutrality. I mean uh I mean I I hear it just every once in a while. Well I'm just not going to get into that. And it's stuff we ought to be into. And he said though I n Nineveh, oh no, no, no, no. I'm gonna run off over to Joppa And he got over there thinking that he could find a neutral place where God would not bother him. Uh it was going to be like a place of innocence for him I can go over there and say, well, I'm here doing my thing, and uh I don't know what's going on elsewhere, but I'm just doing my thing. I mean, this this is where Jonah is. It's a place of escape for him. He thinks he will escape. So he rose up and went over to Joppa. Now, folks, you and I can rise up, but never any higher than our own reach. If we go without God, we can go no further than where our own little hands can reach. He rose up. Thinking, you know, man, I I can do this. But you and I, I mean, we we we cannot reach the top of the tree, and that's where the best apples grow, they say You cannot reach the top of the tree, you cannot reach to the sky, and you cannot get hold of the heavens whenever you just rise up as far as you can go. Because as with Jonah, he rose up and went down to Joppa. And I'm telling you, every time, every time you and I rise up thinking we're going somewhere that we're not supposed to go, we're going to go down. anytime that we flee from the Lord, because you can rise no higher, no higher, than what you can do whenever you're going down. Now Jonah Was just an ordinary man. And very frankly, that's all I am, that's all you are, that's all any of us are I mean, no matter what our pedigree, or no matter what our heritage, uh uh ethnicity, and all of that stuff, we are just ordinary people But Brother Joe, ordinary as he was, had an extraordinary call from the Lord. An extraordinary call. This passage says, but Jonah Decided that he would run from God. Perhaps he didn't know that God was omnipresent. But he is. Or maybe he did not know that the gifts and calling of God are without repentance. But they are. Or perhaps he simply did not understand that out of the will of God is neither the safety zone or the comfort zone. Somebody who's been called of God decides, man, I know what I can do, I know what I will. Listen, I know a lot of miserable people. I'm talking about people maybe who at one time they were in the thick of church doing what they're supposed to do, but they decided to park it. They they got all enamored with a basket boat, they got all enamored with their golf clubs, they got all enamored with uh vacations, they got all enamored with uh just doing whatever pleases them And I'm not opposed to bass boats, and especially if you bring me fish. I'm thinking about golf. I might preach anyway. I I'm losing it. All right. I'm just saying, out of the will of God, out of the will of God. That's that's not the safety place. That's not the comfort zone. Joshua, uh uh Joppa seemed innocent enough. Just gonna go over to Joppa. Seemed safe enough. But see, when he went to Joppa, it was there that he found a way to go even further in the wrong direction. Even further, and deeper ultimately too that he had never expected It was there at Joppa that he found somebody to enable him in his disobedience. Because he found a ship, the Bible says, going to Tarshus And I love this phrase, and he paid the fare thereof. He had no idea this trip was going to cost him a whole lot more than the shekels that he was paying to the ship captain. But it did. Jappa is a place of enticement. Looks great. Man, let's go over there. We can get over there. I mean we're not going where God said, doing what God said, but I'm going over there so I can do what I want to do. And there at Joppa, in that place to which he had been enticed, he was also defined it was a place of compromise. Because now He's saying, I've got to have to do more than this. I've got to go further than this. I've got to deepen what I'm going to do and make further haste. To get away from this calling from God. And so Joppa became the jumping off place into what became total chaos in his life. And you've seen it and I've seen it, sometimes with young people, sometimes with old people, and sometimes with people in between Who determine, I'm not going to do what God says. I'm going to do what I want to do. And when they do what they want to do, they have no idea that the joppa where they get all of it started is going to lead them into total chaos. Just down the trail. Jonah would have never gotten on the boat had he stayed away from Joppa. He would have never gotten on the boat. And the minute that ship sailed with him on it, there was no good way to get off. Years ago, before I became an independent Baptist, and I've been an independent Baptist now for forty forty-one years. I was a student in the Southern Baptist Seminary in Kansas City. And uh The Old Testament professor there that I had was the man who ultimately led the liberal side of the Holy War, they called it, within the Southern Baptist Convention. Name was Roy Honeycutt. He was a liberals liberal. He took the left wing lunatune side of everything. By the way, leftism is lunatized. You don't have to play piano to play with that crowd. You just get with them, you're a lunatune. I don't want to miss throwing little few rocks at liberals while I'm here. Amen. Now uh Roy Honeycut Roy Honeycutt he took the liberal position on everything starting in Genesis 1-1 and all the way to the end of Malachi. Old Testament. But several times during the year that I sat in his classes, he said, now boys, and everybody in there was a college graduate. But he would say, boys, he said, if you get on this train with me right here, he said, I need to tell you there's no place to get off later. You get on this train with me here, and I'm taking you places you hadn't been before. It was a solemn warning. And uh I saw guy after guy get on the boat with him, get on the train with him. And I'm telling you, like with Jonah, the minute that ship sailed. There was no good way to get off. The storm was already brewing in the Mediterranean. He couldn't see it in the port, but it was already brewing. There's always things lurking that could destroy us Always. And Joseph, I keep calling Jonah somebody else. Jonah embedded himself down below in that ship. He got on there thinking, man, everything's great Man, I came over to Java to uh to Joppa and uh and everything's great. I mean it's just great, and I'm gonna get on the ship and I'm gonna go up down to Tarsus and everything's gonna be fine. He embedded himself down below and went to sleep Now, sleep can be enabling, it can be good, but it can also be a deceiver. I mean the burglar may be trying to pry the window open and you sound asleep in the room nearby. Sleep can be your enemy if the foe is approaching. And we got these enablers, the guy running the ship. What what's what's he what's he to Jonah? Hey He is all listen, he is running that ship. He doesn't have Jonah's well-being in mind. He is running that ship for the money. It's feathering his own nest that he runs, for which he runs the ship. Jonah gets on, the ship captain enables him. But when the storm begins to hit them and the sea becomes turbulent, guess what happens now? Those enablers, they turn on Jonah with a vengeance. As that storm turns. And in the time of crisis, you can always depend on the quibblers and the fakers and the wimps to look for a sacrificial lamb. They're going to look for somebody to blame, and that's exactly what happened, verse 15. So they took up Jonah and cast him into the sea. I mean they they voted him out. Voted him off. Threw him off the island. Threw him off the ship. Now, verse 16 I called your attention to because even though at this point and what we've seen up to now, Jonah is backslidden But even in his backsidden sliding state, he had some fruit for his efforts. Because verse 16 says, the men on that ship, the ship captain, his workers, etc. , they feared the Lord exceedingly and offered a sacrifice unto the Lord and made vows. I just point out the fact you you can be doing the wrong things, headed down the wrong trail, doing all kinds of crazy stuff, and there may still be a few folks get saved in your ministry. I hear people say all the time, well that guy's winning souls, you know. And he's a total compromiser. And it's true, some some of those folks, they preach the gospel or enough gospel that they get a few folks saved. But I'm telling you, the ship's still headed wrong. They're still barreling into the storm, and they still have disaster in the works. Frankly, I'd overlook that 16th verse, but it's been there in the Bible all the time. So, what do we have here? First of all, Jonah ran from God. The second thing is he ran into God. He ran into God of all places Let me say this. Betty would not want me to say in the belly of the whale. She likes me to be more polished than that. So I'm going to say he met God in the abdominal region Of the whale. Of all places, down in the belly of that whale. Forgive me, darling. And uh There he would stay three days and three nights in the Gastro International Hotel. I wonder what the daily rate was in that hotel. What were the accommodations there? Besides, I know they had blubber beds. Did they provide breakfast? Oh man, I'm guessing there was all kinds of breakfast items in the stomach of the great fish. Now Jonah had no expectation that in that environment he would run into God. But he did. So run if you will in a valley, in the depths of the sea, in good times and bad. Flee like a bird if you choose, but you're going to run into God. He's going to be there when you get there. And by the way, you need not yell if you want to talk to him because he's right there. And so it was. The Bible says that Jonah prayed, verse 1 of chapter 2. Jonah prayed. He's not having to be boustrous in his prayer because at this point he understands God's there and he's listening So Jonah gets called, but he runs. He runs from God, then he runs into God, and then here in chapter 2, he begins to run to God. He begins to make his advance to God. You know, second chances are so precious. They're treasures to be treasured, and Jonah here in the belly of the whale prayed. And if you look at chapter 2, he prayed, he admitted his fault, he confessed his need, he rehearsed his situation there in the whale. And then verse 9 indicates that he made holy vows. I mean, I don't know what all was going on in the uh stomach of that great fish and it's too close to lunch for me to try to describe what I do know about what goes on in that but let me just simply say that he made himself an altar there And he made holy vows unto the Lord in the belly of that fish and determined in that he had been called. He he first ran into God, then he ran to God. And then his vows led him to run with God. And uh you see in uh chapter number two and verse ten The Lord spoke unto the fish, and it vomited out Jonah onto the dry land. Now you talk about a rocket man in the Bible. Here he is. No comparison to the present little devil in uh North Korea. But uh don't you love it when people are so expressive and say things in such a way that everybody understands it? Well, bless the president for calling him uh that. And the whole world is picked up on it. Well, here we have a little rocket man. God provides the energy, and that fish expurgates. I mean he He regurgitates, he thrust out in a great heaving, gagging moment, he thrust out the distasteful little prophet and throws him out on the dry ground. And he gets that second chance and starts his journey to Nineveh. Now Jaffa's a beautiful place. And perhaps Tarsus would have been a nice place. But Joppa was the wrong place, and Tarshus was the wrong place, and finally Jonah determines that not only will he run with God, but he's going to run for God. And chapter 3 tells us that the Lord spoke to him a second time, and he says, Arise, get up out of the sand, get up off the dirt where the fish threw you. Get unto Nineveh, that great city, and preach unto it the preaching that I bid thee. No surveys, no No polls, no analysis of the trends, no studying of the demographics, and no trying to cater to whatever culture was present in Nineveh, but instead he said You take it to them. They don't have what they need, and you I have what they need. You know what I have. You take to them what they need. Preach the preaching that I bid thee. Now, Jonah ran for God, and uh you know the results of that. The last verse of chapter 4 indicates that 120,000 people turned to the Lord. Now that's a pretty good day's work, week's work, whatever it took. And uh Jonah just got out to business and determined That he would go for God and do what God asked him to do. I look at all of this, and I see a man who was running, running in the wrong direction. Running away from everything that he ought to have been running toward. And finally he gets back on the dry ground, and somewhere I'd like to just reach down and whispered in his ear and said, Run, Jonah. Run! You ran away from God. Now run for God. Run! Don't don't just twiddle around. Run, buddy. Run Get on with it. Don't mess around. And that's exactly what he did. Now Sadly, chapter 4 tells us that Jonah was still an ordinary man and he was still imperfect. He still had his vulnerabilities and he kind of soured up again in chapter four, but God used him there for a period of time and got it done. Now, let me let me just add a few little conclusions here to what I've seen in this chapter, these four chapters. You cannot do Nineveh at Joppa. You can be a nice person there You can be friendly. You might even serve God there, but you cannot do Nineveh, not a Japan. Say, well, you you made a mistake and you went over your job, but well you won't tell him I'm saying run man, run. Don't don't don't hang out in that place of compromise. Don't don't let that pretty seashore Don't let that get a gleam in your eye. Run, man. Run the way you're supposed to run. Second observation: it should not take a whale ride to get our attention. You know, I I hear people give their testimony sometimes, and and sometimes people have some pretty awful stories to tell in their testimony, and if that is their testimony, it is what it is. Ever ever old drunk that gets saved got a testimony, and I'm glad for for the fact that he now has a testimony. But I like hearing what I heard Brother Carl say last night. Got saved as an eight-year-old boy. You know. Mom and dad drug him to church and drug him to Sunday school and drug him here and drug him there where he needed to go. Now, you and I ought not to have to have a whale ride to get us to run for God. Third observation is: the storms in your life may be of your own making. Never would have had the turbulence in the sea had he not gotten on the wrong boat. So, got on that boat, headed to Tarsus. The storm, the storm, well, why why am I in the storm? You got on the wrong boat, Joe Observation number four. Be careful about letting your friends put your well-being to a vote. Some of your buddies will vote you off. Yes. Gotta be careful with that. Number five, if you're thrashing around in a turbulent sea, I mean you are up a creek, you've got no boat, no paddle. You're thrashing around thinking you're about to drown. What do you do? Look up, sir. Look up. Look up Talk to the Father and re-sign. Re-Sign. Not resign, but re-sign. Amen. Amen. Amen. You're living in the valley. Sign up again. And I knocked on a hundred doors. Nobody came. Knock on a hundred more. Sign up. Sign up. Sign up. Look up, look up, listen up, whatever the turbulence. Observation number six Even if you've already blown it, ask the Lord for a second chance. You're not the only person in the world Whoever did something stupid. You you you you're not the only per you're not the sole possessor of stupidity. You are not. There's not a one of us sitting here that at some time or another hadn't given stupid a place. You say, but I messed up, I messed up, I I I blew it, I didn't do it right, I didn't do it well, I I I mean I I've I mean I've I've m I' I must up everything. Listen, you may have blown it if you did say I blew it And ask God, ask God, look to the Father, ask him, can I have a second chance? Can I have a second venue? Give me, please, please, an opportunity. I will make better of it if you give me a second chance. And observation number seven. Go ahead and do like Jonah and make holy vows. Like chapter 2 and verse 9. See, sometimes we do what's expected. That'll get old. Sometimes we uh we just operate by rote. That'll get old. But whenever you make holy vows, you say, Dear God, I believe what you said in this book, and I'm going to let that drive me. I'm going to let that guide me. You heard Brother Fox a while ago wrestle around with that great commission in Matthew 28. That's in the book. Yes. Ought to drive us. See, all kinds of things. It's in the Bible. It's in the Bible. It's in the Bible. It's in the Bible. It ought to Five us so Make holy vows. And then observation number eight or nine Even after huge success, don't sour. Don't backslide. Don't quit. And don't foul things up even after you've been a huge success. I'm I'm not an old man yet. I keep telling people I'm on the front end of middle age. They always laugh. I I I do get senior discounts sometimes now without asking. Sometimes guys get to my age and they decide to coast They decide. Been there done that. And uh somebody somebody else somebody else can do it now. I'm gonna I'm just gonna sit and watch Uh you may not be able to do everything that you could twenty years ago, but you can do something. And and you you do you don't have to become the person who just sits around and analyzes everything. No. Uh huge success. Jonah had it And then chapter four comes along, and that old cyberpus, I mean that that backslidden state revived. And you you and I can taste the good things of God. We can get hold of the blessing of God and come to a point where it's like, well, we we we've got it, we can coast No, no, we've got to do like Jonah and run and run right and run to the right destination and run from the things that we ought not to be running to And so I look at these four chapters, and I look old brother Joe in the face, and I say, run, buddy, run. And I want to look at each of you this morning. I want to say to you, why don't we run? Run right. Run into the Lord. Run to the Lord. Run for the Lord. Run run with him. Amen. That's right. Don't run against him. That's what chapter 4 is. He's running against him. By the grace of God, you and I have life today. And it sure would be nice if on this week in September we just decided that our our agenda is going to get beyond Just having breakfast. It's gonna get beyond, well, I gotta sweep my house or polish my shit. It's gonna get beyond All these little have-to-do things and take on an eternal dimension. I look at these four chapters and I say, run, Jonah, run. I look at me today and I say, all right, buddy, get on your running shoes. Don't just be a lounge rat. Run, buddy, run. I think I've done the little piece here I wrote a few years ago and we set it to music It says, when the power of God comes down, blessed revival comes in. Deep from the heart our prayer goes up, Lord, do it again. Do it again, again, O Lord, do it again for us. Do it again, O Lord, O Lord, send us revival again. You and I need get hold of that. Way, way, way before the whale. Way way way before the storm. Way way way before I mean listen, when God calls, when God calls First call. We ought to go get those running shoes. And just run. Like Jonah finally did. Let's stand up, we'll pray. Dear Lord, you've been so good to us. You've been sweet to us. Precious for us. So many, many times. We sure would like to count in some way that has eternal consequences. I pray that you'll help us in reaching out to other people. Maybe somebody across our path today to whom we can share the sweet and precious good old story. And reel them in, bring them to the Savior. Others, maybe we can put our arm around and encourage them and strengthen them in their faith Help us, I pray, dear Lord, help us, please help us to be runners and to run and run and run. I pray that it shall be so in Jesus' name. Amen.