If you would turn there in your Bibles with me, Jonah chapter one. I've been looking forward to this study uh for a month or so now. It's kind of the last minute the Lord's laid on my heart. I've been wanting to do a study of Jonah for a long time and just never fit in anywhere, never felt led. And then uh uh about a month ago Uh just felt like, all right, this is a good time to do it. So I'm I'm excited about this. I hope you'll enjoy our study of the book of Jonah. While you're finding Jonah chapter one, they're in the minor prophets, towards the Well into the second half of your Old Testament. Uh I saw somewhere somebody had posted on the internet that um the one of the good things about being over forty was that we got did all our stupid stuff before the internet was around and uh pe people don't know about it as much as now. So anyway, I thought that was cute. Look at verse one of Jonah chapter one. Now the word of the Lord came unto Jonah, the son of Amitai, saying, Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry against it, for their wickedness is come up before me. What I want to do tonight is I'm not really going to preach a sermon. I want to give you, I want to give some background on the book of Jonah, a little bit about Jonah himself, about what was going on in the world at that time. uh Israel's condition a little bit and I really believe that tonight the information that we have tonight about Jonah will really help us appreciate what's taking place in the book of Jonah. I think it'll help explain some of Jonah's actions and uh also understand Uh why his message when he got to Nineveh, if you're familiar with the story, I think most of you are, he got to Nineveh and he said, Yet forty days and Nineveh will be destroyed, and the whole city gets saved like that And how do they respond so rapidly to his message? I think we'll have some of that give us a little insight tonight. So let's have a word of prayer. And I'll try and give some information here. Father, bless uh our study now as we begin this little book here, very well known. Uh we all know what the story is, and uh but I pray you'd help us to glean from this book and um apply to our lives uh truths here. You've given this for uh our admonition and our correction and instruction. And so fill me with your spirit, I pray, Lord. You're the author, I'm not And so I pray you would uh speak through me and teach us tonight, Lord, I ask. In Jesus' name, amen. I like to say that Jonah is a small book with a big message. In fact, I got adding up. There's four chapters. That's obvious. I took all the verses. There's only 48 verses in the book of Jonah. Now I read several of these and I timed myself reading a verse, and you can read the average verse in the book of Jonah, you can read easily in less than five seconds to read that verse. Just to read down through their average speed. So you figure that out, it comes out, you can read the entire book of Jonah, according to my figures, uh, in about five minutes. You can sit down, read that thing through, just read straight through, maybe uh a little under ten. It's not a very big book. It's not a whole lot to it, but it does have a big message. I put a little outline by way of introduction, then I have another outline that is the main message of the introduction So you'll like this, Sandy. Ready? First of all, the book of Jonah is controversial to those who doubt its inspiration, who those who doubt the inspiration of Scripture Uh for you and I as Bible believers, there's no controversy about who the author is. There's no controversy about uh the whale, him being swallowed by a whale, and and uh the dates and the events taking place. It's not a controversy to us, but you start doubting and questioning Scripture, suddenly this becomes a key book. And it's one book that the liberals certainly like to attack and reject and those that doubt inspiration. So in some circles there's a bit of controversy around it. It's convicting to those who take its message seriously And I'll be very honest with you, I view Jonah completely different, the book of Jonah, I view it completely different now than what I did before I prepare began preparing for this series. God showed me something here, and I think uh uh it it will be helpful to all of us. So it's convicting to those that take this message seriously, as from God, for me it can become very convicting. And it's Christ-centered And I put that in that it is a picture. Jonah's experience with the whale is a picture of Christ's crucifixion, particularly his burial and his resurrection. And we'll see how that Jesus referenced Jonah when he was telling his disciples what was going to happen to him. You alright, Chester? Well that woke him up, I'll tell ya. He thought it was a snake biting a mare or something. But uh um Christ centered uh and Jesus used the events here of Jonah. Now here's the outline of a message only I forget. Two or three or nine points, I forget. But um first of all, I want to look at some particulars about this book. Uh a little bit of background uh uh for it. Anyone want to guess who the author of the book of Jonah is? Man, you guys are smart. Actually, the Bible doesn't tell us. Bible doesn't say who the author is. The skeptics reject Jonah as the author. It's interesting. Now get this. One of the reasons There's several, but one of the reasons they reject Jonah as the author is they say because it's given in the third person In other words, Jonah is referred to as Jonah and rather than I or me. And so they said Jonah couldn't have written it because it talks in the third person. Well, that's dumb. Uh there's a lot of books in the Bible that are used, they use the third person. Uh it's pretty most people agree that Moses was the human penman of the Pentateuch, first five books of the Bible And he's referred to in third person all through there. Solomon in Ecclesiastes and in various places, um Song of Solomon Ecclesiastes, I guess, he refers to himself in the third person. So it's not strange that Jonah would record this story from at from the third person. But if you notice in chapter 2, verses um Uh let me see, I have them written down here. Verses 2 through 9. Um, you know, Jonah actually refers to the first person. And uh he is in the belly of the whale, and he's giving that account as somebody that was giving a very accurate account of what happened to them And so everything in the book points to Jonah being the author of the book. We have no reason to believe otherwise. uh that uh Jonah was the author of the book. So that's not a problem for us. One thing interesting about that, Jonah is writing this, of course under the inspiration of God, but he's writing this about himself And it's interesting, he doesn't present himself to be something he isn't. He gives it, he records all his faults. He records his selfishness. He records his rebellion against God. He records his immaturity. There's boy the last chapter of the book. There's a lot of immaturity going on on the part of Jonah And um selfishness and all these things. He it this book does not paint a very pretty picture of Jonah. Now if I was going to write a story about me, and you've noticed this in my illustrations, I'm always the hero in the illustrations, you know, and Tom is always the goat, you know, and I'm the hero. And and uh if I was gonna write a story of myself, I'd Paint it up a little bit, you know, but not Jonah. And that's characteristic of Scripture. You know, the Bible does not paint a very pretty picture of mankind From Genesis all the way to Revelation, man is given in Scripture as we really are, as sinners desperately wicked and deceitful. And so we have here uh uh not a real pretty picture of Jonah but nevertheless he's writing under the inspiration of God at the direction of God And uh we uh are confident that he is actually the human penman. There's a danger, I want to say this, about him being true to himself and and recording himself here as he really is. Um There's a danger in thinking of ourselves to be better Christians than we really are. And sometimes we get that in our head. And you know I got looking through scripture. I didn't go into it in depth, but I got looking through scripture And you know, the only people God used were people who realized they were sinners. Where people realized, I like what Paul says in 2 Corinthians. He says, not that we are sufficient of ourselves But our sufficiency is what? Of Christ, is what he says. And Paul was saying, listen, what God is doing isn't because I'm something, not because and that word sufficient there, not that we are sufficient of ourselves. The idea behind that word is the same as we get our word competent. Paul was basically saying there, listen, I'm not competent for what this is doing. I'm not up to it. I don't have what it takes But God is doing it through me. And that's what we see here in Jonah. We see that it wasn't Jonah, a great man of God, a mature, strong in faith. Wasn't that at all It was God working through failed human beings, flawed humanity. And so uh uh if God's going to use us, we need to see ourselves as we really are And see Christ for what he really is. So the author here, we are convinced, it's Jonah. Why is this book placed in what we call the minor prophets? You have Daniel and then on through the end of the book. Some folks put Daniel in the major prophets, others have him in the minor prophets, but these last books of the Old Testament They're referred to as the minor prophets. The reason we use the word minor is because they're smaller in content than what the major prophets are, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, those are large books, 60, 70, uh, 60, 50, 60 chapters. Uh where the minor prophets, four, ten, twelve, fourteen, I think Hosea has. And uh so but they're all prophetic in nature, except the book of Jonah Jonah is not prophetic in nature. It is historical. It is an account of Jonah's experience. And so on the surface, it looks like it's a mistake to have Jonah in with these prophetic books. The ancient Jews were told that they had Jonah back in the history books, Kings, back in there, first 2 Samuel, back in where you have the history recorded, Nehemiah Uh but uh we have it in the in the uh prophetic books. I think um several reasons. I put I think there's two reasons it's here. First of all is because it's biblical in it uh it's uh biblical prophecy, because of what prophecy is biblically is what I'm trying to say. What do we think of when we hear of a prophet What do we think of that guy doing? Okay? He predicting the future. We think of something future Oh boy, he's prophesying. He's gonna pre- he's telling what the future holds. The biblical biblical prophecy is not limited To foretelling the future. Biblical prophecy also includes what we call forthelling the Word of God. The Old Testament prophets they did a whole lot more than just declare what was going to happen. They also told the folks, hey, this is the way it is Uh this is the truth. They were forth telling. The New Testament references prophets. Now, I don't believe there's the office of a prophet anymore. I think when the Bible was completed, that was going aside. But the Bible talks a New Testament speaks about prophets and being a prophet. In other words, just simply proclaiming the word of God with authority. Part of the role of a prophet was God would reveal, give revelation to them, and they would declare it. Not just prophetic revelation, but just current. So I think it's the nature of prophecy is not limited to foretelling the future, but is also uh just simply giving out the word of God. God, Jonah had a message. From God to the i to the Ninevites. And also to Israel, we're going to see. This whole book is a message to Israel. And for you and I. So one is the biblical definition of prophecy, and there is a prophetic nature in the sense that he is used as a picture of the resurrection of Christ. And so there's various reasons there. I'm just giving you some uh little details here and different characteristics and particulars about the book. What about the occasion of Jonah? Why uh when was this book written The answer is we don't know exactly. But we do know it was written at or around the reign of Jeroboam II. That was about 150 years after Israel split up. After the breakdown, after Solomon and Israel broke up into two parts, Israel in the north, Judah and the south. Jonah was out of the northern kingdom under Jeroboam II, and uh so it was in that time frame, and we'll give you some scripture for that here in a minute. Now, what about Nineveh? This is where it gets interesting, and this is where We begin to understand the book a little bit more. Nineveh was a city of Assyria. At one time it was the largest city in the world. Now I don't know that that's the case during Jonah's time, but It was declared at one point in its history. It was the largest city in the world. So this is not some this is not some rinky dink town. This town, this city is bigger than Oakland Alright, so it's it's good size. Kathy's cousin uh came up first time years ago. They live he lives in Richwood, West Virginia, which is where Kathy grew up, and they hair fat I hope this isn't on the internet. But um her family they n everybody's listening now. Uh they never get out of their county and never get out of town. So he came up and visited and he went back and told his mom, Man, that's a big city up there in Oakland. And so Nineveh's bigger than Oakland. And uh but it was a one one time one of the largest cities in the world The Assyrians, they had their government. Now this I'm going somewhere with this. Their government was a military monarchy. Now what does that mean? It means there was no civilian government, no separation between a civilian government and the military. The military was the government And the king was a warrior. He was he there was one and the same. And so you can imagine the authoritarian mentality that their government would have Um uh all men, regardless of their class, distinction, they were compelled to serve in the military. All men had to. Um history books tell us that the Assyrians in general were intensely cruel. They were ferocious in war and uh stern disciplinar disciplinarians and um uh they practiced polytheism, they were pagan, they worshipped all kinds of gods, idols, they had uh I forget the name of the one god, Ithhmus, uh I think was the one. And anyway, they were very, very pagan. Their reputation was fierce. Everybody, all the nations of the world hated the Assyrians during this period of time. One hit uh one book I read about them, uh one uh website I went to was telling me about 'em. It said they were deemed the most warlike empire in all of history. So we're getting a picture of the city and this nation that Jonah's called of God to go to Um their chicken their cruelty and their domination by terror is unsurpassed at any point in history. Their very name became a byword for cruelty and atrocity. This was their policy Their policy was to deport conquered peoples to other lands within their empire, destroy their sense of nationalism, break any pride or any hope of rebellion and uh replace them uh with strangers from far away. So they just broke their will. Listen to this. When they took prisoners, their practice was to skin their prisoners while they were still alive This is what they're known as. They were known to cut off various body parts to inspire terror in their enemies. The records of Assyrian officials uh include pulling out tongues, displaying mounds of human skulls, And the whole purpose of this was to have horror, to strike horror in their enemies and to uh uh to uh extort their wealth from them. Um did everybody eat eat before you came? So I was just trying to help you. No nation in the pages of history is more bloody than the nation of Assyrians The Hebrews and other nations, but the Hebrews in particular hated the Assyrians. They despised them. And absolute hostility towards them. And so there you have this nation. Now think about that. That is who Jonah is called to go to. Despised, violent. Um can you think of any people group and nation or people group in our day and age that would come even remotely close to this? Yeah, you think of the Muslims. Oh well Hitler, yeah, back in his day. But nowadays you think of the Muslims, you think of the Islamic terrorists, and you think of just horrendous things. As I was reading this, I thought, remember Daniel Perl Pearl, uh the the reporter they captured, sawed his head off right on TV. And so that's the mentality. Can you imagine a huge, powerful nation that is just violent, perversely violent? And God would call you to go to that nation as a missionary. Now that's getting close to being in Jonah's shoes. What was the condition of Israel at Jonah's time? I mean, were they on fire for God? Were they just strong in faith? And boy, God's called us to go. We're going to go to these foreign nations. We're going to take the message of Jehovah uh and salvation the coming Messiah we're gonna take it into all the world no Israel was getting farther and farther and farther away from God under Jeroboam they had a little bit of prosperity going on And um uh they were expanding their uh country, the borders a little bit, but as far as spiritually concerned Israel was and this is the northern kingdom, so they weren't very spiritual at any point in their history. They had a few ups and downs, but mostly downs. Spiritually. And so Jonah is coming out as a man of God, a prophet of God. He is not coming out of Israel with a strong backing behind him With prayer partners standing behind him and supporting him on going to this field that God is calling him to. The exact opposite is the case. Israel was very immature spiritually, very worldly. They were taking on the lifestyles of the world around them. They were beginning, they were in the practice of worshiping these false gods all around them. They were abandoning Their relationship with the true and living God. So it's not a pretty picture. In fact, there's a little irony here, I think In that Israel's getting farther and farther and farther from God, and God calls Jonah to come over to this other nation that is absolutely in total darkness as far as the truth is concerned. And it's almost like God is saying, all right, listen, if you won't respond to my word, then I'm going to send my man over to a nation where they will. Which at this point they didn't understand that. Now here's something interesting, and and this is what helped me understand a little bit of Nineveh's response. To Jonah showing up, him just making a statement, yet 40 days and Nineveh shall be destroyed, and they all respond immediately in repentance and faith. I found this out. Now this we look to the history books, but I think this plays a role in this. Just before Jonah had shown up, and just in the years before he showed up, Assyria had been hit with a severe plague. I mean, it was devastating to their economy. Their people were hurting. There was an intense plague had had uh had uh hit their land. Also, just prior, according to history books, just prior to about the time when Jonah showed up, they had suffered one of their worst defeats in a war they had going on on the northern end of the ne of the of the nation. And they had suffered a very significant defeat. So they've got this plague that is just devastating. They have a very unusual but significant defeat in battle And so that has demoralized the people a little bit. Um there was the one history book, there was major breakouts of dissension among the people. I mean, they were really getting aggravated with their authorities. And so there's civil unrest, there's an economic crisis going on, their military has suffered a significant defeat, and get this: there is a solar eclipse. takes place just prior, some time prior to Jonah showing up, according to the history books. So this really strange thing is going on in the sky. The one author I was reading, he said that the Assyrians took that as a really bad omen. That they went through the solar eclipse. So you put all of those together, and what is happening to this nation? They are they're being shaken. Their confidence in themselves and in their gods is really shaken. And Jonah shows up, all this stuff is going on, and Jonah shows up and says, Hey folks, 40 days, you're going to be destroyed. And boy, that clicked. And that struck a nerve, and that pierced their heart. Now, what's happening here? Can I give you my take on it? My take on it: God was preparing the soil. God was working in that nation. God was breaking them down and getting them to see that their confidence in themselves and in their strength and their cruelty and their pagan gods was not enough. And God was shaking their confidence. And you know what I found to be true? That same thing that God was doing in the nation of Syria is what he does in the hearts and lives of people he's trying to reach He breaks people down. He shakes their confidence. I look back to the just before I got saved and man every everything was great and cool and going good. And suddenly God began turning things upside down. I started seeing a man alive. I need something I need God. And I am convinced there is no doubt in my mind that there are people in our community I mean, within our area here, within our realm of influence, I am convinced that there are people that God is working in their lives. And God is shaking them and trying to get their attention. And all he needs is a Jonah to come by and tell them the truth of God's word. And I think they'll respond to it. Who was I talking with somebody just recently that had led someone to Christ and they I think it was down in Piedmont. Was it you sending you guys? And said the guy was just ready uh that boy and uh and Tammy and Cindy and they came back and they said man the it's like the guy was just waiting for somebody to come by and tell him how to be safe And that's almost the way I see Nineveh. They were just rattled and shattered and broken, this mighty nation that everybody was scared to death of. And Jonah shows up and they were just right for the message. And God had been working there. God had been preparing. You know what that tells me? There was very little on Jonah's part to do to prepare that nation for the message. All Jonah had to do was deliver the message. God was already doing his part. And isn't that the way it is for you and I as soul winners? That's the way it is. Uh many times for us. We just need to get out. God's doing his part. God is working out there. God is I think God's working in our nation. I think God's shaking our nation and what God needs is God's people to rise up and be what we ought to be and do what we ought to do and God could turn this thing around. And so I I looked at this and I thought that makes sense God is working in the in the in the nations and God is developing them. And so uh that explains a little bit when Jonah shows up and Man alive, there's such a positive response. Um God was preparing them. Uh now what about that's so that's the particulars behind the book and the some of the events there What about Jonah himself? What do we know about this guy? To be honest with you, we don't know much about him at all. The most we have about him is here in the book of Jonah. His name means dove I don't know what the significance of that. I tried to figure out. I don't know. Whales eat doves, I guess. I don't know what the significance there. His daddy, look at verse 1. It says, now the word of the Lord came unto Jonah the son of Amittai. And uh his name means truth. To be honest with you, I don't know the significance of that. Uh Jonah is only mentioned a few times in the Bible, as I said, obviously here in the book of Jonah. I would like you to turn though to one other place that Jonah's mentioned back in the book of 2 Kings. If you would turn there real quickly with me It gives us a little insight here onto this guy named Jonah. Something we wouldn't pick up in the book of Jonah itself. Go back to 2 Kings chapter 14 Second Kings 14. And I want to begin reading in verse 23. We'll go a few verses before Jonah's actually mentioned. But I want to get the context here. Jonah chapter 14, I'm going to begin reading in verse 23. In the fifteenth year of Amaziah, the son of Joash, king of Judah, that's the southern kingdom Jeroboam, the son of Joash, king of Israel, northern kingdom, began to reign in Samaria and reigned forty and one year. So this is the second Jeroboam that reigns, Jeroboam the second And that's who's referenced here. Look what it tells us about the king of the northern kingdom, what he was like, what his reign was like. And he did that which was what? Evil in the sight of the Lord. He departed not from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin. He restored the coast of Israel from the entering of Hamath unto the sea of the plain, according to the word of the Lord of Israel, which he spake by the hand of his servant Jonah, the son of Amitei, the prophet which was of Gath For the Lord saw the affliction of Israel, that it was very bitter, for there was not any shut up, nor any left, nor any helper for Israel And the Lord said not that he would blot out the name of Israel from under heaven, but he saved them by the hand of Jeroboam, the son of Joash. So he's a very wicked king. God is working in the nation, and he's using Jonah. To preach to his nation, to this group of people. And Jonah is faithful to God's call. And Jonah is preaching a very unpopular message. These are God's people. They're doing that which is evil in the sight of the Lord. Jonah is confronting them under the Hand of God, the call of God, and he is doing his job as a prophet of God. And he, my impression in reading that short person of scripture there, he's successful. He is successfully communicating the message God has for the Northern Kingdom. So he's referenced here What does this tell me? Well, let me give you the other references, and then I'll come back and tell you my conclusion. He's also referenced, and we won't turn to these, but in Matthew chapter 12 and chapter 16, and in Luke chapter 11, Jonah is mentioned. And of course that's where Christ refers to him as uh an example, an illustration of just like Jonah was three days in the whale's bellies, even so the Son of Man. uh must be three days in the in the the belly of the earth. So what do we what do we glean from this? Particularly the second Kings passage. What does this tell us about Jonah? This is my conclusion Jonah, when we get to the book of Jonah, when he's called to go to Nineveh, he is not a novice. He's not some young preacher boy just getting out of prophets, school the prophets, and God calling him there, and he's saying, Oh no, no, I'm not going to go. Jonah's been around for a while. Jonah is a seasoned and successful prophet of God. And he was used to God at a very significant time in Israel's history, and he did exactly what God said And he said exactly what God told him to say, and it was and it had an effect. And so he has he has experience behind him. He is a veteran in this This office of being a prophet. And now, as a my impression, a seasoned veteran. He's been at this for a while. He's faced the ungodly nation, and boy, he boldly and courageously gave the word of God. Now God says, All right, I'm sending you to Assyria, to Nineveh. Huh. Um, God calls this veteran to a foreign field. I would imagine this is not what Jonah had in mind for his retirement. This is not the way he thought saw things to turn out. And so it's not like he's inexperienced. It's not like he doesn't know what God can do. It's not like he hasn't been around uh been in a this rodeo before. He knows exactly what's taken place when he's called to Nineveh He's walked with God for a while. Now it is interesting, he is the only person that I can think of and come up with in the Old Testament that was directly called to go to a foreign mission field. As far as I can tell, all the prophets and men of God in the Old Testament were called to Israel, called to Israel. Now, Israel's Responsibility was to be a witness in the older world. That was part of their job right from the get-go when God told Abraham, you're gonna be a A witness, all nations are going to be blessed because of you. Israel's responsibility as a nation was to take the message of Jehovah, the truth of Jehovah, into all the nations of the world, and they failed completely I mean they failed totally. And now God's calling Jonah to go over there. Now here's the question: why would he resist? I'm going to get through here and look at the details of his resistance, but why would he immediately look what it says, verse 3, but Jonah rose up to flee. Uh unto Tarsius from the presence of the Lord. Why would he do that as a seasoned man of God? I think there's several reasons. I came up with three. One was perhaps the cruelty of the Assyrians. It's like, man alive, I go over there, they're gonna skin me alive. They're gonna cut my tongue out. And uh, you know, they're gonna do all these horrible things to me. Now, to be honest with you, I could be wrong. I was thought I was wrong one other time, but I was mistaken But um I could be wrong, but I just don't see that being a major factor in Jonah's experience. He's been around a while. He knows what God can do. He's faced the wrath of God's people that are not right with God. I tell you, some of the meanest people in the world are Christians who are not right with God. So that may be a factor, no doubt it is, but I have a hard time believing that's what kept him from wanting to go there. He he knew the God of Israel, he knew the true and living God. God can handle these people. But that may have been a factor. Here's what I think. I think one major factor was maybe it was the rejection of his own people. Israel hated these people. Israel's not right with God. They're not seeing his call from God's perspective. They're seeing it from a nationalistic pride. And what would Jonah be viewed as if he's going over there and trying to befriend and go over there and preach and win these people? What would he be viewed as by his own people? A traitor. Jeremiah was accused of the same thing. And I'm speculating here, but I'm wondering if Jonah, he loved God's people. Those were the ones that his life he had been called to minister to. And if he goes and answered God's call and goes over these heathen, his own people are going to turn on him. And that may have been a factor. I think there's another factor that plays in here. The uniqueness of this call. No one else was being called particularly and directly to go do what Jonah is being called to do. And even though this was God's intention for Israel the whole time, the whole nation was to be doing this. This is very unique. And there's a lot of difficulties involved in this that he perceives Now, does any of that pan out? As we we've read the book, we know how it turns out. Do any of his worries turn out? Does the serious skin him alive? No. Do his people turn on him? No, not at all. In fact, it's good for Israel that these people get right with God. Does he have any of these perceived difficulties? I'm the only one doing it. This is new territory. This is this is pioneer work. I'm not cut out for this. No, everything falls together beautifully in spite of his resistance. And so all his fears are unfounded. All his reasoning, whatever his reasoning was, it was unfounded. And he was wrong in resisting the call of God to go to the mission field. And all the excuses he could come up with, and we're speculating on these, but obviously he had some. All the reasons he had why he should not do this were completely unfounded. And God had already been working there. God had everything in place. Get this. This will blow your mind. God knew what he was doing. How about that? And what about us? God calls us to do something. Maybe something we've never done before. Maybe something not many other people are doing. And what do we immediately do? We come up with reasons why we can't do that, right? Am I right or wrong? Oh, I could never do that. Oh, I could never go out and knock on doors and talk to people. Do it. Nobody else, hardly anybody else in church is doing that They'll probably skin me alive when I knock on that door and cut my tongue out. And then all my friends at church will be mad at me because I don't have a tongue. I can't talk to them. I've been Solwyn in a long time, Brother Coblands can testify. I don't yet have any seen anybody get their tongue cut out yet at Solwyn. You know I have found I've found some people that resisted, sure. You know, I've found a lot of times a knock on the door and people say, boy, you know, I'm really glad you came by. So all of Jonah's reasoning that we're speculating that we can come up with why he's going to do this, none of it panned down. God's call is not always appreciated or understood by God's people What would Israel think of Jonah if he goes over there? What would they think of me? They're going to think I'm crazy, they're going to think I'm extremists, they're going to think I'm nuts. Wait a minute. If God's called you, it doesn't matter what people think. I'm convinced there are a lot of people that should be in the ministry. in one form or another, but are not because they're worried about what their family will say. I'm telling you, if a mom or dad or a grandparent or grandmother or grandparent for that as far as that goes keeps a young person from answering the call in their life, that is wrong It is a great pri it would be a great it is a great privilege for Israel to have Jonah go to Nineveh representing Jehovah. And it is a great privilege for you and I, for one of our children to be called of God to go to Kazakhstan or somewhere. We should stand behind that. Or for us going. I am convinced, I am absolutely convinced, that there are more people called to the mission field than what are going. There is no way in the world you're going to convince me out of how many million Christians, out of how many million independent fundamental Baptists, there's got to be a million or more. That there's only two called of God to go to Kazakhstan. I don't believe that for one minute. That we have whole nations in our world that don't even have the scriptures in their language, let alone somebody there working with them. You're not telling me that God's not calling people there. I know He is. But we've got too many Jonas that have all these excuses and all these reasons why we can't do what God has called us to do. I have a hard time listen, I I I don't have I can't answer. I'm not so I don't God's not calling me to answer for other churches. Only church I can answer for is Mount Lake Independent church. But I have a hard time believing that our church is the only one in Garrett County that's called to go and knock on doors and share the gospel with people. But where are they? I I am I've been here twenty years in in four honesty. In twelve days, I'll be here twenty years. The only people that have ever knocked on my door are Mormons and Jehovah's Witnesses. I have never had a Christian from another church come by and knock on my door Tell me the gospel. Now maybe it's because they know I'm the pastor. That may be a reason. Has anybody here ever had a Christian from another church come by and knock on your door and share the gospel with you? So God is calling people. You guys ruined my illustration. Keep your mouth shut next time. But I'm convinced God is calling people. to the mission field, to soul winning, and um we're just not doing it. Last of all, I put this, and I'll end with this. What's the purpose of the book? Why in the world did God give us this book? I tell you, in studying it, I've changed my whole approach. I see this book completely different than what I ever did before. To me, it was a cool story of a carnal preacher. and a big fish and a city gets saved. That's all it was. You know what I think it is? I've come to the conclusion the book of Jonah is a mini manual on foreign missions. I think God is showing us here how to recognize and answer the call of God to the mission field. I think that's what it's for. I think it was for Israel and for us. I think it's a rebuke. I think God put this book in here as a rebuke to disobedient and selfish Christians. If there's anything Jonah was, he was two things. He was disobedient and he was selfish. God dealt with the disobedience in the second part, and then God dealt with the selfishness in the last chapter. The second chapter and the last chapter. Disobedient, rebellious, whatever term you want to use, and selfish. And then of course it's a historical picture for Christ's resurrection. I think it laid a platform that Christ could reference back to to illustrate to his disciples what was about to happen to him. And of course, that factors in to the reason God gave us the book. What's my conclusion after studying this? I am convinced, I am convinced, I am convinced. That God is calling more people to the mission field than what are going. I think that's illustrated here, and I think we can look at our situation worldwide and come to that same conclusion. Thank God for those who are going. I get calls every week. Brother Koblenz no doubt gets calls every week and I tell them so often, I say, I wish I could bring through everyone that's true to the Word of God. I wish I could bring every one of you through. And support you at five hundred dollars a month. But we can't. We're gonna do everything we can. We're gonna stretch ourselves. I'm gonna push it and and twist arms and push this and push this and push this. We need to support more. But I'm convinced God is calling more than are going. And I'm convinced God is calling churches to support more than what they're supporting. This cause is too big. The need is too great for me to believe for one minute God isn't wanting more done. I see that from the book. Other thing I thought of as I was finishing this up, boy Jonah was pretty miserable. You know, you read through there, I don't see any point in four chapters where Jonah was happy. He was miserable. And I got thinking, I wonder maybe if that isn't why we have so many unhappy, miserable Christians. If we are doing what God calls us to do, it's because we have to. I had somebody years ago say, every wind every Sunday night, preacher, how many people read your Bible? I've got to read my Bible all week or preacher's gonna yes. I think they were being facetious, but I'm not convinced. I think they were pretty up And I'm wondering if maybe God isn't stirring our hearts to live for him and be a witness like he was Jonah and we're like Jonah, we resist it and we fuss it. And we're just unhappy and we're selfish and we're griping about this, that, and the other. When we could be joyfully serving the Lord if we say, Well, what an honor that God would call me What a privilege to go and tell people of Jesus Christ. What a privilege to teach his Sunday school class. But we view it as an obligation. When it's a tremendous privilege. And so I'm excited about this study. And uh I hope you are too. And uh you say, oh great, God's gonna call me to Kazakhstan or somewhere. He might, but he might not. But whatever he calls us to, it'll be good. Amen. Father, bless our study of this and apply it to our lives and help us to learn from Jonah That old preacher, God, I ask that you would uh help us to recognize your your leading in our lives and help us to submit joyfully. See what you could do, some great things. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, you know, whatever it may be, however little or whatever it may be, I want to be sensitive to God's leadership in my life. I don't want to be like Jonah. I'm just going to trust God that He's already working ahead of me, laying putting things in place. And whatever it may be I just gonna I want to be sensitive to the Lord and submissive to his leadership. Is there anybody that feels that way? I want to be submissive and sensitive to the Lord's leadership. God bless you. I tell you what, we have a church full of folks that that's the truth Brother, God can do something with us. Amen. Father, bless now, I ask, and help us to really be this way in Jesus' name. Let's stand again.