Difference between a victorious Christian, somebody that's walking with God and filled with the Spirit, and they're just Victorious in their Christian life, they have an effective influence on other people with the gospel, they have victory over uh various sins and whatnot. The difference between that person and the Christian that's defeated You know what I mean by that. They're not growing. They operate in the flesh. Sin is just has dominion over them. They don't have the joy of the Lord. They're frustrated. They're defeated. The difference between this Christian, the victorious Christian, and the defeated Christian, is not that the victorious Christian doesn't have sin to deal with and the defeated Christian has sin and he needs to deal with it. That's not the difference. Fact of the matter is, victorious Christian and defeated Christian both have to deal with sin. They both, we all have a sinful nature. We all live in a sinful world. We've all got to deal with sin. So the difference between the victorious Christian And the defeated Christian isn't that, well, this if I was him and I didn't have all that sin and everything, and I didn't have to deal with sin, I'd be victorious too. No, no, no. They both deal with sin They both have a corrupt heart. Both of them, their heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. They can't even know it. Both of them, if they trust in their own heart, they're foolish, the Bible says. So what is the difference? The difference is the victorious Christian, the spirit-filled Christian, the Christian that has the joy of the Lord and has a positive testimony for Christ is growing That Christian deals with their sin quickly and thoroughly. They don't let it go on. Sin comes up, boom, I deal with it, I deal with it thoroughly, take care of it, go on and grow The defeated Christian, what they do when sin comes up, they'll try and justify it, try and excuse it. They'll try and cover it up. What does the Bible say in Proverbs? I think it's 28-13. He that covereth his sin shall not prosper. It's not going to grow, it's not going to grow. But he that confesseth and forsaketh shall find mercy. The defeated Christian, rather than dealing with his sin, rather than dealing with that sinful attitude Rather than dealing with that uh sinful action or habit or whatever, without dealing with it, maybe they put it off, they'll excuse it, they'll justify it, they'll ignore it, they'll deny it They won't deal with it. And so the difference here is how we respond to sin. Fact of the matter is, I can be a victorious Christian. I don't have to be defeated. Uh our teenagers, they can be victorious Christians. They don't have to be worldly. They don't have to be defeated. They don't have to have sins eating them up and eating them alive. They can be victorious Uh grandma and grandpa, they can be victorious, happy, spirit-filled, joy-filled Christians. Don't have to be. You know one thing I'm afraid of? I don't want to get old and get crouchy. You know, I've known people like that. Nobody here is like that. But uh I've known other people. And uh I don't want to be that. I want to be spirit filled. I want to have the joy of the Lord right on all the way through. Can I get an amen there on that? So re whether it's a teenager or whether it's grandma or grandpa, we don't have to be defeated. We don't have to be uh we can be victorious Christians, we can be spirit-filled Christians, we can uh conquer the world and the flesh and the devil. But we have to deal with sin. Now here's the thing, and I'm leading up to something here with Jonah. Sin has a progressive nature to it. Sin often will start very small. It'll be a thought. It'll be just a little indulgence here, a little neglect there A little uh letting slide here. But sin always has a progressive nature. It always comes starts small, but when tolerated, when not dealt with. Either at all or not thoroughly, it grows and it grows and it grows and it grows Take your Bible with Wood. Now keep your place here in Jonah. I want to show you this from scripture. Turn to Psalms 19. Boy, Brother Ken Lake preached Sunday night and Monday night at the meeting. From Psalms 19. What a powerful message. And he didn't preach on this, but he read down through here. And uh when I was uh thinking of this message, uh boy, these verses fit right in here Psalms nineteen. Now when you think of Psalms nineteen, you think the heavens declare the glory of God, the firmament showeth any work. What a great uh passage on the testimony of creation. Then at the end of the song, he s he sh kind of shifts gears and he points out the progressive nature of sin. Look with at verse number 12 with me if you would Now he's been talking about the Word of God the last few verses. Verse 11 he says, Moreover, by them the Word of God is the servant warned, and keeping of them there's great reward. Now look at this. Who can understand his errors? Now watch. Cleanse thou me from, what's the next two words? Secret faults. What would you what would you think he means when he uses that reference secret faults? What would he be talking about there? Anybody that he looks the health. It he's sinning but he doesn't know it's Okay. Could be. Something that's hidden? Aha. I think what he's talking about here is the secret thoughts. Notice what he says. Now look at the wording here. He says, Cleanse thou me from secret thoughts. These are sins. These are Attitudes, maybe decisions I made, actions I've taken that are not public. They may just be in the mind at this point. They may just be a wicked thought. It may just be evil imaginations. Proverbs talks a lot about that. And it's not something that has uh fruitated. That's not a word, is it? That's a good word. Uh it's not something that has manifest itself for uh what is it, Ronnie? Did you say Oh. Sorry, I didn't mean to wake. Um mature. Mature, that's what I'm looking for. It's a sin that's there. It's a genuine, legitimate sin. It's there. I think I'm aware of it, but I'm hiding it. I'm keeping it secret. Now, what does he ask God to do with that secret sin, that sin I'm hiding? It's there, it's happened, I I've got it in here, but nobody knows about it, but it's there. What does he want God to do to that? Cleanse it. I put in the margin my Bible when to deal with sin. When it's still there, when it's still here, deal with it then. Cleanse it, get it out, repent, forsake it, get it out. Because look at the next verse. Keep back thy servant also from what's the next two words? Presumptuous sins. See, this is what I think he's saying. If I have these secret faults, if I have that thing, that thought, that little deed I've done, that little attitude I've entertained, that little uh indulgence I've given into, whatever it may be, it's not public, it's not Matured, fruitated. Um I like that word. I'm gonna use that. Uh it's not it's not matured, it's not uh born uh uh it's not uh matured But if I don't deal with it, then it becomes a presumptuous sin. Then suddenly it's uh okay, well, you know, I can get away with this. I think this would go to the next level. This would be alright. I'm going to take another step in this direction. That thought, that idea, that fantasy. I'm going to try and see if I can't carry that out a little bit. And I get presumptuous about it. Notice the stage. I circled that word secret faults and I circled the word presumptuous sins. I drew a line because I think one leads to the other. If I'm no deal with it when there's secret faults The next stage is going to lead to presumptuous sin. Now look. Keep back thy servant from presumptuous sins. Let them not have dominion over me. Then shall I be upright. Look at this. And I shall be innocent from the what? Great transgression. Here is where the sin is just full-blown. It has absolutely taken over. It's destroyed my life. It is a great transgression. I have made a mess. I don't know how many times I work with people that said something like this. I'm trying to help you. They'll say something like this. I never dreamed it would be We'd go this far. You ever hear that? Have you ever been in that shape? I know, you know, it just seems so innocent enough to begin with. It just seems so insignificant at the beginning. It just seemed so uh just seemed like it really wasn't anything at the beginning, but I didn't deal with it. I let it go. And now here I am. I have such a mess on my hands. There is a progressive nature to sin. And so you have the victorious Christianity. and you have the defeated Christian. What's the difference between these two? The defeated Christian, when that secret fault is there, when the thought comes, a little slip is made, the word is spoken, the attitude comes He says, wait a minute, wait a minute. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. It's wrong. Lord, cleanse me. I come to God. God, that thought was evil. God, that that word was unkind. I confess it. I forsake it. I get it out. That's the victorious Christian. The defeated Christian says, eh, nobody saw it. Nobody knows about that. Hmm. You know, I got away with that, and there weren't any consequences, the lightning didn't strike me, and then I become presumptuous with it. The next thing I know my whole life is destroyed, I'm defeated. I never dreamed I'd end up this way And so the victorious Christian deals with the secret faults. He deals with them right away. He keeps this is the way you ever hear a preacher say something like this, keep short accounts with God. Anyone ever hear that? That's what he's talking about. Saying don't let it grow, don't let it develop, don't let it progress, mature. And so we see this here. Now you say, what does that have to do with Jonah? You look at Jonah in chapter 1, the beginning verses of chapter 1, God calls him to go to Nineveh, and Jonah, he doesn't argue with God. He doesn't he's not disrespectful to God right out front. He's not he's not accusing God or anything. He's not throwing anything in God's face. He just says, well, I'll go another way. I want to suggest to you that's his secret fault. In fact, when he got on the boat and he's heading the Tarshis, none of those sailors knew what he was up to. It was a it was a secret. Nobody knew he was running from God at that point. Nobody knew he was disobedient. Nobody knew he was rebelling against God. It was a secret fault. And I said this back when we got we're on that part of the passage. If Jonah would have got on his knees in the midst of that storm, confessed his sin. Forsaken it had them taken back, this would be a whole different story. But he did it. And he didn't deal with that sin, and God had to chasten him and work with him. We'll talk about that in a minute. And one thing led to another. Now you get to the end of Jonah. And man alive. I see Jonah talking to God in such a disrespectful way. I find very few people in the Bible talking to God the way Jonah's talking to God at the end here. I mean, he is absolutely throwing it back in God's face. There is no humility here. There is no submission here. There is no acknowledgement of God's authority and God being God. Jonah is standing up, so to speak, face to face with God, and saying, Yeah, that's how it is, God. Wow. How do you get from point A to point B? It's not dealing with sin. It's not dealing with it. If he would have dealt with it in the beginning, this would be a whole different story. So I want to give three thoughts here from these verses here real quick. Number one I put this down. Notice the Lord's persistent confrontation of Jonah. All through the book, all through this record, and by the way, this is an actual real event. Took place. This is a literal record of an historical event. Amen? There ain't any problem with that. And all through this event, what do we find God doing? He's confronting Jonah. He's confronting Jonah. He's confronting Jonah. God does not give up on his people. All through there. Jonah is progressing farther and farther and farther into this. Rebellious frame of mind. The whole way along, God is fighting them. God is fighting them. God is putting up roadblocks, trying to keep Jonah from getting to this state that he's in at the end of the book. And Jonah fights his way through it. He put a roadblock of a storm up. He put a roadblock of a whale there. Now he puts a roadblock of the wind and the s and uh the harsh we uh uh the dry and and the sun beating down. God's doing God's confronting them, confronting them, confronting them, confronting them. God doesn't give up on us. I don't know about you, but I'm glad God doesn't give up on us How many people look back in your life and say, you know, if God hadn't stepped in and brought conviction there, I'd be in a mess right now. Anyone give witness? I look back a number of times. I remember shortly after I got saved, and I've told this uh uh on on occasion over the years, um I was going a certain direction with my life. It wasn't sinful, there's nothing wrong with it in any way But I knew it wasn't God's will. God was leading me off to Bible college and I didn't know at the time, but eventually called me into the ministry. Looking back now, I can see what God was doing. But I had my mind set on another direction just a few months, six months after I got saved. Not sinful. It's not the will of God. And maybe I would be under conviction. And my argument was, God, there's nothing wrong with this. And the answer back was, it's not my will. But God, there's nothing wrong with this, but it's not my will. I still remember very clearly, late one evening, I was driving home and some drunk came through its stop sign, just plowed right into the side of my nice Toyota Selica, one year old car, had vital roof, five speed, air conditioning. Back in those days, that was something when you had air conditioning. I I mean just plowed into that thing. That thing spun around. I went several times around and by the time that thing stopped I was facing the wrong way and uh in the lane I was in, racing the wrong direction. And when that thing stopped, I knew that moment, God was confronting me about the direction I was going. And behind that, they didn't have um Wind ba wind ba not windbag. Airbags. They had windbags but not. They didn't have airbags, Charlie. And uh so I sat there, you know, it was shooking up and there's glass all over me. And I I I said, Lord, you're right, I'm wrong. I'm gonna trust you. That was God intervening. God intervening. I uh I wonder, I look back and I wonder, what if I what if I had said no God, I don't care what you say, I'm going to do my will. Where would I be? So thank God He intervenes. Amen. At the time we're frustrated, at the time we don't like it. But man, God loves us and He wants to intervene. He doesn't leave us alone. Turn with me. We're going to go to another passage, then we're going to come back to Jonah and finish up there. Turn with me to Hebrews, would you, real quick? Man, I wish every Christian would get very familiar with Hebrews chapter 12. And the sooner after you're saved, you're familiar with this, the better, I think. I think one of the chief I think one of the primary evidences of a person's salvation is the chastisement of God. You say, uh, well, the evidence a person gets saved is that they don't sin. No, if any man says he has no sin, he's a liar. Yeah, we Christians deal with sin. How many folks have found that out? But the difference is a Christian doesn't get away with his sin, God chastens him. And that's the primary Look at Roman, uh Hebrews chapter 12, uh verse number five. And ye have forgotten the exhortation which speak unto you as unto what? Children. He's talking about the children of God, saved people. My son, despise not thou the chastening of the Lord, nor faint when thou art rebuked of him. Look at this. For whom the Lord what? Loveth, he chasteneth, and scourgeth. Man, that's tough. Scourgeth every son he receives. Scourgeth. Man, that's rough. That's like getting swallowed by a whale. You know, that's that's serious business. Read on. For whom the Lord loveth, he chasteth and scourges every son whom he receiveth. If ye endure chastening, God dealeth with you as with sons. For what son is he whom the father chasteneth not? And the answer to that rhetorical question is what? There is none. Any son that the father loves the son, he's going to chasten him. For what son is he whom the Father chasteneth and not? But if ye be without chastisement, if God's not confronting you about that sin, if God's not stepping in and putting roadblocks there and dealing with it and and trying to uh uh affect you. If uh if you be without chastisement, whereof all children of God are partakers. I don't like this word, to be honest with you. I don't use it But where he says, whereof all are partakers, then are ye pastors and not sons Wow. What's he saying? He's saying if a person claims to be saved, they claim to be a child of God. And they can sin. And they can rebel against God, and they can disregard the Word of God. And there's no chastisement in their life, fellas. There's no chastisement there. And God says their claim to be saved is an illegitimate claim. That's what the word bastard means, an illegitimate child. So, I'm saved. I can live in sin. I disregard the word of God. I do all these things. And there's I I claim to be saved, I should say. I disregard the word of God. I can just do whatever I want. There's no chastisement. God never steps in. God never confronts it. God never deals with it. I can just go on and doesn't bother me at all. No effect. No conviction of that. It's a good chance. I need to stop and re-examine my salvation. Because my Bible says if you're not if you don't have chastisement, then your claim to be a child of God is illegitimate. He goes on, he says, Furthermore, we have had fathers of our flesh which corrected us, and we gave them reverence Shall we much rather be in subjection unto the father of spirits and live? So what does this have to do with Jonah? This is what has to do with Jonah. Jonah's a saved man. He's a man of God, and God is not letting him get away with his stinky, rotten attitude and his rebellious decisions. And God just persistently steps in and confronts him and confronts him and confronts him. I got this. I get this from the book of Jonah. God loves Jonah. For whom he loveth, he chasteneth. Now listen, how many folks here are you sayed to know it? Say amen. God loves you and me too much to let us get away with stinky attitude. Amen or not? This is what we're being taught here. God will send whales, He'll send storms, He'll send gourds, He'll send worms. And he'll do what he needs to do to confront us and to face and to deal with it. Now, here's where I struggled a little bit. Because the book doesn't tell us how it turns out. It just ends. And we have no idea. How Jonah ended up. I do know this. The Bible teaches pretty clearly that there comes a point, even with God's children, that he says, all right. That's what you want, then I'll let it go. James speaks about a sin unto death. Where God says, alright, I'm not going to intervene anymore, I'm not going to do it anymore, I'm not going to do it, I'm just going to take you on home to heaven. If you're going to live that way as a child of God, you have my my name as a as uh my your I'm named as your father And you're going to live in such a way, I'll take you on home to God. Now listen, just every time a Christian dies, don't say, boy, they must have really been saying that. God took them to heaven. Don't say that. You don't know that. But I do know this, there's a point where God says, all right, is that what happened to Jonah? I don't know. We're not told. I kind of get the impression that God says, alright, I'm done with you. Paul had a big fear. He was scared to death that God would become a castaway. The idea is this: you've heard preachers say this: he'd be put on a shelf. Paul said, I don't ever want to get to the point where I fight God and I resist God and I fight his inner his chastisement and his confrontation of my life. I fight that so much where God finally says, alright I can't use you. I'm not going to deal with it anymore. I'll just set you aside. I'm going to go on to someone else. Paul did not want that to happen to him. Now it didn't. I don't see anywhere that's even remotely true with Paul. But I wonder about Jonah. Never hear from him. Jesus referenced his being in the belly of the whale three days and three nights. So, thank God. Thank God that God intervenes. Amen. And if I want to be a victorious Christian, if I don't want to end up like Jonah with a stinky attitude talking back to God, And what I need to do is deal with these sins right away when God confronts me, when it's right there, say, all right, you're right, God, I'm wrong. I submit to you, I'll go to minima, I'll do this, I'll stop that, I'll change this, I'll do whatever I need to do. God I don't want this to progress worse. And that's what we see happen to Jonah. So the first thing I notice here, praise the Lord, the Lord's persistent confrontation of Jonah. You know what my prayers is to God? God, don't give up on me God don't stop dealing with me. God, if I mess up, I want you to come and convict me and convict me hard. I've prayed this for years, and some of y'all maybe pray the same thing, something with this effect. Lord, keep me on a short leash Anybody here ever walk a dog and nobody's around or anything, you let that dog run out there, man that thing gets wrapped around here and up there and down in the sewer and eating a dead possum along the road and comes back reeking, the dog sick, throws up all over the living room. Anybody ever can I get a witness? Say that sounds like it happened to you. Uh yeah. Um not on the new carpet though. But uh But when you see something up ahead and there's a little dead pox in there and you're walking dog down, I pull that leash in. Or I keep them tight real close there. I don't want to mess up, getting all stinky and and messing themselves up Keep them on a short lease. That's what I pray to God. God, keep me on that short lease. Don't let me let these sins develop and go on. Keep me up close. Number two, I put this down. Not only are the Lord's persistent confrontation of Jonah, but we have Jonah's corrupted priorities. Look at verse 9 again. Come back there to Jonah. And God said to Jonah, Doest thou well to be angry? Then he asked that same question up in verse 4, remember? Then said the Lord, Doest thou well to be angry? But this time the Lord adds three words Uh doest thou well to be angry for the gourd? Jonah's Now I didn't mean it this way, I just saw it as I read my notes. Jonah's root problem was the gourd. That's pretty good, isn't it, Elizabeth? His root problem was actually this. Jonah was a proud man. And um his pride had gotten to the point, now listen to this. Now you say I would never do this. We do it all the time, I'm afraid His pride had gotten to the point where he was convinced he knew better about life than God did He had gotten to the point that he knew what should happen better than what God knew what should happen Now that's a bad position. That is a dangerous position for you and I to get into when we get to the point where we believe that I know what's better for my life than you do, God I know how my I know better what's right and wrong for me than you do, God. I'll tell you what that is, that's pride. That's what brought Satan down. Ah, I I know better God what's right and wrong than you do, and that's what Jonah's whole problem was He'd become so proud he had gotten to the point where he was convinced that he knew better than God. I'm afraid we've got churches full of people like that. And we come to the Word of God, and maybe we read in our devotions, or the preacher preaches a principle, a scripture, passage clearly And rather than saying, Lord, you know you're right, that's the way it is. Lord, you're right, that's what you say. I'm going to trust you. You know better about this than I do. And submitting to God and trusting him and obeying him We throw up our arguments, we throw, ah, yeah, well, you know, it doesn't apply to me, it's this, that, and the other. Man, we're in bad shape. And so Jonah, his pride, now I think this is, I want to say this is across the board. This is how it how it plays out. Pride produces misplaced priorities. When I become quote-unquote God of my life, and I'm calling the shots, and I'm deciding what's right and wrong, and I'm deciding what's good for me and what isn't. My priorities are going to get out of whack really quick. And Jonah's priorities got all out of whack to the point, did you catch this? Where a plant had priority over people. A gourd was more important to him than God's grace on these people. Can I put it this way? His truck patch was more important than the salvation of souls. Ouch. The physical aspects of his life became more important than the spiritual aspects. The temporal things, look what the Lord says there in verse 10 about this gourd. Thou hast had pity on the gourd. For which thou hast not labored, neither made it grow, it came up which came up in the night and perished in the night. What the Lord's going to great length saying, Jamna, this thing is nothing. It just came up, it died, it lived, it died, it's gone, it was temporary, it was physical, it has no value, and that is more important to you? Then the will of God for your life and the grace of God on people, seriously? I read this, I read verse 10 and 11, it's like God is incredulous. Jonah, is this what you're saying? That you having a little bit of pleasure, you having a little bit of comfort, you having a little bit of Your way is more important than my will for your life and the grace of God on other people that God want to use you to reach. And the sad thing is, we've got a whole world full of people dying and going to hell. And we're all worried about things that are absolutely meaningless. That in six months from now, we're going to completely forget about it. And we sacrifice the opportunity to fulfill the will of God and have an influence and see the grace of God Work through us in someone's life for something that is absolutely temporal. And God is laying it on Jonah here. I mean, he is rebuking him. His priorities are so out of whack. Can I tell you what God's highest priority, I believe, is, or at least one of his highest priorities, is expressing his mercy to mankind. Think about the book of Jonah. What was God trying to accomplish? He was trying to get the city of Nineveh to escape his judgment on them. That's what God's whole thing was all about. The storm, the boat, the whale, everything was getting his man To the place God wanted to be, so those people would have an opportunity to experience the mercy of God. That was God's number one priority in all of this. But Jonah's priorities did not line up with God's priorities. His priorities were out of whack. They were corrupted. And now even to the point where he's there wanting to die over this stupid gourd that lived and died in one day. It's interesting. Look at this. This is a part of the study, if you study this out. Verse 10. Then said the Lord, thou hast had pity on the gourd. Come down to verse 11. And should not I spare Nineveh? Pity, spare? Guess what? Same word. It's translated other places in our Bible. Have compassion on. I get this. Jonah had gotten so out of whack in his priorities, he loved that temporal physical gourd as much as God cared about the people in Nineveh. You say that's crazy. Who in the world would like a plant and love a plant as much as God loves people that are dying and on their way to hell? I tell you what, I think we got churches full of them We love our cars, we love our sports, we love this, we love our comfort, we'll do all of that Rather than and let God use us to influence others. I heard Curtis Hudson say years ago, he says, we will buy we will bu we'll borrow $150,000 to buy a house Why? Because owning that house is important to us. And I say amen. I think it's good to own a house. I think you should. We'll get up in the middle of the night, drop everything, middle of the night, throw on some clothes, and run the kids to the hospital when their temperature is 103, because it's important to us. It's a priority. He said, but we'll let people die and go to hell. We won't lift a finger and we won't give a dollar to missions Why not? Because it's not important to us. That was Jonah's problem. His priorities were so out of whack, this this plan that was temporal, physical. A week later he'd forget all about it. That was everything to him. And people dying. And the only way to hell needed the grace of God he could care less. He loved that thing as much as God loved those people. And his priorities were out of wild. God's highest priority is expressing mercy to mankind. Why do you think over and over and over the Bible says his mercy endureth forever? His mercy endureth forever. His mercy endureth forever means Read Psalms 118, His mercy endureth forever. And and uh one of the young men preached here the other Wednesday night. And uh and Asia Israel came out of Egypt and his mercy endureth forever. And Joshua led the Israelites, and his mercy endureth forever. And his mercy endureth forever. Then you read other passages And his mercy is everlasting. And his mercy is everlasting. You read uh you read um Lamentations and His mercies are new every morning. Because God, one of God's high priorities, is showing mercy to people. And Jonah's priorities were completely out of way. The salvation of a soul, I hope you get this, the salvation of a soul is higher priority than any material blessing. Amen or not. What's the song we sing? Could it be that up in heaven, God is sitting on his throne? Preparing something antier will soon become a and what's the name of the song? Value of one Value one, that whole song is saying this and a soul getting saved, more important than all this other stuff. Number one, God's persistent Confrontation of Jonah. God just keeps stepping in, keeps stepping in. Jonah I'm not going to leave you alone. You're out of way. You're progressing, uh going uh down a wrong road. I'm going to intervene, I'm going to do, I'm going to send a I'm going to send a whale, I'll send a storm, I'll send a gourd, I'll send a worm, I'll send a win. Jonah never deals with it. His his he's got to the point where his priorities are so out of whack. And then the last thing, notice the Lord's plane correction. Now here's the frustrating thing. We don't know how it affects Jonah. We don't know what happens. Look what God says. I read verse ten, Thou hast had pity on a gourd, for which thou hast not labored, neither madeest it grow, which came up in a night and perished. Do you see it the way I do? Doesn't it seem like God's going overboard to emphasize how meaningless this gourd is? Anybody see that? I mean it just goes on and on and on. Then he gets to verse eleven. And should not I spare Nineveh? That great city wherein are more than six, four thousand persons? That cannot discern between their right hand and their left hand. The difference in value between that DORD And the millions of people in Nineveh was incomparable. You couldn't compare the value of the two. God's saying, what in the world? There is six, four thousand persons that cannot discern between their right hand and their left hand. What's he talking about? I think he's talking about little children that don't know the difference between a right. They're so small, they haven't even gotten to the point where they know the difference between a right and a left. They're like Austin's age. And uh no, I'm teasing Austin. I was just teasing He knows the difference between his right hand and left hand. Um that wasn't very nice, was it? Well I never said I was a nice preacher, so And God is saying, Jonah, there's there's tens of thousands Of little children that would have died, that would have fallen under judgment. And you're comparing a gore to that? There's no comparison. The value, the spiritual value at stake here between a gourd and that, it doesn't compare. There's no comparison. Now here's where I struggled again a little bit, and also much cattle. I thought, what is that? I mean, the cattle. You know what I think? This is speculation on my part. I'm just guessing. I think cattle was a vital part of their economy. It's part of their transportation, it was part of their workforce, it's how they harvested and different things. The cattle would be in many ways like our equipment, our machinery, I think I think God is just throwing in there and uh this is this is Lethermanism, but I think he's just throwing in there and saying something like this Don't even if we just look at the financial values of the two, there's no comparison You got one little gourd. You're so worried, or you're so made such a priority, you want to die because this gourd died. Man, alive. The cattle in the city is of greater value than that gourd Jonah, you're messed up. And that's what disobedience will do. It gets us to the point Just start out a little bit. God says go to Nineveh. Jonah says, you know, I don't think so. Doesn't seem like that big of a deal. Ah, I'll go to Tarsus. God can find someone else. God says, no. You're the one. I created you for this. This is my will for your life. You need to go. And one thing progresses to another. And at no point, other than when he's in the belly of the whale at the end, then he puts on this repentance somewhat enough. I I didn't call it really repentance, it's more like capitulation. Just kind of gives in and God twists his arm enough and finally goes over there and he never really deals with his sin of pride and rebellion. And it puts his priorities so far out of whack that we find him in this condition. Here's what I want to end with. Here's my question. Is there anything in this world? Anything in this world? Listen. Is there anything in this world that is more important to me than the will of God? For me. If there's anything in this world that I'd say, God, I'll do your will, but this here is priority in my life. If that's the case, we are trotting down the very road that Jonah went down. So I would never Shake my fist in God's face like Jonah did, I'd never say, yeah, I'm right to be a No, maybe not at this point, but it was not dealt with. We'll end up in positions and conditions we never dreamed. Is there a higher priority in this world to me than the will of God for my life? I hate to say this, but it's true. I'm afraid we've got a lot of Christians. Now we have to judge for ourselves, judge ourselves. But I'm afraid we got a lot of Christians that not only say, yeah, this is more important to me than God's will, I'm afraid we got a lot of Christians that don't even consider what God's will is. I mean it's not even a consideration. I just do my thing. I'll, you know, I'll I'll go to church and you know I'll get saved and you know this stuff, but as far as God's will for my life, what are you talking about? Even consider that. I've been there long enough. We got kid we've got people sending their kids to Bible time that came to Bible time as kids. You know, it won't be long. We're gonna have grandkids. And I've seen them grow up and never give a thought to the will of God. I think they got saved. We got some young people or kids here back in the years ago. They're grown. They've got their kids. We still communicate with them on the computer, talk. I'm thinking of two in particular at this altar right up here knelt and told me, told other people, God has called me to the mission field. That is God's will for my life. And they just blew that off. Now the divorced, kids outside of Mary, I mean just on drinking. We talk to him, try to be friends, try and get him out sometime. Isn't that sad? Either we don't consider what God's will for my life is, or we put something else more important and put in its place God doesn't leave them alone. God doesn't leave us alone. God doesn't leave us alone. So, how do I end this? Let's stop and ask ourselves. Young and old. Is God's will for my life the most important thing in my life? Wherever I'm at now, whatever my position life is, whatever the past is, whatever it was, Lord, I submit to you now, I recognize, I want your will to be done in my life, whatever the cost, it's number one priority in my life. And God will use us. And we don't have to end up like Jonah, a defeated Christian. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to use this. I know you challenged my heart, Lord, as I study this and even again as I deliver it. I pray, Lord, you bring great conviction. Don't leave us alone. Lord, don't let us go our own way. I pray you do like you did with Jonah. Step in and do what you need to do. Sometimes it's hard and it hurts. Lord, we need you to confront us. And I pray that we would be mature enough, that we would be sensitive enough. To acknowledge that and submit to that and trust you and make your will a priority in our life. How many would say, preacher, there's some areas in my Christian life that God's Holy Spirit is and has been maybe dealing with some areas in my Christian life that the Spirit of God has been convicting me and dealing with me And you'd say, Preacher, pray with me. I need to get that right. I need to quit messing with this. And I just need to submit to the Lord and let him have his way. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, pray for me. God bless you. Number of hands around Now it's one thing to raise my hand and acknowledge it. It's another thing to say, all right, yes Lord, I'm going to get this thing lined up. I wonder if there's some others say, preacher, you know, I look at my life, I look at some priorities. There's some priorities there that I need to rearrange a little bit. My priorities need to be tweaked in my Christian life. And um, you know, God's pretty good at making that clear to us And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. There are some priorities in my life. I need to realign and uh get in tune with God. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. God bless you. A bunch of hands there. That tells me the Spirit of God is dealing with us. Now, as we give the invitation, how about we humble ourselves before the Lord and say, Lord, yes, I want your will to be done. I want to rearrange. Help me. God, help me. And God will help us, Father bless our imitation I ask, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads about eyes or closed.