But it displeased Jonah exceedingly, and he was very angry, and he prayed unto the Lord and said, I pray thee, O Lord. Was not this my saying when I was yet in my country? Therefore I fled before unto Tarshus. For I know that thou art a gracious God, and merciful, slow to anger, and of great kindness, and repentest thee of the evil. Therefore, now, O Lord, take, I beseech thee, my life from me. For it is better for me to die than to live. That just irks me. I've entitled it these verses, An Angry and Foolish Prayer. So let's pray and ask the Lord to help us here. Lord This book has been a blessing to me, a challenge, and I pray that uh I trust Lord that you've used the truths, this event, and uh the applications that we glean from it in our lives as individuals and as a church Lord, as we look at these last 11 verses, I pray that your Holy Spirit would speak to our hearts, that your Holy Spirit would take what take place what takes place here in this chapter, apply it to our lives. Help us to be wise, Lord. Help us to have a right perspective on what you're doing. And help us to learn from Jonah. I present my body anew to you. I yield my will to you. I ask with all my heart that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit in the next few moments. In Jesus' name, amen. We began our study last September. I went back and looked see how long it was. September. We started in Jonah chapter 1 verse 1. And I went through and I broke down the book of Jonah. I like breaking things into outlines. I like to get an outline, get a verse, get a chapter, get a book. And uh there's a lot out there you can glean from, you can go on the internet, I've got books in my library that break the chapter down. I kind of went through and uh put together my own outline. If you remember, we pointed out in chapter 1, verse 1 and 2 was Jonah's call. That's where God called Jonah to go to Nineveh Chapter 1 and verse 3, we had uh Jonah's contention. He took issue with God's call. He went the other direction. And then the rest of chapter 1, from verse 4 to verse 17. Is Jonah's chastisement, where God is correcting Jonah, getting his thinking straight, getting his direction straight, getting his life in line with God's will for him. And it's interesting, the largest section of this book is God chastening Jonah, God trying to get Jonah into a situation, a condition where God can even use them. And that's the biggest part of the book. The hardest thing, humanly speaking, from God for God to do was get Jonah right with God. To get Nineveh saved, just took a few verses But getting Jonah where God can use them took the largest portion. So we had Jonah's chastisement. Finally, Jonah's inside the belly of a whale, chapter 2, verse 1 through 10, and we have Jonah's confession. And he finally says, God, you're right, I'm wrong. You're the Lord. I'll do what you've called me to do. And that's where we got chapter 3, verse 1 through 10 is Jonah's capitulation. And then Jonah goes to Nineveh. And of course Nineveh responds amazingly to his message. They have a good number of verses, deals with how thorough their repentance is Getting right with God, from the king all the way down to the folks living in the streets. Just an amazing, amazing story. Then the first eight verses of chapter 4, we pointed out that's Jonah's carnality. We find out what Jonah really is in these next eight verses. This this is, we get down to what his character is. And we saw glimpses of it before, but here it's in the wrong. And then the last few verses 9 through 11, I put, that's Jonah's correction, where God corrects him. And now how he responds to that we're not told. We don't know Jonah's story beyond verse 11 of chapter 4. And so um That's where we're at. Like I said, if I would have authored Jonah, which obviously I didn't, and God never would, but uh I would have ended with chapter 3 and verse 10. But here's the thing about God God never sugarcoats the truth. Anybody ever notice that? And you read through the Bible, it's just straight up. God just lays it out. God never whitewashes what mankind really is. Now here's a unique thing about the Word of God. And this what this is one argument that lends itself to the divine inspiration of Scripture, and that is this. God doesn't ever hide the faults of his heroes You go through David, you know, and man, he just he just lays out David's faults right along with his uh his positive aspects and Abraham and Elijah And you go through here, and God doesn't whitewash anything. God doesn't make man look better than what he is. And here this is Jonah. And this is what happened. And this is how he responded, and God records it the way it is. To me, chapter 4 is a tragic picture of a very foolish and very angry prophet. I do not like chapter four of Jonah. One and two are interesting. Chapter three is amazing. Chapter four is sad. Is sad. I took these three verses and I broke them down into three points of an outline. First one is this. Speak noticing Jonah's foolish and angry prayer. The first thing we notice is his extreme displeasure. His extreme displeasure. Look at verse 1 again with me. But it displeased Jonah. Now he could have just stopped there and said that, and we get the idea. But God wants us to understand the level of displeasure that Jonah had in his heart. Look what he says. But it displeased Jonah what? Exceedingly. And then he adds on that, and he was, doesn't say, and he was angry, it says he was what? Very angry. I mean Jonah's displeasure with what God did is extreme. The word displease there means this, to mean to be greatly grieved. Or I kind of like this definition. It was kind of a number of different definitions and way it was used I put together. But this idea of a broken happiness. A broken happiness. In other words, there's nothing about what happened in Nineveh that made Jonah happy There was nothing about this whole city repenting of their sin and finding deliverance and the mercy of God, nothing about that brought one ounce of joy to Jonah's heart. He was completely unhappy with this. And then he uses that word exceedingly displeased. That is the idea of over the top. Absolutely intense displeasure. This Jonah's Jonah is so upset with God. Now get this. He's at the point where there is nothing that God can say that would make Jonah happy at this point. That's the idea behind this. There's no justification that God can give for showing mercy. There's no rationale. There's no logic. There's no explanation. Jonah is so upset about this, there's nothing God can say at this point that's going to take away his displeasure. Nothing he's going to be happy with. That God could possibly say or do. I'm telling you, this is a tragic, tragic condition to be in. Now, what is he so upset about? What is he so displeased with? The Ninevehites experiencing God's mercy. We'll see that here in the next verse. I mean, that's the whole thing. Now I got thinking about that as I was reading this and and uh giving it some thought and joting my thoughts down and uh uh I thought about turn with me if you would now keep your place down we're gonna Go to a couple verses tonight. Go with me to the Gospel of Luke. And we're going to contrast Jonah's response to an entire city getting saved. With the response of some other folks. Jonah, or uh uh Luke chapter number 15. And I want to look at verse 7, and then I want to look at verse 10. Now remember, Jonah is exceedingly displeased. He's very angry that Nineveh experienced God's grace and mercy. Look at Luke chapter 15. Look at verse number 7. Follow along as I read this. Jesus speaking here, he says, I say unto you that likewise, what's the next word, joy shall be in heaven over One sinner that repenteth, more than over 90 and 9 just persons which need no repentance. Come down to verse 10. Likewise, I say unto you, there is joy in the presence of the angel of God over one sinner that repenteth. Now, according to that verse, Jonah's sitting down here, Nineveh repents of their sin. God shows them incredible mercy and grace. The whole city gets saved Let me ask you a question. According to Luke 15, what's taking place in heaven? They're coming unglued. Look at, he says there's joy in rejoicing over one sinner that repents. Here we have a whole city million plus, po very likely more than a million people getting saved in just a few days time, less than forty days. Million people getting saved. I'm telling you, heaven is unglued. They're swinging from the chandeliers. I mean, they're running the aisles. They are having a time up in heaven. What's Jonah doing? He's furious. He's beyond pounting. He's furious. He is absolutely in a fit over this. Jonah got it in now get this. I think this is a lesson for us. Jonah got it in his head. That he knew better than God as to what should and should not happen. In Jonah's mind, God did wrong In showing mercy and grace to these people. He is very unhappy. He is very angry about this. Hey Before we get too hard on Jonah, how many times have we gotten worked up and upset because God allowed something to happen in our heart and we think, boy, that's completely wrong. God blew it. No, we don't say that. We don't verbalize it the way Jonah does. But our actions betray our attitudes, doesn't it? And I trust we don't get to that extreme, but nevertheless, uh we have to be real, real careful. When I get to the idea That I think I know better what's what's good for me and what should and should not happen than God does, I am in a very foolish, foolish condition. And I end up, Jonah ends up saying things that in my heart I do not believe he genuinely believes He is very upset. How many folks here ever got worked up about something and you said something you really didn't mean? Anybody here? About half of you are honest. We say something or we do something, we think later since uh I was worked up. I I get the impression studying this now, I could be wrong, but uh uh he says some hard words things here about God and to God And so his extreme displeasure, I think Jonah started out with a bad attitude all the way back in chapter one. We saw it there when um uh he's uh fussing with God and he's playing with God, and he has this idea he can run away from God's presence. How foolish is that? And that attitude simmered down in his heart, and now it's full-blown anger. Look what he says here. But it displeased Jonah exceedingly, and he was very angry. That word very angry, that phrase is actually comes is translated from one word. It means to be furious. It means to be boiling over, out of control. He has absolutely lost control of his anger. He is so mad at God. It's interesting. I looked it up to see how it's used in other places in scripture. It's used quite a few places, but I thought it was interesting in Genesis chapter 4 and verse 5, it is used to describe Cain's attitude. When God rejected his offering and accepted Abel's offering, and the Bible says that Cain was wroth with Abel. It's translated raw there. It's the same, comes from the same word. To be absolutely, and uh how did Cain's anger work out Killed his innocent brother. First murderer in the Bible. First crime committed in history. And he got so angry. He lost control, kills his brother. That's where Jonah is. Self-will Jonah is the epitome of self-will. Here's a man that says this: I will serve God, but it's going to be my way. And the results better be what I expect, or I'm going to be furious. That is the epitome of self-will. That is the epitome of operating in the flesh. There's nothing spiritual about Jonah, one bit. Not a not a one iota. He is operating in the flesh Again, if you would, keep your place here. We're going to come back, look at verse 2 and 3. Go with me to Genesis, or not Genesis, I'm sorry, Galatians chapter 5. Well, I go to this passage often. The Lord directs me this passage, I should say, often. When Looking at behavior and studying the behavior of human beings. And Galatians chapter 5 gives us tremendous teaching. on the the source of our behavior. Genesis chapter 5 and uh verse number 19 is where I'm going to begin reading. Boy, this passage ought to be familiar for us. If we want to serve God, if we want to uh serve God uh acceptably, we ought to be familiar with this. Look at verse 19. Now the works of the Flesh. Now Paul said, In me, that is my flesh, there dwells no good thing. There's nothing my flesh can do that brings pleasure to God that is acceptable to God. Now the works of the flesh are manifest or are visible or evident, which are these. Now he goes down a list. Watch these, look at this list very carefully. Adultery, fornication, uncleanness. Lasciviousness, now that's a big word, simply just means unbridled lust, unrestrained passion. Whatever I want, I do. Whatever desire I take, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance, emulations, next word. Wrath. Same thing Jonah is dealing with. The same mentality, attitude Jonah is operating under the same condition. Wrath Strife, seditions, heresies, envings, murders, drunkenness, revelings, such like, which I tell you before, have also told you in time past that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. But the fruit of the Spirit, here's the contrast. Is love, joy, peace, long suffering, gentleness, goodness Faith, meekness, temperance, which has the idea of keeping myself under control. Against such there are there is no law And they that are Christ have crucified the flesh with the affections and lust. If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. Here, this passage to me, in my mind, gives us a doctor's evaluation, Dr. God's evaluation of Jonah's condition. He is operating in the flesh. When we uh I thought of this. I go back and read chapter three And uh look at verse 10. And God saw their works, that they turned from their evil way, and God repented of the evil that he had said he would do unto them, and he did it not. Man, I'm reading that and I'm thinking, praise the Lord. Man, that's exciting. You know, who would we expect? I mean just put Jonah aside for now. Who would we expect would be upset with Nineveh getting right with God? Who would we anticipate would oh yeah, they that first Satan He would absolutely, that's not what he wanted. He wanted them all to go to hell. The world. The world would be upset, man. They lost The world lost uh one of its key cities, one of its key uh populations, is now right with God. So we would expect the world, we would expect the devil to be very displeased With this turn of events. We would expect the devil to be very angry that this has happened. But a prophet of God? Come on! A man of God is upset? I'm telling you, even the best of Christians can get tremendously out of whack. He is about as far, spiritually speaking, condition-wise, he is about as far as you can get from where he ought to be. Now I trace it back. Chapter 1, bad attitude. He wanted to flee from the presence of God. Jonah, though he capitulated In chapter 3, he never really surrendered. This is not the attitude and actions of a man yielded to the will of God This is not the attitude and actions of a man who has submitted his will to the will of God. Is it God's will that anybody should perish? Isn't God long-suffering and wants all men to come to repentance? That's what the Bible tells us. God wanted them to be saved. And Jonah is not submitted to God. Jonah is not yielded to the Lord. Oh, he went through the motions. He did what he had to do. He capitulated. But he never submitted. And we see this extreme displeasure on his part. Second thing I notice in verse number two is not just his extreme displeasure, but I notice he expresses his disappointment to God. Can you imagine, put yourself, use your imagination here. Can you imagine walking up to God and saying, God, I am disappointed with you? Wow. That's what he does. Look at verse 2. And he prayed unto the Lord. Now he comes to God. He's initiating this. He's coming to the Lord and saying this. And said, I pray thee, O Lord, was not this my saying when I was yet in my country? Therefore I fled before the uh unto Tarshus. Now what's he doing when he's he's he's what's he trying to do here He says, was not this my saying when I was back? Therefore I suppled the torture. Yeah, he's explaining. He's trying to justify. He's trying to justify his disobedience to God, and he's trying to justify it to God I knew you were going to do this, that's why I fled in the first place. For I knew That thou art a gracious God, and merciful, and slow to anger, and of great kindness, and repentest thee of the evil He expresses his disappointment. I noticed two things in this verse about his expression of his disappointment. First of all, his self-centered focus. Produced his disappointment. He developed, I always I like to use this phrase whenever I can, he developed ingrown eyeballs His eyes got on himself. Look at verse 2. Look at the first half very carefully. I circled a few words. I'll emphasize them when I read through here. And he prayed in the Lord and said, I, pray thee, O Lord, was not this my saying, when I was yet in my country, therefore I fled before unto Tarshus For I knew that thou art a gracious God. Where is his focus at? It's on himself. I, me, I, mine, I, I, I. The most the unhappiest people in the world are people who are focused on themselves. I've seen folks in the ministry, and you have too, and it's happened to all of us, no doubt, to some degree. But I've seen folks living for God. Serving others, yielding to the will of God, and just as happy as can be. I mean just singing and happy, and the joy of the Lord is all over them Then for whatever reason, they get their eyes on themselves. And suddenly things are not going. And Brother Grant Boy, that message Sunday night fits into what Jonah is here. As I was studying this, I was thinking, man alive, this Peter and Jonah get almost in the same condition. Jonah's a little more extreme But Jonah so disappointed that God didn't do things the way he thought they should, and he didn't, and it didn't turn out the way he uh thinks it should have turned out And um and I've seen folks that are so happy and they're serving God and they're dying to self and they're and they're living for God and serving others and giving of themselves and suddenly they develop ingrown eyeballs And all of a sudden everything starts revolving around them and everything starts uh all the focus starts shifting on themselves and they become angry and they become unhappy. And that's exactly what's taking place here. Dr. Lee Robertson said all the time, and I quote it occasionally here, he used to say, die to sell, die to sell, die to sell. Before I graduated, I made appointment, go, I'd I'd look for every reason I can't just go in and ask them something. You know, just go in and ask them something And before I graduated, I said, Dr. Robertson, I'm going out in the ministry. What can you say to me? What are some words you have? One of the first words out of his mouth, he said, Son, die to self. What was he saying? He's saying, keep your eyes off yourself. Keep them on Christ. Don't become what Jonah was. Don't get all wrapped up in how it affects you. Don't let it all become about me. Apparently, Jonah had a history of complaining about God's mercy. Look what he says here. And he admits it himself. And this is the way I picked it up. Oh Lord, was not this my saying when I was yet in my country? What he's saying here is the same thing he'd been saying for a long time. He has a history of complaining about how God operates. It was a habit. It was part of his outlook on life. God doesn't work the way I think he should God shows mercy to people, I don't think they deserve mercy. God is gracious to people who I don't think deserve to be gracious. God forgives people who I don't think He should forgive And I've been saying this for years, is basically what he's saying. And he was all wrapped up in himself and the way he saw things and the way he understood things should happen And um it's a sad thing about Jonah. So no, I put under here, he expresses his disappointment to God. He comes to God and tells God how disappointed he is. And his disappointment was the result of being self-centered, focused. But I also had this: a self-centered philosophy. And I kind of got ahead of myself here, but look at the second part of verse 2. For I knew that thou art, now look what he's complaining about this. Thou art a gracious God. And merciful, and slow to anger, and of great kindness, and repentance thee of evil. Let me ask you a question. Did Jonah have a correct evaluation of God's character here? Yes, that's exactly the way God is. I would say most of us would say that's a good thing. But his philosophy in life wasn't God-centered. His approach to life, his understanding of what life was about and how things should happen, wasn't God-centered, it was self-centered. And he's basically saying, God, you're wrong in being this way. Jonah had the idea, oh, by the way. When Jonah was in the belly of the whale, he was pretty glad that God was merciful. Right? And he was in the belly of the whale, and that whale bombing him up and he's standing on dry ground again. I'd venture to say he was pretty grateful that God was gracious. That God repented of the evil that he could have done to Jonah. Jonah had the idea, I think, Jonah's in the whale, God shows him mercy, God shows him incredible grace, God shows him incredible forgiveness. Spews him out, he's on dry land, he wipes the slime and stuff off. Now he goes over and he's mad because God showed the exact same grace and mercy. To these people that God showed to him, and he's mad that God did that. You know what that tells me about Jonah? Jonah felt like he deserved it, and they didn't. And the very fact that I think I deserve mercy, that I deserve grace, the very definition of mercy and grace excludes the possibility of deserving it. If it was of works, it would no longer be grace, Paul said. Jonah didn't deserve to be forgiven any more than the Ninevehites did. Jonah didn't deserve God's mercy or God's grace any more than the Ninevites did because they're all sinners. We have all under judgment of God. We've all fallen short of God's glory. And we get the idea that somehow I deserve more of God than someone else does. I've completely missed what grace and mercy is all about. And so Jonah has the idea that somehow he deserves mercy. Mercy is not getting that which I do deserve. So how do I deserve mercy if I'm getting something I don't deserve? It's not mercy. Grace is getting something I don't deserve. Mercy is not getting something I do deserve. Grace is getting something I do not deserve The basis of it all is I don't deserve it. We must be very careful in making judgments upon God's actions. Again, I put down Peter. Peter got mad at God. And boy, he held that. That was good Sunday night. He held that against God, became bitter at God. It's where Jonah is. We must be very careful in making judgments upon God's action. If God lays something, you know, I've seen this. I hate to say it. I know you're going to be shocked to believe hear this But there have been times where God said and God gave some instruction and I didn't like it. There were times I said, I'm not going to do that. Are you crazy? We have to be real careful when God says something needs to be done or something should not be done or God directs us a certain way or allows certain things in our lives, we have to be real, real careful with assigning folly to God. Or even becoming disappointed in God. When I resigned as youth pastor in Indianapolis, I went to Boulder, Colorado, worked three years on Neighborhood Bible Time. Most of you are familiar with that. What I anticipated, and I hate to say this, but it's true, what I anticipated going out to Boulder and what I ended up doing were two very different things What I understood I was going out to do and what I ended up doing out there were two very different things. And I tell you there was a period of time where I was very unhappy. I mean extended period of time, about a year and a half. Now I li I like to think I didn't fall into this extreme. But man, I'm printing ribbons and ribbons and ribbons and I felt God's called me to preach and and uh here I am for three years. In this back room, 75-80% of the year printing Bible time ribbons And boy, you're standing there and the old mind is working. I'm thinking, what in the world? And finally, I had to come to the point. I just had to come to the point where we say, all right, God. And I I and I I made this conscious decision. I still remember making it. I made the conscious decision, God, I'm going to be thankful that I'm on the back side of these Rocky Mountains. And I'm just in here alone doing this. And I'm going to be thankful for it. You've got a plan. You've got a purpose. This isn't what I anticipated. This isn't the way I would have done it. I'll tell you what, there's a peace came to my heart. And I'm convinced, this is me, I'm convinced I would not be here now if I didn't get to the point where I submitted to the Lord there. Because it could have very easily developed into bitterness and anger, and I would have been put aside on the shelf and of no use to God. So we have to be very careful in making judgments on God's actions, on what he works in our life and how he does things and and the way he operates. Disappointment with God indicates a lack of submission on my part. We have to be careful. Do not start thinking, well, this is the way it ought to be, God. It's a bad way to be thinking. The last thing I got in verse number three is now he experiences depression. First of all, he has extreme displeasure. That leads to disappointment with God. And his disappointment with God brings on heavy depression And look what he says in verse 3. Now, I'd like to think he doesn't really mean this. I don't know. Now, therefore, O Lord, take, I beseech ye, my life from me. For it is better for me to die than to live. What is he telling God? He's saying, God, you're making a mistake. For me to live is not good. For me to die is better. And you're wrong for letting me live. God wasn't wrong. Jonah was wrong. Amen? God didn't make any mistake. And I got I got looking at this, I got thinking, what? He's wanting to die. Why? Because God showed grace to someone else. How petty. How meaningless was life to him How meaningless was the opportunity to serve God and live for God had absolutely gotten to the point where that privilege Of living for God and serving God and being a testimony of God's goodness, that privilege had lost complete value to him. And he had gotten to the point where it meant nothing to be able to live for God. Oh, just kill me. Man, alive. You talk about having something so precious and having no character and no spiritual maturity to value life. To value the opportunity to show this world what God can do through a person who submitted to Him. And that was meaningless to Him. Oh, take my life. How do you go from the salvation of an entire city to wanting to die This world was not created or designed to revolve around me and my pleasure. God created this world to revolve around him and his pleasure. And when I try and buck that design, when I try and go against the what we were created and designed to do and start living for me And start wanting it to revolve around me, I run head on with reality. And brother, it is discouraging, it is depressing, and it'll destroy us. But when I get my eyes off of myself and I realize, hey, I'm not here to live for me. I'm not here for my pleasure. I'm for God's pleasure. And I get in in the system and I get working with the way it's designed to work, suddenly there's peace, there's joy, there's rest, there's fulfillment, even in the worst of conditions. And Jonah's bucking the system that God created. God does not exist to operate by my understanding. I exist to operate by his understanding. And Jonah is trying to operate independent of God's plan because he got it in his head that things should be different than what they are, and it is absolutely destroying him and eating him up. There's not one promise. I went through here and I tried to think through. I tried to find one promise in the Bible that produces or justifies depression. On one promise that God gave us that justifies me being depressed. Doesn't exist. The promises of God are tremendous. How in the world do I read these promises that God has given and see who and what God is and His plan for me and come away from that depressed? If I go into depression, and listen, I'm not denying the reality of it that we are, because we try and buck God. We try and go by our own understanding, and that's the consequence. But if I'm going to go down, if I'm going to get under that in that condition, I have to push aside the promises of God. I have to neglect them. I have to brush them off because if I look at them and I claim them and take them for what they say, that depression is no justification whatever for it. There's not one act of God in all of history that justifies me being depressed. God is good. God is wise. God is all knowing. I can trust him. And when I get in Jonah's condition, say, oh, you didn't do it the way I wanted it. It's not what I wanted. Jonah just kill me. I'm reading this, I was I was studying, I'm reading this, and I thought, Lord, let me just slap them. What a privilege. You know how many you know how many preachers would love to have that privilege to see a whole city get saved? I get stirred up with see one when I hear about one kid downstairs getting saved. It's a whole city. Makes me depressed. This is what I found interesting, and Sam Davidson preached on this years ago, and it just stuck. Because I never saw it before, and it now that you see it, it's glaring. All through the Old Testament, every time one of God's people would get depressed or get in a funk, not one time would God come down and say, Oh, you poor little thing. Oh God never does that. It'll be all right someday You know what God does? He rebukes them sharply. In fact, when Israel was out in the wilderness and a bunch of them got in that condition, he sent serpents by, started biting them You want to get down here, something to get down about. Elijah. Elijah calls down fire, kills 400 false prophets, calls down fire from heaven. The most amazing thing in the Old Testament, one of Jezebel gets a little bit out of shape and old Elijah. He's up in them caves, sucking on his stomach. Nobody loves me, I don't want to die. And God comes down and says, Oh, poor little Elijah. God sends thunder, he sends lightning, a tornado, and he talks in a still small voice. And you know what? God never used Elijah after that To the same degree that he used him before that. From that point on, Elijah goes down and he light shot. Comes up. Self. Jonah got so wrapped up on his own self and leaning on his own understanding and seeing things from his own perspective, he completely got out of whack with God. And it was tragic and it is sad and it is foolish what he's in. You say, well what's the answer? The answer is very simple. It should have started out chapter one. Now we can look back and easy for us to say. We should have started out chapter one and said, yes, Lord, you're right. I'm human. You're God. I'm man. I submit to you whatever you want is best. Submission is always the answer to human interaction with God. Always. I like the way Dr. Creed puts it. Just agree with God. Agree with God. Agree with God. That'll save us from a lot of sadness, a lot of saying stupid stuff Getting ourselves out of whack and just say, Lord, you are good. One of these days I'm going to get to heaven. I'm going to see it from your perspective. It's going to make sense. And until then, I'm going to trust you. I'm going to live for you. I'm going to rejoice in you. I consider it a great, great privilege to serve the living and true God. And Jonah missed all of that. So let's pray. Father in heaven. Lord, it's a sad chapter. I wish this wasn't here But I pray you'd help us to not even let a little bit of this mentality creep into our minds. I know it's there, this old sinful nature Leaves that door cracked for this type of thinking to creep in. And I pray you'd help us to die to self, to walk in the spirit. To take our burdens to you and leave them there and not let them eat at us, but just to trust you and yield to you and follow you and remember it is a great, great privilege. To live for God. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, you know that old sinful nature likes to see things from a skewed perspective? You'd say, preacher, pray with me that I could just be yielded to the Lord. And when these my thinking gets out of whack, I can just yield it to Christ. I want the Lord to bless me and use me and I can be in the condition God intends for me, not like Jonah. Any like that by the uplifted hand. God bless you. All hands all around. That old sinful nature tries so hard To pull us that way. That old flesh wants us to get mad and out of whack. And maybe what we need to do tonight is just kneel on an altar and say, Lord, here I am. Take me, fill me with your spirit. Oh, Lord, enable me to die to self and get my thinking, get the mind of Christ, and see this world and what you're doing from your perspective. Maybe we need to ask God to help us tonight. Father bless our imitation, I ask, in Jesus' name, let's stand together