I want to begin reading in verse number one. I'm going to read down through verse number six. Genesis thirty-nine. Verse number one. And Joseph was brought down to Egypt, and Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh Captain of the guard, an Egyptian, bought him of the hands of the Ishmaelites which had brought him down thither. And the Lord was with Joseph, and he was a prosperous man, and he was in the house of his master, the Egyptian, and his master saw that the Lord was with him And that the Lord made all that he did to prosper in his hand. And Joseph found grace in his sight, Potiphar's sight. And he served him. And he made him an over and he, Potiphar, made him, Joseph, an overseer of his house, and all that he had, he put into his hand. And it came to pass from the time that he made him overseer in his house and over all that he had, that the Lord blessed the Egyptian's house for Joseph's sake. And the blessing of the Lord was upon all that he had in the house and in the field. And he left all that he had in Joseph's hand, and he knew not aught what he had, save the bread which he did eat And Joseph was a goodly person and well favored. We're talking about Joseph and Potiphar. Let's pray together, ask the Lord to uh teach us and and speak our hearts tonight. Father, thank you for the record of Joseph's life given to us in your word. And I pray we can learn from this portion here this evening. uh how to live by faith and Lord some uh principles for a Christian life. I ask Lord that you would please fill me with your spirit. Lord I yield my will and present my body. I pray with all my heart That you would be the teacher tonight, Holy Spirit, through me. And help us leave here a little more confident, Lord, a little closer to you, a little stronger in our faith is my prayer. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen Joseph's sold by his brothers rather than killing them, they sell him as a slave, uh servant to the uh the um uh those fellows there, the uh uh Ishmaelites The Midianites and the Ishmaelites, they go bring him down to Egypt, and um he gets put on the auction block, and Joseph's uh Joseph becomes The possession of Potiphar. That was our first point. It's been a month ago since we looked at this. And so Joseph became the the certain the possession of Potiphar And what we tried to do, if you remember, we tried to get a little idea of what it was like in Potiphar's house, this new home that Joseph is in. And it's kind of interesting. I'm a little ahead of myself, but the fact that he brought Joseph into his home speaks volumes about the character of Joseph right off the bat Generally the servants were kept out in a servant's quarters or somewhere. He brought them into his home. But nevertheless, I was curious as to what kind of home Is Joseph now living in, serving in? He came from Jacob's home, a uh a Jewish home. Of course, it's early in Jewish history, but nevertheless they worship Jehovah They lived by the instructions that Jehovah had given to Abraham and Isaac, his great-grandfather, his grandfather, and his father, Jacob. And so now he's in a completely foreign land, a completely foreign environment in this home. And we're not told a lot about Pharaoh, Potiphar, I should say. He worshipped Ra, the sun god, if you remember. And so we tried to get an idea of that. Now tonight I want to My second thought in this Joseph and Potter study is, I want us to notice, Joseph experienced the presence of the Lord. Now, if you would, notice with me in verse number two, the first phrase in verse number two, I underscored this in my Bible. It says, And the Lord was with Joseph. If you would come down to verse 3 and the first part, it says, And his master saw that the Lord was with him. And then if you would, come down to verse number five. And verse five says, at the last part of verse five, in the middle there, the Lord blessed the Egyptians' house for Joseph's sake, and the blessing Of the Lord was upon all that he had in the house and in the field. I want to read a passage from Acts chapter number seven. You don't need to turn there. I just want to read it. This is where Stephen is preaching to the Pharisees, and he's giving a history of, he's given kind of an overview of Jewish history. And at the end of his sermon, then he goes after the Pharisees, says, you know, you guys uh our forefathers have always went against the prophets of God. But no, he makes a statement about Joseph in verse number 9 and 10 of Acts 7. Let me just read it to you. It says, and the patriarchs moved with envy. Now the patriarchs there are Joseph's brothers. He says, the patriarchs moved with envy sold Joseph into Egypt. And then he makes this little statement, but God was with him. He goes on, says, and delivered him. out of all his afflictions. God was with him. The Lord was with him. And Potiphar saw that the Lord was with him. And the Lord blessed everything that Joseph did. Joseph experienced in a very unique way the presence of God in his light. When Joseph's brothers took everything away from him that you and I would consider of value. That would be important to us. They took all that away from. For instance, they took family away. Joseph's never getting b Joseph's never going home again. It is going to be years till he sees his daddy His brothers rejected him. He is in a foreign land a long way off by himself. They took his family. Would you agree with me? Family is important Right? Family's important. Family's vitally important. Joseph lost all his family. No more family. No more daddy to go to. No more brothers to harass him. No more mother. I mean nothing He's on his own, 17 years old. Family's taken away from friends. Now we're not told what kind of friends he had, but I would assume a 17-year-old boy had some friends the neighborhood, no doubt, and the community there where they were, and uh gone. Uh family and friends are vitally important. Um and then not only did they take his family and friends, they took whatever finances he had are gone. As far as we know, he didn't have a dime in his pocket. He had nothing to his name. He had no cattle he took with him. He had no he didn't pack his bags and take them down to Egypt with him. What he had on his back in that pit was all he had when he shows up in Egypt. He had no finances, he had no friends, he had no family, and um they took away his freedom Would you agree with me? Family is important, right? Friends are important. Finance is important, right? I mean most of most most people, you know, average Joe goes does a job he really would rather not be doing, gets up at a time he'd rather not get up. Why? Because pork money is important. That's all gone And now his freedom is gone. He can't come and go as he wants anymore. He he can't make any decisions at this point Of his own. He's a slave. He is completely at the mercy and instruction of his master, his owner. All that's taken away But there's one thing his brothers could not take away from him, and that was his relationship with the Lord. They could not take that. They could not take oh by the way, nobody can take away a person's relationship with the Lord. People may give us a hard time. The government may turn on us. Very possible. Family sometimes turns on a believer. Friends may forsake us. May lose a job. I could give you the name of a number of people who got saved and the job they were working was contradictory to Christian values and they would left their job Because of their faith in guns. And so all that can be taken away, but nobody can take away our relationship with the Lord I thank God for that. No circumstances can take away our relationship with the Lord. You and I may lose everything. God forbid we certainly hope not, but we could lose everything, but we will never lose a relationship with the Lord Joseph had something that was greater value than family, greater value than finances, greater value than his own freedom And that was his relationship, his standing with God. If you would, keep your place here. I want to come back. But I do want to go to the New Testament, if you would, to the book of Hebrews. I'm telling you, it's hard to say a favorite verse in the Bible, but this is one I have sure gone back to many, many times throughout my Christian life. Hebrews chapter 13. Hebrews chapter 13. Now this passage I'm going to read from here is written to believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, folks who have been saved, trusted Christ as Savior, born again. Whatever term you want to use, these are God's people it's being written to. If you would, in Hebrews chapter 13, look with me if you would at verse number 5. You've heard me reference this passage many times over the years. It says, let your conversation be without covetousness. I don't think it's a stretch to say that describes Joseph to a bit a bit. He was not covetous in all his situation. But look what he goes on. May your conversation be without covetous. Be content with such things as ye have. Why? For he has said, look at this I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. Then he goes on, so that we may boldly say The Lord is my helper, and I will not fear what man shall do unto me. I tell you, that sounds like Joseph to me. The Lord was with them. And we have this promise of God that no matter what happens in our life, no matter what losses may come to our life, health, wealth, family, friends Finances, all of it may be gone. But one thing we will never lose is our relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. So the Lord was with Joseph. Everything was taken from him But the Lord was with them. The Lord was with them. Come back to Genesis if you would. I want to look down through here a little bit. And I've got a ton of verses. We'll turn to some of them. But we'd probably be here a long time if we turned to all of them. Come back to Genesis 39. Look at verse number 2 again. I'm going to reference this throughout the message. And the Lord was with Joseph. I think that's a pretty good summary of Joseph's life. The Lord was with him. The Lord was with him. The Lord was with him. I thought of this. I thought I I don't know that Joseph had a tombstone But if he did, that would have been a good epitaph on his tombstone. The Lord was with him. That to me describes Joseph's life, Joseph's experience. The Lord was with him. The Lord was with him. I think. That's probably the secret, if you want to use that term, the secret to Joseph's success. Because the Lord was with it. It doesn't say, and Joseph was brilliant. It doesn't say, and Joseph was gifted and talented. It doesn't say that Joseph was Mr. Personality. Just says the Lord was with it, and everything he did prospered. There are no secrets to the Christian life So it's really not a secret. In fact, it wasn't much of a secret because the next verse says that Potiphar saw that the Lord was with him. But it is a key to success in the Christian life. The Lord was with him. Now, what does it mean the Lord was with Joseph? What does that phrase mean? Well, I think a basic definition, the answer would be he had the presence of God in his life. Sometimes I think probably down south maybe a little more, sometimes a preacher will say, this guy had God all over him. You'll hear a statement like that. What they're saying is he has the presence of God in his life in a unique way, in a special way, in an obvious way. Now, again, I said we want to look at a few verses. If you would, bear with me. Keep your place here. Come with me to Psalms 139. The Bible talks much about the presence of the Lord from Genesis all the way to Revelation There are references to the presence of the Lord. Joseph, the Lord was with him. He had the presence of God in his life. Look at Psalms 139 and verse number 7. Psalm 139, verse 7, towards the end of the book of Psalms. And he says, Whither, this is David writing under the inspiration of God, whither shall I go from thy spirit? Now look at this next question. Whither shall I flee from thy presence? Because how in the world do I get away from the presence of God? How could I do that? And he goes on. He says, verse 8, if I ascend up into heaven, thou art there. Years ago the Russians sent a cosmonaut up into orbit. This is before we walked on the moon. And one of the first men in orbit of the earth, and he got up there and he radioed back. He says, I can see all of outer space and I don't see God anywhere. Somebody said if he'd opened the door, he'd have seen God real quick Fact is, the immensity of our universe. In fact, they are suggesting now that our universe is infinite, no end to it. And yet we can go to the farthest reaches of our universe and guess who's there? The Lord's there, the presence of God. The presence of God. He goes on. If I ascend up into heaven, thou art there. If I make my bed in hell, behold, thou art there. What's he saying? He's saying it's impossible to escape the presence of God. God is the biblical term is omnipresent. He is everywhere all the time. I got news for you. Our Lord, our God, is right here tonight, right now, just as real as you're sitting there, just as real as I'm standing here God is in the presence. He hears my voice. He sees what's happening. He knows what's going through our minds. God is present. So the Bible teaches us the omnipresence of the Lord. In other words, God is everywhere all the time. You cannot escape his presence. In 1 Kings chapter 8 and verse 7, Solomon is dedicating the new temple. And in his prayer of dedication to the new temple, he says something to the effect: God, we've built this house for you. But how in the world does God dwell in a building made by man? And then he makes this statement. He says, the heaven and the heaven of heavens. cannot contain thee. God is bigger than the universe. The immensity Of our God that is here in our midst right now, the immensity of God is beyond our comprehension. God is present everywhere all the time. So the Bible teaches that God is omnipresent everywhere all the time. In Genesis, and for sake of time, we won't turn to all these, but in Genesis chapter 3 and verse number 8 Adam and Eve attempted to flee from the presence of God when they had sinned You're probably all of us are familiar with the the events that took place. Serpents uh uh um deceived Eve into eating the forbidden fruit And they sinned, they became aware of their own sinfulness, became aware of their nakedness, and the Bible says they tried to hide themselves from the presence of God, and they could not do it. They couldn't hide themselves from the presence of God. In Jonah chapter number 1 and verse 3, God had told Jonah to go to Nineveh And Jonah, a prophet of God, you would think, would have said, yes, sir, yes, dear God, I'll do exactly what you say. But he didn't. And rather than doing what God had clearly instructed him to do, the Bible says that he attempted to flee from the presence of God. And you know the story, he failed miserably. Tried to flee from the presence of God, and he ended up in the gut of a whale. So we cannot flee from the presence of God. It's impossible. The presence of God. In Psalm 16, verse 11, we're given this statement: In thy presence is fullness of joy. Now what does that mean? In thy presence, God is everywhere. I'm always in the presence of God. And that is true But what he's talking about here is when I submit to the Lord and embrace his presence in my life, then there are benefits that come along with that. Everybody alive is in the presence of God. You cannot flee the presence of God. You might be in Thailand or in Bangkok or somewhere else, a weird place. Hello, anybody out there? Where's a weird place? Baltimore. You're in the presence of God. So what is he saying here that in thy presence is fullness of joy There's an aspect of God's presence where if I submit to God, if I embrace the presence of God in my life as a believer There are benefits that come along with that. There are blessings that come along with that. And that's what we see in Joseph's life. Potiphar was in the presence of God just as much as Joseph was. His brothers were in the presence of God just as much as Joseph was, but they did not have fullness of joy. Potiphar didn't know the fullness of joy that comes in the presence of the Lord. And so what's the difference? The difference was Joseph embraced that presence. Joseph was submitted to the God whose presence he was in. And God blessed him, and God prospered him, it became obvious. And so when we submit to the Lord, we embrace his presence in our lives. There are benefits that come with that, there's blessings that come with that. Again, in Isaiah chapter 59 and verse 2, and I hope maybe you jot these down. These be good verses to go back and look at. But there we're told that sin separates us from the blessings and the benefits of God's presence. In other words, if I allow sin in my life, if I live outside of God's instructions, God's plan and will for my life, if I live outside of that Then I do not experience that fullness of joy. I do not experience these blessings that come along with living in the presence of God. And that sin separates me. I'm still in God's presence. He's omnipresent. But I I'm separated from the blessings and benefits of that presence. You follow what I'm saying The most wicked person on the planet, the hard, most hard-hearted, stiff-necked atheist on the planet, is in the presence of God just as much as you and I are here. But That sin separates them from the blessings and the benefits of embracing the presence of God, believing him, trusting him, submitting to him And then I experience the fullness of joy, the blessings of God. I put this down. I cannot simultaneously enjoy the blessings and benefits of God's presence and the pleasures of sin. If I indulge in the pleasures of sins, then I forfeit the blessings and benefits of God's presence I confess my sin, I forsake it, I come to the Lord, and then I receive, I can experience the blessings and benefits of God's presence. But our sins separate us from that. We cannot escape God's presence, but we can forfeit the blessings of His presence, answered prayer, joy of the Lord, prosperous in our Christian life. Samson tried both. Samson tried having the blessings of God's presence and enjoying the pleasures of sin. And he failed miserably. And it cost him dearly. We cannot have both. We cannot have both. Coming back to our passage, if you would, Genesis 39. We look at Joseph's life. Joseph obviously knew the Lord personally. We picked that up pretty clearly. To use New Testament vernacular, to use New Testament terms, we would say Joseph was a saved man. To use New Testament terms. He knew the Lord. He had a relationship, a personal relationship with Jehovah God. Um he uh he lived in submission to the Lord. We find that's clearly stated at the end of chat of the book of Genesis. Joseph lived in submission to the Lord's will. He enjoyed the blessings and benefits of God's presence in his life. Joseph knew what it was to have the fullness of joy and to have answered prayer and have God's blessings of God's presence in his life in a very unique way. So it says there in verse 2, and the Lord was with Joseph. A couple thoughts, and I'm going to end. The presence of the Lord, the Lord being with Joseph, number one, I put this down, it does not mean the absence of trials. The Lord was with him while he went through the tribes. Listen, you and I can be smack dab in the middle of God's will and yet still go through some heart-wrenching trials in our life. You can be completely right with God. I can be completely submitted to God. That is not a guarantee that I'll not have trials. The Lord was with Joseph, and he went through some horrendous trials. The presence of the Lord in Joseph's life, the Lord being with Joseph, did not mean the absence of temptation. He faced temptation. We'll see that here before long with Potiphar's wife. Um Joseph experienced both tribulation, trials, temptation. He faced all of that in spite of the fact that the Lord was with him. So it doesn't mean we're not going to face trials. These these guys, I I know I mentioned it maybe often, I don't know, but these guys on TV, I saw some clips yesterday about these yard birds on TV. You know, send the one guy was saying, send us $300 Step out in faith, send us $300, and God will give you wealth and God will give you health. I'm telling you what, $300 does not buy God's blessings. It's living in the presence of God that brings his blessings These guys are liars. Don't you fall for these guys. Don't you send them a dime. They're charlatans. So having the presence of God in my life, the Lord being with Joseph, did not insulate him from trials and heartaches and difficulties. It didn't insulate him from needs. He ended up in prison. It didn't insulate him from temptation. He's a 17-18-year-old boy, his late teens. And this apparently beautiful woman just makes herself available. God's presence didn't insulate him from temptation. What God's presence will do, though, will strengthen us for going through the trials. God's presence in his life strengthened him for the temptations to be able to say no. When the flesh might want to say yes and the flesh might want to get bitter or flesh get discouraged or flesh uh seek revenge The presence of God enabled him spiritually to say no to temptation and to say no to despair and say no to anger and bitterness and revenge. Presence of God in our life does not insulate us from the harsh realities of life. But the presence of God in our life enables us to deal with the realities of life, to deal with the temptations of life, to deal with the tribulations and trials that come in life. And enabled, God's presence enabled him to avoid bitterness. God's presence enabled him to avoid despair. To resist temptation. I like that phrase in verse 2. And the Lord was with Joseph. Verse 3. And the master saw: the Lord was with him. Acts 7, 9. And the Lord was with him. What does that mean? The Lord was with him. I got looking that up. This is what the idea is. The Lord is right there with him, the Lord is supporting him. The Lord's strengthening him. I like this. The Lord is directing him. And we're going to see here in a moment how that plays out. The Lord's protecting him. You say protecting him, he ends up in prison, accused of rape. Oh yeah, God was protecting his plan and purpose for his life and directing him right on to where he needed to be. That's the Lord being with us. And I'm telling you, if we'll submit to the Lord And don't harden our hearts against his instructions, and don't stiffen our neck against his word, but we submit to him, embrace his presence in our life. I'm telling you, God will support us, he'll be with us, he'll direct us. Through even the most difficult times, we come out the other side and we are able to say, like Joseph did, you meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. That's because God was directing him through all of that. We get a hard heart, we get a stiff neck, and say, no, I'm going to do it my way. We don't have the Lord with us in that sense. And we're on our own. It doesn't turn out the way it did for Joseph. The Lord was with him, directing him, protecting him, strengthening him. So it doesn't mean the Lord being with Joseph does not mean an absence of trials or temptation. The second thing I noticed is the Lord being with Joseph was obvious to others. Look at verse 3. And the master, that's Potiphar. And his master saw that the Lord was with him. He saw that the Lord made all that he did to prosper in his hands. It was visible, it was evident. There was something about Joseph that stood out from all the other slaves. There was something about Joseph that was unique From all other servants. And Potiphar as a pagan sun god worshiping pagan, he saw Joseph. He said, The Lord is with that man. Now I find this interesting. Potiphar worshipped Ra, a false god, a non-existent god of the sun. He worshipped the sun, a big ball of burning gas. And he worshiped it as a God. But when he saw Joseph, he did not say, why didn't he say this? Boy, Ra is with him. If in Potiphar's mind Ra is the God, and Joseph obviously something unique, why didn't he say Ra is with him. Why didn't he say the sun god whom I worship is with him? He said, no, look at the terms. L-O-R-D, capitals. He's saying Jehovah is with him. Here's my question. How did Potiphar know anything about Jehovah? He's an Egyptian. Joseph shows up out of nowhere on auction blocks. He buys him. He's a young man, healthy, uh good looking, I guess. He says, yeah, I'll buy him, brings them in. How does he know anything about Jehovah being with him? I'll tell you how he knew about Jehovah. Joseph talked about Jehovah. And what he heard Joseph tell him about this God Jehovah, what Joseph called the true and living God, the only God. Potiphar saw that there was something in Joseph's life that his God did not do in anybody he knew's life. You follow what I'm saying? He saw the evidence of the true God in the life of Joseph. I'm telling you, when we're filled with the Spirit of God, when we have the presence of God in our life, When we're walking and living in submission, obedience to the Lord, and we have His presence on our life, it becomes obvious There's something different about a Christian filled with the Holy Spirit, walking with God, living their life in submission to the Lord, and the presence of God is on it. Have you ever been around someone you walk away and say, man, you could sense the presence of God in that person's life? That's Joseph. To use that term, he had God all over him. And people saw it. It was evident. There's something wrong when Christians are no different than the world. There's something wrong when people who worship materialism and people who worship themselves and mankind, people who reject the true and living God And they see no difference in the values and the principles and the attitudes and the demeanor of Christians. They see no difference between the two. Something ain't right. Am I right or wrong? Joseph had the presence of the Lord and Potter for Saul, man, he has the presence of the Lord in his life. I would love for that to be true about Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church I'm not saying we're better than any other churches, and we're not trying to be better. We're just trying to serve the Lord. We want all churches to be right with the Lord. Amen? Live by the Bible. But there ought to be somebody, it ought to be, and hopefully there is to some extent, but people say, you know, there's something unique about out there. The presence of God is there. The Lord is with that church. The Lord is with those ministries. And for that to happen, we've got to get empty of self and filled with the Lord. We've got to put away our stinking pride and humble ourselves and submit to the Lord and let Him have His way. Follow His instructions. It was obvious, it was evident to others That Joseph had the presence of the Lord in his life. His master saw that the Lord was with him. The presence of God in our lives is not just something we talk about. It ought to be evident in our homes. Our homes, the presence of God in our homes. It ought to be evident in our communities. My last thought is this. Number three. The Lord being with Joseph didn't mean the absence of trials and temptation. They were still there. He just strengthened them for them and helped them deal with them, enabled him to deal with them. It was obvious to others, Pharaoh particularly. And last of all, the presence of the Lord enriched his life. If you would look again at verse number two. The Lord was with Joseph, and he was a prosperous man. Prosperous. And he was in the house of his master, the Egyptian, and his master saw that the Lord was with him, and that the Lord did make, and the Lord made all that he did to prosper in his hand. I looked up that word prosper and we'd have our idea of what it means. Oh yeah, has lots of money. He's prosperous. I tell you, there's a whole lot more to being prosperous than having money When the Bible uses the term prosperous, it's not talking by, it's not, it's not, he's not dealing with the world's standards of prosperous. Now, no doubt that was involved with Potiphar by his reaction. But the word itself has this idea to push forward Orta one definition had this idea, to push upward. I like this other definition I came across, to break out of limitations. In other words, God's presence, the Lord being with Joseph, enriched his life in ways it would have never happened had the Lord not been with him. This is what I'm trying to say. Is everybody still with me? Alright, good. Because I'm winding down here, but I I like this thought I got looking at Joseph before this event. No doubt the Lord was with him before, but this is where we're told. I can't find anywhere in the accounts we have so far of Joseph that he knew the Egyptian language. When he showed up in Egypt. He'd never been in Egypt before. Maybe he might have come across some Egyptians with trade and whatnot. They lived along that trade route. So he may have come across some Egyptian-speaking people. But I can't find anywhere that Joseph was fluent in the Egyptian language However, he's purchased by an Egyptian living now in an Egyptian home, and apparently he picked up the language pretty quickly. pretty easily if he's able to function the way he is as it described in scripture. So somehow he picked up the Egyptian language pretty quick Not only that, I can't find anywhere in Scripture that indicates that Joseph had any administrative skills. He was a shepherd for Pete's sake. How administrative do you have to be with shepherds? You know, a bunch of sheep. You just keep 'em standing up, keep them out of the water, give 'em water, make sure they got food, and no bears and lions attack 'em. But we find him here, and he's a phenomenal administrator. He's running the whole, he's managing the whole household. Of Potiphar, a leading Egyptian official. This isn't a couple people. This is an enterprise. And Joseph, 17, 18, 19 years old, is managing this thing. I don't see anywhere leading up to this that Joseph had any accounting skills. I don't think he got a bachelor's degree in accounting. I can't find it anywhere. How much accounting do you have to do to watch sheep? You just count them at night, make sure they're all there. But now he's handling the finances of an extremely wealthy man, an extremely high official in the Egyptian government. He's managing, accounting the finances Say, what are you getting at, preacher? This is what I'm getting at. I think when you and I are walking close to the Lord And we're submitted to him and we're filled with his spirit and we have the Lord with us. I think these abilities that God gives us are enhanced. They're enriched. We are able to do a better job. When I have God's presence in my life than when I don't. You follow what I'm saying? Whatever it is God gives me to do, whatever responsibilities I have as a child of God Whatever God's plan and purpose for my life is, whatever responsibilities are included in that, I can do them a lot better if I'm right with God than if I'm not. What I'm trying to say is this: a Christian filled with the Spirit, yielded to the Lord, walking with God, that has the Lord with him, will be a better employee than the one that isn't. You follow what I'm saying? I don't know how Joseph knew language things. Well, he was intelligent. Possibly, but it doesn't say Joseph was intelligent. It says the Lord was with him. He probably had these natural skills, but when the Lord was with him, it enhanced it, it enriched it. What I'm trying to say is this: your life and my life will be a whole lot better if we're right with God. We'll be much more effective in what we attempt to do. We'll be much more productive in the responsibilities God gives us. We will prosper. That does not mean we'll get rich, but it does mean our life will be enriched. Follow what I'm saying? It's better to be poor in the will of God and the Lord with you than to be a billionaire out of the will of God and not have the Lord with you. Joseph was a servant, but the Lord was with him. He was a slave, but the Lord was with him And he was able to do what his responsibilities. He excelled in these areas. It was part of God's plan for his life, and the presence of God enabled him to do these things. Sometimes God I know when God is leading in my life and Paul I felt like the Lord was leading me to preach and pastor and my first reaction is like you hear it from everybody in my shoes. They always say it I could never do that. I could never do that. You know what I've found out? And I've seen Sunday school teachers say, oh, I could never do that. And they try it. Soul winners. Oh, I could never be a soul winner. But they submit to the Lord and yield to Him and God's presence in their life in a unique way. God's with them. And lo and behold, they're able to do it. God enables and God enriches us. His presence in our life. Walking with the Lord enriches our life. Yielding my will to the Lord will enrich my life. Being filled with the Holy Spirit, which is probably a New Testament term For uh somewhat to what describe what Joseph experienced, the Lord was with him. In the New Testament, we might put it this way. He was filled with the Holy Spirit. Now it's not exact, but along the same lines. When you and I die to self and yield our will to the Lord and humble ourselves and get our heart and mind right and clean and pure. Let the Lord fill us. I'm telling you, our lives are a whole lot better. Our ministries are much more effective. And we have a much stronger testimony. The Lord was with them. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to learn from Joseph here. And God, I pray that every one of us would be able to say, as believers in Jesus Christ, we'd be able to say that the Lord is with us. Lord, it'd be a wonderful thing We come to the end of our life and somebody would say, let's put on his tombstone, let's put on her tombstone. The Lord was with him. The Lord was with her. It's obvious. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if there's some would say, Preacher, I want the Lord to be with me, not just in a I'm not present sense. But in this very unique way, and you'd say, Preacher, there's some adjustments I need to make if that's going to be the case There's some areas that need to be dealt with if I'm going to have God's presence like this. Is there any like that? Uplifted hand, preacher, pray with me. Sure. Truth was known probably all of us. Maybe we just want to come tonight and say, Lord, do what you need to do so that I can have your presence in my life in a real way, an obvious way, a life-changing way. Father bless her imitation I ask now in Jesus name, a stand