Matthew chapter number one, I want to look at one of uh, I believe, and just quickly, I want to look at what I believe is perhaps the most overlooked person that's part of what we call the Christmas story. If you would notice with me verse number 19. Verse 18, Mary finds out that she's going to have a child. She's with child. It's of the Holy Ghost, but Joseph doesn't know that. That's an important point. At this point, Joseph doesn't know the background of Mary's conception. Look at verse 19. Then Joseph, her husband, being a just man and not willing to make her a public example, was minded to put her away privily. A just man. Joseph is a just man. And I want to just talk a little bit in the time we have about Joseph. So let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father, I thank you for the Word of God. We thank you for this Christmas season. Lord, these young people did such a good job singing a few songs for us, and it blessed my heart. I pray for these children. Oh God. I just pray you lead in their lives, that they would all know Jesus Christ as their Savior, that they would grow up living for God. You could use them and bless them. God protect them from sin. From the harm of this world, I pray they would just fulfill your purpose for their lives. And Lord, those of us here now in this service, as we look into your word, I pray that you would speak to our hearts and you would help us to understand a little bit of this Christmas season I pray you'd help us to learn from this man named Joseph. What an amazing man he was. And I just pray your Holy Spirit would take some observations we make about him. And apply to all of our lives, that we could be the people you intend for us to be. Our homes could be the homes you intend for them to be. And so fill me with your spirit. I ask, Father in heaven, I yield my will, present my body, and pray you just speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. The Christmas, the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ, that we celebrate at Christmas as Christians, it's more than just a Bible story. And I'll I feel uh more and more I feel the importance of stressing the fact that these events in Scripture that we know about, we're familiar with We call them Bible stories. It's important to understand these are more than just a Bible story. And the birth of Jesus Christ is much, much more than just a Bible story. It is a literal, actual, historically documented event. Just like any other event that we read of and study throughout history, the birth of Jesus Christ, as it's given to us in Scripture, is not just a story, it is an actual event. Miraculous, but literal. It actually took place. There actually was a day when a young woman Young girl, Mary, espoused to a fellow by the name of Joseph, actually did give birth in a manger, laid him in a gave birth to a child Named them Jesus, laid them in a man. That actually happened. A literal event. An actual historical, miraculous literal event. I think there are two events in history. There are two events in all the history of mankind that stand out in significance That and there's a lot of events that have happened throughout history, and profound events we could talk about But there are two that I believe tower above all other events in their significance. and in their and and how profound they are, how they affected humanity. One of those events is the virgin birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. There never has been the conception and birth of a human ever before and ever after, like what took place when Mary gave birth to Jesus Never and and uh and the implications of that event. We talked about it in Sunday school a little bit. The second significant event above all others throughout history. One, the virgin birth, and the second is the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. Now there have been other resurrections. We have record, documentation of folks that have been resurrected from the dead, but none like the Lord Jesus Christ. We have in the Gospels, very documented uh fellow Lazarus, and a number of cases where Jesus rose people from the dead. The difference between, and in the Old Testament we have a few accounts the difference between those and the resurrection of Jesus Christ, the others, they eventually died again. It wasn't a resurrection until eternal life. Lazarus eventually died and went to heaven. When Jesus Christ rose from the dead, he rose to never die again. He ever liveth. He's at the right hand of God making intercession for us. So these two events, the virgin birth of the Lord Jesus Christ and the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ, these two events stand above all others, and they both obviously had to do with the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is the center Of humanity's history. He's the focal point. It's Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. Say, why do you make such a big deal about Jesus Christ? Because Jesus Christ is King of Kings, Lord of Lords. God of gods, the everlasting God from everlasting to everlasting. He's the only Savior of the world. He's the only hope. Of escaping hell and having eternal life and living in the presence of God. He's the only hope for old sinners like us. And so, yes, everything's about Jesus. Everything is. And so these two events The virgin birth, Christmas. We're thinking about the birth of Jesus Christ. And like I said at the beginning, I think perhaps the most overlooked individual in all this account of Jesus' birth is his stepfather, Joseph. His stepfather, Joseph. Joseph was not Jesus' father. Joseph was Mary's husband But he was not Jesus' father. Jesus did not have a biological father. He didn't have a biological, he did not have a human father. Jesus' father was God the Father. God the Father. He was Joseph was Mary's husband, but he was not Jesus' father. You say, how can that be? How is it possible for a child to be born and not have a biological father? How can a child be born? How can he be conceived? A biological father. I'll say this: humanly, it is absolutely impossible Is absolutely impossible. Now we point it out, and we do this just about every year, we point out that the birth of Jesus Christ That birthing process, the actual birth of Jesus Christ, there was nothing miraculous about that. Jesus was born, just no different than you and I were born. May 6, 1960, at 2 o'clock in the morning, my mother gave birth to a beautiful, beautiful baby, child, son. Oh, it's wonderful. The angels sang and But Jesus though there wasn't any angels um and they weren't singing, I guarantee you that. But um the birth of Jesus Christ, the actual birth was no different than my entrance into the world from my mother's womb. The miracle of Christmas is that she conceived Without the seed of man. That's where the impossible comes in. That's where the miraculous takes place. You say, how in the world could a woman in her womb conceive a child with no seed of man? It's humanly impossible. Hebrews chapter 10 tells us, and this is how I believe, and we if you were in Sunday school, you're getting round two. But this is the way I understand it, and I believe I'm correct. The Bible says that the Holy Spirit came upon Mary, and she conceived in her womb from that Holy Spirit. The child Jesus Christ. Now, Hebrews in chapter 10 tells us, says, Jesus speaking, he says that God the Father prepared a body For the Lord Jesus Christ. Now you understand, Jesus Christ did not begin to exist on Christmas morning. Jesus Christ existed as the Son of God from eternity past, and he always will to eternity future. He's the everlasting Son of God. He's equal with God. It's God. The God, the Father, Hebrews tells us, prepared a body. And the Holy Spirit of God took what I believe was a little embryotic body of Jesus Christ that God prepared, and the Holy Spirit placed that into the very gently, very graciously, probably unconscious to Mary at that time. She was on maybe she was unaware. And a Spirit of God placed that little embryotic body that God prepared of Jesus Christ into the womb of Mary. Very graciously, very gently. And her body, her womb, incubated, nurtured that little body that God prepared during the natural process of any other child. When the time was come for her to give birth, and we know the story there in Bethlehem, and no room in the inn, they were able to get in a in a little stable and uh and uh and she gives birth That little child, Jesus Christ, the Son of God. Son of God. She placed them in a manger. God was Jesus' Father, not Joseph. Nobody ever like Jesus Christ, ever before, ever will be again. When God through this process became flesh, became a man. We talk about the purpose of how he'd live a perfect life for us. Never sinned one time. Never pure and holy as it's as as a God as God can be. And then took our sins on him on the cross and was judged for the sins I've committed. The wrath of God poured on him on that cross spurry, and then rose again. He's alive right now at the right hand of the Father. Joseph was not Jesus' father. He was Mary's husband, but he was not Jesus' father. God chose Joseph to raise his son. God the Father chose this man, Joseph, to be a father, a human father in my place. You raise him, you work, you supply, you provide. You be a father to him, a human father. Mary was not conceived of Joseph, she was conceived of the Holy Ghost. So Jesus had no biological father, but he did have what we call, a term we use now, is a stepfather. He had a stepfather. What do we know about Joseph? Well, we're told little about him. We're told some very important things about Joseph. And he's the one that has my attention going into Christmas this year, Joseph. It's made very clear here in Matthew, particularly, that Joseph was a descendant of King David. God had promised to David that the coming Messiah and the ultimate king of Israel would come through the lineage of David. So as the stepfather, the adopted father, maybe you could say, of Jesus, Joseph met the requirements To bring Jesus into as eventually be the King of Israel. So he was offspring of David. He was of the lineage of David. And that's significant. We could talk about that. Joseph, we are told, clearly in Scripture, he was a carpenter. They referred to Jesus when he began his ministry. Uh, you know, he he just starts doing these miracles, he's teaching these profound truths and people are coming by the tens of thousands to hear Jesus teach and to to be healed of him and see his miracles and I mean he's becoming a profound influence there in Israel a as he begins his ministry. And people began saying, Who in the world is this guy? He's speaking with authorities. He's performing miracles. Who is he? Where did he come from? And they made this statement. He's the son of a carpenter. Ah, we learned something about Joseph. He was a carpenter. Now we have carpenters today. Carpenter then would have maybe been a little bit more encompassing. He was it would probably refer to he was a builder of things. He was um uh uh a a carpenter with wood, a woodworker would some would define a carpenter in that day. So what exactly that involved other than building things We don't know. But he was a carpenter. The Bible says that Joseph was espoused to Mary. Now, espousal is a little bit foreign in our culture To be a spouse. And a spousal, to be a spo for Joseph to be a spouse to marry, what it means is that they were in a legal binding agreement. It's more than just an engagement. Right? You get engaged. People, you know, every other week they're engaged to somebody else, you know. In this culture To be a spouse to someone, it was legally binding. It was one step short of actual marriage. Now there was no consumm- the consummation of the marriage took place after the marriage vows. But legally they were bound to each other. There was agreement. I'll be your husband, you will be my wife, and it was a serious commitment at this point. So they're espoused. He did not know his wife, as we pointed out, married, but he was a spouser, a legally binding engagement. Now some things we know that Joseph was not. Joseph was not a prophet At no time do we have God delivering a message to Joseph and him standing up before crowds and proclaiming the word of the Lord. We see that throughout the Old Testament. But we don't, Joseph was not a prophet by any stretch of the imagination. He wasn't a preacher. We have no account of Joseph ever preaching a sermon. We have no real speeches by him. He was not a prophet. He was not a preacher. He wrote no books of the Bible. You look through your index or your Bible, you'll not find a book named Joseph. The book of Joseph. It's not there. Now we have Matthew, we have Mark, we have Luke, we have John, we have Timothy, we have Titus, we have Philemon. But we don't have the book of Joseph. So he wasn't a prophet, he wasn't a preacher, he didn't write any book of the Bible, he didn't start any churches, he didn't pastor any churches Joseph was just a guy, just a carpenter, a hard working young man And not much more than that. But God chose him to raise his son. God the Father chose Joseph to take responsibility of fatherhood for the Son of God. And raise that boy. Teach him a trade. Uh care for him. Take care of him. God chose Joseph to raise God's only son, his only begotten son. Joseph, you're responsible. Would you agree with me? That's a tremendous responsibility. Fatherhood in any form is an overwhelming responsibility. We complain about society today And we complain about the kids these days and the young people these days. I'm here to tell you their behavior may be traced back to fathers who do not take fatherhood seriously, that do not grasp the responsibility that God has given to us as fathers to raise our children, to teach them and train them. To know God, love God, respect others, and do right. And God chose Joseph, not a prophet, not a preacher, not some great man of God. Just a honest carpenter that worked hard Genesis chapter 18 and verse 19, God said this about Abraham. And as I was studying Joseph, I thought of this. God said about Abraham, listen to what God said about Abraham, who, by the way, was a prophet, was the father of the faithful. It says, For I know him. God says, I know Abraham. That he will command his children and his household after him. They shall keep the way of the Lord and do justice and judgment God said, I know something about Abraham. He's gonna take his fatherhood responsibilities seriously. He's gone and raised his children to know God and love God and do right And I think that God's assessment of Abraham is true, and God's assessment of Joseph, and he chose Joseph to raise my son. To be the Father, humanly speaking, of my only begotten Son Joseph. Notice if you would in chapter 1 here of Matthew, verse 19, it says, Then Joseph, her husband, now notice those next few words there, being a what? Talk to me. A just man. Here's God's assessment of this fellow Joseph, this young man, Joseph. He is a just man. I notice what it doesn't say about him. It doesn't say, then, Joseph, her husband, being a rich man. Some of us maybe would have chosen a rich man to raise my son. Somebody that can offer him all the luxuries of the world, the enjoyments of the world. I want a rich man to raise my son. Sometimes a mother will tell their daughter, just marry a rich man. I tell you, they'd be better off marrying a just man. God didn't choose a rich man. There's nothing wrong with being rich. God bless you, you know. A lot of great men in the Bible were very, very wealthy. A lot of great women in the Bible were very, very wealthy. But that's not what God says about Joseph. In fact, we know he wasn't a just a rich man So it doesn't say he was a rich man. It doesn't say that he was a talented man. Now I think Joseph knew what he was doing. I think he was probably a very skilled carpenter, builder. But God doesn't say anything about his gifts and abilities. They may have been very limited. They may have been very specific in a certain area. He may not have been had a lot of different abilities. So God doesn't say he was a rich man or a talented man. It doesn't say he was a popular man. It says he was a just man. A just man. Now what does it mean to be just? If he says he's a just man, what does that mean? Well the word just if if a person is a just person, it means they do what's right. It means they live right. They do right. They're fair. They're honest. A just man is someone that lives up to God's will. They do God's will. A just man is somebody that lives according to God's word. The Bible says I should do that, then I'm going to do it. That's the just man. He's honest in his business. He's kind in his treatment of others. He's pure in his heart and mind. He worships God in sincerity and in truth. He knows the Lord, a just man, not a perfect man. Doesn't say that Joseph was a perfect man. It says he was a just man. He sincerely wanted to please God with his life. He had integrity. Proverbs chapter 20 and verse 7 says, the just man walketh in his integrity. And his children are blessed after him. Can I suggest to you, now this is humanly speaking, and You know, there's dimensions to Jesus Christ that we'll never grasp, probably. But humanly speaking, can I suggest to you that Jesus was blessed? For having Joseph as his father. Let me read that verse again. Now put it in the context of Jesus Christ. Joseph is Stepfather, God chose Joseph to raise his son Jesus. And Proverbs says, the just man walketh in his integrity, and his children are blessed after him. God knew what he was doing when he chose Joseph to be his the father, the human father, the stepfather of his son A couple thoughts I want to give you. I got a couple minutes. Let me give you a couple thoughts here real quick. I want us to consider, first of all, the disruption, the disruption disruption of Joseph's life. Look at verse 18. The birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise. This is how it came about, is what he means. When as his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph, there's that binding engagement Before they came together, before any physical intimacy, before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Ghost. Now stop right there. Put yourself at this point, put yourself in Joseph's shoes. He's a young man, probably maybe mid-late teens. Possibly early twenties, most likely late teens. He has dreams of his future. He has this Mary is his espouse wife. He's engaged to be married to her. I mean, it's lined up. It's going to happen. He has dreams about his family and the love of his life. He wants things to be right. He wants a marriage and a home that pleases God. And I don't know how he got word. Maybe Mary sat down with him and said, Joseph, I have to tell you something. What? I'm a child. What? I'm going to have a baby. What are you talking about, Mary? And that instant- and I don't know how he found out. Probably how it played out, what I just described. But I know this, I am convinced Joseph's dreams were shattered His hopes were dashed. His heart is now broken deeper than it has ever been broken in his life. Mary has been untrue. Another man has touched my wife. She's been unfaithful to me. That would be the only conclusion he could possibly come to at this point. His dreams are shattered. His heart is broken beyond belief. He had dreams of marrying a godly young lady. He had committed himself to love her, committed his life to live for her. Now it's broken. We don't know what Mary's appearance was. The Bible doesn't say anything about was she physically attractive. I'm sure she was to Joseph. I'm sure in Joseph's mind she's the most beautiful woman that ever walked the planet. Now we don't know anything about her physical appearance. But we find this, we are told this in Scripture, she, whatever she looked like physically, she was a godly young lady. And I'm here to tell you, there is a beauty in godliness that all the makeup in the world can never match. Mary was a godly woman. But Joseph now his dreams are shattered This world is turned upside down. Everything he anticipated, how he saw his life playing out at this point is absolutely annihilated. I have no doubt he's not sleeping at night all night long. His mind is racing. He's sobbing his eyes out. What in the world? His heart is broken. Never had his heart been so broken before. Never had his life seemed so dark. So we have Joseph, a just man, a young man, a good man, hard worker, nothing profound, not a prophet or anything like that, just a guy. That loves God and works hard and is going to get married and looking forward to a life and a wife and children and all and now this So we have the disruption of Joseph's life. Second of all, notice his dedication to do what's right. Now, here we learn about Joseph. We see a little bit about who he is, what he's made of. Look at verse number 19 again. It says, then when he found this out, Her husband, being a just man and not willing to make her a public example, was minded to put her away privily. What does he mean he says he's going to put her away? What's he going to do? He's going to divorce her. And actually this espousal is so binding it would be considered a divorce. I'm done. Oh no. I'm putting her away. And by the way, he was justified in doing that according to the law. He could do that. A just man, there's two aspects of being a just man. A just man is someone who is justified. That means they can stand before God as if they've just as if they'd never sinned, just as if I'd never sinned. So so Joseph was just in his standing before God. But what he's talking about here is his just in his actions in life I'm just before God, not because of how I live my life, but because of my faith in Jesus Christ makes me just. My faith in the Messiah. But to be just before man, that is how I live my life. Are you with me? Everybody with me? That's how I live my life. That's my behavior. I do right. I live right. I'm honest and true. And he says, I want to do right I'm going to do it right. I'm going to put her aside. His commitment to do right was greater than any pain of a broken heart. His commitment to trust God, so I'm gonna he was minded to put away. That's what he he thought this thing through He says, alright, I'm gonna put her away. That's what it means minded. I thought this through, I'm gonna put her away. I'm done. I'm gonna move on Now notice also, not only his life is disrupted, he's determined he's going to do right, he's going to put her aside. But notice here, this we begin seeing some depth to his character He's very delicate with his wife. Notice what it says. Not willing to make her a public example. He didn't want to shame her. He put her away, he was minded to put her away privately, privately, just he's not getting on social media and saying, I want everybody to know what this woman did to me It's very quiet. He's very delicate. I think this is what he's saying. I don't want to hurt her. Any more than the hurt that's already been done. I want to be very delicate. I want to be very kind and compassionate. Many men would have been very angry at this point. Many men would have become very bitter and harsh and unkind. You'll pay for this, Mary. No, not Joseph. He's a just man. I want to do right, but I want to do it in the right way. Here's the thing. Joseph Was acting according to the letter of the law. Legally, he could do this. But he understood the heart of God. And though Mary in his mind, at this point Mary in his mind, had sinned against him But he was going to be kind. He was going to be gracious and compassionate. I'm going to do it privately. I don't want to shame. I don't want to hurt her anymore that's already been hurt. I just do it privately. He's delicate with his wife. He's compassionate. He's acting according to the letter of the law, but he's treating her according to the heart of God. When others would have been harsh and unkind and angry and bitter, Joseph showed compassion. He showed kindness and mercy. He didn't want to make a public example of her. She did him wrong, but he's going to treat her right. She hurt him, but he's going to be kind to her. Unkindness. Let me put it this way. Unkindness, I hope we get this this Christmas. Unkindness is ungodliness. To be unkind to somebody is ungodly. Our God is a kind God Our God is a compassionate God. He is a gracious God. He is a long-suffering God. He is a merciful God. He is a forgiving God. Now He does right, but He's compassionate. And to be unkind. Joseph said, I'll not be unkind to her. I will not be unkind to her. As far as I'm concerned, a man's faith is not worth a hill of beans if he's not kind. A Christian who is impatient and uncompassionate and unkind and harsh and hateful is a pitiful example of what Christianity is. God and and God says Joseph was a just man and he treats her very delicately. I'm going to put her away, but I'm going to do it privately. I don't want to make a shame out of her. And then comes another turning point. You talk about emotional roller coaster, this poor guy. And then I notice, last of all, and am with this, his deliberate faith. Notice verse number 20. All of a sudden, this whole story changes again. You talk about twists, plot in the plot. Verse 20. But while he thought on these things, now he's not reacting, he's thinking this through. It's taking some time. He didn't do any of verse 19. What he thought on doing, it was in his mind. He didn't do any of that at this point. He's thinking this through while he thought on these things. Behold The angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a dream. God shows up with a message. And he says, Joseph, thou son of David. Fear not to take unto thee Mary, thy wife. Look at this, for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost. Joseph, your wife has been faithful to you. She has not violated her purity. She's good. She's pure. She's faithful. What's happening in her? God is doing this. This is a miracle. God is introducing to the world the Savior of mankind. Whole different reality was completely different than what his perception was initially. In the face of something. Now let's read on. Look at verse 21. And she shall bring forth a son, thou shalt call his name Jesus. Joseph, listen to me. Joseph, listen to me. You're good. Thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from his sins. Now all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken of the Lord by the prophet, saying back in Isaiah, behold a virgin shall be with child, shall bring forth a son, they'll call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted, God with us. Are you listening to me, Joseph? God's doing something here. It's not what you think it is And Joseph, being raised from the sleep, look at this, did as the angel of the Lord had bidden him, and took unto him his wife. Now he explains there, he knew her not until she had brought forth her firstborn son. So they didn't consummate the marriage till after Jesus was born. Later on, he knew her. They had a bunch of kids And so Joseph wakes up. He's processing all this information. He's got Mary, my spousewife. Has a child, what? Oh no. God says, no, no, no, Joseph, it's okay. It's of the Holy Ghost. This is incredible what's happening. Huh? And here's the thing I take away, and I want to end with this. Joseph says, Yes, Lord, if this is what you say it is, then I trust you. I have faith in you. Take her to be my wife? Okay. Everything looks necessary. What you're saying is absolutely impossible. Humanly speaking, there is no way. This makes no sense. But God, if you say that's what it is, then I believe you and I trust you and I will do what you say. I'll say yes to the Lord. Isn't that good? I mean humanly he's looking at the situation from his perspective. This is crazy. God sometimes says, no, it's not crazy. I got a plan. I know what I'm doing. Trust me, Joseph. Just take her. It's good. Uh okay, God. All right. Faith. Faith in God. Joseph trusted God. He believed God. He said yes to God. A just man says yes to God. Abraham, God appeared to Abraham and said, I want you to take your family, Sarah, and I want you to go to a country. What country, Lord? I'll tell you later. Just pack up and go. Huh? Which way? Go west. Okay. And he says, yes, God. And God, because he trusted God in a situation that made no sense, because he trusted God, God made a great man of God out of Abraham. He became the father of Israel, the father of the faithful. Because he said yes to God. I thought about Moses. We're studying Moses on Wednesday nights God shows up and burning bush. Moses made a disaster of his life. God shows up, Burning Bush said, Moses, I want you to go down to Egypt and lead my people out of Egypt. Let my people go He fusses a little bit. They go back and forth a little, but finally Joseph says, Okay God, I'll do what you're telling me to do. Doesn't make any sense. I don't see how this can possibly happen But I'll trust you and do what you want me to do. Moses said yes to God. Abraham said yes to God. David Gets down there, gets him afeal. He's just a young boy. Young boy like uh Gavin here, probably his age maybe. There's this giant in the Philistines trying to kill everybody David says yes to God. I'll go out there, he's defying the armies of Israel. Boom. And God uses David in a great way because he said yes to God. Paul's persecuting the church, killing Christians, I mean slaughtering them. God appears, Jesus Christ appears to me. He says, Who are you, Lord? He says, I'm Jesus whom thou persecutest. And Paul says, okay, God, I was wrong. I'll say, yes, Lord, I'll do. And God used Paul to alter the course of history. What I'm saying is Joseph said yes to God. And God did a great work in his life. God chose Joseph to raise his son because he was a just man and because he trusted God and did what God said I want to challenge us this morning. This is what I want to leave. I don't know what God's doing in your life. There's no doubt, crowd this size, there are some people you are going through some awful trials. There are things happening, uh God, what in the world? This is not the way I planned it. This is not the way I envision it. This doesn't seem right But I'm here to tell you: if you will trust God, if you will do what he says, let him lead, take your time, don't get bitter, don't get angry, don't go off, be kind and gracious, and patient. And wait on God. God will see you through that. You'll come out strong. Can I get a witness? Has anybody been through and know what I'm talking about? Anyone know what I'm talking about? I'm telling you. Just trust God. Say yes to God. You're here this morning. You've never trusted Jesus Christ, your personal Savior. He wants to save you from your sins, forgive you, give you a new life, give you eternal life, but you've got to say yes to him. You've got to say, okay, Jesus, I'll trust you as my Savior, and He'll forgive you. He'll save you. He'll give you a new life. He'll help you. Those of us that know Christ as Savior, we need to come to point and say, Yes, Lord, I give you my life I'll give you. I'll live for you. I'll do what you I don't think are happening. I don't make sense, but I'm just going to trust you. Let you lead me. That's what Joseph did. Husbands, love your wives. Wives, love your husbands. Forgive each other. Be patient. Be kind. Raise our children up to know God. Work hard. Be honest. Do right. Be just And that's the man God chose to raise his son, and that's the man and the woman God's looking for today. Amen. Father, I pray you take these thoughts. Challenge us, Lord, this Christmas season as we celebrate the birth of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, we think of Joseph, what he went through, and his faith, and his integrity, his compassion. I pray you'd help us in our lives. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I got a situation, and that's between you and God. Would you say, preacher, I got a situation? And I really need the Lord I need to to trust the Lord in this because maybe I don't understand what's going on and it's hard. I need to trust the Lord. Is there any like that this morning? Preach, I need it. God bless you, hands all around There's people all through here who could stand up and testify. I've been through situations. I saw God see me through. We could testify. It's best to trust God. Say yes. Say yes. There's some here say, preacher, I don't know for sure my sins are forgiven. When I die, I go to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know God's forgiven me. And God doesn't want you to go to hell. He wants to forgive you and save you, but you've got to say yes. If God accept what He's done for you on that cross and believe, there's some this morning say, preacher, I'm not sure my sins are beyond. I need to get this settled. I don't want to play games. Is there any like that? Say, preacher, pray for me. I need God to help me with that. Any like that by the uplifted hand? I need the Lord to help me get this settled. Any, God bless you. How about it? Any others? God bless you. I need to get this settled. Now, Father in heaven, you know our hearts, you know where we're at. Pray you'd help us say yes to you. Help us trust you. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.