We're studying the life of Joseph, and um we're at a we're at a very key point. Uh I'm gonna mention here in a little bit. We're at a very dramatic point in the life of Joseph. Of course, his brothers, we know the story, I'm sure. His brothers hated him because for various reasons there was just a lot of hatred in the family to begin with And uh then he had uh his his daddy he was uh his daddy's pet. He was favorite of his daddy Jacob. Then he got that coat of many colors. So famous, everybody knows about the coat of many colors. They hated him. They're going to sell they're going to murder him when he comes out to check on him for his daddy. But um instead they sell him as a slave down to Egypt. We know the story. He gets down there, Potiphar purchases him as like you'd buy a tool at Lowe's. He buys Joseph as a uh slave and uh Joseph works his way he's such a tremendo a man of integrity and and uh intelligent young man and God's with him is the key And he works his way up, becomes the head of Potiphar's household. Everything he has, Joseph runs it. Bank account, everything. And Potiphar's wife comes on to him. Joseph says no. Joe said no. And he ends up in prison. He works in prison, young man of integrity, working hard, doing right. He works his way up. The two Butler and Baker have uh These dreams. He interprets them. It happens exactly the way he interpreted them. One is killed, the other is restored. Two years later, Pharaoh has his dreams. The butler remembers that Joseph interpreted his dreams, they bring Joseph up in one hour's time. This is the amazing thing In probably less than an hour's time, Joseph goes from being a prisoner in a Egyptian prison to being number two in command of the whole nation. Uh that that's something only God does. That's God type stuff there. And so now he's he's in ch he's in charge. And we ended last week where Joseph had started implementing his plan for these seven years of plenty And the seven years of famine. So now he's in charge. He's implemented that. That seven years of plenty has taken place. And to say it was years of plenty is the most ridiculous understatement ever. This was unbelievable prosperity, unprecedented prosperity, and we'll see that here in a moment, I think And so uh now the famine is hit. And now the scene changes in our text changes From Egypt and the focus on Joseph. Now the scene switches back to Joseph's hometown and back to Jacob of what's going on in the home back in Jacob. So Genesis 42, that gets us caught up to where we're at. Verse number one, it says, Now, when Jacob saw that there was corn in Egypt, Jacob said unto his sons, Why do you look one upon another? And he said, Behold, I have heard that there is corn in Egypt. Get you down thither and buy for us from thence that we may live and not die. And Joseph's ten brethren went down to buy corn in Egypt. But Benjamin, Joseph's brother, Jacob sent not with his brethren, for he said, Lest peradventure mischief befall him. And the sons of Israel came to buy corn among those that came, for the famine was in the land of Canaan. Let's pray together and we're going to look. Joseph's brothers arrive in Egypt is what we're looking at. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now or study in this portion of Joseph's life And I pray that you would help us see principles and lessons here in this simple event that's recorded in your word. I ask, Lord, that you would please fill me with your Holy Spirit. Father, I yield my will to you. I do not want it to be my thinking, my reasoning. I want it to be your word that's spoken tonight. I present my body anew that your Holy Spirit can speak through me and teach us, open our eyes to behold principles and lessons here. That we can apply to our lives, we can be better Christians, stronger in our faith, and Lord, more effective in our witness. And I ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Whoever said that the Bible is a boring book, I don't believe they ever read it very much. The Bible is an amazing book. The Bible has great drama all through it. You ought to read, someday you ought to read from Genesis to Revelation, you ought to read through the whole thing. And particularly in the Old Testament, there is tremendous drama. Did you ever read the book of Esther? And brother, you talk about a do you talk about a twist in the plot? And you talk about intrigue Um the Bible is ha is intriguing. It it has drama. It has irony Um Sunday uh after the morning service, um Brian and I were talking and he's reading a Louis Lemour book. Anybody here ever read Louis Lemour books? Years ago I loved reading Louis Lamore. I think I read everything that was printed up to that point. I haven't read fiction in 20 years, probably But back years ago when I was younger I loved reading more. And the thing I liked about it was there was drama and there was intrigue. You always were left hanging. What's gonna happen? What's gonna happen? Now the problem is we're so m familiar with the Bible, we know what's gonna happen. But if you're just reading through it for the first time, and that's one thing I love about new believers, is they start reading the Bible and they call you up at 10 o'clock at night Pastor, what happens here? What in the world? And uh they're just excited about what's going on in the Bible. So don't tell, what I'm trying to say is this, don't tell me the Bible is boring We're coming to one of the most dramatic events in all of Scripture. When Joseph, who was betrayed and sold as a slave by his brothers, Now they are going to, in a, in a, it'll be a couple weeks in our messages, but they are going to meet face to face, and how that plays out is one of the most fascinating things in all scripture. The Bible is a tremendous book, a fascinating book. I think this event here in Joseph's life, this account, is some of the greatest drama in all of Scripture, in my mind. Some intents here. Now, before we get to our passage, and I don't know how far I'm going to get tonight, I really think I have enough material here to go to about 1230 tomorrow morning I'm not going to do that, I promise. But I got fired up studying this. And uh the first thing I sat down, I was just kind of looking over what we studied, I'm looking at what we're facing And I just put some introductory observations down. So before we get to verse by verse here, I just want to take some time And just say make some observations about what we've seen so far. And I'll just try and give these to you. And these are just, like I said, observations. Observation number one. God has a plan and a purpose for every life. You cannot study the life of Joseph and not realize that God had a plan and a purpose for this whole thing. And we've been emphasizing this all through there. Paul understood, the Apostle Paul understood that God had a plan and a purpose for his life In Acts chapter 20 and verse 24, he said this. He got wind that his life was going to be threatened if he went down to Jerusalem. Listen to what he said. He says, none of these things move me Neither count I my life dear unto myself, so, listen, so that I might finish my course with joy. And the ministry which I have received of the Lord Jesus Christ, Paul understood that his life had a course. His life had a purpose. There was a plan behind the life of the Apostle Paul. Jesus said, and we could look at others, Jesus said this, and John 17, 4. He says, he's speaking to the Lord. He's praying to his Heavenly Father. He says, I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do. Now we understand Jesus, Son of God, he had a purpose here on earth. What was that purpose? Luke 19. 10. He came to what? Seek and the save that which was lost. Jesus Christ, the man Jesus Christ, he was 100% man, 100% God, his humanity, his time here on earth, he was a purpose, there was a plan to it. Paul says, I've had a course. I want to finish my course. Joseph's life had a plan and purpose. And what I'm trying to say to you tonight is your life and my life has just as much of a purpose, and God has a plan for your life and my life just as He had a plan for these great men in the Bible. Now you're God's plan for your life and God's plan for my life is obviously not saving millions of Egyptians from starvation. And our plan is not to pay the sins of the world like the Lord Jesus. And our God's plan for our life is not to establish the foundation of the New Testament church like the Apostle Paul. But I want to suggest to you, though our plan may not be as grand and magnificent as some of these guys, but I tell you, I think in the eyes of God, God's plan for your life and my life is just as important as these guys. It may just be winning a little child to the saving faith of the Lord Jesus Christ. You know that would bring shouting to the angels in heaven, according to Jesus. It may just be being a blessing and a help and a encouragement to believers. So God has a plan. Every life, God has a plan and a purpose for every single life. Maybe not as dynamic as these guys, but just as important. Number two, observation number two. What God says will happen will happen. God said there's going to be seven years of plenty, there's going to be seven years of famine. Guess what? There was seven years of plenty. There was seven years of famine. You mark it down. When God says something's going to happen, it is going to happen. If you would, keep your place here and come to the book of Numbers, right before Deuteronomy, fourth book of the Bible. Come with me to Numbers chapter 23. And I want us to notice verse number 19, Numbers 23 and verse number 19. This is a good verse. If you're in a habit of underscoring verses in your Bible, this is a good verse to underscore. Numbers chapter 23, verse number 19. Notice what it says: God is not a man that he should lie. How many people understand? God does not lie. Neither the Son of Man that he should repent. Now look at this. Hath he said, and shall he not do it? Or hath he spoken, and shall he not make it good? When God says something's going to happen, mark it down, it's going to happen. Jesus said the Bible taught for years, God said for years that a Messiah was going to come, and that Messiah would be born of a virgin. Guess what? The Messiah showed up and was born of a virgin. What God said was going to happen happened exactly the way he said it. God said that Jesus Christ said this Messiah would die for the sins of many. Isaiah 53 laid it out very clearly. And he said that he would rise again from the dead When Jesus died on that cross and they buried him, everyone thought that was it. Everyone thought it was over. Everyone thought that was the end of it. Remember on the way to Emmaus the two fellows said we had trusted he was to be the Messiah, but he's dead And little did they anticipate, and they missed the point in the Old Testament, God said this Messiah is going to rise again. And he did rise again, and you and I serve a risen Savior exactly as God said it would be. Jesus is alive. Just as alive as you and I just as real and alive as you and I are. What God says is going to happen, mark it down, it's going to happen. Um Jesus, the Bible says, God tells us that the wages of sin is death Listen to me, a person dies in their sins, they're separated from God for all eternity in what's called the second death, hell, the lake of fire. You mark it down. God says a person dies in their sins, they'll go to hell. You mark it down, that's exactly what happened. God says that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Romans 10, 13. You mark it down, a person sincerely comes, understanding they're a sinner before the eyes of a holy God, believing that Jesus died for their sin. paid the price for their sin, was buried, rose again, and they call on the Lord Jesus Christ. They call on God, believing and trusting Jesus for the forgiveness of their sins, salvation of their sins. You mark it down. That person sincerely calls on the Lord, that person gets saved. My point I'm trying to make is this. What God says is going to happen is going to happen. He said there'll be seven years of plenty. There were seven years of plenty. He said there's going to be seven years of famine. There was seven years of famine. And everything else that God says is going to happen, mark it down, it's going to happen. Jesus said in John chapter 14, I will come again And receive you unto myself, you mark it down, Jesus coming back again. And the world can mock at that, and the world can kind of make fun of us. Do whatever they want. I'm sticking to what God has promised, and I'm looking for Jesus coming back again. What God says is going to happen is going to happen. We are foolish to think that we can ignore God's word and not suffer the consequences. If they would have ignored God's word that there's going to be seven years of plenty and seven years of famine, if they'd have just blown that off, there would have been millions and millions died of starvation. So God says what he means and means what he says, and what God says will happen will happen. Number three, and I'm going through these quicker than I thought I would, to be honest with you. Number three, God is the one that gives us wealth. God is the one that gives us wealth God gave them seven years of plenty. And again, we'll see here, hopefully we'll see here in a little bit how unbelievably plenteous this really was. I don't think we comprehend. How abundant their harvest was for seven years. And um, but it was not, here's my point, it was not because of their farming skills. Now my respect to farmers, my hat's off to anybody that works crops, works cattle, all of that, brother, thank God for farmers. I like uh what uh Paul Harvey said uh God made a farmer has a great, great uh monologue there I'm not trying to be disrespectful to farmers, but I'm telling you here, anything we receive, it's because of the grace and the goodness of God. Any prosperity we have and anything we receive, any wealth we may have. And by the way, I want to remind you, every one of us in this room here, everyone on this property here tonight is wealthier than probably 75% of the rest of the world. And it's not and I I love America, I thank God for all of it, but I'm telling you, it's because of God that we have any wealth at all. Now I want to give you some scripture for that. If you would turn with me again to Deuteronomy, fifth book of the Old Testament. Deuteronomy chapter number 8. Moses is speaking to the children of Israel. God has blessed them tremendously. They're about to enter into the promised land. And in chapter 8 and verse number 17, he makes an important statement that I think is good, that I think every American believer needs to understand. Deuteronomy chapter 8 and verse 17, it says this, and thou say in thine heart, my power and the might of my hand hath gotten me this wealth. But thou shalt remember the Lord thy God, for it is he that giveth thee power to get wealth. Did you catch that? What the Israelites, he was kind of cutting them off here, heading them off a little bit, what they were tempted to think was, hey man, I worked hard. And I applied myself and I handled my finances wisely and I got up early. I was the first one on the job in the morning. I was the last one to leave at night I put eight hours of hard work in for an eight-hour day. I worked extra men. I built this house. I built this wealth. I built my kingdom And God says, listen, you need to remember something. Now notice he doesn't say, I'm the one that gave you the wealth. He says, I'm the one that gave you the what? power to get the wealth. He says, I'm the one that gave you the ability to do what needed to be done to get that wealth. You know, some people aren't wealthy not because they don't have the ability to get wealth, God gave them, if they don't have the initiative to do what needs to be done to get the wealth. Are you with me? Some people are poor because they're lazy. Now, not everybody, and God said the poor you're always going to have with you. And some people, God In His providence, it's His will for them to be poor for whatever reason. And I tell you, some of the happiest people I know are people who have very little possessions. So happiness is and spirituality is not dependent on my material possessions. However If we do have something, it is not us. God's the one that enabled us to do what needs to be done to be able to get that wealth. You follow what I'm saying? And they didn't have this seven years of plenty because they were such, oh, we're this and we're that, we did this, we did that. No, they didn't. That was the grace of God. That provided for them. And America needs to remember it is the grace of God that we have what we have and that we've experienced what we've experienced. Amen or not? And so we need to learn that. So my point, my observation is this: it's God's the one that gives us the ability to have will. Number four, What God gives us, He can take away. What God gives us, He can take away. He gave seven years of fabulous Tremendous, unimaginable, incomprehensible prosperity. And in one year's time, it ended. Seven years of famine, and the famine is hard for us to imagine the level of famine this was. And like that, God took the prosperity away. God took the prosperity away. Job said in chapter 1, verse 21, how many people are familiar with Job's experience? Yeah. Satan and God are in this argument, so to speak. And Satan says, oh yeah, you put a hedge about him. No wonder he loves you. No wonder he serves you you put this hedge about him. The Lord says, all right, I'll take the hedge off. You can do anything you want to him, just don't touch him And so Satan devastates him. And by the way, that's a great lesson to learn what Satan would do to you and I if he got could get away with it. And his children are dead, his property is gone. Devastating. Emotional heartbreak beyond imagine. And listen what he says in chapter 1, verse 21. Job says this, speaking to his wife. He says, Naked came I out of my mother's womb. Naked shall I return thither. Listen, the Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. Listen, before we get too up and haughty and too uppity and too proud of what we are and what we've got, we better remember it could all be gone tomorrow. God could just snap his fingers, so to speak, and it would be all be gone. And so it's best, I think it's best to live by faith Thank God for what He's given us, but take it one day at a time. Proverbs 27:1. Boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. We better be grateful for what we have today. We ought to live by the day and we ought to live by faith. Somebody asked last week if I thought that the Egyptians turned to the Lord when Joseph went out and would tell them what was going to happen. It was very clear that everybody understood the Lord had made this evident. And um so when this started happening, this prosperity started coming, just like Joseph said that God said it would happen, did they turn to the Lord? I got looking at that, I see no indication there was a mass turning to the Lord like we would imagine. I see no indication that they gave Jehovah the glory for this. If they did, it's not mentioned anywhere in there. Now I would imagine there would be some people that say, hey, there's something to this Joseph's God But I don't see any national revival taking place. I don't see a huge turning to the Lord like we've seen throughout church history. And so I don't know that they fully realized what all was taking place. But nevertheless, what God gives, God can take away. And my fifth observation, then we'll start looking at ver chapter 42 there. It's why, and I touched on this a little bit, I think, last week. It's wise to save a portion of what God gives us. These are just observations. It's wise to save a portion of what God gives us. Now, Joseph said, and I believe it's under the direction of God, Joseph advised Pharaoh in that seven years of plenty Keep one-fifth, hold back one-fifth of what we get every year. And just kind of as a this is where the government came in and they confiscated or taxed, however you want to term it, um uh one fifth of all the crops. That's twenty percent 20%, they put that one-fifth up. Now this is just a little aside, but to help us grasp how plenteous Those seven years were, they were able to live for seven years on 20% of what they made in seven years. Now think about how prosperous they were that just 20% of what they got was enough to get the entire nation through seven years. You know, the higher the amount, the higher the percentage, you know, the percentage is huger. This is, they're living on 20% of what they made. Not only them, we're going to see a little bit later, other nations around were coming in. Unbelievable prosperity. But they very wisely, again, under the direction of God, they put things up. Living by faith Is not, does not mean I don't prepare for the future. We're told, would you agree with me? We're told in Scripture not to worry about tomorrow. How many people understand that? We're told all through Scripture, don't you worry about tomorrow. In the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew chapter 5, chapter 6, he told the disciples in that sermon, he says, take no thought for the morrow That word take thought means to worry, be anxious about, get all worked up about it. We're not to worry about tomorrow. Philippians chapter 4, verse 6. Be careful for nothing The word careful means to be worried and anxious and upset and fret about. Don't worry about it. Don't get upset about it. Don't get anxious about tomorrow. However Though we're told to not worry about tomorrow, nowhere in Scripture are we told not to prepare for tomorrow. It's a world of difference. I can prepare for more and not be worried, but that doesn't mean I don't put some money up for later in life. You follow what I'm saying? He said, well, you're not living by faith. You know what? Maybe God's giving me what he gives now so that by faith I'll put that up so I have something down the road. I have some preacher friends and good guys, good guys, and never put anything up And man, now they're coming to the end of their ministries. They're coming late in life, and uh their health is going down, and they have nothing. They have nothing. Now I think God will take care of them through see them through But I think there's scriptural teaching that we, though we don't worry about tomorrow, we ought to be wise stewards of what God has given us. Amen or not? Anybody following me on this? Nowhere in Scripture are we told not to prepare for tomorrow or the future. God says we're stewards of what He gives us. That means caretakers. We use it wisely. But God entrusts to me. Come with me if you would, and after this we'll get to our text. And we're actually making better time than I thought we would. Proverbs, chapter number six. Would you come there with me? You'd be amazed. If you read through Proverbs, you'd be amazed how much Proverbs talks about money, possessions. Proverbs chapter 6, and look with me at verse 6. Proverbs 6, 6. Go to the ant, thou. What? Sluggard? What in the world's a sluggard? So a lazy bum. Go to the ant house, sluggard. Or you could say someone that's negligent. Look what he says. Consider her ways, the aunt's ways, and be wise. Now he explains in the next verse: having no guide. Overseer or ruler, in other words, they're self-motivated in this, they're self-disciplined here Having no guide or overseer or ruler, provideth her meat in the summer, look at this, and gathereth her food in the harvest. You know what he's saying? He's saying in the summer when there's plenty of food for this ant, and this ant's not a sluggard, nobody's driving it to do it. It's disciplined, it's wise It'll go and get the food and take it down into that little tunnels and they'll store it all down in there so that in the winter months In the fall and the winter months, they've got food to eat. How many folks here remember back in the day when folks used to cann food? And green beans and tomatoes and peaches and uh what else? Cabbage. My grand my in-laws canned meat. They cook it in canned meat Yeah, and put that stuff up for later. You say, well, aren't you living by faith? Yeah, they're living by faith, but they're not sluggards. They're not dummies. We're going to have to have some uh somebody. I'm gonna implement a new policy, no eating ramps in the lobby of the church. Somebody was eating ramps out there I walked in and it reeked to high heaven And you know why ramps became so popular? My father-in-law told me this. He said, because back in the pioneer days, people would put food up, and by the time March came around, that supply was running awfully low. through the winter. And the very first thing that turned green that was even remotely edible was ramps. Now whether they're edible or not is open to debate in my mind But uh but God says, listen, you need to learn a lesson from the ants. When it's going good and you have some prosperity, put some of that up for the day when it's net when it's hard and it's cold and it's dry and the funds are low. Put some of that up. I think it would help our young people a heap if they would learn to save a little bit of their money. Amen or not? I'm telling you, but anymore, but uh a kid's 22 years old, he's $100,000. They're so fun. They're in debt up to their eyeballs. And God tries to call them to the mission field. They can't go to the mission field. They're so far in debt. They can't go into ministry. They can't do anything. They work the rest of their lives to get out of debt what they got themselves in in their twenties. Right or wrong? I know it's true. I work with it. So we can learn from Joseph here. Man, those seven years of plenty, put some of that up, put some of that up. It's not it's not a lack of faith. The presence of wisdom. Learn from the ant. Learn from the squirrels. I'm at war with the squirrels in my backyard. I'm telling you, those thinking things, and especially in the fall, they come into my bird feeders. And and the little chipmunks, I hate chipmunks. You say, oh, they're cute. They're n they're thieves. They're lying thieves. Do you ever see them? They get up on the on the on the bird feeder. And they'll cram those sunflower seeds in a I mean their cheeks are like this big. A little rat fangs. And I watch them and they go run down, they'll go back, and they'll go underneath some big log and they'll just dump it. They'll put it there. Why? They're putting up for later on, later on. Problem is they forget where they put it, then I got all these sunflower seeds growing up everywhere So the lesson is it's wise to save a portion of what God gives us. So these are some observations. I know it took a lot of time, but we didn't get to the passage. I want to give a few thoughts here or get back and get back on track here. Someone said, a fool and his money are soon parted. A fool and his money are soon parted. I tell you, we get ourselves in so much trouble financially that we can't hardly do anything for God. We can't support world missions. We can't Go to the mission field, all these things we can't do because we're not wise with our finances. And I think Joseph teaches it. I call it the Joseph principle. Alright, I got a few minutes left. You guys are being great. Come on back. Genesis chapter 42. Let's look at Let's look at what's going on here. Verse 1 and 2. Now we'll dig down here, and I gotta give me a few minutes to get us started. Now, now the scene has changed back to Canaan, back to Joseph's hometown. We're in the household of Joseph, Jacob now. Now when Jacob saw that there was corn in Egypt, Jacob said unto his sons, Why do ye look one upon another? And he said, Behold, I've heard that there is corn in Egypt. Get you down thither and buy for us from thence that we may live and not die. First thing I want us to notice is the situation back home. Now Joseph doesn't know this is going on. He's busy administrating in Egypt. They are in crises mode. It's the middle of this famine. They're getting the food out. They're managing this. Has to be careful. And uh and uh we find no complaints, we find no uprisings against Joseph, he's doing a good job. And um And uh but now we're back home. He doesn't know any of this is happening. The situation at home. What's the situation at home? Number one, there's a great famine back home, too. Look at verse number 54 of chapter 41. It says, And the seven years of dearth began to come according as Joseph has said. Now look. And the dearth was where? In all lands. Was it just in Egypt? No, it was in all the lands. Come over to chapter verse 56, same chapter. And the famine was over what? All the face of the earth. This was a universal famine. It was not just in Egypt, it was everywhere. The whole, no doubt, the whole Middle East maybe extending beyond that. Now, here's the question that comes up in my mind. The famine is universal, it's everywhere. My question is this was the prosperity universal? The seven years of famine was universal. Was the seven years of prosperity universal? The answer is we don't know. We're not told. I want to think it was I want to think that just the same area that the famine covered, the prosperity covered. You say then why in the world, if there was prosperity everywhere, just like the famine was everywhere Why in the world are the people sending folks to Egypt to get the food if they had just as much prosperity? And again, this is speculation, so uh uh you know I'm just speculating here But I think there's two possible reasons. If the prosperity was universal, there'd be two reasons why they'd have to come to Egypt to get their food during the famine time. Number one is they squandered the famine the prosperity that came to them Would you agree? There's a certain there's a pretty large percentage of humans that when they get something, they burn it up as fast as they get it. We just talked about that Oh man, I got a bonus. Let's go out. And they burn up every penny of it. And I'm wondering if this prosperity was universal. They didn't put anything up. They spent it foolishly. Famine comes, and now they have nothing. Now, along with that, number two, Egypt, as far as we know, was the only one that was told that a famine was coming. So we can't really blame them because they didn't know. Egypt's the only one that knew, hey, after the seven years, We're going to have seven years of famine, so we better be wise. Egypt's the only one with a Joseph, is what I'm trying to say. Would you agree with me? Good leadership Is vitally important to the success of a nation or a church or an organization. Egypt had good leadership under Joseph, and they survived the famine. If the prosperity was as universal as the famine was, which we don't have any reason to think it wasn't I'm wondering if maybe it was poor leadership. They were ignorant of the fact that seven years was coming, but whatever the case is, this famine is everywhere. And only Egypt is prepared to handle it. Only Egypt has food. Notice the end of verse number one of chapter 42, when Jacob saw that there was corn in Egypt. He said unto his son, verse 2, I'm sorry, and it says, Get you down thither and buy for us from thence. Look at this, that we may live and what? Not die. You know what he's saying? He's saying this, and this is bad. If we don't do something, we're going to die. That was the seriousness of this famine. They're at a point, if we don't do something, boys, we are going to die. So there's a famine back home. The second thing I noticed, there's frustration back home. Did you notice in verse number one, Jacob's statement to his boys? Notice what he says. Jacob said to his sons, Why do you look one upon another? That's a strange thing to say. What are the boys doing? They're just sitting around looking at each other. They're just sitting around with their teeth in their mouth. I mean, they're in the worst famine maybe in the history For a long time. They're in one of the worst famines ever. And he says they're just sitting around looking. I sense frustration on Jacob's part. Anyone else see that there? What are you guys doing? Just looking at each other. Um frustration. There is obviously no motive, no motivation on the son's part to try and meet this need. There's no leadership. Nobody's taking leadership among the boys saying, hey, we got to do something. We've got to take care of Papa. We got to take care of the family. They got kids at this point. We need to do something. They're just sitting around looking at each other. They're sitting around looking at their phones, playing video games on their phones I mean if they had them, that's what they'd be doing. And Jacob's aggravated to death with these guys. What are you guys doing? Just sitting around with your teeth in your mouth, looking at each other. Why aren't you doing something? Why aren't you Frustration, frustration. Now, why would they why would they be hesitant to go down to Egypt? Jacob knew there was corn in Egypt. They no doubt knew it. If Jacob knew, they would know they're the ones out and about. I think there's two reasons why they might have been hesitant to get up and get going down. Number one, Egypt was a long way away. The distance was imposing. Number two, it wasn't easy to get down there I mean to be able to travel that far would be very taxing. Take a long time. And it's not easy. And I think there's a third, and I think the reason they might not have was the distance, the difficulty, and I think there might have been some danger involved in this. Remember, this is famine. People are desperate. And they're making this long, long journey down through deserts, down through wilderness. And I'm guessing that there's a fair number of thugs, fair number of highwaymen that see someone traveling and they say, oh, there's easy prey. Let's see what they got to help us And so one reason they may have just been fearful of what all was involved in just getting to Egypt to get this food, and then bringing all that back again. So that might be why they were hesitant, but I think there's another reason they might have been hesitant. They know somebody down in Egypt. Huh? They sold Joseph to some merchants that were heading where? Egypt. And I'm wondering if the reason they're sitting around just looking at each other Then you know we go down there. We might run across that old boy. They know he's not dead. Daddy thinks he is. And I'm wondering if there wasn't just a little bit of guilt. A little bit. Now they have no idea what Joseph's position is. They have no idea. But they know the last time they saw him, that's where he was heading. And I'm just wondering if maybe they weren't a little hesitant to go down to Egypt because they know somebody's down there and what that might involve Joseph's brothers were a mess. These guys were a mess. They left a trail of destruction everywhere they went. Back in chapter 34, Simeon and Levi, remember their sister. uh went down to see the ladies. Uh d not delta uh what was her name? Dinah went down uh into uh the town there to see what the latest fashions were and see uh how the ladies dress and what the nightclubs were like and she wanted to go down into the world and see what all's going on in the world and she got down there And Shechem, the king's son, sees her, and she's apparently very attractive, and he takes her and he has his way with her. He defiles her, the Bible says. I tell you, we better keep our girls, have them keep be careful. They get out in the world. I tell you, this world does not respect a young lady. And she got down there and she got in deeper than what she realized, and she got into something she had no idea what she was getting involved in. That old boy came down there and he had his way with her and defiled her. She comes back home. The boys find out about this and Simeon and Levi go down there. And through a process of deception, they slaughter Shechem and all the men of that community. And when they're done, that community hates their guts. This is Jacob's voice. And then, chapter 35, Reuben commits incest with his father's concubine. Then chapter 38, Judah has a child by his daughter-in-law. And then all of them get in on a plan to murder Joseph, and they end up selling him, kidnapping him, and selling him as a slave. Everywhere these guys go, they leave heartache, death, and destruction. They leave a path of destruction everywhere they go. And now they're heading down to Egypt. Now I tell you, here's the amazing thing. I'll end with this. You get to the book of Revelation. And we find these guys mentioned in the book of Revelation, and we're told that the gates of the city of heaven Are named after these rascals. How many people that's dumbfounding? These men that acted like this, this caliber of person, and the gates of heaven are named after them. How many people like me say, what in the world? Now we're not told the answer to it, but can I tell you what I think All these years studying it, I come up with ideas. Now I'm not inspired, only the Bible is. Everybody understand that? And by the way, nobody else is inspired either, only the Bible is. But I'll tell you what I think. And this jumped ahead a good bit. But I think when they get down to Egypt and they encounter Joseph, and he gives them a little rough time there. But at the end of the book of Genesis, when they hear what Joseph says, he says, you meant it for evil. But God meant it for good to save many souls alive. And Joseph completely forgave them. And I think I learned two things from that. I think one thing happened is, I think one truth out of that is this. God can use anybody. You say, preacher, I'm such a sorry rascal, I don't think God could ever use me. I'm telling you, if God can make something out of these birds, he can make something out of you and me If he can get these guys where they're at and turn around and he's naming heaven's gates after them, good heavens. God can use you and me. So he was saying, well, how do they get to the point where they're usable? This is what I think. I think they saw the presence of God in their brother Joseph, and they were so thoroughly forgiven. That it had a profound impact on their life, and I think that turned them around. Because after Genesis 50, you never read any more rascalness out of these guys. That you don't hear from them. Up to this point, they are they are rascals, I mean, in every sense of the word. And they meet their brother and they meet someone that has the absolute presence of God upon their life. And that one forgives them like God forgives us. And I think that had a profound impact on him. Never underestimate the power of your testimony. Walking with God, having the presence and power of God on my life, can, and I believe in many cases will, change other people's lives. And never underestimate the power of forgiveness. You know what might change that person that's so difficult to you? What might change them? is maybe forgiveness from you might be what it takes to turn them around. Do what Ephesians 4. 32 says. Be ye kind one another, tenderhearted. Forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. I tell you what, our churches could use a good dose of forgiveness. Christians forgiving one another. And it may very well salvage someone's life rather than holding over their head everything they did wrong and how awful they are Maybe get an attitude, I'm going to be kind to them. And just like God forgave me, I want to forgive them. Amen? Now I know that's speculation. We're not told that. But I do know we don't read any rascaleness about these guys after their encounter with Joseph And we find out later on that God names the twelve gates of heaven after these guys. Let's pray. Father, I know I went along, Lord, tonight. I pray That we can learn these lessons from Joseph, that our study would not just be academic in our heads, but it would be life lessons that we can apply. And I pray you'd help us to learn, be like Joseph. Help us to have integrity. Help us to walk with you and be kind. And Lord, maybe you can use us to make a difference in this old world and salvage some folks. And so please help us in Jesus' name. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I wonder how many would say, preacher, you know, one of these points God spoke to my heart. I don't know. We covered a ton of ground tonight. But you say, preacher, pray with me. God did deal with my heart in some area. Any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you. Hands all around I'll tell you, an old-fashioned altar is just a good place to come and do business with God. God speaks to our heart. We come and say, all right, Lord, here's how I respond. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.