Genesis chapter number fifty, studying the life of Joseph. And we're coming we're winding down. And I've got I g I don't know how you are, but as I'm studying this And I'm reading there, studying the the last part of chapter 50, and we're winding down in the life of Joseph, and there's actually, I get this thinking feeling. You know, Joseph is uh going to pass off the scene here before too long. We'll study that probably starting next week. I got that safe feeling when we got to the end of David And started winding down. I thought, man. And so um but uh there's a few things going on here we want to look at. If you would, I think we'll just start reading. Uh rather than the whole section, we'll pick up in verse number 19 Genesis 50, verse number 19. The Bible says, and Joseph said unto them, Question who's the them he's talking to. His brothers. If you remember, Daddy died, they had the funeral, the great funeral, possession, all that. They're back in Egypt. And if you remember, the brothers came and approached Joseph through a spokesman, sent a messenger. And uh we'll review this a little bit. But um and they told him that daddy that daddy, Jacob, before he died, told the brothers that they were supposed to tell Joseph that he should forgive them for what they did And so Joseph is responding to that. If you look there at the end of verse seven, at the end of verse 17, it says, And Joseph wept when they spake unto him. It broke his heart. Verse 18, his brethren also went and fell down before his face, and they said, Behold, we be thy servants. They thought they were cooked. Verse 19. And Joseph said unto them, Fear not, for am I in the place of God? But as for you, ye thought evil against me, but God meant it unto good. to bring to pass, as it is this day, to save much people alive. Now therefore, fear ye not, for I will nourish you and your little ones. And he comforted them and spake kindly unto them. So we're talking about Joseph comforting his brothers. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now our study of these few verses here in the life of Joseph. I'm so grateful. for his life and his testimony, and Lord, that you preserve this account for us for all these many years. And I pray that tonight here in our church, as we look at this, that your Holy Spirit would take this passage here and pull out of it principles and truths that would help us in our life. That we could be the Christians you saved us to be, and we could interact one with another in a biblical, spiritually mature way And so I ask that you would help us. I yield my will, present my body anew, and ask with all my heart, dear Lord, for the filling of your Holy Spirit. And uh we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. If you remember, we started this actually last week, this section, and we pointed out, as I just said, they returned back to Egypt Um that's where their homes. They'd been living there probably twenty plus years at this point. They had it pretty good down there. Joseph had promised Pharaoh that he would come back, and so there was a little bit of obligation there on their part, plus they left They left the kids and um uh the cattle and everything there, so they were under obligation on that end. It would have been bad if they forgot that they left their kids in Egypt, you know it And we've had people over the years on occasion uh left the church and left their kids here and mom thought dad brought 'em home and dad thought mom brought 'em home. And I was stuck with the kids for a month. And uh no, not that long So anyway, they go back to Egypt for various reasons. And then the brothers get reasoning. If you remember, they were thinking in their minds, Daddy's gone now Boy, Joseph's going to lay it to us. He's going to seek revenge. And so they approach Jacob about that with a request. In verse 16 through 18, and uh they say, you know, Daddy made us uh tell you that you should forgive us. My question on all that was, anybody have a question about that? They say, Oh daddy told us to tell you to forgive us. Why didn't Daddy just tell Joseph that straight up? And the reason he did it was because what? They were lying. And so and there were cowardice. You remember, not only were they lying on this whole thing, they didn't even go to Joseph themselves, they sent a messenger. And so these guys had what I called a um a la a a a flaw in their character, serious flaw, cowardice, dishonesty, and then even their confession was kind of backdoor is what I called it. They didn't really come right out and um and uh confess their sin. So now we're up to Joseph's response to his brothers approaching him or s at least sending this uh messenger and give him this message and Joseph responds Notice in verse number 18 again it says his brothers also went and fell down before his face. Before this they were not in his presence. Remember? They had sent a messenger So we don't know what it is that prompted them to come to where Joseph was here in verse 18. They're there in his presence. I have a sneaking suspicion, I can't say one way or another, it's not really that big a deal, but I'm I think Joseph called a mint I think he got the message. And he wasn't going to deal with this through a messenger. He was going to talk to them one-on-one, face-to-face. And let me say this. If you ever have an issue with somebody Don't deal with it on texting. That is the worst way. You want to get misunderstood. You want to start an argument. You want to have people get upset and hurt feelings Deal with issues texting. Because uh to me it's the worst. Um you could call, and that's better than texting But I think if there's something going on, particularly in this situation, family, and there's hurt feelings and there's misunderstandings and there's some dishonesty, uh the best thing to do is sit down in person face to face. And so Joseph in his wisdom and in his leadership, he calls them in, I think. I think he says, fellas, I think he tells the mess messenger, hey, you go tell them to come here and talk to me Now, notice how they respond when they get there. It says before his face they they fell down before his face. I mean they fall on their faces before Joseph and they say we're thy servants. I think they're scared to death You get to notice. It it's funny. Uh every now and then. Uh I'll say somebody, hey, I I I need to talk to you back before you go home after church. Just meet me back in the office and people go, you know. It's like, I'm a nice guy. So Joseph calls him in and he's responding to this This request that they're making that he forgive them. Joseph's responding. I think how Joseph responds here is one of the greatest expressions of faith in God in all of Scripture. What he says here is profound. I think it's one of the greatest expressions of forgiveness of another person, one man forgiving another man in all of Scripture. And there's various illustrations of forgiveness throughout Scripture, but this has to be one of the greatest in my mind. Yeah, so uh Yeah, yeah, and I'm sure that's on his mind. And we know that when they first showed up, the very first time they bowed down, we're told right there it says Joseph remembered his dream. So I'm sure that's in his mind also And that'll come to play here in a couple of the statements he makes here in a little bit. But the thing about the thing I notice about Joseph, and I'm probably going to make this statement a couple times, is Joseph has tremendous insight. Into the working of God. He has tremendous ability to see God's hand in what would what took place in his life. He was told in his dream, years and years ago, decades earlier, as a young boy, he was told in his dream that one day his father and his brothers would bow down to him in that dream And of course they scoffed at it and were offended. And so Joseph was told what was going to happen, but he didn't he was he wasn't told by God at that point at or really at any point how that was going to play out. You know, I wonder if in his mind he often wondered, you know, how is this going to be? I'm a s I'm a I'm a prisoner in an Egyptian jail, how in the world is my family going to bow down to me like this? How am I going to have any sort of authority over him? Not that he was pursuing it, but God told him that's what was going to happen. So he was told what was going to happen, but he wasn't told how God was going to play it out. And if you notice in Scripture, maybe in your own life, sometimes God will tell us something's going to happen, but he often doesn't tell us how it's going to play out. Remember he told uh Elizabeth he told Zacharias that he was going to have a baby. He and Elizabeth were going to have a baby in their old age. And what was his first response? How can this be? Uh how how how in the world? And so sometimes God will tell uh tell us something, but he doesn't tell how it plays out. But Joseph had the had the insight, at least later on in his life, to see God's hand. And at one point, and probably when the brothers bowed down to him there initially, all of a sudden, I see what God's doing. And now I see what God has been doing through all this stuff that made no sense and seemed so wrong and unjust. And now all of a sudden, oh, I see. I see. And so Joseph had some tremendous insight in the hand of God, and his brothers could never see that I mean, even up to this point here, they still don't see it. They just still don't see what God was doing. And so, um, just an amazing man. Uh, I put this down: Joseph displayed unwavering faith in God. Ye meant it for evil. God meant it for good. If you would, and I want you to turn here, because it this is a profound verse, Job. Now keep your place there. We're going to come back and look at Joseph here, but come to the book of Job. Just before Psalms, Job chapter number thirteen And uh maybe I do this too much, I don't know, but I want to brag on my daddy a little bit here. Job chapter 13 and verse number 15. Now, would you agree with me? Job went through some trials. Joseph had very difficult things that made no sense to him and that hurt. And Job, of course, to the extreme. But look what Job says in verse number 15. He says: this is Job speaking about God. Though he slay me, Yet will I what? I will trust in him. Even if he kills me, I'm going to trust in him. But I will maintain mine own ways before me. I'm just going to stay steadfast. I'm not going to abandon my faith. I'm not going to abandon my walk with God. I don't understand And whatever God does to me, I am going to absolutely trust him. And that sounds like Joseph to me All through this. And I said I was going to brag on my daddy. That verse, uh uh Job uh thir thirteen twenty three uh thirteen fifteen, uh that verse, my daddy told me many times he says that's what he clung to uh through the dark years of his life and difficult times. Though he slayed me, yet why I trust him and I have to brag on my daddy. He he stayed faithful to God even when hurt. And so I I think of Joseph's unwavering faith in God. He just trusted God. You say it doesn't make sense. He trusted God. It hurts. He trusted God He just trusted God. So I see in this passage here the unwavering faith in God, and we'll bring that out here in a bit, and his unconditional love for his brothers. Look at the end of verse 17, and I I touched on this a little bit. It says, When they said to him, the messenger says, Daddy said you're supposed to forgive us, and Joseph wept when they spake unto him. He loved his brothers. And the fact, the very thought that they would believe he would do something like this, just broke his heart. He wept when he heard his brothers even insinuate that he might seek revenge or somehow he would try and hurt them. And so he loved his brothers dearly. Their words hurt him. In fact, if you would notice, well we'll pick this up here in a little bit. A couple thoughts here. Number one, under this Joseph reassuring his brothers. Number one, he recognized God's place. Look at verse 19. And Joseph said unto them, Fear not, for am I in the place of God. They say, you need to forgive us. Your daddy said you should forgive us. Don't take revenge on us. Don't hurt us for what we did to you. We did an awful thing, but please don't take revenge. And Joe says, wait, wait, wait, wait, don't be afraid. Am I in the place of God? And Joseph recognized God's place. That word place there means this: to be positioned under something. In other words, I think Joseph was saying, do I hold the place? Do you think that I hold the place that only God holds? I think he was saying, I think he was insinuating this. Do you think I'm above you? I'm better than you somehow? That I would have the right in any way to mistreat you or to seek revenge on you or to treat you unkindly in some way. He understood that God is the one that has that authority. Joseph held great authority in Egypt. He could dictate people come and go. But he did not have God's authority. And God is the one that has the authority. He's the only one that has the authority to withhold forgiveness. God is the only one that can forgive sins. We understand that, right? That's what the Pharisees rebuke Jesus and criticized Jesus Because he would say, Son, thy sins are forgiven thee. Or the woman, thy sins are forgiven thee. And man, they freaked out. They would say only God can forgive sins. And what they failed to realize is what Jesus is God, and he had the authority to forgive sins. Joseph understands that. And Joseph says, or he had the authority to forgive or unforgive. Joseph understands that and he says, listen, I'm not in God's place. I don't have the authority that God has to say, oh, I can't, I'm not going to forgive your sins. I don't have that authority. God's the only one that can forgive or withhold forgiveness as far as acceptance to God is concerned. God, I think he's saying this: I don't have the authority to seek revenge. If you would, again, keep your place here. We're going to look at some verses. Come all the way back to the New Testament and look with me in the book of Romans. Paul makes a tremendous statement. And I think it would help a lot of us. In Romans chapter number 12, and we just preached on this Sunday, a little bit passage before this, but Romans chapter 12, and come down to verse number 19. Romans 12, 19. Joseph says, I'm not in God's place. I don't hold God's position. I'm not over God. I'm not above God. I'm no better than you are. God's the only one that has authority in these things. Look at verse 19. He says, Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves. Isn't that what the brothers were afraid of? Joseph's going to seek vengeance on them. He's going to avenge them. Avenge not yourselves, but rather give place unto wrath. Do you notice that word? He said, I'm not in the place of God. And he's saying, listen, don't give place to wrath. You push that aside. You let God deal with that. He goes on and elaborates. But rather give place to wrath, for it is written God's speaking now. Vengeance is mine. I will repay, saith the Lord. You see what Paul's saying? Paul's saying the exact same thing Joseph was saying. I'm not in the place of God. I'm not in a position of authority where I can seek vengeance on something somebody does to me. Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord. I mentioned this Sunday. It's like our problem is, a lot of our problem is this. We are sinners Seeking vengeance on others for being sinners. We're wanting vengeance on people that have sinned against us when God withholds his vengeance on us for sinning against him. And Paul says here, and Joseph is saying, No, no, no, I'm not seeking vengeance. That's God. Let God decide that. Let God deal with that. And here's what I found out, uh I've learned. to some extent, probably not perfectly, but I've learned that God's a whole lot better at dealing with people that hurt me than I am at dealing with people that hurt me. Let God deal with it. Let God take care of that. But you have to see them uh where else. And so he's saying, Listen, I don't have any right to to seek vengeance on you because God laid this whole thing out. Is that what you're saying? God's hand and all that. Yeah. Yeah, I think that's probably a a huge basis of it is the fact that he was able to do that. Yeah. Our way of we fight against father always forgiving one or another key hard and heaven. Right. First that come over to 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. Paul again picks this up. He words it a little different 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, and look with me at verse number 15, talking about vengeance and seeking revenge and paybacks and all of that. 1 Thessalonians 5. 15. Look it says, see that none render evil for evil unto how many men? Are you there? 1 Thessalonians 5. 15. Any man. See that none render evil for evil to any man. He said, Yeah, but in my situation. No, no, no. Not any man. But ever follow that which is good, both among yourselves and to all men. So he says here, listen, don't be seeking revenge. Vengeance is the Lord. And I think that's all that Joseph is saying to his brothers. Listen. You guys think that I uh I'm in a uh I'm not in the place of God. I don't have the right to seek vengeance on you. I don't have the right to return evil on you Um good night. I think we're going to get to heaven and realize how merciful God has been to us, and we're going to regret Not being more merciful to one another. I really do. And Joseph got a hold of this, and Joseph sees this And uh so he recognizes God's place and he says, I am not in the place of God. I'm not in his place. I don't have his authority. I'm not in that position where I can seek vengeance. And by the way, neither are you and I. in that position. Vengeance makes a great theme for books and novels. A lot of famous novels have written it, and their whole theme is vengeance. I think I used to enjoy when I was younger, I haven't read it for since my teen years probably, maybe twenties, I might have read it. But uh Moby Dick You know, the whole thing is vengeance. That's the whole theme of it. Count of Monte Cristo, the whole thing is vengeance. So it makes great drama. And it makes great books, novels, and movies on revenge, but I tell you, it makes terrible Christians To seek revenge, to seek revenge, to seek revenge. You and I are not in the place of God. Not one human being is in the place that we can justifiably withhold forgiveness or seek vengeance. I've heard people say, I will never forgive them for what they've done. I tell you, that's a dangerous thing to do. I'm not in a place to be able to say that. I don't have that authority to withhold forgiveness. And so Joseph recognizes God's place. Number two, I put this down, coming back to Genesis here. Joseph recognized God's providence. Verse number 20. This is great. But as for you, he says, I'm not in the place of God, but as for you, ye thought evil against me And here's one of those great two-letter statements in all scripture. But God. How many times we find a situation where it looks terrible, it looks awful, but God. And it changes everything. He says, You meant it for evil. You meant bad by this. But God meant it unto good. To bring to pass as it is this day to save much people alive. So he recognizes God's providence. Joseph clearly understood that God is in control. I'd put in the margin of my Bible, beside Genesis 50, verse 20, I'd put Romans 8. 28. What does Romans 8. 28 say? But all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. Joseph understood that. He loved God. He was in God's will. He was in God's plan. And nothing's coming into my life that is not ultimately going to be for the good. He recognized that. He recognized that God is in control. I use the word providence. It's only used one time in the Bible and it's in a different context. Than this. But the concept is there. The teaching is there. Providence of God. The word providence means to oversee or to govern things. To govern events. What does it mean if you have a motor and you have a governor on that motor, what does that governor do? Controls the speed. You can only do so much. You can only go so far. And then the governor kicks in and controls it. God is the ultimate governor Of the universe. His providence rules over all. I put this down. Everything that happens in life Is either directly caused by God or it is allowed by God Some things God directly causes to happen. Some things God doesn't cause it to happen, and really it isn't his will, but he allows it to happen. For instance, is it God's will that anybody dies in their sins, separated from God for all eternity? No, it's not his will that any should perish. But does he allow that to happen Yes, he allows that to happen. Don't come to me and tell me that it's God's will that people die and go to hell. It is not God's will. But he does allow it And so everything in life is either God directly does it or he allows it to happen. If he allows something to happen Then we know that there is possible good come out of that somewhat. God's providence, God being in control Being ultimately in control. And this gets a little deeper here than I really want to swim. But God's God's control Over the events of life does not negate the free will of man. You follow what I'm saying? We have a free will. We can choose right or wrong. God, in his providence, in his sovereignty, if you want to use that term, there's a little difference between the two. But in his providence over us, he allows us. To choose one way or another. Sometimes, see if I can get a witness on it. Sometimes we choose something contrary to his will. Right? But he allows it. And so Joseph understood this. And let me ask you this: is it God's will that these brothers be unkind to Joseph? No, we're supposed to love our brother. And so they were of their own free will. They treated him badly. However, God is able to take that which they did which was wrong that He instructed them not to, but they did it anyway. He is able to take that and spin that around and bring good out of it. Isn't that something? And so God, providence doesn't negate man's free will, but I put this down. Number one, God's in control. Number two, God is wise and good. God is wise and good. He says there, but as for you, you thought evil against me, but God meant it unto Good, the exact opposite of what their intentions were. God used their evil actions and turned around to bring good out. The word good there means a couple things. One is just moral goodness. And number two, prosperity. And Egypt prospered. They treated Joseph ill, put him in a position where God could Use him to put the grain up and man, Egypt prospered, people's lives by the millions were saved. And so God took something that was evil and was able to turn around. Why? Because he is wise and good. It would be a scary thought if we if God was in control and he was a fool. Right? If God was foolish and he was in control, it would be terrible. If God was not good, if God was evil and he was in control, it would be terrible. But God is wise and God is good. And he is able to take Our foolishness and in the long run turn around and bring good out. Joseph grasped this in an unusual way, had insight into this He recognized God's in control, but at the same time he recognized that God is wise and good. Now notice, Joseph does not deny that they did evil. He doesn't say, they come and say, oh, Daddy said you're supposed to forgive us. And he didn't say, oh, you didn't do nothing wrong. He would have been lying. He didn't deny the fact that they did evil. They did wrong. He pointed that out, as a matter of fact. He doesn't ignore it. He doesn't just say, oh yeah, no, uh you didn't. I oh I didn't even notice it. Did you ever have somebody you know do something wrong and say, oh I didn't even I didn't even notice it? No, he noticed it. He felt the stake. He paid the price of their evil that they did. However, he saw God's hand turning it and using it for good. We have to be careful that we don't, that while we recognize God's providence, we don't forget God's wisdom and goodness. Dale touched on it, Isaiah 55, where it says, My ways are not your ways, neither are my thoughts your thoughts, as the heavens are higher than the earth. So are my ways higher than your ways and my thoughts than your thoughts. God is on a whole nother level than we are God is able, as I said, to take man's free will evil and bring good out of it. Here's the thing. You say, well, uh, you know, God's good. He allows all this stuff, and yet God's good and God's wise? Yeah. Here's the thing, God knows the end from the beginning. All I know is up to this point Job, at any point in his experience, he could have stopped and said, God, you're treating me wrong. God, uh, you're terrible. But he didn't. He said, though he slayed me, I'll trust him. And when it was all said and done, he looked back and he says, Oh, now I see God is wise. God does know what he's doing. And it all comes down to what? Faith. Right? I believe. The Bible tells me this. I believe it. And so here we start to say we have to be very, very careful that we don't see just uh the providence of God and fail to see the goodness and wisdom of God. And then we can understand God has a plan. God has a purpose. God's understanding exceeds our understanding. God's wisdom is greater than our wisdom. And God has him. Did you ever have something, do you ever in a situation where somebody made a decision or they did something And to you it made no sense. That's terrible. That's a terrible decision. That's an awful thing they did. And then later on, you found out that they had some information that you did not have And then you found out, oh, okay, now I see why they did that. They knew some stuff I didn't know. Anybody know what I'm talking about And I'm telling you, that's exactly the way it is with God. And someday we're going to get to heaven and we will know as we are known. Little songs on the radio sometimes. I'll ask the reason. He'll tell me why. And that's what that song is saying. And Joseph understood that. You meant it for evil? God meant it for good And so he recognized, Joseph recognized God's place, he's in control. He recognized God's providence. God is dictating, God is doing all this, God is good. And Joseph understood all of that. I tell you, it'll help take away, I believe, it'll help take away a lot of our fear And a lot of our worry, if we'll just say, listen, God knows what he's doing, I'll trust him. Did you ever drive somewhere? Um now my wife never did this But you're driving somewhere and uh the passenger says, Do you know where you're going? I think we're lost. And you know exactly where you're going, you know exactly what we're doing. Come on, don't look at your wife right now, okay? And we're like, God, do you know what you're doing? God knows what he's doing. And Joseph said, God knew what he was doing. In the prison, God knows what he's doing. Falsely accused, God knows what he's doing. Be up by his brothers, further pit. God knows what he's doing. And Joseph saw all of that. And then last of all, end with this, Joseph reassured his brothers with a promise Look at verse 21. Now therefore, fear ye not. Look back at verse 19. His opening statement to his brothers when he calls them in after they've made this ridiculous request. He calls them in. What's the first two words he says to them back in verse 19? Fear not. Twice he tells his brothers, Fear not, fear ye not. He's wanting to reassure them that it's going to be okay. He's not going to do what they're afraid he's going to do He's not going to treat them the way they anticipate him treating them. And he's reassuring them. And he does that with a promise. He makes a promise to him. Of all the people in the Bible, and there's a few, I would say that Joseph is one of those, if he says he's going to do something, you can mark it down he's going to do it All right. Joseph promises this. They can be pretty sure that he's going to keep his promise. He assured his brothers of two things. Number one He would supply their needs. Look what he says. Now therefore, fear ye not. I will nourish you and your little ones. He's going to supply their needs. That word nourish means to provide or sustain or support you. And he says, not just you, but your little ones. I think what he was saying is, listen, I'm not going to abandon you. I'm not going to cut off the supply line. We're going to keep on taking care of you. I'm going to make sure your needs are met. I'm going to make sure you have food in the cow in the cupboard I'm going to make sure you got a roof over your head. I'm going to make sure you got clothes on your back. I'm going to make sure you and your children are well taken care of. You don't need to worry about that at all He assured them he would support them and take care of them. And then he said, I'll settle your worries. Look at the second part I will nourish you and your little ones. And he comforted them and spake kindly unto them. He comforted them and spake kindly unto them. The word comfort means this: to put at ease. To show compassion to. He says, don't worry. You don't have to worry. You don't have to be upset. I'm going to make sure you're okay. I'm going to treat you right And uh he cut he settles their worries. He's going to supply their needs, he's going to settle their worries. I put in the margin of my Bible, beside verse 40 21, beside verse 21, Ephesians 4. 32 Be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. Say, preacher, how should I treat someone that sinned against me? Same way God treated you and you're sinning against him How should I love someone the same way God loves you? How kind should I be to somebody? Just as kind as God is to you. Amen? Were we ever unkind to God? Now don't respond visibly on this, but I wonder how many of us have taken God's name in vain and awful ways. at some point. I wonder how many of us have said and done things that were absolute horrendous before God And yet he forgives us. He's patient with us and he's loving. And I see the love of God in the life of Joseph and his brothers. What a tremendous thing. When we fully understand God's providence and God's goodness. No matter what somebody does, God is in control. He's allowed it. He is good and he is wise. He can use what they've done to bring some good out of this at some point somehow. And I maybe I don't see it, maybe I don't grasp it, but by faith I believe it. And therefore, if that if I understand that, then I don't need to seek revenge. Be counterproductive to seek revenge if God allowed this and he's got a plan. Then why would I seek revenge? I don't need to worry. If the brothers would see God's hand in all of this, even in their own actions, they wouldn't have worried about Joseph taking revenge. They wouldn't have worried. I was reading about cancer. And in 2013, which was some time ago, twelve years ago. In 2013, there was 1,660, 290 new cancers uh cases diagnosed in the United States. 1,666,290. That year, 580,350 Americans died of cancer. According to this, it's about 1,600 people a day. Cancer remains the second most common cause of death in the United States, accounting for nearly one out of every four deaths. Now here's what caught my attention. Now I don't I can't verify this. I'm just going by what says, but this captivates my attention. Many doctors in the United States believe that there is a direct correlation between cancer and unforgiveness. In fact, a recent nationwide survey revealed that ninety-seven percent of doctors believe that emotions Can affect the body's ability to fight disease. In other words, if I'm upset, if I'm angry, if I'm harboring bitterness And anger and resentment, it affects my body's ability to fight off disease. Now, I'm not a doctor and I'm not a psychologist or anything, but that makes sense to me. I think there's something to this. A fellow by the name of Carl Menninger, I don't know anything, he's a psychiatrist. He once said that if he listen to this that if he could convince the patients in a psychiatric hospital that their sins were forgiven, 75% of them would walk home the next day. Isn't that something? Guilt, shame, resentment, anger, unforgiveness, bitterness said it affects our bodies. Affects our bodies Then they went on to say, unforgiveness is a cancer to our soul that carries many curses. But Joseph was able to overcome unforgiveness. Isn't that amazing? I'd like to, I'm thinking, I don't know if I'm going to do this or not, but I might take just a lesson before we go on in our study and just do a one lesson on forgiveness. On forgiveness And I think it's very, very important, one, that we understand what it means to be forgiven, and number two, understand the importance of forgiving. And not harboring bitterness and unforgiveness. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to take some of these lessons from Joseph's life And Lord, we love you, and Lord, we trust you. And we thank you for what you did in Joseph's life and Lord what you do in our lives. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if there's some say, Preacher Uh there's things I don't understand, I struggle with, but I need to just learn to trust God. Just wait on Him, let Him have His way, and trust Him that He is good, He'll work it out. Any like that, anybody like that, sure. It's part of life. It's by faith. I wonder if there's some, and maybe this, maybe you shouldn't respond visibly on this, but I wonder if some of us are struggling with unforgiveness. Somebody's hurt us. Somebody's done something that uh was wrong, done evil, like the brothers. And we're just having a hard time forgiving. And maybe we need to come say, Lord, help me, teach me to forgive. There's great lessons in the Bible on forgiveness. Or maybe we're struggling with being forgiven. And God promises us there. So Father, please bless. As we give the invitation in Jesus' name, amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.