Genesis chapter number 37. We're studying the life of Joseph. And we are just getting started. We looked at his background a little bit, the home he came out of, which is horrendous in so many ways. And now we're looking at he is in the, if you remember, we said the last couple messages, we said that God has a plan and a purpose for everybody's life. And we know that in the life of Joseph. It's true for all of us. But that plan, that purpose for our life, God always has a process that he goes through to accomplish that plan, to fulfill that purpose. Sometimes we have to go through a process. That's what's happening to Joseph. This process of getting him in place, preparing him mentally, spiritually for what God is going to do through him, that process has become uh has begun. And so uh for us, uh God has something he wants to accomplish in our life. He wants to use us maybe in somebody else's life. He wants to do something through our life. And a lot of times that process, as we go through that process to accomplish, to get in the position where God wants to do Where God does what he wants to do, that we have to go through a process that sometimes doesn't make sense. And we don't understand why is this happening to me? Why would God do this? Why are these people treating me this way? And we don't understand at the moment, but as we go through that process, then God accomplishes His will. And Joseph, as I said before, was able to look back. At the time, I'm sure it didn't make any sense, but in at chapter 50, he looks back and says, oh, you meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. And he saw what God was doing. And so we're beginning that process here. I wanna uh begin reading in chapter twenty seven And uh we're going to pick up right in the middle of where we left off last time. Look at verse number 21. We'll start there. And actually, let's back up verse 15, get the whole context here. It says, and a certain man found him. This was Joseph looking for his brothers. And behold, he was wandering in the field, and the man asked him, saying, What seekest thou? And he said, I seek my brethren. Tell me, I pray thee, where they feed their flocks. And the man said, They are departed hence, for I heard them say, Let's go to Dotham. And Joseph went after his brethren, and he found them in Dotham. And when they saw him afar off, even before he came near unto them, they conspired against him to slay him. And they said one to another, Behold, this dreamer cometh. Come now, therefore, let us slay him, and cast him into some pit, and we will say some evil beast hath devoured him, and we'll see what will become of his dreams This is where we're going to pick up tonight, verse 21. And Reuben heard it, and he delivered him out of their hands, and said, Let us not kill him. And Reuben said unto them, Shed no blood, but cast him into this pit that is in the wilderness, and lay no hand upon him. He said, Listen, throw him in the pit, but just don't kill him. Oh yeah, we'll throw him in the pit. Just don't kill him. that he might rid him out of their hands to deliver him to his father again. And it came to pass, when Joseph was coming to his brethren, that they stripped Joseph out of his coat, his coat of many colours that was on him. And they took them and cast them into the pit into a pit. And the pit was empty, and there was no water in it. And I'm just going to read the first phrase of this next verse. And they sat down to eat bread So let's pray together as we look at I've entitled this Joseph's Betrayal by His Brethren. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now our study of this portion of Joseph's life I pray, Holy Spirit, that you would apply to our hearts and lives truths and principles here that can help us live by faith, help us grow in our faith and be stronger in our witness. I ask, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. And Lord, I yield my will to you. I do not want to impose my will or my understanding on your word I present my body to you, Lord, so that you can speak through me your word and your will for our lives. And so please bless now and help us, I ask, in Jesus' name, amen. So Joseph is sent out on a mission by his father. He's to go find his brethren. They are out with the sheep and they travel um, you know, it's a good sixty miles, as we pointed out before out to Shechem is where they originally went, and then uh they wandered off to Dotham. So they're a good distance away, a good two, three days travel for Joseph. And it's through the wilderness So his daddy sends him on this mission out to his brothers. When he gets there, then we notice their mistreatment of him. And they noticed him afar off, and last week we looked at his brother's conspiracy. It says they conspired together, verse number 18, against him to slay him. We considered the depth of their hatred towards him. This, if you remember, we pointed out, this is not a sibling rivalry. This is more than just disliking somebody. It's more than just simple jealousy. This is deep-seated bitter hatred to the point they're willing to violently take his life away. And so Joseph, he is not aware of it at this point here in the passage, he's not aware of what's about to take place. He knows they don't like them. They can't even speak peaceably unto him. But I'm sure there's no way he anticipated what was about to take place. So we had his brother's conspiracy. Tonight I want us to consider Reuben's compassion. This is where we pick up in verse number 21 again. It says, And Reuben heard it. He heard their conspiracy, their plan to take Joseph and uh kill him and throw him in a pit there And he reacts to it. He heard it, and he delivered him out of their hands. And said, let us not kill him. And Reuben said unto them, shed no blood. But cast him into this pit that is in the wilderness, and nay lay no hand upon him, that he might rid him out of their hands to deliver him to his father. I found that God often uses unexpected people to accomplish his purposes. I look back over my life, and the people that God brought into my life were not people I would have imagined But folks that helped me grow, helped me in my Christian life. God uses unexpected people, and he uses unexpected processes to accomplish his will. Now I wrote this statement down. I said, I put this down. Don't ever underestimate God's ability to do what he says he will do. Now God had revealed to Joseph in the dream that one day his brothers would bow down to him. Remember the dream, the stars, the sun and moon. Remember the sheaves, his brother's sheaves bowed down to his? Now I don't know that he fully comprehended that, but no doubt he was aware of the fact that God had something in store for him. And in a few moments, everything, in a few moments, everything, the exact opposite of what God told Joseph would happen, appears to be taking place. And yet God uses somebody and a situation, a process, to accomplish what he said he would do. Although they don't fully comprehend it. And here's my statement again. Don't ever underestimate God's ability to do what he says he will do. If God says something is going to happen, it does not matter what the circumstances may be, it does not matter the way things may appear to be You mark it down. If God says it's going to happen, mark it down, it's going to happen. And so we know that from our perspective. Joseph does not know that yet. And so God is using one of his brothers, Reuben, of all people, to intervene in this plan of his brothers to kill him. If they kill him, nobody's bowing down to him, all right? And so God uses Reuben to intervene. When God says something is going to happen, God means business. And he knows what he's doing. And God often uses the most unlikely people to accomplish his will. And so Reuben captivates me. So I'm working and studying down through here. We come across Reuben and you know Scores of time I've read this passage. I read about Reuben, didn't really give a lot of thought to it. But I want us to consider Reuben a little bit this evening. Reuben's name appears in Scripture 74 times. Mostly the Old Testament. His name means, his name itself means, behold a son. Now, if you would, take your Bibles and come back to chapter 29 of Genesis, and we find that Reuben is Jacob's firstborn child. Genesis chapter 29. And notice, if you would, verse number 31. We know the story here. Jacob fell in love with Rachel. He's working for his uncle Laban and his daughter Rachel and uh she's a beautiful woman. She's a hard worker, very uh very c conscientious woman and Uh boy Jacob just falls for her, and he worked seven years to marry her. Lo and behold, the day finally arrives where they a big wedding day, and no doubt she had a very heavy, thick veil on And he marries what he believed to be Rachel, this beautiful woman, and lo and behold, and again I said this before, but I don't know how this happens, but in the morning he realizes it ain't Rachel. It's Leah. And Leah is tender-eyed. And so um uh uh so he here here he's married to Leah. So he works another seven years, finally gets the woman he wants. And marries Rachel. Now look at verse number 31. And when the Lord saw that Leah was hated, he opened her womb, but Rachel was barren. Then it goes on, verse 2032. And Leah conceived and bare a son, and she called his name what? Reuben, here we are. Reuben's the firstborn. For she said, surely the Lord hath looked upon my affliction. Now this next statement's a pitiful statement. Now, therefore, my husband will love me. Now we can talk about that. You know, Leah was hurting. She wanted her husband to love her. And she felt like she had to produce, she had to do something, have a child. For uh Jacob to love her, and she finally gives birth and uh to Reuben and she says, Now maybe my husband will love me. I don't know about you, but that is a very sad thought to me But nevertheless, she gives birth to Reuben. Jacob loved Rachel. He hated Leah, but nevertheless, they had a child. And uh Reuben is born to Leah, and his father, Reuben's father, hates Reuben's mother. He despises her. He dislikes her very much. He didn't want her in the first place. And so that's the family he's born into. That's the parents that he is born to. Now, a couple things I notice about Reuben. First thing I notice about Reuben is he had a compassionate heart. He had a compassionate heart. There's some compassion in the heart. of Reuben. He's tenderhearted in some ways. If you would, look over to chapter 30 and notice verse number 14. You have this, you have this uh situation. This kind of bizarre situation going in in the family. Leah gives birth there, we noted, and uh then verse 33 she conceives again And then she conceived again, verse 34, verse 35, she conceives again. Rachel, meanwhile, is not having any children. So she takes one of her uh handmaidens, Bilhah, and uh he she gives him to Jacob and says, here sleep with her. Lo and behold, she ha gives birth And uh she conceives, verse five there, and bare a son, and Rachel said, God has judged me, and so she gives him again, and uh his name's Dan, Bilhao, then Bilhaw Rachel's maid conceived again And bare Jacob and Rachel said, With great wrestlings have I prevailed, she called his name Leah. Then Leah, look at verse 9. When Leah saw that she left bearing, she z took Zilpah her maid and gave her to Jacob's uh Jacob to wife. Would you agree with me? This is a mess. Good grief And Zilpah, verse 10, Leah's maid bare Jacob a son. And Leah said, A troop cometh, and she called his name Gad, and Zilpah, Leah's maid, bare Jacob a second son. Leah said, Happy am I, for the daughters will call me blessed. And she called his name Asher. Now look at verse 14. And Reuben went in the days of wheat harvest and found mandrakes in the field. And brought them unto his mother. Now, I've read that dozens and dozens of times, and I never really grasp what the mandrakes were about and why would he bring him them to his mother. Well you go back up to verse number nine Leah saw that she had left Barry She's not having children anymore. And Reuben is out and he finds these mandrakes. Now The legend at the time, the folklore, if you want, at the time was that mandrakes would make a woman very fertile. That if a woman would eat these mandrakes, it would make her fertile and she could have more children. Now picture this: Reuben is out working the fields and he comes across these mandrakes. And his very first thought was. Mama's not having children and she really wants to have kids. She wants my daddy to love her, and she believes if she has children, then daddy will love her. And I believe Reuben's heart is touched. And he digs these mandrakes up and he comes home and he says, Mama, I've got some mandrakes for you. These will help you. This will solve the problem. I believe Reuben loved his mother very much. I believe he cared about her and he wanted her to be happy. And he wanted her needs to be met. Reuben had a compassionate heart. If you would, come over to chapter 42. And uh notice we're jumping ahead here from where we're at in our passage for tonight. But his brothers, uh Reuben and his brothers, are now in Egypt, and Joseph is messing with them. We're going to look at this at some point in the future. And uh they're uh they're wondering what in the world's going on. Look at verse 21 of chapter 42. He says, and they said one to another, We are very guilty concerning our brother. This is the brothers talking among themselves, in that we saw the anguish of his soul When he besought us and we would not hear, therefore is this distress come upon us. They're saying, oh, we get what we deserve. We saw Joseph, his anguish and distress, and we didn't care Now look what Reuben says. And Reuben answered them, saying, Spake I not unto thee, saying, Do not sin against the child. And ye would not hear. I think Reuben loved Joseph. I think Reuben cared about Joseph. I think he saw and said, This isn't right, what we're doing. And he said, right here he tells, he said, I told the brothers, don't you do this. This is wrong. Back in our text, we'll notice here in a bit, he intervenes to try and save Joseph's life. He says, don't kill him. And he's scheming somehow a conspiracy how he can get Joseph back to daddy. Reuben had a compassionate heart. If you would come back to chapter 42 and verse 37. Now they're down there and Joseph as as uh as um second to Pharaoh, tremendous power, tremendous authority. He's again messing with his brothers a bit here, and I have theory on that But he's wanting them to bring his their youngest brother down. And they keep saying, you can't do that. It'll kill our daddy. We can't do that. Notice in verse number 37 of chapter 42. And Reuben spake unto his father. And they're telling Daddy, you've got to send Benjamin down. We don't have any food. We've got to do it. And look what he says. Reuben spake unto his father, saying, Now look what he offers. For his daddy's sake, slay my two sons, if I bring him, Benjamin, not to thee. Deliver him into my hand, and I will bring him again to thee. He's pleading for their sake. They need food. They're in bad shape. And he's pleading with his daddy. And I believe Reuben loved Jacob very much. And he's saying, Jacob, he's saying, Daddy, listen, I'll sacrifice my two sons. But we've got to get you food. We've got to get, we've got to send Benjamin down, or we have nothing for you to eat. I see in Reuben a very compassionate heart. His love for his mother is evident He expresses concern for Joseph, whom all the brothers hated to the point of willing to kill him. And he expresses some love and concern for his father. I see something else about Reuben. He had a compassionate heart, but Reuben had a corrupt heart If you would, come back to chapter 35. I know we're jumping back and forth here a little bit, but I want us to learn some things about Reuben, this fellow that saves Joseph's life. and is used of God to accomplish his will. Genesis chapter 35, look with me if you would at verse 21. Now this is back before our text. This is previous to it. And Israel, verse 21 of chapter 35. And Israel journeyed and spread his tent beyond the Tower of Edar. So they're traveling. He sets up the tent. Now look at this. And it came to pass when Israel dwelt in that land that Reuben went in and lay with Bilha, his father's concubine. And Israel heard it. Now, and then he goes off and lists the twelve sons there. He slept with his father's, to use a maybe more contemporary term, he slept with his father's mistress. This was the mother of two of his half-brothers. And he goes in, he commits adultery with, I guess it would be a stepmother of sorts, whatever this convoluted home arrangement is. Now I don't know if this was just an impulsive action on his part, just for whatever s the setting may have been, whatever the environment may have been, I have a tendency, I have a sneaking suspicion This wasn't premeditated action on anybody's part. I have a sneaking suspicion. It was just off the cuff, impulsive. He ends up going in bed and sleeping with his daddy's mistress, his half-brother's mother. Jacob never got over that. If you would, again, we're jumping back and forth, but go to chapter 49 again. This is coming to the end of Jacob's life And he brings all the boys in and he goes through each one. He makes statements about the boys. And he gives them blessings and kind of little And this was typical in Old Testament times with the patriarchs. They would make sort of prophetic statements about the boys. They would uh analyze their character a little bit and their history and then sometimes they'd make a bit of a prophetic statement. And being the firstborn, Jacob brings in Reuben first. Verse 3. Reuben, this is Jacob speaking to him before he's about to pass away. Reuben, thou art my firstborn, my might, the beginning of my strength, the excellency of dignity, and the excellency of power Would you agree with me? That's a pretty good assessment right there. Man, he's dignified, he's strong. He's the beginning of Jacob's power, he says there. The beginning of my strength. Man, and digno. Boy, he could be dignified. He was excellent. He was in the right setting, a formal dinner, a state dinner or something. Man, Ruben was sharp The excellency of power. Now look at verse four. He continues unstable as water. Thou shalt not excel. Because thou wentest up to thy father's bed, then defilest thou it. He went up to my couch. Now I don't know about you, but I can almost hear the bitterness in Jacob's voice as his son, his firstborn son, is standing. He says, son, you're sharp, you're strong. But I can't trust you. And you slept with my concubine. You defiled her. Reuben was compassionate. He had a compassionate heart. And he kind of his heart went out to his daddy and his mother, his brother. But brother, he had a corrupt heart. That's, would you agree with me? That's pretty perverse. That's pretty perverse. I see something else about Reuben. One, he had a compassionate heart. Two, he had a very corrupt heart. Jacob never got over it. And he also had an inconsistent heart. And I get that from verse number four, here in chapter 49 again, is his daddy is assessing his son here, and he makes that statement at the beginning of verse 4. In fact, I have it underscored in my Bible Unstable as water, thou shalt not excel. Reuben was a complex man. On one hand, he had a very tender heart, a very compassionate heart, and he seemed to show concern and compassion for people that were dear to him. On the other hand, he had a very corrupt heart. And he was willing, and no problem, crossing the line of perversion. Crossing the line not just of adultery, but perverted adultery. And he says, you are unstable as water. You are inconsistent. He was gifted, but he was undisciplined. He was gifted, but he was unreliable. The word unstable there means to be unbridled. In other words, there's no control. Yeah, another word that was used to define the word that we get our word unstable from, to be reckless or impulsive. In other words, whatever stirred his heart at that moment, that's what he did. Whatever caught his fancy at that moment, that's what he did. If something's uh somebody's being mistreated or they're hurting, his mama's crying or something Boy, his heart is starting to do that. If uh his father's concubine is attractive, boy, then he goes after that. Here's the thing, Reuben did not live by principle, he lived by desire. There wasn't convictions governing his actions. It was his passions that governed his actions. His emotions govern him. And I tell you, part of spiritual maturity, part of growing up spiritually, is learning to live by principle, not by passion. Doing right, in other words, doing right whether I feel like it or not. Being where I ought to be, whether I feel like being there or not. Telling the truth whether I want to or not. That's character, that's integrity, that's conviction, that's stability. Nobody ever knew what Reuben was going to do. Nobody ever knew what Reuben was going to be. One day he's this, the next day he's that And God used him to save Joseph's life Not anchored. He had no anchor in his life. He had no conviction. He did not live by principle. He lived by passion. And so this is the fella that steps in of all the eleven brothers. Reuben steps in, and God uses him to intervene and save Joseph's life. Sometimes God uses unexpected people to accomplish his will. A little off track here a little bit, but Habakkuk, our memory verse last month was from Habakkuk In the book, the little book of Habakkuk, one of the shortest in the Bible, Habakkuk has a hard time because God is using the Babylonians to accomplish his will for Israel. And Habakkuk is God. How can you use those people? And I'll tell you, God can use whoever he wants to use to accomplish his will. In fact, I read one place where he used a donkey. to accomplish his will. I had someone say to me one time, I never could figure out why God was using you, preacher, until I I I never could figure out how God was using you, preacher, until I read about where he used a donkey one time. Now I understand. Somebody tell me. Yeah, Reuben. He's not he's unstable with water. He's not going to excel. But God used them. God used them. Now let's come back to our text. I got a little bit, a few minutes here. Let's come back to our text. Now let's see what happens, how Reuben intervenes here, and what all takes place. First thing I notice is Reuben responds to this conspiracy. We're back in chapter 37, verse 21. And Reuben heard it. Now, I don't know which of the brothers suggested killing Joseph. We're not told. It was ten, one of the ten, because we know it wasn't Reuben. So one of the ten other brothers, one of them came up with the idea: hey, let's kill them. Everybody got on board. Reuben hears that. And he gets stirred up and he speaks up and he says, notice there at the end of verse 21, let us not kill him. Joseph's life, now think about this, Joseph's life was spared because one man was willing to speak up. One of the brothers, even though he wasn't the ideal man of God, but he was willing to speak up for what was right. And God used them to spare Joseph's life and to accomplish God's will. Just one man that spoke up. I got thinking, I wonder how many people's lives Could be spared, could be uh could be spared from death if people would just speak up. I wonder how many unborn babies could survive if more people would just speak up against abortion. And you can put it all down the list. We have a tendency to withdraw, we have a tendency to be quiet, and that's good. There's not a bad thing. You know, the Bible talks about keeping our tongue But there's sometimes where we need to speak up. Say silence is golden, yes, but sometimes it's yellow. I wonder how many people would still be alive. I wonder how many babies would have been born if somebody would have spoken up a little bit more. He heard them and he said. And notice it says Reuben heard it, and he delivered them out of their hands, and he said, I wonder how many souls would be saved if Christians would just speak up for the gospel a little bit more. To speak out, say, hey, here's how you can know you're saved. Here's how the, uh, this is the plan of salvation Wonder how many lives it'd be changed if people would speak up and say, no, liquor is not going to help you And on the workplace, speak up a little bit. Hey, we're going to have a party at work on this. And maybe somebody speak up. Listen, we don't want any liquor there And just you can go through all kinds of scenarios. We're just speaking up. Can you think of anybody in the Bible besides Reuben here that spoke up and it made a huge difference? I've got one person in mind. Anybody remember the little uh Naaman's little maid? Naaman was the captain of the Syrian army, ungodly. Perverse, violent. You talk about we read what they're doing over in Israel, you know, the Hamas and the unbelievable atrocities. That's Haman. That's Naaman That's the Syrians. That's what they did. They cut open pregnant women and cut them open. And they had a little slave girl they got in Egypt, a little maid. We're not even told her name, and Naaman develops leprosy. Many people don't know the story? You know the story And I'll tell you, one of the heroes in my mind of the Bible is that little maid that spoke up and said, Oh, that my master was in Israel. And God could, and I'm not quoting exactly, God could heal him of his leprosy. She could have kept her mouth shut. In fact, some other maids would have said, good I'm glad he's got leprosy. He kidnapped me and took me as a slave. This little gal had a little bit of compassion in her heart and she spoke up You know what happened? Not only was Naaman healed of his leprosy, but the old boy got saved Speak up, speak up. I'm telling you, uh we it's uh I love my country. I love America, you know that. But I tell you, our country has adopted the morals, the values, and the lifestyles of Sodom and Gomorrah. And it's awfully late, but we better start speaking up I thank God for those that are, Brother Harding and others that are down there on the Capitol Hill speaking up. But I'm not just talking politically. We better speak up spiritually. People are dying and going to hell all around us And I'm not a big fan of Reuben, and he is not an idea, a model man of God in any way, shape, or form. But God used him because he spoke up And he said, don't kill him, don't kill him. So the first thing I notice here in the couple minutes I got, uh Reuben heard it, he delivered him out of their hands, and he said Let us not kill him. So he responded to their conspiracy. The second thing I noticed, he reasoned with his brothers. And verse 22, and Reuben said unto them, Shed no blood Now, if he'd have stopped there and say, shed no blood, let the kid alone. Let him go back. Don't be harassing him. That would have been ideal, but he doesn't say that He said, Shed no blood, but look at this, cast them into this pit that is in the wilderness, and lay no hand upon them. He is don't kill him, but he wasn't okay with them killing them, but he was all right with them throwing them in the pit. I think he's compromising here. I think Reuben did not want Joseph dead. He didn't agree with their plan. But neither did he want to oppose his brothers. He didn't want to go against the majority. So he had to somehow, to save Joseph's life, he had to somehow appease them to somewhat. I thought, why would he worry about whether his brothers got mad at him or not? You know why I think He didn't want to go against them. They might kill him. These guys are worked up. They hate Joseph. They can hate Reuben just as much. And so here he's in a predicament and he has to reason with them and he says, Don't kill them. Uh just throw them in the pit. And he's thinking, later on, I'll come back and get them. I'll get him back to daddy somehow So we have the brother's conspiracy, we have Reuben's compassion, and last, I want to end with this: Joseph's confinement. Look at verse 23. So they go along. They say, all right, we'll just throw them in a pit. We won't kill them. Verse 23, it came to pass. Joseph finally shows up. This has all taken place while Joseph is making his way to them It came to pass when Joseph was coming to his brethren that they stripped Joseph out of his coat, his coat of many colors that was on him, and they took him and cast him into a pit. The pit was empty, there was no water in it. So they didn't kill him. Reuben intervened. He spoke up. He kept them from killing him. Now we don't know what the brothers intend to do with him at some point. But one thing I do notice, the very first thing they did was strip them of his tote They hated that coat and everything it represented. And that word strip, I got looking at that, it has the idea of violently. They're not just gingerly taking this thing off of him. I mean, they are ripping it off of him violently. So they stripped him of his coat. Uh they secured him in a pit. Now I don't know what you picture in your mind when it says they threw him in a pit. To me, I've always thought, well, it's some sort of big hole. You know, it had a backhoe and dug up this big hole, there's a big hole there. Now they didn't have backhoes then But I never really gave much thought to what this pit would be until I got looking it up a little bit. And it was actually, and one historian I read said that that area was known that had two pits in that area. And what these pits were is they were large holes dug into the ground, but they were large uh pits dug into the ground, but they had a very narrow opening at the top. And so it wasn't just this big open hole. It was more of a cistern built into the ground. And so it had a very narrow hole at the top. And did you notice it mentions there was no water in this one? Typically, they would be filled with water. They were to store water in. Much like we have now water towers and water tanks, they had these pits or these cistern type things into the ground, dug into the ground for the very purpose of keeping water. And this one was empty And so they took Joseph and they stuffed him down, threw him down into that small opening. So he's down in this pit. It is dark. It is damp and it's deep. There we go. Good alliteration, Dorothy. Now think of Joseph down in there. In fact, we're told a little bit what's going on in the heart and mind of Joseph a little bit later. Come back again, we're jumping back and forth, come back to chapter 42. And the brothers tell us What Joseph's frame of mind is down in this pit. Chapter 42 and verse number 21. Again, they've got guilty conscience. They're it's coming back and haunting them. They're down in Egypt. Joseph, as I said, is giving them a rough time. They don't know who it's Joseph doing it. And verse 21, they said one to another, We are verily guilty concerning our brother, in that we saw, look at this, the anguish of his soul When he besought us and we would not hear. You know what's taken place? Joseph isn't just passive. They're taking them and throwing them to the ground, pulling his coat off of them. Now I know I'm probably adding to, I know the Bible doesn't say this, but I can see him getting some jabs in there. I mean they're they wanted to kill him So they're ripping this thing off them, taking a few jabs. The Bible doesn't say this, maybe some fist to the face a little bit, and they take them over and they force them down into this pit. And did you notice what they said there They said they saw the anguish of his whole. He is screaming out. He is terrified. What's taking place? And it says, uh, and we would not hear. I see Joseph begging them Don't do this to me. What do you want? Now, you know, we're assuming a lot here. But they said his soul was anguished and we wouldn't hear. So he was saying something to them. The only thing I think I'd be saying is: don't do this, don't do this. So Joseph is confined down in this pit. Now, this tops it all off. Come back, one more thing to notice, and then we'll quit. Come back to 37. Look at verse 25. They threw him in the pit. There was no water in it. It's dark. It's damp. It's deep. And they sat down to eat bread. Man alive, you talk about a callous cold hard heart. No doubt he's down in that hole screaming and yelling. Dies They're just eaten. Doesn't faze them a bit. I'm telling you, the heart of man is awfully, awfully wicked. We're seeing that every day on the news right now, right? The depravity of man. I look at the world, I look at humanity, and my first conclusion is this: there's something wrong with mankind. That we would treat one another this way. That anybody would do things like this. Now, before we get too self-righteous and judgmental, We need to remember that in our hearts lie the seeds of the most vile sins that anybody has ever committed. Jeremiah said, the heart is deceitful, and what? Desperately wicked. Who can know it? I come back to my original statement Joseph dreamt that his God gave him this dream that his brothers would bow down to him. Gave him a second dream, verifying the certainty of it, and the mom and dad bowed down to him. He's in a pit right now. It sure don't look like that's ever going to happen. I'm guessing in Joseph's mind, he's thinking, I'm never getting out of here. They're killing me. There's no way I'm ever getting living through this. But God wasn't done. Don't ever underestimate God's ability to accomplish what he said he would do. In fact, I put it this way. Never underestimate God's ability to use unlikely people, Reuben. In impossible circumstances, a pit to accomplish his will. Accomplish his will. I would love to have been with Joseph. And we're going to get to this eventually. When he finally is given the responsibility of number two in Egypt, and he sits down, and it dawns on him What God has done. And he looks back over all these events, and I see him doing this. Ah. Now I see what God was doing. They all meant it for evil. But God, you meant it for good. Now if we can get to that point while we're going through it, you follow what I'm saying? If we're in the pit and we can say, all right, this doesn't make sense, it's the opposite of what God said But I'm just going to trust God because I'm not ver I'm not going to underestimate his ability to do what he said he would do. You follow? Yeah. Right. They took the food from them and they're eating it. Good point. Good point. So let's trust God. He said, preacher, I don't even know what's going on in my life. I know you don't, I don't, but God does. He knows what he's doing. Let's learn from Joseph and just stay faithful, maintain your integrity, trust God And let's see where God leads us through. Amen? Father, bless now. I pray you'd help us to trust you. Help us, Lord, when we don't understand, to not lean on our own understanding, but in all our ways acknowledge you. And God, you direct our paths. It's not easy, I know that. But we ask for your help. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if some folks would say, Preacher, I got a situation in my life. It's not in a pit with brothers trying to kill me I've got a situation in my life really doesn't make sense and it's tough. And I'm asking God to help me trust Him to get through this knowing. And he has a plan. He knows what he's doing. Is there any like that by the uplift hand? God bless you and you and you. Number of hands around. I'm going to trust God. And I I I know he's working. I know he said he never leave me for saying I know he's working. I'm going to trust him. I'm just going to put it in his hands, do right, and let him work it out. Father, bless our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand