This is chapter forty-seven. I want to read the last f uh five four or five verses of of chapter forty-seven, start in verse twenty-seven. Chapter forty-seven, verse twenty-seven Joseph's family settled in, and uh they're in Goshen, down in Egypt, and time is moving on. Now notice verse 27, and Israel dwelt in the land of Egypt in the country of Goshen, and they had possessions therein, and grew and multiplied exceedingly. And Jacob lived in the land of Egypt 17 years, so the whole age of Jacob was 147 years. And the time drew nigh that Israel must die. And he called his son Joseph and said unto him, If now I have found grace in thy sight, put, I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh, and deal kindly and truly with me Bury me not, I pray thee, in Egypt, but I will lie with my fathers, and thou shalt carry me out of Egypt, and bury me in their burying place. And he, Joseph, said, I will do as thou hast said. And he, Jacob, said, Swear unto me And he, Joseph, swore unto him. And Israel bowed himself upon the bed's head. I've entitled it Joseph's Promise. to his daddy. Joseph's promise to his daddy. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to help us learn from this here. Father in heaven, we thank you for the life of Joseph and as recorded in your word for us We believe, as you told us in the New Testament, that these instances, these events were recorded and preserved for us for our admonition So that we can grow in our faith and understand more about you and our response to you and what it means to live by faith. So I ask Dear Lord, tonight that you would teach us from this passage of Joseph's life, this passage of Scripture, this event. I pray that you would take truths and principles and help us to grow in our faith. I yield my will to you. I pray that you would guide my thinking as I speak, guide the words that come to my mind. I'd say only what you would have me to say tonight. And I present my body anew, that you would fill me with your spirit, dear Lord, and be the teacher, preacher tonight. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Joseph is the second youngest of Jacob's boys. Benjamin, of course, being the youngest. But as we notice here in the last several passages, and now and really through the rest of Joseph's life. He is, for all practical purposes, he is becoming the head of the family. The brothers that are much older than him, 11 of them are older than him They are not acting and functioning as the head of the family, as any type of leadership role at this point, and from here on out, they play no leadership role in the family. They blew it. They messed up. And Joseph is now providing for the family. He's making sure they've got what they need to survive the famine. He's making sure they have housing. He's done all this very, very efficiently, very effectively. He is protecting them. They are safe and secure under the leadership of Joseph. And so he has, like I said, become the head of the family in a lot of ways. What's the reason for this? I think it's no doubt a result of his exceptional integrity. We've been using that word throughout the life of Joseph, the integrity of Joseph. Um his leadership abilities. Um Joseph did not go to leadership school. He did not take any seminars on leadership, as far as I can tell. He never read any books or took any classes on leadership. But he has a God-given ability to provide leadership. Whether it's as a slave in the home of an Egyptian official, or if it's in a prison. Falsely accused in a prison among the fellow prisoners, or whether it's number two man in the entire nation, what could be the most powerful nation in the world at this time He's number two, he's exhibiting God-given leadership. He's a tremendous leader. I was thinking or I was studying for tonight uh going over some things. I think it would be an interesting study and look on the leadership of Joseph. Just study leadership characteristics of Joseph. And then also we have his administrative skills, which would go along with the leadership, but he's able to administrate. He's able to put people in positions that are very very effective. He's very good at reading people, evaluating people, who would fit good where, and uh putting things in place, uh handling finances. He's He's very gifted in that area. And so Joseph is an exceptional man. And if he was running for president, I would vote for him. Integrity, leadership skills, administrative skills, man, that's that's what we need And so he's a tremendous man, and he is now, we're going to see here, he has become the de facto leader of the home, the head of the home in a lot of ways. Joseph was a righteous man. What do we mean if someone is righteous? And I mean I'm not talking about the righteousness of Christ imputed to the bladder. I'm talking about humanly speaking righteous. If you say that's a righteous man, what do we mean by that? What's that? Yeah, he does right. That was my simple definition. You have a righteous man is somebody who does what is right. I got looking in Proverbs, and I want to challenge you maybe a great study sometime Would be what does Proverbs say about a righteous man? That term, a righteous, the righteous, just that phrase. is used scores of times throughout the book of Proverbs, talking about the characteristics of a righteous man, what he does and what God promises a righteous man It's a fascinating study. I jotted a few down. We could spend a whole evening on this, but and we won't turn to them all. Let me just mention them In Proverbs chapter 2, verse 7, the Bible says, God lays up wisdom for the righteous. How many people here would like to have a little bit more wisdom? You say, I could, yeah So I ask God all the time for wisdom, wisdom, give me wisdom. Well Proverbs chapter 2 verse 7 says if we do right God will lay up wisdom for us. If we do wrong, we're dummies. But if you do right, God says He'll help us with wisdom. Doing right, doing right. Proverbs chapter 10, verse 16. And again, there's scores of other references in Proverbs. I just pulled a few out Proverbs 1016 says that the labor of the righteous tendeth to life. In other words, a man or a woman that does right, they're going to benefit people. It's going to benefit them in their life. It's going to help other people in their life. We can see that in the life of Joseph. How many lives, millions, were spared in the famine because of the righteousness of Joseph? He did right, and God used them. Proverbs 10, verse 21 says, the lips of the righteous feed many. Again, we see that in the life of Joseph. He is a blessing to millions. He met the needs of millions. Chapter 10, verse 25. The righteous is an everlasting foundation. And he he laid some tremendous groundwork in Egypt. And they had a foundation they could build on to survive the famine. Righteousness, a righteous man. I'll go on. Chapter 10 and verse 28 says, the hope of the righteous is gladness. I found for the most part people that do right are happier than the people who do wrong. I know I'm happier if I'm doing right And uh I do something wrong. I know that's a shock to you, but um I have on the a couple occasions done I haven't done right. I found out that I'm a whole lot happier when I'm doing right than when I'm doing wrong. I think that's true across the board. I think a church that does right is happier than a church that does wrong I think a society, a nation. Righteousness, righteousness. The hope of the righteous is gladness. Chapter 10, verse 30. The righteous shall never be removed. They hold their place. They stay there. They hold their ground. Chapter 11, verse 8, the righteous is delivered out of trouble. I found that people do right have less trouble in life than people that do wrong For the most part, now it doesn't mean we're going to be trouble-free, but a lot of trouble comes on folks because they just do stupid stuff. Right? And so trouble. 1128, the righteous shall flourish as a branch. You're better off doing right. Chapter 12, verse 7, the hope of the righteous shall stand. Chapter 14, verse 9, among the righteous there is favor. Generally, folks are more favorable to a person that does right than the one that does wrong. I imagine an employer would rather have employees that do right than employees that do wrong. Imagine employees would rather have an employer that does right than one that does wrong. And so there's favor. Chapter 14, verse 32. Righteousness hath hope in his death. Of course, we need to be saved, but do right. We'll come to the end of our life. We don't look back with regrets When I was um and over the years in the ministry and when I was uh in hospice, um I had a many, many times People say to me on as they're winding down their last days and they're talking about them on the pastor, led many, many to the Lord in their final weeks before they passed But um I've had many many of them would say to me something, oh I have I have these regrets in my life. I wished I'd have done right. I wish I'd have done right here. I never had one person come to me and say, Pastor, I wished I hadn't done right. I wished I'd have done wrong. Never had that. Never had that. And so the righteous has hope in his death And then another one, the Lord heareth the prayer of the righteous. If I regard iniquity into my heart, the Lord won't hear me. We want our prayers answered, we ought to do right. We ought to do right. And there's many more. You could do a year-long study, the righteousness in Proverbs, what the Proverbs says about the righteous. Is it worth it to do right? I think absolutely, absolutely. Even if it costs friends, even if it costs position, might cost me some income. But it's better to do right than to do wrong. That's Joseph. S. Joseph. And so Joseph is now Taken by default, he's taken the leadership of the home. He's caring for his father, he's providing for his his brothers and their families, the extended family that came down with them He's the one making sure they have what they need. He's making sure they're safe and secure. They've got homes. They've got provisions. Now they've got lands. He's become a tremendous leader, not just in the government, but now in his own family. In his own family. The second youngest in the family But he's risen to the top in this area. Now, let's look at our passage tonight. With that in mind, I broke this down into, I believe, three segments here. The first no a thing I know the first point I want to give and that I notice in verse twenty-seven and the first part of verse seven uh twenty-seven is Israel is now occupying Goshen. Verse 27, it says, and Israel dwelled in the land of Egypt in the country of Goshen. The word dwelt there means this, to be settled in. It has the idea of a long-term habitation. They've made theirselves at home now. They've got places to stay. They've cleaned them up. They've fixed them up. They've personalized them no doubt. And they have their pictures and their mementos. They got it laid out the way they want. And they are dwelling here. They're settled in. So dwelling is a long-term habitation. You stay in a motel, but you dwell in your house. Right? Now they weren't planning on staying. Remember when they first were introduced to Pharaoh, uh one of the brothers said, We're sojourners here. We're just here for a little while and we're leaving. And I think that was the case. But you know The longer they stay, the more they settle in. And so they're dwelling here now. This is a direct fulfillment of God's promise To Jacob. Come back to chapter 46. And if you were here for that study, you'll remember that when Jacob and the boys pack the wagons that Joseph sent up from Egypt. They're up in Canaan. They pack the wagons up and they load up all their supplies and all their possessions And they're making their way down to Egypt. They're moving down to Egypt. Their thinking was that the duration of the famine But they stop on the way down. Remember? They get to Bethel, and Jacob says, hold it, hold it. They stop. Look at verse 2. And God spake. This is where he offered sacrifices there at Bethel And I think Jacob was just, I want to be sure I'm doing the right thing. This is what we should do. And look what God says. And God spake unto Israel in the vision of the night and said, Jacob, Jacob, and he said, Here am I And he said, I am God, the God of thy father. Fear not to go down into Egypt, for I will there make of thee a great nation. And I will go down with thee into Egypt, and I will also surely bring thee up again. And Joseph shall put his hand upon his eyes. God said, Jacob, you go on down there, and it's going to be okay. You're going to be fine. Eventually I'm going to bring you out, but you just go in, and basically he's saying you just settle in there. And so Jacob, knowing that God's blessing is upon this journey They get down there and Joseph provides this housing for them and they just settle in. They're occupying Goshen right now The point I take away from this is that God keeps his promises. God promised, you're going to be okay, Jacob. I'm going down with you, you're going to be okay. And God keeps his promise. I think the most Most precious thing that you and I have in life is the promises of God. How precious. Peter said they're exceeding precious. Promises of God. Where would we be without the promises of God? I know this. We would have no assurance of salvation. Because my salvation is based not upon my works, not upon anything of me. My salvation, the assurance of my salvation is based upon the promise of God. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. That's a promise of God. And all through Scripture, somebody said that God has given to us Uh uh I I forget. My dad wrote down uh one time my dad read through the Bible at least once every year for decades. He did it for many, many years. And one year he took a little journal and he just wrote down every promise he came across in the Bible. Now I don't remember what the number was, but there was pages and pages and pages and pages of promises from God's Word. God keeps his promise. The most precious thing you and I have are the promises of God. I'm grateful for his warnings. They help us. Amen. Well, God warns me of some stuff. I'm grateful for his instructions he gives on things, how to do things, what to do, how to do. I'm grateful for all his instructions. But where in the world would we be without the promises of God? And I believe as Jacob settled in here and is dwelling now in this land of Goshen, I believe there's a settled peace in his heart. That God has promised them, I'm with you, it's going to be okay. Remember, this is a foreign land, foreign culture, foreign language. But God's with them. God has promised. And they're dwelling here. They're settled in Here's a statement, be good statement to write down, I think. God is a promise keeper. God is a promise keeper. Anybody anybody here, somebody ever promise you something and it never happened? Yeah, I'm some are coming to mind right now. Uh somebody promised something that never happened. Now maybe they were were maybe they were dishonest to begin with. Maybe they had every intention of keeping that promise But things happen. Anybody here ever make a promise and you weren't able to keep it? Forgot about it or whatever? Yeah, we're guilty. I'm here to tell you, God never forgets about his promises. He keeps them. He keeps them. He keeps them. We can claim his promises. We can hold on to his promises. We can take his promises at face value. Don't doubt the promises of God. And by the way, don't twist the promises of God. Don't make them mean things they don't say. Just take them at face value, what they are. God said it, God promised it. I'm going to settle on it, I'm going to claim it, I'm going to rest on it, I'm going to rejoice in it. So the first thing I notice in verse 27, the first part, is Israel now is occupying this land called Goshen. Second thing I notice in the second half of verse 27 is Israel prospered greatly in this land of Goshen. Look what it says here. Israel dwelt in the land of Egypt and the country of Goshen. Look at this. And they had possessions therein and grew and multiplied exceedingly. Now we need to understand some time has gone by. From verse number 26 until verse 27, a period of time has gone by. The famine is now ending. It's diminishing. The rains have started coming back. It's been raining again, and the and the creeks and the rivers and the ponds and the lakes. They're starting to fill up again. And they look out across the meadows and the fields and the and the mountains, and green is coming back again, something they had not seen for seven years. The Nile River is beginning to increase in its flow, and every year in the spring the Nile would overflow its banks. And it would water the plains of Goshen and these areas here and make such fertile ground. And all that's coming back. All that's coming back. And Jacob and the boys and their family are living now in this pristine, fertile land that is now being watered with fresh rain that's set dry for seven years. And they begin to prosper greatly. Israel is in the most fertile land in all of Egypt. They put the seed out. They planted their crops and they're growing. And the grass is coming back for the cattle and the sheep. And things are changing. Things are coming around. Notice it says They had possessions therein. I put this down. They took possessions. They're harvesting new crops now. They worked hard and God blessed. And they're beginning to reap again. I found That when you work hard, generally God blesses more when you work hard than when you lay around. Anybody ever notice that? The world puts it this way. One guy said, I forget who it was, said, the harder I work, the luckier I get. Well, I wouldn't call it lucky. I would say blessed. And God's blessed our church. You know why? Because a lot of people work really hard in our church for the Lord. And we try to serve them and give ourselves and labor for the Lord. And God blesses that. And the rains have come back, and Jacob and the boys are not just laying around They're just not just waiting to be the welfare of Joseph's kindness. They get out there and they plant and they're taking possession. Of what the what the field is, the the idea is they're taking possession of what the uh uh the crops are producing And so they took possession. Number two, I noticed as they prospered here greatly, they gained benefits. Look what it says. They had possessions therein and grew The word grew there means to become very fruitful. In other words, they're not just getting enough to survive. The rain's come back, the water's here, the famine's over. Crops are coming in and there's not uh the idea behind this I believe is it's not just enough crops that we can have enough to eat for tomorrow Just have our necessary food. The idea behind that word is this. Man, these crops are producing. And not only are they breaking even, so to speak, they're starting to make a profit And they're starting to gain and and uh increase. And God is blessing, and God is blessing them. Uh the tur I like to use cool terms every now and then just so people know how cool I am But I heard somebody say, I didn't know what they meant, and I figured it out. Somebody said they're making bank. Anybody know what that means? Man, we're m- Tyler knows. Man, a guy said to me, man, I'm making bank, man. I said, what are you talking about? He's making money. He's making a profit is what they mean. That's what's happening here. Jacob's making bank. And uh it's coming in. So they took possessions, they're gaining a profit by what's happening there in Goshen, and they're populating the land. Now look here Says, and multiplied exceedingly. That means they are becoming a very, very large family. They are reproducing. The kids are having kids, the kids, the grand, the kids, the grandkids are having kids, I mean they are multiplying. And they're filling the land. The idea is reproducing greatly. And God's hands upon Jacob's family in an extraordinary way. Extraordinary way. You know what's happening? God is part of God fulfilling his promise to Abraham. Come back, if you would, to chapter two, chapter number 12, way back in Genesis. Chapter number 12, this is God calling Abraham out of Ur the Chaldees, just starting out. And uh in chapter 12, God makes this tremendous promise To Abraham, Genesis 12. And notice with me, verse 1. It says, Now the Lord had said unto Abraham, Get thee out of thy country and from thy kindred. And from thy father's house into a land that I will show thee. Now that's Canaan. That's where Jacob and the boys left to come down to Egypt. But look what he says. And I will make of thee a what? A great nation. And I will bless thee and make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing. Later on, God goes and expands on that, and he says, your offspring are going to be like the stars of the sky and like the sand of the sea. That's a heap of offspring. I think it's interesting, he says there in verse 3, I'll bless them that bless thee and curse them that curseth thee. By the way, that promise is still in effect. I just want to stop and mention that it's a dangerous thing to turn against God's people, Israel. The offspring of Abraham. We ought to support Israel. Now do they always do right? No. They're human just like everybody else, and sometimes Uh they'll do things. But they are God's people, and God still blesses them that bless them, and God curses them that curse them. You look at the nations that have turned against uh i Israel and they're a mess. They're a mess. And so God's fulfilling his promise to Abraham, to his offspring. They're multiplying greatly. And it's its only beginning. For the next several hundred years, Israel is going to multiply and multiply and multiply and multiply until the time Moses shows up to bring them out of Egypt, there are millions uh offspring of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. So they're multiplying greatly. God's fulfilling his promise. Now God did not promise to Abraham and to Isaac and Jacob that they wouldn't have to deal with any famines. He didn't promise them they wouldn't never fail in any way. They did have famines, both Jacob and Abraham dealt with famine. Jacob's dealing with famine. Failures. Abraham failed. Isaac failed. Jacob failed. Didn't promise them no difficulties. They all had difficulties. In fact, the whole history of Israel having difficulties But God did promise he would bless them, and God did promise they would multiply, and God kept his promise. And I want to remind you: God never promised you and I a life without difficulties. And he never promised we would never have to deal with failure. All of us, at one point or another, no doubt many, many times throughout our life, have to deal with failure. Am I right or wrong? I am right. Failure. Difficulties. Sometimes famine. Man, the funds, the debts go high and the funds go low. But through all of that, God has promised He'll be with us, He'll take care of us, and He'll see us through. And that's what They're experiencing here. They've been through some times. Now they're multiplying greatly. They're multiplying greatly. I'm emphasizing this tonight, but we can and must Claim God's promises. Don't diminish, don't neglect the promises of God. Get a hold of them and hold on to them strongly in faith. So, but be careful, do not claim promises God never made. There's a lot of preachers on television, there's a lot of elements of so-called Christianity. And they're claiming promises that God never made. Again, I repeat, God never promised you and I that we'd be millionaires. If we have enough faith, then we'll be wealthy. Now, if God's blessed you with wealth, God bless you, praise the Lord. Amen? If God has withheld wealth from you, praise the Lord. God is good. It's God's promise. So we can't be very, very careful. Don't go around claiming promises God did not make. And I even hear good people, good Christians sometimes We'll claim a promise. Well, God's going to do this, God's going to do that. Listen, if God didn't promise it, then I don't know He's going to do it or not. He might, but uh the only thing I know God is going to do is what He's promised And so God is taking care of Jacob, and they're populating growing explosively. So number one, they occupy Goshen. Number two, they're prospering greatly. And my third and last observation from this passage is this passage is a promise given by Joseph. Joseph makes a promise to his daddy, Jacob. Look at verse 28. And Jacob lived in the land of Egypt seventeen years. Now let me just stop and point this out, and this I'm not going to dwell on this But how old was Joseph when his brothers sold him to Egypt? What do we believe? Seventeen. So seventeen years, Jacob Took care of Joseph, raised him up, fed him when he was a baby, clothed him, took care of him. Seventeen, he sold as a slave to Egypt. Now, the last seventeen years Joseph's taking care of Jacob. I just thought that was interesting. Seventeen years. He's under Joseph's care now. And uh, you know, there comes a point in life where sometimes the kids got to take care of the parents Amen. They took care of us when we were little, and now Joseph's taking care of his daddy. That's that's not a point, but I just uh thought that was interesting. So Jacob lived in the land of Egypt 17 years. The whole age, so the whole age of Jacob was 147 years, 147 years old. And the time grew nigh that Israel must die. He called his son Joseph and said unto him, If now I have found grace in thy sight, put, I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh. And deal kindly and truly with me, bury me not, I pray thee in Egypt. But I will lie with my fathers And thou shalt carry me out of Egypt and bury me in their burying place. And look what Joseph says. And he, Joseph said, I will do as thou hast said. Joseph promises his daddy that he will take him back to the promised land, to the land of Canaan, and bury him there. He's not going to leave him, he's not going to leave his bones, his body in Egypt. He's going to take them back. So you have this promise from Joseph. First thing under this, I notice in verse 28 and 29, Jacob realizes his life is winding down. He's lived a good long life. And God's been better to him than what he testified to Pharaoh. He says, few and evil have been my days. He actually lived a pretty long time. And God was actually pretty good to him But his days are winding down. His life is coming to its end. And he recognizes that. He accepts it. And he takes it as from God. He's not in despair. He's not in hopelessness. Sounds to me facing it pretty confidently, to be honest. You know, we don't live here on earth forever, do we? Life is short. We're uh uh very few of us, I doubt not too many of us in here are going to live 147 years And life goes by so quick. And the world's idea is this. This is the world's idea. Listen, life is short You've gotta make the most out of it as you can. You've gotta uh uh live it up and just enjoy as much of this world as you can Because our life here is very short. I say probably the other better way to look at that is life is short, eternity is long. And we ought to use our lives wisely Would you agree with me? If you're down to just a certain amount of money, you have a limited income, it's best to use that money wisely. Right? Why, because you only have so much. And once it's spent, it's gone And you and I only have so much time to live here on this earth. We only have so much time to live for God and serve Him and make a difference and be a blessing and be used of God. We only got so much time. We ought to use our lives here wisely. And don't squander the days God has given us and don't waste them on meaningless stuff that has no eternal value. Our life here on earth is temporal, eternity. We go out into eternity, and Jacob realizes my life is winding down. It went by quickly. And here he is, realizing he's coming to the end. Then the second thing I notice under this promise that Joseph gives his daddy is Jacob makes this request to Joseph. Now it gets a little interesting here. Verse 29, the time drew nigh that Israel must die, and he called his son Joseph. Joseph has risen to the leadership. Jacob knows he can trust him. And he says, And he said unto him, If I have found grace in thy sight, put I pray thee thy hand under my thigh. And then he goes through that. Listen to how he words this. If I found grace in thy sight, put, I pray thee, thy hand, deal kindly and truly with me, I pray thee. I notice this is a very gracious request. He's not bossing Joseph around. He's not telling him what to do. Asking him, very, if I found grace in your sight, please deal kindly with me. This is a whole different approach than what Jacob dealt with Joseph's brothers back when they were running out of food. Remember he said, what do y'all just stand around here for? Get down there and get the food. He didn't say to his brothers, listen, if I found grace in your sight, boys And please feel kindly and go down and get the grain in Egypt. He didn't talk like that at all. But now he's come to Joseph and he's being very, very gracious. He's being very very uh tender in his request. Um very, very different than his brothers. I think two I think there's two factors. I think one is Joseph had been so good to them, he recognized that he would not even be alive if it wasn't for Joseph's graciousness. He's grateful for what Joseph had done for him. And I think there's a second factor, and I think this will come out later with the brothers when they interact later on. I think the family is intimidated by Joseph. His position, what he's accomplished What he's overcome as rejected by the family, a slavery, and all that he's been through and what he made, what God really did with him and put him And I think the family's a little bit intimidated. Remember later on the brothers come and say, hey, before daddy died, he said, don't kill us. They're lying, but I think they're intimidated by Joseph And so he's very gracious in this request, and it is a godly request. Egypt wasn't Jacob's home. This is not the land God promised Abraham's family and Abraham's offspring. Canaan was the land that God gave them. That's where they belong. And Jacob recognizes this. I don't belong in Egypt. He could have said something like this: this land is not my home. I want to remind you, you and I, this world is not our home. God didn't promise us here. God promised us a home in heaven. My father's house are many mansions He's promised us something beyond here. And that's what Jacob, he's looking beyond, and he's saying, no, that the land there in Canaan, that's what God has promised. Don't leave my body here I don't belong here. I'm not part of this. I'm not part of Egypt. I'm not Egyptian. I'm not part of this program, this system. I belong somewhere else. I think Jacob believed in the resurrection. I think he knew and understood someday the Messiah would come and he'd rule from Jerusalem for a thousand years. And the resurrected of old there's the resurrection of Old Testament saints. And he wanted to be in the land that God had promised him. This is a godly request. Now, did anybody notice the kind of odd request he made of Joseph in there? Anyone notice anything a little strange? Yeah, he says there, if I found grace in thy sight, put, I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh. What in the world? Put thy hand under my thigh. That phrase, that request is made twice, only two times in Scripture. One is by Abraham when he sends his servant back to Laban uh to uh the family back in Ur to find a wife for Isaac. And he calls the servant in. He tells him, I need you to go back there and find a wife for my son. Don't take anybody. And he says, well what if uh What if that none of them want to come back? What if none of the family the want to come back with him? He says, Well don't take anybody here, the Philistines, none of this crowd, don't want my boy Mary, none of these You find one of them. If they can't, if they don't come back, then you're out. And he says, Take your thigh, take your hand, and put it under my thigh, and promise me you'll do what I just asked you to do And the servant does that. Now we have Jacob making that same request, and he's saying, put your hand under my thigh. And promise me you'll bury me back in Canaan. How many people find that a little strange? It's nowhere else in Scripture. And by the way, if you come and ask me to put my hand under your thigh, make a promise, I ain't doing it, and I'll tell you right now. So what is this about? Well, it did some digging and tried to get some research. Nobody knows exactly what this was, but there were some customs then. Normally when we take uh oath, what do we do? Raise your right hand, you swear to tell the truth, whole truth, nothing but truth, so help you God. Cross my heart and hope to spit. You know, we do all these things, but we don't put our hands under the other person's thigh. Now, the interesting thing here is this. Both instances where this is referenced were near-death experiences. Abraham's about to die Uh he's on his death. He wants to make sure his son is taken care of. Here is uh uh Jacob is about to die. He wants to make sure the family is back In promised land. He wants to make sure. So both of them have to do with the end of life, and both of them have relate relate to the future of the family. Fulfilling God's plan, God's purpose. So I think those are factors on why he would have him put his hand under his thigh and make this promise. Here's the thing: the word thigh. If you look it up in Strong's Concordates, one of the references, the word time, in fact it's translated a few times in Scripture, loins. We think of the thigh, but it's also translated it could be referring to his loins. And the idea is this behind it is it was considered by culture then that the thigh or the loins was the source of prosterity. In other words, that's where the children come from. It's where the offspring will be from. It's where uh the family continues on with the offspring. God had promised Abraham a phenomenal seed. Like the stars of the sky and the sands of the ocean, his seed would multiply. And so the idea here is that it has to do with the fact that Abraham wants his body or Jacob wants his body back in Canaan and the family go back there, and that's where they would reproduce. Not down here in Egypt, but their seed would carry on back in e in uh in uh Canaan in Promised Land. So some suggest that Others think putting the hand under the thigh is the idea of submission. I'm putting my hand under where you sit and you kind of sitting on the hand and I'm submitting myself to you. What you're requesting me, I'm submitting to it. I'm agreeing to that. So whatever the case is, we don't do it today, and I, for one, am glad. So uh Well, he dislocated it is what we think there. So but I don't think there was any promise made there anything other than the angel maybe to Jacob. But um I think this is something unique from that though, to be honest. This is the the Yeah, yeah. So whatever the case is, Jake Joseph is making this great promise to Jacob. And then last of all, the third thing I notice under this promise Joseph makes to him is that Jacob receives assurance from Joseph that he's going to do it. Look at verse 30, the last part. He says, and bury me in their burying place where my fathers were buried. And he said, I will do as thou hast said. Now knowing what I know about Joseph, that would should settle it, right? Joseph says he's going to do it, he's going to do it. Do you ever know somebody? If they say they're going to do it, it's going to happen. He's just confident. Their integrity they're going to do. But notice, Joseph, Jacob says, swear unto me. He's not, he wants to be sure that Joseph is going to do this. And he, Joseph, swear unto him, I swear, I promise, Daddy. I give you my word. I'll do it. I'll do it. I'll do it. And then Jacob and Israel, Jacob, bowed himself upon the bed's head. He was satisfied. And when his life finally is over, he's going to go back to the promised land. His body will be back there. Of all his sons, Joseph was the one most reliable. And he asked for that assurance. Joseph, swear to me, promise me that you're going to do this. I promise, Daddy, I will. I promise. Whatever this was, it was extremely important to Jacob that he be back in that promised land. I think one of the lessons is Egypt was not his home. And he was living there for just a period of time, and his home was back in the promised land. And Israel's home is in the promised land to this day. That's theirs. And your home and my home is not here on this earth. Just like Egypt was to Jacob, this world, this earth is to you and I as the children of God. We're not going to be here forever. Now we bury our bodies here, but praise God, someday they're going to be resurrected up and we'll be forever with our Lord. And so Jacob makes Joseph makes these promises to Daddy. Let's claim God's promises. Let's live with eternity in view and understand our time here is brief. And let's use it wisely. Amen. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now these lessons, these examples for Joseph and this little intimate Event that's recorded to us between a boy and his daddy, his dying daddy, and help us to learn from it. Lord, some of us need to just get a hold of your promise and just hold on to them And not be shaken and driven in doubts and fear. But just claim your promises as they are. Lord, some of us need to use our time wisely and understand. It just races by and what we do for the Lord we need to do now. Because someday we'll be our our our turn will be over and we don't want to waste it. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I need to get a hold of these promises and quit worrying and quit being upset And just claim the promises of God. Anybody like that, I have my hands raised. Sometimes I gotta be reminded over and over and over what God has promised. Maybe there's some say, preacher, I need to live with eternity in view. Don't get my roots too deep here. Don't get too hold of stuff here. But living for the Lord and knowing That life here is temporary. Anything like that? Say, preacher, pray with me. I need to keep my priorities right with that in view. God bless you. God bless you. Let's ask the Lord to have his way. Father, bless now In Jesus' name I pray, Amen. Heads stand together if you will