Alright, Genesis chapter 37. I'm going to read the first four verses. Of course, we're beginning our new series on the life of Joseph, and I've been looking forward to this. We've been uh praying and studying and and asking the Lord to lead and use this in our lives. And we don't know how long we will be in this. Uh Going by past history, it won't we won't be done by the end of the year, I can assure you that. But uh Lord willing, we can learn some things from the life of Joseph. Genesis 37, if you would notice verse number one. The Bible says, and Jacob dwelt in the land wherein his father was a stranger, in the land of Canaan These are the generations of Jacob. Joseph, being seventeen years old, was feeding the flock with his brethren. And the lad was with the sons of Bilha, and with the sons of Zilpah, and his father's wives. And Joseph brought unto his father their evil report. Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children because he was the son of his old age, and he made him a coat of many colors. And when his brethren saw that their father loved him more than all his brethren, they hated him, and could not speak peaceably unto him. Joseph, the son of Jacob, let's pray, and uh we'll get started on this. Father in heaven, uh, we thank you for the Bible, and Lord, I'm grateful particularly for all the various characters that you introduce us to in the pages of your word. And Lord, now as we consider Joseph in the coming weeks and months, we ask, Lord, that you would teach us lessons and God help us to uh learn from his life that our faith would be stronger and our walk would be more distinct. Our walk with you. Our witness would be more effective. And so, Lord, I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you. Lord, I present my body. Sincerely, with all my heart, I ask that you'd fill me and that you would speak through me and teach us. Be our teacher, Holy Spirit, is my prayer tonight in Jesus' name. Amen. Proverbs chapter 20 and verse 6 says, Most men will proclaim everyone his own goodness. Now listen to this verse. Most men will proclaim everyone his own goodness. And what's he saying there? He's saying, most people will tell you how great they are. Most men proclaim their own goodness. But then he asks this question, Solomon, under the inspiration of God, he asked this question, but Most men proclaim everyone his own goodness, but a faithful man who can find? A faithful man who can find. He's saying we don't have a problem talking ourselves up. Uh we'll we'll most people, boy, we're we're ready to tell folks how good we are and what we do right and all this. But God's looking for faithful men God's looking for someone that He can depend, that God can depend upon. I think we're living in a day I don't know that it's unprecedented, but for us it is in our lifetime. We're living in a day when we see more and more people losing their faith in God. I just read an article the other day, came across a computer, where less and less people in the United States of America are faithfully attending churches. And church enrollments are dropping across the board. More and more people are walking away from their faith in God's word. I think what we need in our day and age, what we need, is uh we need somebody that can be an example to us to what it uh and and display to us what it means to live by faith. We need a model of that. And what I'm trying to get at here is this. We have less and less folks to look at and say, there's what it's, that person there is displaying what it means to live by faith. And those numbers are dwindling. You follow what I'm trying to say here tonight? We have less and less of that. We have less and less living examples of what faithfulness to God really is. And so we need someone that can show us. Here, here, here, I guess this is what I'm trying to say. We need someone that can display to us or model to us What it means to have faith in God even in the most difficult circumstances, the easiest thing in the world is to have faith in God when everything's going well. Right or wrong. That's not faith. My faith isn't tested when the bills are paid and the health is good and uh everybody loves me. My faith is tested When everything's going wrong, when the debts are high and the funds are low, when it seems like everybody's against me. When all my circumstances seem to be falling around apart of it. And I can if I can still trust God, even when things are going rough, that's what faith is. And we need to see that. We need to see what that looks like. What does a woman that has faith in God, when everything's gone wrong, what does that life look like in that woman, that man? We need to see, I think we need to display to us what it looks like for a person to have faith in God when they're treated unjustly. Any anybody here anybody here ever been done wrong? Huh? Ever been done wrong? Yeah. If I can have faith in God and don't lose my my uh Christ-like disposition Even when I'm being done wrong. And I can maintain a spirit, the fruit of the spirit, even when I'm being un treated unjustly I tell you, that's a testimony of faith in God. Faith in God. What does it look like? For to see a man or a woman, what's that person look like when everything is hopeless around them and yet they still have faith in God? Everything's gone wrong. Every dream appears to be shattered. And yet they still have the joy of the Lord. They're still rejoicing in all things. What does that look like? Would you agree with me? We don't have a lot of examples of that around us, do we? There's some, don't misunderstand. There's some. We don't have a lot of it. And so we go to the pages of Scripture. And we come to the life of Joseph, and here we see a man that displays to you and I what it means to have faith in God. Now the question I want to answer this evening, I'm going to ask you a question, I'm going to answer it, hopefully. Why in the world should we study the life of Joseph? I want to introduce our new series with that question. Why should we take probably a couple years on Wednesday nights and study the life of Joseph Well, I put a few reasons down, and this is my message this evening. Number one, I believe we ought to study the life of Joseph, first of all, because we have a mandate from God If you would, take your Bibles and turn with me to 2 Peter 2. And we're going to be in the New Testament a little bit here this evening. 2 Peter chapter 2. I'm not Peter, 2 Timothy. And chapter number two, some of us, this is going to be a familiar passage 2 Timothy chapter 2, and notice with me, if you would, verse number 15. 2 Timothy 2, 15. If you're there, say Amen. Alright, good. If you're not there, say, O me. 2 Timothy 2, look at verse 15. Study to show thyself approved unto God A workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. Here we have a very clear instruction by God. We have a mandate by God. We are to study the Word of God. How many people agree with me? Christians ought to study the Word of God. Amen. And so we have this mandate that we're to study Scripture. Come over to chapter 3, if you would, and verse number 16. Again, a familiar verse for a lot of people. Verse 16 says, all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. Why? That the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. Here we're told that all the Bible is profitable for you and I. Every passage of Scripture You know what that tells me? That tells me that every man mentioned in the Bible, I can learn from him All scripture, every woman that's referenced in the Bible, whatever amount of information I may be given, I can learn something from that. Now, some more than others, we're going to see that here in a bit, but all scripture is given by inspiration of God. You know what that tells me? That means we ought to study the Gospel of John. We ought to study Psalms. Are you with me? We ought to study Proverbs. We ought to study Habakkuk. We ought to study Zephaniah. You say, what are you just making these names up? No, there are books in the Bible. All scripture is given by inspiration of God. So if we have the life of Joseph recorded for us in Scripture and preserved for us by inspiration Then we ought to study the life of Joseph. We have a mandate by God to study all uh to study the scriptures, and all scriptures are given by the inspiration of God And all scriptures are profitable. You know what that tells me? That in the coming weeks, as we look at the life of Joseph, every single one of us, if we let God help us, we can benefit from studying the life of Joseph. We're going to learn doctrine. We're going to be corrected in some areas. We're going to be instructed on righteousness So that we can be the people God wants us to be. We can be the Christian God saved us to be. How many people here, like me, you would say, you know, I could get a better grasp on Bible doctrine Sure. I think churches are making a terrible mistake by downplaying doctrine. It's vital What scripture is. How many people here say see how this one goes over? How many people here say, you know, I could use some correction? Oh, not me. Yeah. And so we study scripture. We're going to be prophets, gonna profit us, we're gonna learn things about God We didn't know before. We're going to reinforce, we're going to clarify some uh maybe things we didn't have clear in our mind. We're going to be corrected in some areas of our life that maybe are out of line with the Word of God and the will of God God will speak to our hearts as we study the life of Joseph in any part of Scripture and we get that corrected. We're going to be taught what it means to be righteous, instruction in righteousness, how to do right and what God says is right. And so one reason we ought to study the life of Joseph is we're mandated by God to study all of Scripture. Number two, why should we study the life of Joseph? Number two Because a major portion of scripture is devoted to the history of Joseph. Genesis chapter 37, all the way through chapter 50. 25% of the book of Genesis Is devoted to the life of Joseph. More of more there's more passages in Genesis. A higher percentage of Genesis Is the record of the life of Joseph more than the life of Abraham? More than Adam. More than Noah. More than any of these other people, God devotes 25%, chapter 37 through chapter 50, to the life of Joseph. Now I don't know about you, but that seems pretty significant to me If God is giving that large of a portion to one man and his experiences from the age of 17 through his death, We ought to pay special attention to that. You ought to pay special attention to that. The book of Genesis, by the way, is a foundational book in the Bible. You say, what do you mean by that? This is what I mean by that. Genesis lays the foundation for just about all of the major teaching throughout the rest of the book. Did you know That God's design for marriage is given to us in the very beginning of the book of Genesis. And when Jesus was confronted about marriage and divorce He referenced all the way back to God creating Adam and Eve, male and female created he them. And it laid Genesis is a foundational book, and we're given the foundation of marriage. We're given the foundation of the home in the book of Genesis. When children start showing up, we are introduced to the concept of sin in the book of Genesis. We're introduced to the idea of a Savior coming early on in the book of Genesis. Genesis is a foundational book. Did you know that the book of Genesis introduces the concept of government? Government is not man's idea. It's God's idea. Now man is very good at taking and messing up God's ideas. But nevertheless, it's God's idea. And so you have this book of Genesis, which is vitally important, which by the way is why Satan attacks Genesis so much. And try so desperately to get nobody to believe Genesis is literally what it says it is And so you have this foundational book that is vital to understanding the rest of Scripture, and 25% of it is devoted to this man, Joseph. Have I convinced you that Joseph is a significant figure in God's mind? Joseph. So we ought to study Joseph, first of all, we have a mandate from God to study all of Scripture, and he's in Scripture, so we ought to study it. Number two, I think we ought to study him because of the significance He holds in as a Bible figure. He is a significant Bible figure. Number three, and this is the one I want to get after. We ought to study the life of Joseph, and I've touched on this in the introduction a bit, because Joseph is a model for you and I of what it means to live by faith. You say, preacher, what does it mean to live by faith? Study the life of Joseph. You say, preacher, how does faith manifest itself? Study the life of Joseph. He is a model for you and I. His life and experiences demonstrate to you and I important principles, important values in living by faith. By the way, even the world recognizes the literary value of the life of Joseph. There have been all sorts of novels, and I'm talking about the world, the secular world. They see in the life of Joseph a tremendous uh tremendous literature. Now, they come to it as a type of entertainment. All the drama in there, and all the intrigue and jealousy and murder and betrayal And uh the the underdog coming back. I mean it's phenomenal. The the storyline, the plot in the life of Joseph Makes tremendous literature. And the world recognizes that. There have been plays written on the life of Joseph, even up until current times. Tremendous books written on the life of Joseph. From a secular perspective. movies made about the life of Joseph. So the world recognizes the literary value of the record of Joseph's life and experiences. However, that's not what our concern is. Our concern is what are the spiritual truths that we can glean from Joseph Lice? And I'm here to tell you there's a bunch of them. He models for us tremendously. In fact, Wilbur and I were talking this afternoon a little bit. There are glimpses of the character of the Lord Jesus Christ in the life of Joseph. Sometimes people will refer to him as a type of Christ. Now, that's a tall order. I want to tell you, no sinful human being lives up to the standard of the Lord Jesus Christ. Nevertheless, we can see glimpses of Christ's character and pictures uh to some extent of the life of Christ. So Joseph is a tremendous example for you and I of what it means to live by faith Uh he's more than just entertainment. If you would, are you still there in the New Testament? Come over with me to Romans chapter number 15. Romans 15. And I want you to notice what the Bible says. Romans 15 and verse number 4. Romans chapter 15, verse 4. Notice what it says, for whatsoever things were written aforetime, what would you say he's talking about when Paul is writing to the Romans, he says, all what was written before time? What would be re-he'd be referencing? The Old Testament. He's referencing all that's been recorded and preserved for us, given to us by inspiration up to this point and from there on All that's been given to us a four times. Would you agree with me that first statement would include the record of Joseph's life? Yes. For whatsoever things were written aforetime, look at this, were written for what? Our learning. That we, look at this, through patience and comfort of the scriptures might have what? Oh now knowing what we know about the life of Joseph, when we haven't got into a deep detailed study of it yet. But we're all familiar with Joseph, I'm sure. Would you agree with me that he displays to us what patience is? What having hope is? And so Paul is writing under the inspiration of God, and to you and I, in the pages of scripture, he's telling us, listen Joseph Light, now I'm injecting that, but what he says includes Joseph Light, Joseph Light is written for our benefit, so that we can learn what it means to live by faith, what it means to have hope, what it means to be patient. How many people here could use just a little bit more patience? How many people need a whole lot more patience? Yeah. Hey, let's study Joseph. That we, through patience and comfort of the scriptures, might have hope. I hope that when we're done studying Joseph, we'll all have more hope. Come over, if you would, to 1 Corinthians chapter 10. Why are we studying Joseph? Well, God recorded it so that we can learn patience and we can have hope. 1 Corinthians 10, verse 11. Now all these things happened unto them. Now he's referencing Old Testament characters. The immediate context is Israel. But it would include all Old Testament characters. Now, all these things happened unto them for what? And samples, an example. And they are written for our admonition. What is admonition? Somebody talk to me tonight. If I'm admonishing somebody, what am I doing? I'm instructing them, encouraging them, I'm challenging them, admonishing them, hey, stay faithful, stay at it, serve the Lord, live for God. Some days I get up and say, Read your Bible every day. I'm admonishing us. So they're written for our admonition, upon whom the ends of the world Wherefore let him think he standeth, take heed lest he fall. So we learn. The story of Joseph is much more than entertainment. It is a profound teaching tool in the hands of the Holy Spirit to help you and I grow and mature and be the people of faith God intends for us to be. Alright, so what instance. There's theological truths displayed in the life of Joseph. Now you say, oh, theological truths, you lost me there. Listen, don't be afraid of that word theology Theology is simply this. Listen, theology is the study of God. Theos, God, ology, the study of. The study of God. How many people here ever thought about God? How many people here ever had questions about God? You know what that makes you? A theologian You've thought about God. You've read scriptures. You've learned some things about God. Now you can walk out of here and go to work tomorrow and say, hey, I'm a theologian. We learn things about God. When we look at the life of Joseph, we learn some things about God. Go to Romans 8. 28. You're not far away from there. Go over to Romans 8. 28. How many people are familiar with Romans 8. 28? Yeah. If not, boy, that would be a good one to work on. Get familiar with Romans 8. 28. One of the most encouraging scriptures in all the Bible. Romans 8. 28. And we hope. No. And we think. And we what? We know that most things were All things. I have those two words highlighted in my Bible. We know, I'd hope, think, maybe, we know that all Things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to this purpose. If I know the Lord Jesus Christ, my personal Savior, if I know him and I'm seeking to live for him I can have absolute confidence that everything that comes into my life, whether I understand it or not, whether it makes sense or not, whether it looks like it's unjust or not I can have absolute confidence that God can and will use that for good in one way or another. You say, all right, that's the New Testament. All right, come back to Genesis chapter 50. Last chapter of the first book. Joseph is late in life at this point. Genesis chapter 50. And notice what he says to his brothers. Now we're going to look at this down the road in a little more detail. But his brothers came to us. They're still lying. Their father died, and they said, oh, Daddy told us before he died that you shouldn't do anything to us for lying to you. And they're lying to him right then Daddy never said that. And uh and look at verse nineteen And Joseph said unto them, Fear not. I mean, they're scared to death he's going to kill them. He's number two in Egypt. He's the most second most powerful man in the In the world at that point. Fear not. Look at this. For am I in the place of God? Now look at verse 20, one of the most profound passages in Scripture. But as for you, ye thought evil against me, but God meant it unto good. To bring to pass as it is this day to save much people alive. I wrote in my margin of my Bible, beside that, I put Romans 8. 28. Joseph understood thousands of years before Paul ever penned Romans 8:28 under the inspiration of God, Joseph understood the sovereignty of God. And the goodness of God. And we study the life of Joseph, we're going to see, God is in control. It seems like things are chaos. You go through the life of Joseph, it seems like God is nowhere to be found. It seems like God has completely failed him. It seems like there is nothing but uh uh uh injustice and uh uh unrighteousness on every hand, but yet Joseph's conclusion is, and he teaches us God's still in control What a profound truth about God. That's theology. God is good. So we ought to study Joseph because we're going to learn stuff like that about God. It's going to help us in life. We ought to study Joseph. He's a model of living by faith. Life lessons are taught. For instance Joseph is going to illustrate to us what genuine integrity is. We don't hear that word very much anymore, do we? Integrity. What is integrity? Integrity is doing what is right regardless of the cost and regardless of the consequences. Doing right. I tell you, we study the life of Joseph, we see integrity on every hand. Doing right, doing right, doing right. Integrity. He's going to illustrate to us, uh illustrates unrelenting tenacities. Now somebody help, there's a $64,000 word. What is tenacity? Somebody help me. Not giving up, staying at it. The best picture, uh word picture of tenacity is a bulldog hanging on the back of a pig. And he won't let go. That thing's kicking and squealing and running and carrying on, and that old bulldog will not let go. That is tenacity. We're going to learn what it means to not quit studying the life of Joseph. To not quit. Joseph would not quit on God. He would not quit doing right. One thing is for certain, if I'm going to be a successful Christian, I cannot quit. Amen or not? Nobody ever succeeds by quitting, quitting on God, quitting on faith, quitting on the disciplines of the Christian life I'm just going to keep doing right. I'm just going to keep doing what God says. I'm going to keep walking with God. If I'm the only one, if I'm in a prison, a dark prison, I'm the only one I'm not going to quit on God. I'm not going to quit on God. Brother Joseph's going to illustrate us what that looks like. What that looks like. Lance Armstrong. He said this, pain is temporary, but quitting is forever. I like that statement Douglas MacArthur, the great general from World War II, said age wrinkles the body, but quitting wrinkles the soul. He knew a little bit what he was talking about. Nothing of any value has ever been accomplished or discovered by quitting. Joseph does not quit. You say I'm tempted to quit. Study the life of Joseph. He'll show you how not to quit Say, I want to give up. I know what's right. I know what God expects of me, but it's hard and nobody and everything's against me. I want to just quit. Consider Joseph. He'll show you what it's like to stay true, even when everything's going wrong. Are you seeing some reasons why the study of life of Joseph is vital? Is important? I put this down, he illustrates to us unmovable faith. No matter what others said, he maintained his faith in God. No matter what others did, he maintained his faith in God. When I was little, I used to say to my mom sometime, I'd want to do something, she'd say no, when I was small. She said, No, you're not doing that. I said, Well everybody else is anybody ever hear that one? You know what mom would say? Well, if everybody else was jumping off a bridge, would you jump off the bridge I probably would have. Joseph illustrates what it is to have faith in God, even if no one else does. What if you or I were the only person in our community, in our society that believed the book and knew Christ as Savior? What if we the only ones? I get a little email every day accounts of Christians around the world who are being persecuted for their faith. I got one just the other day, a young man in Pakistan. Family turned. He got saved, living for God. Family turned on him. Run him out of the house. Community came in. Beat the daylights out of them. The police are in on it, supporting it. He has no justice. Um what if you and I were the only ones Living for God and the entire society was against us. Would we maintain our faith in God? I'd like to believe I would. I study the life of Joseph and I see somebody that did. He maintained his faith in God. He illustrates unmovable faith, no matter what others did. No matter what others said, no matter how he was treated, he saw God's hand. Psalm uh Genesis 50, verse 20 tells us Joseph saw God's hand in all of that. He's accused of rape and he's innocent, thrown in prison, and he sees God's hand in it. Faith. God honors faith. Acts chapter 7, verse 9 tells us that it says that speaking of Joseph, it says God was with him. In the prison, God was with him. In the pit, waiting for his anticipating his brothers killing him. God was with him. Being carried down to Egypt as a slave. God was with them. Standing in a phony courthouse, being accused of rape. God was with them God honors faith. God protects. Joseph had God's protection. Joseph had God's promotion. So, Joseph, we study the life of Joseph, here we have a model of what it looks what it's like to live by faith. There's truths about God we're going to learn. Lessons about integrity and tenacity and living by faith. He's going to illustrate us what genuine unconditional charity is. That's a little redundant, unconditional charity. Charity is its very nature unconditional. Joseph loved unconditionally. Joseph forgave unconditionally. How many people here want to be forgiven for things we've done wrong? That's the easy part. The challenge to our Christian the display of our Christian maturity, the display of our level of faith and understanding of Christ. Is not us seeking forgiveness, it's when we bestow forgiveness. Everybody wants to be forgiven But not everybody wants to forgive. And if God has forgiven me I have no justification to withhold forgiveness to someone else. Right or wrong? Joseph forgave his brothers unconditionally. They didn't come repentant. They didn't come saying, Oh, we're sorry, man, we messed up, we were wrong. They came lying. Oh, Daddy said, Don't do anything to us. And he forgave them. He says, Am I in the place of God? I have no right to withhold forgiveness. So he illustrates to us unconditional charity Patience, forgiveness, some of the greatest display of patience, some of the greatest display of forgiveness in all Scripture Joseph deliberately put aside the unjustice, unkindness of his brothers and loved them unconditionally. Joseph deliberately put aside the injustice of the Egyptians. And he cared for them, and God used them to save their lives by the millions, even after what they did to him. God has given to us in the pages of Scripture an extensive record on the life of Joseph. And he did that so we can learn about God, so we can grow spiritually, so we can love unconditionally, and we can serve faithfully. The more I prepared this series of studying the life of Joseph, the more I'm learning how significant he really is. And the lessons we can learn from this man. I want to be a better Christian. How about you? In and of myself, I don't know how. To be a better Christian. My own understanding says this, that, and the other. And I read in Scripture. Anybody here, you ever read Scripture and it contradicted your own understanding? Yeah. And so then I have to sort out. All right, how do I do this? This is what I think. This is what scripture says. How do I sort this out? How does what does this look like? And we need someone to be a model for that. This is a little off-subject, but you know what's killing? You know why, you know what I believe our society is the way it is, a major factor? is kids are growing up and they have no example of what a daddy is or what a a true mama is. They're trying to sort it out themselves. They have no pattern to go by. They have no model to follow And they don't know. And it's collapsing all around us. And what we need in Christian circles, what we need in the body of Christ, are people who can model for us. And for new believers coming in, they can look to the old seasons believer and say, okay, that's how faith is lived out. That's how you forgive people unconditionally. That's how you love folks that treat you unkindly. That's how you do right in no matter what circumstance. Our church needs that for the coming generation and the new believers coming in. And we look to Joseph and others like him, and then we say, all right, that's how it is, and we live it out. You follow where I'm trying to go with this? I thought of this when I was studying this a week or two ago. I was thinking about Joseph, I was driving down the road. And this thought came to my mind, and it's absolute truth. I never really thought of it. But I'm telling you, I absolutely learned more about what it means to live the Christian life by watching how my daddy lived his life. I saw what and I was a new even before I was saved, I saw in him, and I knew that's right. That's good. And I got saved and I saw my daddy patterned for me. He wasn't, you know him, he wasn't, he didn't let behind the pulpit and hollering and pounding. I learned more from how he, just how he every day lived his life. I learned more about Christian life living than any lecture he ever gave me, and I he gave me very few lectures. And any lesson he ever taught me, and he taught very few lessons to me, but I saw in his life what a humble, dedicated Christian is. And I could go on talking about that. And what I want to do is I want to look to Joseph. And I want the Lord, the Holy Spirit of God, teach me from Joseph's life. How I can take these this life of faith and incorporate in my life so I can pattern after Joseph. You follow? You with me? So let's pray tonight. Let's ask the Lord to teach us in the coming weeks that we can grow in our faith, our integrity, our understanding of God's power and goodness. Compassion and forgiveness. And let's ask the Lord to teach us, would you? Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord. That you would use this life of Joseph that you said were recorded, was recorded for our learning. And we want to learn. We want to grow. We want to mature. We want to be consistent. And so, Lord, we're asking you to teach us. Wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed. And again, this is maybe too general, but I'll just ask this. I wonder how many would say, preacher, I'm really, really hungry to grow in my faith. I'm really, really hungry to be A spirit-filled, Christ-honoring, loving child of God. Is there any like that? Poor, I know it's very general, but that's what this is intended for. The life of Job. So, Father, bless us, Lord, as we study this. Make that hunger overwhelming and feed us, I pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand