Genesis forty-one, I want to begin reading in verse 37. We're kind of picking up right in the middle. of um this whole event with Joseph before Pharaoh. Of course, Joseph's been called up from prison. Pharaoh had these two dreams of the Cattle, the cows, fat cows, skinny cows, the skinny cows ate the fat cows and they didn't get fat. Then the ears of corn, the good ears of corn, the pitiful ears of corn, and the pitiful ears of corn ate the good Beer's accord and the Pitiful ears of corn didn't get good. And so Joseph, uh if you remember, I'm sure we do, interprets that for Pharaoh, calls him up out of prison. He'd heard about them, and he interprets them correctly. And then if you remember last week we pointed out that Joseph in uh, let's see, verses thirty-two He assures Pharaoh that what this interpret, what these beat dreams mean is absolutely going to happen And I think he's telling them there, as I said last week, I think he's assuring Pharaoh that he needs to take this seriously. This isn't something just to blow off. This isn't little entertainment dreams These dreams are messages is from God Himself and that they are going to happen and they must be addressed. He can't play with this And so he gives them that assurance. And then he right away on top of that, m before he's asked, without being asked, he gives advice. Now, would you agree with me? Generally it's not a good idea to give advice without being asked for advice. In fact, Curtis Hudson said any unsolicited advice is criticism And so I think he has a point there. And so you have to be very, very careful when offering advice to someone that has not asked for it Nevertheless, that's exactly what Joseph did. He interprets Hidraim. He said, listen, this is for real. This is going to happen. Here's what you need to do. And he gives his advice there that he needs to get a team, a leadership team together, that he needs a good, qualified leader, and then he needs a team of people and he needs a plan of action And Joseph gives that to him. And so that's where we're picking up here in verse number 33 of Genesis, I'm sorry, verse number 37. of Genesis 41. Notice we're picking up in the middle of that. Verse 37. And the thing was good in the eyes of Pharaoh. And in the eyes of his servants, what Joseph advised him was good in the eyes of Pharaoh and the good eyes of his servants. And Pharaoh said to his servants, now he's talking not to Joseph, he's talking to And when it says servants here, uh it's uh kind of like, I guess maybe like um what the president has a cabinet. They're his advisors They're part of the decision making and the leadership of the nation. And so that's who Pharaoh is addressing. So Pharaoh, his counsel, his servants, they all say, hey, this is good advice. And Pharaoh said unto his servants, Can we find such a one as this? A man in whom the Spirit of God is? And then Pharaoh says unto Joseph, For as much as God hath showed thee all this, there is none so discreet and wise as thou art. Thou shalt be over my house. And according unto thy word shall all my people be ruled. Only in the throne will I be greater than thou. That's where I say, wow. I mean, an hour ago he was in prison, unknown. Verse 41. And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, see, I have set thee over all the land of Egypt. And Pharaoh took off his ring from his hand and put it upon Joseph's hand and arrayed him in vestures of fine linen and put a gold chain about his neck and made him to ride in the second chariot which he had, that would be like Air Force Two Second chariot that he had, and they cried before him, bow the knee. And he made him ruler over all the land of Egypt. And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I am Pharaoh, and without thee shall no man lift up his hand or foot in all the land of Egypt. We're looking at Joseph's promotion Joseph's rise to power. We're going to look at his advancement tonight by Pharaoh from the prison to the palace. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless. As we study this part of Joseph's life, this portion of Scripture. I ask your Lord that your Holy Spirit would speak to our hearts. I pray you teach us principles from this that we can That can be applied to our lives so we can live by faith. Our faith in you would be stronger. I pray that our witness would be more effective. And maybe, Lord, our Christian character would be a greater level of integrity. Lord, I believe, I know myself, we need integrity. And so maybe we could learn that here tonight. So I yield my will to you. Father, I present my body. And tonight I pray and ask that you would fill me with your Spirit. And that you would teach us and help us tonight. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I think you agree with me in a very brief period of time. Joseph made a powerful impact upon Pharaoh and his leadership, his servants, his council I mean he's only here a few minutes. It can't be an hour. Called up. He is cleaned up. Then he tells them the interpretation of the stream, and then like we said, he injects this advice in right as he interprets it. Says this is what you need to do. It's like he didn't even think. He just said that. So it has a profound impact upon Pharaoh, his court, his administration. And I don't think it was I don't think the biggest impact was on Joseph's ability to interpret the dreams, and it was really God enabled him to. But I don't think that's what had the impact. on Pharaoh and the and the the servants so much. I mean I'm sure it did, but he's had dreams. He had counselors there. He has magicians. They would interpret dreams. These they couldn't But I think what had the impact was the wisdom of his advice. What Joseph advised them to do, that's when they said, oh, this is good. That made an impression upon Pharaoh and his leadership. Now, advice, I think it was more than just the advice, though I think it was Joseph's just his presence. And by that I mean his demeanor. The the and I don't know if you're going to understand what I mean by this, but the atmosphere that he brought with him into the presence of Pharaoh. Do you ever get around some people and they just have And I can't think of a better word than this. I'm sure there is. I just can't think of one. They have an atmosphere about them. Just something has an impact, their presence. For me, Dr. Pat Creed's that way. When I'm around Pat Dr. Pat Creed, there's an there's an atmosphere there of leadership and confidence And I think Joseph, when he comes up, uh his his advice he gave was was they they were impressed. We'll see that here in a bit. But I think just his whole demeanor, how he conducted himself, I wish I could see this. I wish we had this on video. I'd love to have been standing there in that room, whatever the the conference room, whatever it was they were meeting in, and just the way he conducted himself, I'm gonna I I know I'm injecting a lot here, but I think even just his posture Just everything about him was impressive. And we found that everywhere he's been. When he showed up in Potiphar's house, it was almost immediately he's in leadership position. He's in prison unjustly. Almost immediately he's in leadership position. Now he's serving. It's not a dictatorial leadership. It's servant leadership, but it's leadership nonetheless. And that implies to me there's more than just intelligence on the part of Joseph. There's something about his demeanor. There's something about him that commands trust. That nurtures trust and confidence in him. Now remember, this is all happening in minutes. How he conducted himself. His appearance. Remember, what was the first thing he did? And it was Joseph that said he wanted to do this. When they came down to his prison cell, said, Hey, Pharaoh wants to see you. What was the very first thing he did Shaven himself and what else? Cleaned up, got good better clothes on. That tells me a whole lot about his thinking. He wanted to be respectable. He wanted to come in there in the proper appearance. And so I'm putting all this together. The advice he gives is tremendous. They're impressed with that. But there's more, I'm confident there was more than this. It was his demeanor, it was his posture, his appearance. Did you know that, oh, and we talked about this last week a little bit, so I'm not going to belabor it, but did you know our appearance has an impact on the people we're around? How we appear affects people. How we conduct ourselves. Impacts people. When I was youth past sometimes we had a few young people say, Nobody treats me with respect, man. I said, Why don't you try being respectable? It's a lot easier to respect someone that's respectable, right? Nobody owes us their respect I I the way I look at it, I need to earn people's respect. And so we ought to be respectable to people, but we need to conduct ourselves. So I'm saying our appearance, our conduct, our attitude All of that has an impact on people, and I see that in Joseph as he's in the presence of the most arguably one of the most powerful men in the world politically at that time He's in his presence half hour, maybe, at the most. And man, this guy puts total trust in him almost immediately. That's more than just intelligence That's a conduct, that's atmosphere, that's his presence, his demeanor. Everything about him is communicating confidence. So our appearance, our conduct, our attitude has a more of an effect on people, I think, than even our abilities. Did you ever meet someone that was very gifted and you couldn't stand them? Did you ever meet somebody that was very gifted and you didn't trust them with your dog? We had Years ago we had a fellow work on our house, did some work on our house and he was very good. He remote did some remodeling for us and d different things. And I'm telling you, he was very good. But I'm telling you, I had him once, I didn't bring him back. I didn't trust that guy. As far as I could throw it. So there's a whole lot more than just having brains or having abilities and talents. There's It's our whole person that is a factor. So I see Joseph. He shows up here and verse 37, the thing was good in the eyes of Pharaoh and in the eyes of his servants. And Pharaoh said to his servants, Can we find such a man as this, a man in whom the Spirit of God is? Several things I observe here about Pharaoh advancing Joseph from the prison to the palace, so to speak. Number one, I noticed the approval of Pharaoh. And I've already touched on this a little bit. The approval of Pharaoh and his advisors, his administration. The thing was good in the eyes of Pharaoh and in the eyes of his servants. Now remember, this is the man, Pharaoh. Is a man that is the king, the pharaoh, he is head over what is at least one of the most powerful nations in the world at this time. This is Egypt. This is one of the most mighty militaries in the world at this time. They dominated the Middle East. And this is the man that oversees all of that. They had a powerful, they had a tremendous, Egypt was tremendously prosperous. At this point in time. Their economy ran nations around them, much like America, you know, Canada benefits from America's economy, Mexico uh all the nation a lot of nations benefit from a strong American economy. That's the way Egypt was. And this is the man that oversaw all of that And his staff, his servants that are with him, these are people with tremendous administrative abilities. These are people that have tremendous insight into leadership and organization and administration. These guys aren't dummies. And they look at Joseph and they listen to what he says, and they say, that's good. That's good. They approve of what he's saying. The word good there I thought was interesting, and the thing was good. In the eyes of Pharaoh, in the eyes of uh his servants. The word good there means the w w the general definition is means pleasing. Yeah, they like that. It was pleasing. Yeah, I like what you have to say. I like your advice you gave. I like that plan. But it also has this, and I think this is the idea behind it here, is to be sound or solid in its reasoning and in its logic. And I I I uh I I like to imagine in my mind the face of Pharaoh and his team as Joseph is he interprets a dream and and Pharaoh says, Yes, that's it, that's what I dream And yes, that's what it means. I'm confident. And then Joseph gives this advice. And I just see Pharaoh's face, his eyes glued to what Joseph is saying and just taking it in and analyzing it as he's talking. And maybe they're looking at each other And when he's done, they look at each other and said, Yeah, he's got it. He nailed it. That's solid. That's the idea behind that word good there. This is solid. This is sound advice. So I think again it was most likely the advice that Joseph gave that impressed them more than Just telling him what the dreams meant, although no doubt that was impressive. So the first thing we notice there in verse 37 is Pharaoh's approval upon what Joseph said. You know how that could have gone? Does anybody think about it with me? How could that have gone? I don't know about you, but I could see it going this way. Pharaoh saying, listen, nobody, listen, punk, nobody asks for your advice. Right? Because nobody did. You don't just walk into Pharaoh's throne room and say, hey, there's what you need to do. Oh yeah? Tell that to the lions. And so he approves of this. In verse 38 and 39, I notice not just the approval of Pharaoh in verse 37 But I notice the awareness of Pharaoh of some things about Joseph, or I should put it maybe put it this way, his recognition of Joseph. Now, I let me back up, and we've touched on this a little bit before, but let's just stop here, I should say, and um let's just notice there's not a hint Of Joseph promoting himself here. Did you get that? When you go back, if we took the time and read it over, you go back to where Joseph's giving this advice, get a good leader, get a good team save up the seven years, tax the people, confiscate a certain percentage for seven years, and then we'll make that available. We'll ration that out during the seven bad years. And um Nowhere in that does is there a hint that say, you know, Joseph's saying, you know, and you need to get you a man. Hint, hint, hint There's not a hint of him promoting himself. He's not dropping any hints about maybe I'd be that guy. I don't find him trying to manipulate Pharaoh in any way. I mean, he has Pharaoh's ear. He obviously, Joseph's no dummy. I'm sure he sees that Pharaoh's on board with him. He has his attention. And Joseph doesn't try and manipulate in any way, shape, or form. And you know, sometimes human nature is if we see a possibility of us getting an advantage or Something sometimes we'll try and manipulate that a little bit so we can promote ourselves, right? I mean it's a dog eat dog world Man, here's my opportunity. I better try and see what I can get out of this. I don't see Joseph trying to get anything out of this at all. I think Joseph was, whether his dreams were in the back of his mind at this or not, I tend to think not Whatever the case is, I'm confident that Joseph was certain, that Joseph was confident, that God could lead in all of this. Wherever God wanted him, he would end up there. And um I like what Elizabeth Elliott said. Elizabeth Elliott said, never miss an opportunity to keep your mouth shut. It's pretty good advice. Joseph interpreted the dream. He says, this is what they mean, this is what you need to do, and he shut up. You'd say, I'm your guy. I can handle this. I think Joseph was pretty confident he could do this. I just think that. At Joseph, you know, I I don't see any hesitation. We'll see it here a little bit later when when Pharaoh puts him in charge, he's not like, oh I I could never do that. He doesn't do that at all. He just steps up, bolt Takes the bull by the horn and gets her job gets her done gets her done. Never miss an opportunity to keep your mouth shut. Let God lead. Let God open doors. Let God direct. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart. Lean not into thine understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him. And he shall direct thy paths. I think that was Joseph's approach. Joseph has learned, I believe, to wait on the Lord. He's been through it the last 14 years. He's been through it. And he's not leaning on his own understanding and he's not manipulating nothing. He's going to let God do this. I'll just wait on God. My opinion is, again, my opinion, but I think Joseph fully expected Be back to sleep that night in prison again. I don't see him anticipating being number two in the nation as a result of this. He learned to wait on God I think he learned to let God have his way and let God work in his time. And I'll tell you, that's a good lesson to learn. And what Joseph does here is a good thing for you and I to incorporate into our Christian lives. Wait on the Lord. Don't manipulate things. Don't try and pull strings and don't try and weasel here or weasel there. Do what's right. Do what God, the job God gives you to do, and if he has a promotion, if he has advancement, if he has something, let him do that. This is all God's doing. In fact, I don't see at any point in Joseph's life does he try and advance himself or promote himself or manipulate situation. He just does what comes along, does it right, does it his best, works hard, tells the truth. And God advances him. God advances him. He just stood there. He said what he said, and then stood there in complete submission. You don't hear another word. And we see that Pharaoh recognizes, I think two things he recognizes in Joseph. In verse 38, look at verse 38. And Pharaoh said unto his servants. Now he's not talking to Joseph here. He's talking, I believe, in front of Joseph, in the ear of Joseph, but he's talking to his men. Can we find such a one as this is? Is there anyone in this whole country? Is there anybody like this guy? A man in whom the Spirit of God is. Let me ask this question. Was God with Joseph? Yeah, we've been told that multiple times. We know that I think Joseph knew that. Pharaoh or Apotipher noticed that when he was in Potiphar's house And here he's in the presence of Pharaoh for 20 minutes, maybe half hour. Let's give him an hour at the most. And there's something about Joseph that the most powerful man in the world, perhaps, within a brief period of time recognizes, man, God's with this guy. There's something different about this fellow. He recognizes the presence of God in Joseph's life. The thing that stood out in the mind of Pharaoh when he heard what Joseph had to say and he looked at Joseph, he saw how he conducted himself. The thing that stood out in Joseph's mind was the Spirit of God is in this man. He doesn't see here, boy, here's a brilliant man, boy, here's a guy, he's aggressive, he's a go-getter. He's this guy's gonna go places in this world. He didn't say any of that. He just said, man, God's with this guy Now that is amazing considering the fact that Pharaoh had just been introduced to who God is. The word God here is Elohim. That's the God of Abraham. That's the God of Isaac and Jacob. This is the God of Israel. It's not the god of the Egyptians. It's not Ra, the sun god, or any other hundreds of other locust gods and frog gods and river gods and cloud gods and mountain gods In a brief period of time, he's introduced to the true and living God and almost immediately recognizes God in Joseph, the God of Israel, the true and living God. There was something unique about Joseph that none of his other men had. And if I'm not reading too much when he says, can we find such a one as this man in whom the Spirit of God is? That sounds to me saying something like this. I've never come across anybody That I've seen the presence of God in their life like this guy. I've said this many times over the years, I believe with all my heart. God's people are fundamentally different than the world's people. I mean, in what we are, who we are as a child of God, we've been born again. Now I'm quick to emphasize, and I believe this with all my heart, we are not better than the people of the world, but we're not the same. We live by a different standard. We're not better, but we're different. The people of God have a presence about us that the world does not have. I want to remind you, those of us that know the Lord as Savior, I want to remind you, we are indwelt by the Holy Spirit of God. The world is not. We have something in us. There's something that is a part of what our very the core of what we are that this world does not have. We have a peace, at least available to us, we have a peace that the world does not have. Jesus says My peace I give unto you, not as the world giveth, give I unto you. He's saying, You've got something as one of my people, you have something the world does not have So we have a presence about us the world does not have. We have a peace available to us the world does not have. And we have a purpose that this world does not have. What would be the highest purpose Pharaoh could possibly be living for? It would be temporal in its very nature, right? He doesn't know God. He's worshiping false gods. Anything and everything he's living for, all this power, all this prestige, all this prosperity. It's all temporal. He's going to die and go to hell. It's always God. And Joseph has something real. He has a purpose that outlives this temporal world. That lives this temporal world. Now, a couple verses I want us to go to. If you would keep your place here, because we've got more I want to look at back here. But come with me, if you would, to John chapter 14. Let's go to the New Testament, John chapter 14. I'm going to look about four different passages in the New Testament. John 14. And look with me, if you would, at verse 16. Now, granted, this is New Testament. It's a little different than the Old Testament saints, but nevertheless, it's true for you and I. Now remember, Pharaoh said something to the effect, I ain't never come across anybody like this guy that has the presence of God like this guy does. God with him. Look at John 14, 16. Jesus talking to his disciples. I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another what? Comforter. Who is that? It's the Holy Spirit. That he, the Holy Spirit, this comforter, may abide with you for what? So if the Holy Spirit, the Comforter, that's given to us as believers by the Lord Jesus Christ, He's going to abide with us forever, that means when is He going to leave us? Never. Would you does that sound to you like we have eternal security? The Holy Spirit's never leaving us. There's no qualifications here. Then he goes on and says this. Even the Spirit of Truth, now he's describing the Holy Spirit, even the Spirit of Truth, whom the world cannot receive, were different. Because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him, but ye know him. Look at this, for he dwelleth with you. Look at this last phrase, and shall be what? You and I, as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, we have right now in our physical bodies dwelling the third person of the Trinity, God Almighty, in the person of the Holy Spirit. He's in us. How many people find that amazing? Mind-boggling. How many people say, you know, it looks like I could be living maybe a better Christian life than I am if that's true? It is true. And Jesus pointed out the world does not have him. Well, my point is this: you and I are unique. We are fundamentally different than the unsaved people of the world. And the one fact that we have the Holy Spirit dwelling us. Turn over, if you would, to 1 Corinthians chapter 6. A few pages back there, 1 Corinthians 6. And Paul is writing to the church at Corinth again, New Testament truth. It's a little different than Old Testament, nevertheless, it's true for you and I. 1 Corinthians 6, look with me if you would at verse 19. What? That's what it starts out. Paul says, what? One-word statement. Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost? Pay close attention. Which is what? In you, which ye have of God and ye are not your own. Then he goes on, you're bought with a price, glorify God in the Spirit And he says, the Holy Spirit of God is in you. Our body is a temple. The world does not have it. We are different than the world. Just like Joseph was so unique in all of Egypt, nobody ever come across that had this presence of God in his life like that. You and I are unique from all this world. We have the Holy Spirit of God dwelling within us. I tell you, if we can just get a hold of that one truth, that could be life-transforming. We understood that. The Spirit of God is in us. Two more I want to go to, just quickly. Galatians chapter 2. And verse twenty. Some of us are familiar with this verse. This is a good verse to memorize. Galatians 2, 20. How many people would say, preacher, I'm familiar with that verse? And you know? Yeah, it's a good one. Look what Paul says. I am crucified with Christ, nevertheless I live, yet not I, but Christ, say it with me, liveth in me. In the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. Paul said, Christ liveth in me. How does Christ live in me? In the person of the Holy Spirit. Christ lives in me, lives in me. Christ does not live in the unsaved world. We are fundamentally different than the world. And we could go off on that The values that God has for us, the principles we live by, the standards we hold to, ideally anyway, are fundamentally different than what this world has. You say, all right, what's that mean? Alright, Spirit's in me, Christ in me. Alright, what does that mean? Well, come over to chapter 5 of Galatians and come down to verse 22. I'll tell you what it means. But the fruit of the Spirit, this is what the fruit the Spirit bears, this is what the Holy Spirit produces, and where is the Holy Spirit? He's in us. But the fruit of the Spirit, look at this, is love, joy, peace, long-suffering. What's long-suffering Patience, putting up, not reacting, not going off, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance, self-control. Against such there's no law. That is what the Holy Spirit, let me put it this way: the Holy Spirit wants to bear in our lives. It's not something we work up. It's what we as indwelt by the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit produces that. The Holy Spirit bears that fruit in our life. And the way we talk and the way we treat people and how we respond. Our attitudes. All of that is what the Holy Spirit wants to produce in our life. Now we don't have time Galatians 5, we go look at it, and it talks about this conflict between the old nature and the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit's wanting to bear this fruit, the old flesh. You see the works of the flesh, a few verses up there, the flesh wants to be that way. So we can determine whether I'm producing my own works that the flesh comes up with, which are terrible Or I can be submissive and yielded and die to sell. No longer I live. Christ in me and this bear this fruit in my life. But the point I'm trying to make Is that we as believers, as God's people, we are fundamentally different than the world. In our very nature Were indwelt by the Holy Spirit of God, they are not. The fruit of the Holy Spirit is at least potential in our life. It is not in theirs How many people here ever get disappointed with yourself when I find myself acting like the world? Yeah. How many people agree with me? That happens more often than it really should. And it disappoints us. And if we allow it, it can discourage us. But nevertheless, we have to remember: I'm not the same as the world. We're not better than the world. Don't misread. We are sinners just like they are. But we have a Savior, and we've been born again, and we have the presence of the Holy Spirit in our life. And Pharaoh looks at Joseph and he says to his men, I ain't never seen not I think he said it something like this. I ain't never seen nothing like this before. It was he was from the West Virginia part of Egypt. I'm joking Notice, come back here to Genesis. He says, verse 38, can he say this to his servants He says, can we find such a one as this? Is as a man in whom the Spirit of God is. Pharaoh noticed that God was with Joseph. Now we won't turn there, but in Acts chapter 4, verse 13, the Pharisees We're observing the disciples. Now Pharaoh noticed that God was with Joseph. The Pharisees in Acts 4:13 noticed that the disciples were with Jesus. And it had an effect on how they behaved, on how they talked, and their demeanor and their appearance. It affected everything about them. And Pharisees, I ain't never seen anybody that has the presence of God like this. And the Pharisees says, hey, uh, these guys were with Joseph. Both of them saw Christ in their life. They saw the Lord in their life. It was evident. And I wonder how many people see us. And they think, man, the Lord's in that guy's life. God's in her life. God's in his life. By the way we talk and and the way we conduct ourselves and everything about us And that's what was true about Joseph. Would you agree with me? Joseph's quite a guy. What a man. What an example. What a challenge for us. So Pharaoh is advancing Joseph up in a very brief period of time, and immediately Pharaoh gives his approval to Joseph's advice. And then he has this awareness of God's presence in Joseph's life, but he's aware of something else. Look at verse 39. Pharaoh says to his servants, Can we find a guy like this? Spirit of God's in him. Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, For as much as God hath showed thee this, Now he's saying he's making another observation about Joseph. Number one, he says, God's with this guy. Then he looks at Joseph. God told you this. He's recognizing, he recognized the presence of God in Joseph's life. I put it this way: he recognized the presence of God, the prophecies of God in Joseph's lips. He is what you told us was from God. All Joseph did was simply told him what God had revealed. Says here's here's what God says these dreams. That's why God sent you these dreams. And he just told him that. And Pharaoh says, God told you this. He's repeating what Joseph said. There's something about Joseph that made people believe him. Something about Joseph that made people trust him. And he says, you're right, God told you this. He recognized the prophecies of God. All Joseph told them was what God had revealed. There was more than this was my thought as I looked at this. There was more than just the presence of God in Joseph's life. There was the word of God on Joseph's lips. He's telling them what God said. Now, there for a while there was this idea going around in certain Christian circles that you really don't need to tell people the gospel, just live it, and people will want it. They called it lifestyle evangelism. Now, my definition of lifestyle evangelism is my whole life is telling people about Jesus. But their idea was you don't talk about Jesus, don't preach the gospel, just live it, just live a good Christian life, and then people will be attracted. Now, would you agree with me? A Christian ought to live a good Christian life But nobody's gonna know how to get saved if you don't tell them. There was a sign shortly after we moved here up in Pennsylvania. We remember back before when you if you wanted to go to a a a big department store you had to go to Uniontown. or Cumberland or Morgantown. And uh that wasn't bad for the Friendsville guys. It was an hour drive every Friday night we're going to Uniontown. So we're driving up there and this church had a sign up front It said, preach the gospel. Use words if you have to. Now you know what they were saying. They were saying just live it, live it. Don't talk it. I say that's impossible. You cannot preach the gospel without using words. Right? How are they gonna know what the gospel is? Well you well you don't smoke. Uh tell me how to get saved. That ain't gonna happen. I notice you don't ever cuss. Boy, I need to get saved. Doesn't work that way. Now, while I'm telling them that they Need to get saved. Well, I'm telling them what the gospel is. My life ought to back that up. But a life in and of itself isn't going to get the job done And I think it's fascinating that Pharaoh noticed not only was the presence of God in Joseph's life, but he noticed that Joseph was telling him what God said. Never underestimate the power of the Word of God. See, I don't know what to tell people. Just tell them what the Bible says. Read John 3. 16. Tell them what you know God said. So he recognizes the presence of God in his life. He recognizes the prophecy of God on Joseph's lips. So the first thing he does, there's an awareness of Pharaoh about Joseph. He's different. He's unique. Second thing, I got a couple minutes. Let me give you these last thoughts here real quick. Then there's an authorization. By Pharaoh. Look at verse 40. Thou shalt be over my house, and according unto thy word shall all my people be ruled. Only in the throne will I be greater than thou. Joseph being faithful to the Lord was of tremendous benefit to Pharaoh. What if Joseph had not been faithful to the Lord? They'd be in a pickle. I think faithful Christians are good. I think a faithful Christian is good for a home. Say nobody in this home lives for God but me. Well you just be faithful. I think these little young, I think these young people that come in off the buses get saved Dedicate their lives to the Lord, live for God, get faithful. I tell you, just them being faithful in the home is good for that home. Say daddy says, I'm the only one that got saved in my home. Listen, you be faithful. That's good for that home. A wife, a mother, a child Joseph's faithfulness in the prison was good for Egypt and for the palace. Faithful Christians are good for the church. Best thing a person can do to help a church prosper and be successful is uh just be faithful Just be faithful. Faithful Christians are good for a community. I would rather live in a community that has faithful Christians than one that doesn't. It's better for that community. Faithful Christians are good for a nation. My contention, and I'm all for political involvement, I'm all for that. Don't please, I always feel like I gotta emphasize, don't misunderstand what I'm saying. But but our country is not going to be changed from Washington down It's got to start with us Christians being faithful to the Lord, us churches being faithful to the Lord. Joseph was one man, was faithful to God, and had a profound impact. on the nation of Egypt. In fact, we could say God used him to save that nation from famine. So he authorized by Pharaoh. Pharaoh makes him overseer Verse 40, he makes him oversee of his personal affairs. Thou shalt be over my house. He's basically handing him his bank account and his ID number. To Joseph and saying, I want you to handle all of that. How many people think that's pretty incredible? In 15-minute conversation, is all right, here's my checkbook, here's my bank card. Here's my social security number. Boom, you run it all. He hands over his personal affairs, then he hands over the political affairs. Verse 41. And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, see, I've set thee over all the land of Egypt. Wow. Not just his personal affairs, but the political. He runs the government. So he makes him overseer of his personal affairs, political affairs. Then he gives him absolute authority. Now, I get that from verse 42. The first part. Now, if you're not aware of the significance of this, this doesn't mean much. But this is profoundly significant. It says, and Pharaoh took off his ring from his hand and put it upon Joseph's hand. You say, whoop did he do? He gave him the jewelry. You need to understand a king's ring was the king's authority. Remember uh uh uh uh Nehemiah? Uh they gave the the ring there and stamped the approval. I think I think I'm correct on that. When Pharaoh took his ring off his hand and put on Joseph, now I don't know, this is total speculation on my part, but I see his cabinet, his administration, his counselor has gone, huh? Now he has authority over them. That ring was what they would use to seal, when they made a seal, it's like it would authorize Something. He is giving Joseph unfettered authority in Egypt when he has that ring. That ring means that he now has authority equivalent to the king. He is able to authorize documents He can authorize or deny budgets, finances, all government documents He can make decrees. Joseph, of his own volition, can now mandate this. Boom, he's got the ring. A ring wasn't just a nice cool class ring. Yeah, look at that. This is profound. The authority that this young man has now, probably maybe 30 years old, somewhere around there. So he gives him absolute authority. Then I end with this. He displayed royal respect. And it goes down this list here, verse 42. It says he gave him the ring on his hand. Then it says he arrayed him in vestures of fine linen and put a gold chain about his neck. Now that wasn't just dressing them up. It wasn't like Pharaoh saying, you know, you need new threads, man. Here's his chain, this necklace, dude. You know, it wasn't like that You know, I read the gold chain, I was thinking, what is he, a rap singer or something, you know? I don't know. It wasn't any of that. J Pharaoh, I think this is what Pharaoh's doing. Pharaoh's making sure That everybody recognizes the authority Joseph has now. This isn't some just in-house deal going on. He wants the whole world to know Joseph is in command. Joseph is running this show. And then he puts him out on Air Force II. He made him ride in the second chariot which he had. And then He gets these representatives of the Pharaoh, and they go out before Joseph. Listen, and they cry out, Bow the knee! They want he Pharaoh is making sure everybody respects this man. Everybody recognizes this. Now, I don't know, but I would venture to say 99% of the population had no idea who Joseph was. He's been in prison. Some of the inner workings of the government probably knew. Protipher, you know, his cronies all knew him, I'm sure. The prison knew him But the general population is like, who's this? Whoever it is, brother, you better pay attention So he goes, his rise to power, he goes from in an hour's time, he goes from prison to number two, unfettered authority. I'll put this down. 2 Samuel 2. 30 says that God will honor them that honor Him. I'm here to tell you we will chances of you and I becoming vice president are very slim. And to be honest with you, I have zero desire. I tell you, if God calls you to serve him as a Sunday school teacher, don't lower yourself to be the President of the United States. It's my attitude. But I know this. If we honor the Lord, God will honor us. That doesn't mean we get cool rings and necklaces. But it does mean that God honors those who honor Him. And I would far rather be honored by the Lord than to be honored by the world. Very honest with you. I could care less about the world's honors. I want the Lord's honors. Right? He gave him authority, tremendous authority. So example of God honors those who honor him. So let's honor him at home. Let's honor him with our tongue. Let's honor him with our life. Let's honor him in the world And let's just honor the Lord. Do right. Trust Him. Wait on Him. Speak His Word. And let God take care of that. Amen? Father, I pray you'd bless now. We learned these lessons from Joseph. What a tremendous event this was. And I pray you'd help us just to follow Joseph's example. Just do right. Don't try and manipulate. Understand we're different than the world. Just wait on you and let you lead and direct and open doors and close doors as you see fit and in your time. Heads bowed, eyes closed, how many say, Preacher, pray for me that I'll learn to wait on God. Pray for me that I'll learn to just to honor Him and things I say and do, and in all my ways acknowledge Him. Any like that by the uplifted hand? Yeah. We sure like to be more like a spirit-filled Christian than a worldly Christian. We need God to help us. Just die to self and let the Lord have his way. Father, bless our little invitation here on a Wednesday night in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together.