Keep your Bibles handy. We're going to look at a few verses tonight. I have to be a little bit mindful of the time and um because uh we want to have our meeting. But Genesis chapter 49 We're studying the life of Joseph, and I am thoroughly enjoying this as we are working our way through Joseph's life, or not Uh we're not given as much information on Joseph as we had in the life of David. David, uh I think uh there is more scripture um dedicated to the count of David's life and ministry than any other person in the Bible other than the Lord Jesus Christ. So we don't have that amount, but the m the what we do have about Joseph is uh fascinating. Now we're in verse number uh 21 is where actually 20 is where I want to pick up Joseph, as you know, has been sold by his brothers who hated him. I mean, there's no other way to put it. They hated him. It's the Bible says they hated him Uh they were initially going to kill him. Uh God intervened uh indirectly and had them sell him to merchants heading down to Egypt. They sold him in Egypt uh as a slave to Potiphar. We know the story. He does a phenomenal job as Potiphar's slave, servant. He works his way up and earns the trust. And um he is actually ends up head of all of Potiphar's household. A Hebrew slave in Egypt is now the household uh is now the head, the the the manager, if you will, of the household of a high-level official in the Egyptian government. That in and of itself is amazing. Of course, Potiphar's wife is a woman of ill report. And she gets her eyes on Joseph. She wants him. She's not subtle about it at all. She says to him, just uh right up front, says, lie with me. And of course he refuses. He gives his reasoning, which are solid reasoning, and uh she presses him, presses him until finally he flees, and she ends up with his coat in her hand as he fled from her presence And uh we've already looked at this, she makes accusation against him that he sought to assault her, and he ends up in prison. So that's where we're at. Let's begin reading in verse 20. And Joseph's master took him and put him into the prison, a place where the king's prisoners were bound. Now I got a little more information. I was continuing to study here. And um uh the difference between the prison where the king's prisoners were kept and just the common prison, one of the differences was that in the king's prison they would often, not always, but they would often get a somewhat fair trial. There would be a little, they'd go before a judge and it was determined by a third party whether they were guilty or not. The common prison, you didn't get that. You just got thrown in there. Slaves, noop, you're going in that prison, which was much worse. So it was providential is God's sovereignty that he ends up in this prison where political prisoners would be, which would give him access eventually down the road to potifer or to um Pharaoh And so that's where he's at. Another historian suggested that this prison was perhaps uh right up with um Potiphar's house. That Potiphar's house may have been attached to the prison. It was right there. So we don't know, but I just thought that was some interesting background there. So anyway, uh he's put in the prison, place where the king's prisoners were bound, and he was there in the prison. Now look at S, verse twenty-one. But the Lord was with Joseph and showed him mercy and gave him favor in the sight of the keeper of the prison. And the keeper of the prison committed to Joseph's hand and all the prisoners that were in the prison, and whatsoever they did there, he was the doer of it And the keeper of the prison looked not to anything that was under his hand. Does that sound familiar? That's the way Potiphar was. He didn't even pay any attention. He trusted him And he looked not to anything that was under his hand, because the Lord was with him, and that which he did, the Lord made it to prosper. We're looking at Joseph. Let's pray here. Father, I ask you to bless now our continued study of Joseph's life. And now as we look at this uh portion of scripture, the record we have of Joseph, I pray we'd be able to learn from it. I pray your Holy Spirit would take The truths that are given here, the principles that are uh given here, and I pray, Holy Spirit, you'd apply them to our lives That our faith in you would be stronger, our walk with you would be more consistent. Lord, I pray that our witness in this whole world would be more effective. And so I yield my will to you again tonight in this hour I present my body anew with all my heart. I pray, Lord, that you would Fill me with your Holy Spirit, and Lord, that you would speak through me. In Jesus' name I ask this. Amen. We noted three things as we looked at Joseph in prison here The first two we started last week. We noted, first of all, the pain in prison, the pain of loneliness we suggested, the pain of loss. He's lost All connection with anybody he knew, everything he's done, all that he's accomplished is taken away. It's all gone. Total loss as far as uh this world is concerned, the loneliness, and then uh the pain of affliction. And we've learned in Psalms 105 that not only was Joseph thrown in prison, but apparently, according to Psalms 105, 17 through 19, they put steel fetters. on his feet and they bruised him, they hurt him. And so he did have physical pain there in the prison. And we talked about that. Then we noted the patience of Joseph in prison And um uh it was in Pi it was there in the prison where his faith was tried. And remember what Jay remember what James tells us? Count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. That means trials, difficulties. Knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh what? Anyone know? Patience And patience uh and pa uh and trial grad work of patience and patience Perfect work. Let patience have its perfect work, perfect and entire. And so the patience that Joseph had to experience there in prison. Now this is what I wanted to get to The third thought I notice here, I get it from these last several verses, God's presence there in prison with Joseph. God's presence. Look at verse 21, the first one. But the Lord was with Joseph. What a statement. I underline that in my Bible in red ink. Come down to the last part of verse 23. Because the Lord was with him. The Lord was with him. God's presence there with Joseph in the prison. Now I got looking at this, and it's important when we study scripture. I hope you've picked this up over the years. It's important when we study Scripture that we pay close attention to the words that God uses To give us information, to communicate with us. Even a small word in God's word may have a very big meaning. A small word may have a huge impact on what God is saying, the impact of what God is telling us And I want you to notice, if you would, in verse number 29, the very first word in verse 29 is what? Or 21, I'm sorry, verse uh twenty-nine. Uh the very first word in verse thirty-nine is there is no word in verse thirty-nine because there is no thirty-nine. In verse twenty-one, however. Is what? But now look at the pra look at the statement before it. He was there in the prison. But. That word but is a small word in the English language But I'm telling you, it has a big place. It has a big role in the message of God's Word. The word but is a conjunction. And what that means is it takes two thoughts, two usually overwhelming majority of the time, two contradictory thoughts And brings them together. You have this information here, but here's some other information that completely changes our understanding of the previous information. Now, this is my explanation of it. It means, here's a statement. Joseph was, and he was there in prison. All right, we're given that information. But the word but means hold on There's more information coming. That's not everything. There's information that'll come that'll change your understanding of what the previous statement was. Alright, you follow uh have you totally confused yet? He was in prison. Alright, if it just ended there That would be terrible. That would be sad. It'd be, but that's not all there is to it. There's more information that will help you understand what the situation is He was there in prison, but the Lord was with him. Don't stop At Joseph in prison, there's more information. The Lord was with him. The Lord was with him. That word but is a key word all through Scripture. Uh uh John uh Romans 6. 23, for the wages of sin is death. How many people agree with me? That's bad news Man, if that's where the message ended, the wages of sin is death, what that means is we're all sinners, we're all going to end up dying going to hell. The wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. How many people like that word, but there? Yeah. Yeah, we're all sinners. Yeah, we're under the right judgment of God. Yeah. The wages of our sin is death, separation from God for all eternity in hell. But The gift of God is eternal life. I'm telling you, that word is a key word. In Romans chapter 8, I'll just read this to you. In Romans chapter 5, I'm sorry, listen what it says. For scarcely for a righteous man will one die. Yet, peradventure, for a good man, some would even dare to die In other words, if you find a man, that's a good man, uh there he's righteous man, he does right. Uh would you be willing to die for him Hey, you might find somebody be willing to die from. By the way, let me just stop here. I'm grateful for our soldiers that are willing to put their life on the line for us. But that's not what he's talking about here. He's talking about dying for salvation. He is, you look among humans, you might find somebody that would die for a righteous man. Hardly find someone die for a good man. But God commendeth his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Isn't that something? If that statement wasn't added to the previous one, we'd think, well, I'm not a righteous man. I'm not a good man. I'm an old rotten sinner. Nobody would die for me. But God commended his love toward it. How many people like that word, but right there? Yeah. That's good stuff. Isaiah chapter 40, verse 8. Listen to this. The grass weathereth and the flower fadeth, but the word of God shall stand forever. Praise the Lord for that. We look around here. This whole world fades. Plants die. How many people noticed our new plants in the back of the auditorium? Anybody see that? We just got them this afternoon. Ray Lynn song, because she put them there And um but uh the old plants died. They withered, uh grass withered, flower faded. I'm glad even though plants in this whole world fade, this whole book stands forever. Amen. Led for that butt there. Praise the Lord. We could go through. There's uh uh I looked up in the book of Genesis, there's like 483 times the word butt is used in the book of Genesis. Proverbs is all through there. Isaiah chapter 40. Listen to this. Verse 30 and 31. Listen to this. It says Isaiah, it says, uh, even the youth shall faint and be weary, and the young men shall utterly fall. How many people agree with me? That's depressing. Man, even the youth are going to wear out. Even the youth can't hold up. They get discouraged and defeated. Oh, but but They that wait on the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with things as eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. Listen, the world can come up with all the bad news. The world can say, oh, we got the good guy in prison. We got the young man with integrity. He's in prison. But but thank God for that word. But I put another one down. Psalm 73, verse 26. And these are just a few. There's hundreds. Psalm 73, verse 26, My flesh and my heart shall fail. Anyone ever been there just wore out? You say, I can't I can't do this anymore. You ever been there? My heart's broken. I don't have a heart for it anymore. I've lost heart. My heart, my flesh, and my heart shall fail. But God is the strength of my heart. I wear out, I get tired, I get discouraged, my heart is broken. But God strengthens me, but God strengthens me. I hope you're getting what I'm trying to say here. They put him in prison. He was there in prison, but That's not the end of the story. That's not all the information. The Lord was there with them. I found four key times in Joseph's life where the Bible says, but God. But something. Here, our text, and we're going to come back and look at it, but let me show you a couple others, and we'll probably dwell on these later on. Go to chapter 45 in Genesis here. I enjoyed looking these up and man I got um I got stirred up in the office. I stand on top of the desk jumping up and down, praise the Lord. Not exactly that, but I got fired up. Genesis 45, look with me at verse 6. For these two years hath the famine been in the land, and yet there are five years in the which there shall neither be earring or harvest. How many people agree? That's bad news. Good heavens. And verse verse 7. And God sent me before you to preserve you of prosperity in the earth, to save your lives by a great diversity. Now look at this. So now it was not you that sent me hither But God. You guys meant evil. You wanted to kill me, and then uh changed your mind and sold me as a slave, and you meant evil to me. But God had a plan the whole time What a great perspective on how others treat us. And what a great perspective on that one that's so hateful to us and contrary to us and antagonistic. And say, all right, you mean evil, you meant, but I'm telling but God. But God's still in charge. Um look over at chapter forty-eight, verse twenty-one. Israel, Jacob, is dying. He has Joseph in there, and he's making his last statements. And I like this one. And Israel said unto Joseph. Who's Israel? Jacob. Israel said unto Joseph, Behold, I die What's the next two words? But God shall be with you. Jacob's gonna die, but God ain't changing. God ain't leaving. But God's still going on, but stuff God's still going on. Sometimes we get the idea that some great person may be a parent or uh or a a a spiritual leader or something, they pass away and we think, oh, it's over. Oh, Christianity is going to collapse Dr. Lee Robertson died, or whoever, Christianity is going to collapse. The church is going to fold. And you know what I found out? Great men, great women come and go, but God is always there God goes on, God goes on. Jacob was assuring Joseph, listen, I'm going to pass away, but God will still be with you. The Lord goes forward. And so, but God One last time, and this is the greatest perhaps in all of Scripture, Genesis chapter 50, the last chapter there, and verse number 20. Joseph's talking to his brothers, daddy's died, Jacob died, and the boys come around, the brothers come around, they say, Yikes, Daddy's gone, Joseph's gonna take it out on us what we did to him, and they lie some more. We'll we'll look at this in a year or two probably. Um they lie and they say, uh, um uh Daddy told us to tell you that you're supposed to forgive us Now my question is, why wouldn't have daddy just told Joseph, forgive the boys? So he didn't tell them that. And they go on. And look at verse 20. Boy, this ought to be underlying your Bible. But as for you, ye thought evil against me. What's the next two words? But God, but God meant it unto good to bring to pass that it is this day to save much people alive. You meant evil, you meant to hurt me Uh you're you had uh bad attitudes, you had bad intentions, but God overruled everything you did. In fact, you didn't even now he didn't say it this way, but You didn't even know it, but God was using you to bring some good about, and you didn't even know it. You meant it evil. But God. I put in the margin of my Bible beside that verse Romans 8. 28. Does anybody know what Romans 8. 28 says? And we know that all things work together for good. All things, even brothers betraying and attempted murder, and false accusations of assault. And years in prison, all things work together for what? Good. All those terrible things. But God. But God. I don't know what everybody's going through tonight, but I know this. Whatever we're going through But God is still on the throne. God is still in charge. God still has a plan. God is still able to see us through it. Isn't that a great word? I got thinking, Wilbur, I could think I could preach a whole sermon on the word but. I think I could do a series. That would be great, maybe someday. So you gotta pay attention. To the words that God uses. We just read over them. We don't think about their significance, but they're profoundly significant. Joseph, he was in prison. He was there in prison But God was with him. But God was with him. That little phrase, but God, tells me a few things. It tells me God is active in our lives. Oh preacher, you don't know what I'm going through. Ah, but God does. But God's with you. But God won't leave you. But God has a plan and purpose. But God is able to restore. God's active in our lives. That little phrase, but God, tells me this. God is working out a plan and a purpose. Joseph was in prison, but God's plan was still coming together. And uh I've had people say, and I've thought this on occasion, boy, I don't know if God could ever use me after this man I messed up. I don't know what, I'm no use to God. Ah, but God can take a mess and turn it into a miracle. I know it's a little cliche-ish, but brother, it's true. But God, He's active in our lives. He has a plan and a purpose for our lives. We may not fully grasp it. We may not know where it ends up, and it we have no idea what it may be. But just the fact that God has a plan for my life, regardless of what it is, is a tremendous thing to know. But I have a purpose. There's a reason. And so, but God tells me that God is working out a plan and a purpose. He was imprisoned, but God, that tells me that God is over God is greater than our circumstances. Have you ever been in a situation and he said, I don't see how any good can come out of this. Anybody ever been there? How in the world? What in the world? I'm here to tell you God is over our circumstances. I've referenced this often. I read years ago or I heard on a recorded message John R. Rice was preaching. Actually, it was another preacher preaching and told this story about John R. said uh he was preaching one time and afterward he was down front and people line up and shine uh he'd sign their Bibles for him, you know how they do that sometimes. And uh he up there and one of his friends came up and said, Brother Rice and And John R. Rice said, Hey, brother so-and-so, uh, how are things going? You know how you say that. And the fellow said, Well, he said, under the circumstances, I guess okay And John Arce looked at him and he said, Well, what are you doing under the circumstances? And uh he was telling him, Listen, God is above our circumstances. But God. He was in prison, and Joseph was in prison, but God was there with them. God was still working. God still had a plan. God was still in control. God still knew what he was doing. Now let's look at this here. He was there in prison, in the prison, verse 20, verse 21. But the Lord was with Joseph. The cell, the prison cell could keep Joseph in But that prison cell could not keep God out. Joseph couldn't get up and run around But it couldn't keep the Lord from being there with them. I put this down. That prison cell could restrict Joseph's freedom, but it could not restrict God's presence. And we may feel like we're locked up in a prison, we may feel like we're trapped in a circumstance or a situation, and you say, I don't know how I can get out of this. Listen, we may not get out of that, but God can sure get in it And uh Joseph was in there in prison, but God was with him. God was with him. I want to give you three observations here, two observations. about Joseph, God's presence there with Joseph in prison. Number one, God's presence brought a peace of mind To Joseph. It brought a peace of mind. I'll show you how I get that. Look at verse 21. But the Lord was with Joseph. Now look at the next statement. And showed him what? Mercy, mercy. That word mercy is an interesting word. It's used all through Scripture. It's a tremendous word It has this idea, as it's used here, it it has this idea, uh, has the idea of kindness Or goodness or showed pity. But the Lord was with Joseph and showed him mercy, showed him kindness Showed him goodness, showed him pity, showed him compassion. Come over to chapter 40 and verse 14. This is where these two guys had the dream. Remember the butler and the baker? And uh one gets beheaded, the other one's restored back uh to the king. And uh uh which one goes back uh uh to the king? Was it the baker? The butler? Yeah. Where'd the candlestick maker get to there? He got hung. Look at verse fourteen. But think on me when it shall be well with thee. This is the butler going back. He's getting restored. The king Settled things. The other guy got beheaded. This guy gets back. And Joseph's talking to him, and he says, think on me when it shall be well with thee, when you get back. And show what Kindness. See it there, verse 14. But think of me when it shall be well with thee and show kindness. That word kindness, exact same word as the word mercy in 3921. He's saying, you show me kindness, you show me some mercy. You get back up there, you tell Pharaoh, you tell whoever you need to that I'm innocent, I'm stuck down here, I was falsely accused. You go tell them, you show me kindness When the Bible says here the Lord was with Joseph and showed him mercy, I think that fact gave Joseph some peace of mind. God is with me. I'm in this prison, in this prison cell. I I did nothing wrong. I did right. I did good for my master. I benefited him tremendously. I've been lied about. falsely accused, unjustly condemned to this cell, but God was with him. And God showed him mercy, and he put in his heart and mind some kindness, some peace of mind, some goodness there. God's presence gave Joseph some peace of mind. God's presence gave Joseph some assurance. That everything's okay. Joseph, it's okay. I'm here with you. You don't have to get worked up. You don't have to get upset. And God gave Joseph peace of mind there in that presence. God's presence. Can give us a peace of mind. God's presence can change the atmosphere of a situation. What would be typically, what do you think typically the attitude and the atmosphere in a prison would be? Depressing, doom and gloom. I think in a prison, and some of y'all could maybe testify firsthand, I don't know, but uh Uh I think in a prison be depression, there'd be doom and gloom. I think there'd be a lot of anger. Everybody's angry in there Uh my experience has been everybody's innocent. I didn't do this. I don't deserve to be. It wasn't that bad. There's a lot of anger. There's a lot of frustration. Prisons, and you can talk to no doubt Nate or Penny or Shanna. They worked the prisons, Tom. uh uh prisons, I would imagine there's a lot of violence. There's a lot of frustration I would not describe the atmosphere of a prison as a place where people have peace of mind. There's guilt. There's bitterness, there's unforgiveness, there's frustration, I want out. But however, Joseph's in prison. And he has the presence of God there with him. And God, in his presence there, showed Joseph mercy. He had an attitude, a frame of mind of kindness and goodness. He had a peace of mind there in that prison. Prison is a place of hatred, violence, bitterness, anger, but God's presence is the exact opposite of that. God's presence is an atmosphere of kindness, of mercy, of goodness, of pity. I think the presence of God with Joseph there in that prison protected Joseph from becoming like the other prisoners. It would have been very easy, humanly speaking, uh in the flesh, it would have been very easy, I imagine, for Joseph to become very bitter, to become very angry. Bitterness and anger often leads to violence. It could have been very easy for Joseph just to be influenced by the whole atmosphere of that place and drawn into that, but God's presence. Showed him mercy. And the midst of all of that, his mind was clear, his mind was at peace. And it protected him from becoming like the others. I'm suggesting to you that regardless of our circumstances, regardless of our situation, regardless of the atmosphere we find ourselves in No matter how toxic it may be, no matter how bitter and dark it may be, if we have the presence of God We can have peace of mind even in the most horrific situation, most horrific atmosphere. We read about a couple other fellas later on. In the New Testament, that found themselves in prison. And they had the presence of God with them And they didn't become like the other prisoners. In fact, in Acts chapter 16, and in verse um 24 and 25, we find that Paul and Silas were put in the prison, the inner prison, the worst of the worst. Their feet are shackled or bound, they're beaten with stripes. And at midnight, they did what? They sang and prayed and praised the Lord. And the interesting thing is, the Bible says there, and we're not taking time to turn there. But the Bible says, and the prisoners heard them. Their frame of mind was not anger and bitterness and frustration and doom and gloom. They had the presence of God in their life. And in the worst of circumstances, they're able to praise God. They had peace of heart and mind, and they could praise God. And they could pray, and everyone in the prison noticed that. They have not allowed the atmosphere, the toxic atmosphere of this place, they haven't allowed it to affect them. Now you and I find ourselves in toxic atmospheres. Maybe it's the workplace, maybe it's society in general. I hate to say it. Maybe it's a home. And I'm here to tell you, we don't have to become like people around us. We can have peace of mind. We can praise the Lord. We can live above our circumstances if We have the presence of God with us. It gave Joseph peace of mind. Peace of mind. My dad I got his car when he passed away and um I I ended up with his car. I drive it around, I like it. Dad kept his car spotless for years until he got older he was unable to But um one thing dad always had in his car, does anybody remember those little Christmas tree-shaped fresheners? Everybody remember them, you hang them from the mirror. And he would have when one one would dry up or go uh what do you call it when they runs out, it's just no smell left to it He w he wouldn't take it down, he just put another one there. He had 37 of them all just stacked up hanging from the mirror. And when you got in dad's car, you knew he had one of those Christmas tree fresheners hanging in it. You could smell it permeated that whole place. When you got in, you knew that uh that so that freshener was there. And uh uh the car didn't affect the freshener The freshener affected the atmosphere of the car. And what I'm saying to you is the presence of God, this whole world's not going to affect the presence of God, but the presence of God can sure affect our atmosphere. Our situation. The presence of God is like a fragrance sometimes It changes the whole frame of mind. It changes the whole atmosphere. Sometimes we have candles. We like to burn candles in the house and they're all different smells And uh different. I think the one we got now is vanilla, which is nice. But they have these candles, when you light it, it smells just like You my wife just baked fresh apple pie. Did you ever smell those apple or smell those candles? I mean you walk you open a front door. It's like she's making apple pie. And I begin to salivate I thought, man, this is awesome. Fresh homemade apple pie. Walk in and it's a stupid candle burning there. There ain't no apple pie. It's false advertising. It's deception. But the fact is, that candle, the presence of that candle affects the whole room. And what I'm trying to say is this: God's presence there with Joseph in that prison cell affected that whole place. It brought peace of mind to Joseph. It brought peace of mind in that toxic atmosphere. I think when our lives, if we're living our lives and we're not quenching the Holy Spirit, how many folks here you say do you know it? Say amen. If that's the case, then every one of us have the Holy Spirit dwelling within us. We understand that, right? I can preach on it if I need to. But the fact of the matter is the Bible's very, very clear Every saved person, the moment we get saved, the Spirit of God takes up residence in our bodies. We have the presence of God in our lives Just as real as Joseph did. Now here's the problem. You say, well, preacher, if I'm saved, I have the Holy Spirit, I have the presence of God in my life, why don't I have peace of mind? Why am I so frustrated? Why am I so angry? Why do I get so bitter? Well, Thessalonians tells us that it's possible for us to quench the Holy Spirit. When the Holy Spirit deals with something in my life that needs to be addressed, the Holy Spirit through the Word of God, or maybe the preacher preaches, or I'm reading my devotions, or I'm listening to the radio or God brings a verse to mind, the Holy Spirit speaks to my heart about something that I need to keep in tune with the Lord. And I say no, and I quench that Holy Spirit I still have the presence of God in my life, but I do not have the peace of mind that the presence of God brings. Are you with me? Ephesians chapter 4 says that it's possible for us to grieve the Holy Spirit. And in the context, it's dealing with things we say and the way we say them. Bitterness and unforgiveness and harsh. And the words we say and our attitude, we can grieve the Holy Spirit of God. And I may have the presence of God and the person of the Holy Spirit in my life, but if I'm behaving and talking and acting in a way that grieves the Holy Spirit, I don't have the peace of mind that the presence of God can provide me. Joseph was a man of integrity. I find nowhere where he's grieving the Holy Spirit. I find nowhere where he's quenching the Holy Spirit. He wasn't perfect, but he obviously lived his life in such a way, and of course the Holy Spirit didn't indwell him at that point like we do. It's a little different situation, but nevertheless the Spirit of God was there with him. He had the presence of God. And obviously he was living and behaving in such a way that God's presence was not grieved. God's presence was not quenched. He could experience this mercy God showed him, this peace of mind, this kindness, this goodness that God was showing him And so it is possible for you and I to have the presence of God, to have peace of mind, have the joy of the Lord, have the kindness of God displayed in our lives. If we are walking with the Lord. Now here's the thing. If I'm grieving God's presence, the Holy Spirit, if I'm Quenching God's presence, the Holy Spirit, and saying, nope, I'm doing my way. Now I know what the word says. I know what you're dealing with my heart about, but no And I quench the Holy Spirit, and I live in a way that I'm grieving the Holy Spirit, I still have, I put it this way, I still have the presence of God and the person of the Holy Spirit, but I lose the effect of God's presence in my life. I lose the benefit of the presence of God in my life if He's grieved or quenched. Are you you follow what I'm saying? So Joseph had the presence of God, but in such a way that he could experience the benefits of that presence, which was God's showing of mercy, peace of mind in his heart and life. When our homes are yielded to the Lord, and our homes are not quenching the Spirit or grieving the Holy Spirit, we can have the blessed benefits and effects that the presence of God brings. In our homes, in our personal lives. Hey, we can have the benefits and the blessings and the effects of the presence of God in our church If we conduct ourselves in a way where we don't grieve the Holy Spirit, don't quench him, we're yielded to him, yes Lord, not my will, thy will, and we let the Lord have his way, that's what Joseph did. And dose of experience, peace of mind. And I'm telling you, a church can have the blessed presence of God and enjoy the benefits of that presence I pray, you ask the guys that pray here with us, Dave, and others. I pray all the time, every Saturday night, and I pray all the time, Lord, please manifest your presence here in our services. I remember over the years, and still on occasion, but I remember have you ever gone to a church service, whether here or somewhere, maybe a big meeting, and when you walk into the Building. You walk into the auditorium, you just sense the presence of God there. Anybody anybody have any idea what I'm talking about? I mean, it's as real. There's a spirit of anticipation. There's a spirit of joy. There's a spirit of fellowship. The presence of God is there. And I tell you, I want that so bad in my life. And I want that in my home, and I want that in my church. The ungrieved, unquenched presence of God. We need that. We need that. We live in a world that is grieved and we live in a world that's a mess and there has to be somewhere my heart or my home or my church where the presence of God is there. Just like it was with Joseph in that prison. I want the presence of God in our church, in our homes, and our lives. Are you with me? The presence of God brings a peace of mind. Peace of mind. Second of all, I got a few minutes left. Not only did the presence of God bring pre bring Peace of mind to Joseph, but God's presence brought prosperity to his life. Look at verse 22. And the keeper of the prison committed to Joseph's hand all the prisoners that were in the prison. And whatsoever they did there, he was the doer of it. And the keeper of the prison, look at this, looked not to anything that was under his hand. Why? Because Joseph was so intelligent. Because Joseph was such a gifted administrator. Because Joseph was such a tremendous personality. No. The keeper of the prison looked not to anything that was under his hand. Why? Because what? The Lord was with them. It was the presence of God in Joseph's life that caused him to prosper. It wasn't his intelligence, it wasn't his personality, it wasn't his natural gifts, the presence of God The word prosper there means, I like this. It means to push or to progress forward. It means to become profitable. It doesn't necessarily mean to gain profits. It means to be profitable. Think about that. It means to advance. When the Bible says that that which he did, the Lord made it to prosper It doesn't necessarily mean that he got material gain or material wealth. I don't believe Joseph got rich in this prison cell. He didn't buy any house, he didn't own any houses, he didn't own any chariots. We assume the clothing he wore was prison clothing. But he prospered. So obviously, when the Bible says that the presence of God caused Joseph to prosper, doesn't necessarily mean material prosperity. Joseph's finances did not increase in prison, but his influence increased. Joseph's material possessions did not get larger, but his faith got stronger. Joseph prospered spiritually, personally. He grew closer to the Lord. He got stronger in his faith. He had a clearer understanding of who God is and how God works. It brought prosperity, spiritual prosperity. It was the presence of God that was transforming Joseph into the man God intended him to be. God was using these injustices and this unfairness and this pain and the loneliness. God was using all that, His presence. was using all of that to develop Joseph into the man God intended him to be. The presence of God. Because the Lord was with him. The presence of God does not necessarily change our circumstances, but it does transform us spiritually. It changes our perspective on things. It wasn't Joseph's intellect that made him prosper. It wasn't his abilities. It wasn't his personality. It was the presence of God in his life. What I'm suggesting is this. You and I may not be the smartest kid in the class. We not may not be have all the gifts and abilities that are out there. We may not be have the greatest personality, but I tell you, if we'll walk with God If we'll not grieve him and we'll not quench his spirit, and we'll walk with God and enjoy the benefits of his presence in our life. We'll grow spiritually and God can use us. We can make a difference. We can make a difference. Um I'm not I'm not fool I'll just I don't have this in my notes I'll just say it I'm not foolish enough to think for one minute that Dennis Leatherman accomplished anything at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church I know it's the Lord did it all. The Lord did it all. And if we want God to continue to bless us with His presence We need to quit looking to our abilities and our intellect, our personalities, and we need to just get as close to God as we possibly can so his presence will continue to bless. Amen or not? Joseph prospered because of the presence of God in his life. The presence of God doesn't necessarily change our circumstances, but it sure enough will change us spiritually Joseph's faith grew stronger. His understanding of God and his ways was clearer. His influence on the people around him became stronger. Because of the presence of God in his life. As I walk with God, his presence begins to transform me. As I'm faithful to the Lord and submissive to his instructions. And I walk with him, God's presence changes my priorities and my values and my perspective on things. And I'll see what God can do. God's presence, I don't have time to develop this, but God's presence, I believe, brought confidence to Joseph. We don't see him cowering, we don't see him fearful and wavering. He's very confident. We find assurance. You know what I think that was? It's the presence of God in his life. In Matthew 28, Jesus said, all power is given it to me in heaven and earth Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things, whatsoever I command unto you. And lo! What I am with you always. You have my presence. The disciples got a hold of that promise. And you read in the book of Acts, they went out with boldness and confidence and courage and they preached And they faced opposition and they ended up in prisons and they were absolutely fearless. Why? Because they had the presence of God presence of God. It brings confidence. It brings peace of mind. It brought prosperity. I'm going to end with this. Would you give me another minute? Come with me real quickly. 2 Corinthians. Second Corinthians chapter three And notice with me if you would I want to begin reading in verse seventeen. Second Corinthians three. Verse seventeen. 2 Corinthians 3. 17. Notice. Now the Lord is that Spirit, and where the Spirit of the Lord is, where the presence of God is. The Holy Spirit has free reign. He's not quenched. He's not grieved. Where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is what? Liberty. Now look, he goes on. But we all, with an open open face, beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, what's he talking about beholding in glass? He's talking about looking in God's word. We have the presence of God in my life, and with an open face, a willing submission to God, I look into the glass of God's Word, the glory of the Lord, and look what happens We are changed unto the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord. You know what he's saying? God transforms us When I understand, when I'm right with God, I have the presence, the benefits, the blessings of the presence of God, I look into the Word of God, and God's presence uses it. to transform me into the image of Christ. You know, the more we live in the presence of God, the more we become like the Lord. We pick up his characteristics. Remember what they accused the disciples of? They took note that these men had been with Jesus. And the presence of God was all over them. And they looked at them and they said, You guys remind us of Jesus. You know what I would like uh Wouldn't that be something? If we as a church would get so close to the Lord and be so consumed by the presence of God, so engulfed. Enveloped by the presence of God, that people would come to church and say, That church reminds me of Jesus. Wouldn't that be something? The presence of God in prison. Father, I pray you'd help us. To understand your presence and Lord help us to embrace it. Help us to yield to your presence. And put aside all that would hinder grief so we can enjoy the peace of mind and the spiritual prosperity and the confidence. of what your presence brings in our life. I wonder, with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if some would say, preacher, ah, there's some areas in my Christian life. If I'm going to enjoy the presence of God's presence like you're talking about, if I'm going to enjoy the benefits of it, say, preacher, there's some adjustments I need. I need to give some attention to some areas. Any like that, uplifting hand, I need to give some attention, sure. So it's a lifelong endeavor. It's constant. We just got to stay at it. Stay at it. Something great to the Lord. I deal with it. Get it right. Something unquenching the Holy Spirit. I deal with it. I make it right What we need more than anything is presence of God. Father, bless our imitation, use these thoughts I ask in Jesus' name