Joseph has interpreted these dreams for Pharaoh, and they were more than just dreams, and the interpretation was not just out of curiosity. This was a message from God that God had given to Pharaoh. Enabled Joseph to interpret the dreams, and Joseph was very, very adamant and in uh making clear it was not in himself to be able to interpret these dreams. God was giving the message through him. And um and so Pharaoh was convinced that what Joseph told him was so, and that this was literally from God. And uh he responds in an amazing way, and he takes Joseph and makes him number two in the nation. gives him un unlimited authority and uh puts him over this and overseas the next fourteen years uh dealing with this um Twenty and then seven years of drought. So that's where we're at. I'm picking up in verse 37. And a thing was good in the eyes of Pharaoh and in the eyes of all his servants. That's the interpretation of the dream, the message of the dream. And the advice that Joseph gave. And Pharaoh said unto his servants, Can we find such a one as this is, a man in whom the Spirit of God is? And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, For as much as God hath showed thee this, there is none so discreet and wise as thou art Thou shalt be over my house, and according unto thy word shall all my people be ruled. Only in the throne will I be greater than thou. And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, See, I have set thee over all the land of Egypt. And Pharaoh took off his ring from his hand and put it upon Joseph's hand and arrayed him in vestures of fine linen. And put a gold chain about his neck, and made him to ride in the second chariot which he had, and they cried before him, bow the knee, and he made him ruler over all the land of Egypt And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I am Pharaoh, and without thee shall no man lift up his hand or foot in all the land of Egypt. Wow, what authority! And Pharaoh called Joseph's name, here you go, Zapnath Paaneah. And he gave him to wife Asirdnath. The daughter of Potapharha, priest of On. And Joseph went out over all the land of Egypt. Joseph was 30 years old when he stood before Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and he went out from the presence of Pharaoh and went throughout all the land of Egypt. And in the seven plenteous years the earth brought forth by handfuls. And he gathered up all the food of the seven years which were in the land of Egypt, and laid up the food in the cities The field the food of the field which was round about every city laid he up the saint. And Joseph gathered much corn Joseph gathered corn as the sand of the sea, very much until he left numbering, for it was without number. And unto Joseph were born two sons, before the years of famine came. Which Asenath, the daughter of Potapharah, priest of On, bared unto him. Joseph called the name of the firstborn, Manasseh, For God said he hath made me forget all my toil and all my father's house. The name of the second he called Ephraim For God hath caused me to be fruitful in the land of my affliction. Joseph is now over Egypt. Let's pray and look down through these verses here. Father, I pray you bless our study tonight. We thank you for the Word of God. We thank you for our very abundant access to your word. And I pray that we would not take your word for granted, and we would not just overlook the details of these events that you've recorded for us all these many years. So help us to be observant, help us to learn I pray that your Holy Spirit would draw out from these events recorded here principles that we can apply to our lives here and now, and that you'd help us, Lord, be stronger in our faith. closer to you in our walk, more disciplined in our Christian life, and maybe more effective in our witness. So fill me with your spirit is always my prayer. I yield myself to you Pray you take me and speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I think the study of Joseph's life, as we've been doing now for several months. I think it's important for us to learn of Joseph and look at this in detail as we work our way through here for two reasons. Number one, the potential for integrity. We've been emphasizing this observation about Joseph that he was a man of impeccable integrity, perhaps none other in the Bible. Exceeded the integrity recorded for us as the as in the life of Joseph. Tremendous man of integrity. And um I think Joseph illustrates us it's possible to do right in any circumstance. It's possible to be right, not just do right. You know it's possible to do the right thing, but not be right myself You know, a bad attitude. Tell your child, uh, you know, you go in and clean your room, nice storm in there and they're cleaning it and they're mad the whole thing. You know, it's possible to do right in the wrong but not be right Joseph not only did write in the most difficult circumstances, and not only did he do right, but as far as we can read the account here, he had a right attitude through it all. You know, the right disposition about it all. And so he illustrates to us, what I'm trying to say is he illustrates to us that it is possible for you and I To do right and be right, have a right frame of mind, have a right attitude, a right disposition, regardless of the circumstances, regardless how difficult the situation may be, we can still be men and women of integrity. With a good attitude about it. Joseph illustrates that perfectly. I think there's people in our church Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, that I know for a fact are in very difficult circumstances in various ways. And yet they're faithful to God. And yet they love the Lord and they worship God and they are faithful. And uh it is possible, you say, this whole world is such a mess, how in the world do you live for God? I'm telling you, we can be people of integrity regardless of what the circumstances are. And Joseph illustrates that perfectly. All through there. So one reason it's important to study Joseph, and we've been emphasizing this, is he illustrates it's possible to live a life of integrity even in the face of injustice. But there's a second lesson, and we haven't said a whole lot about this, but the potential for integrity, number two, the power of God's sovereignty. And we see here God's hand in all of this taking place. Now I got asking myself This week, as I was preparing for tonight again and going over it, I got asking myself, how in the world does Pharaoh make such a drastic decision To take a prisoner and put him in such a position of authority in such a brief period of time. How in the world does a does does he make that decision? How does he do that? Well again, I think there's a couple reasons. One Joseph convinced him that the interpretation of his dream was absolutely from God Pharaoh was convinced that this was God's message to him. God was telling. Look at verse 38 there, if you would. And we've just read it here. He says, And Pharaoh said unto his servants, Can we find such a one as this is, a man in whom the Spirit of God is? And then verse 39, he says, Pharaoh said unto Joseph, For as much as God has showed you all this, he's saying, All right, you convinced me this is from God, this is legit, this is for real. And so that I think was a factor in the in Pharaoh making the decision to take Joseph, an unknown prisoner, probably unknown, and put in It's a number two in the nation, unlimited authority. So that was probably a factor of God's in this. He's convinced. But I think there's another factor involved here, and that is this. He's being conducted by God in these decisions he's making. If you would, keep your place here. Come with me to the book of Proverbs. And find, if you would, chapter twenty one, Proverbs chapter twenty one. And verse number one makes a fascinating statement Proverbs 21, verse 1. It says, The king's heart is in the hand of the Lord, and as the rivers of water, he turneth it whithersoever he will. I put in the margin of my Bible, God's in control. God's in control. God had a plan. God had a purpose for all this. And he's turning Pharaoh's heart And and getting him to put Joseph in this key position. We don't have time to go there. We can go a number of places in Scripture. But in Ezra chapter 6, verse 22, we find the same thing. God puts it on the king's heart. Let Israel go back uh the Israelit go back to Jerusalem and rebuild the temple and rebuild the city. And um and so I I I'm glad we have a God that's in control. I put in the margin of my Bible, I put this down also. I said, pray for the kings of Kazakhstan. I pray, every day, I pray for Kazakhstan, and I pray that God would turn the authorities in Kazakhstan their hearts to be favorable to Christians coming in, missionaries coming in, and Christianity being established. You say, oh, that could never happen. Hey, don't say never with God. God can take have Pharaoh take a guy in prison and put him unlimited authority in a matter of moments. God can turn uh a dictator's heart too And so, how in the world does this happen? I'll tell you how it happens. Number one, Joseph had a phenomenal testimony. He convinced them that this was real, this was of God. Number two, God's in control. He's turning his heart and leading them there. And so, uh, uh Proverbs, that word turneth there. I went I meant to touch on this in Proverbs, the word turneth means to influence, or I like this definition, one I come across the word turn, means to bend in a certain direction. As God turneth the rivers, he turneth the heart, he bends the king's heart in a certain direction. And so the king is subject to God as much as the citizens are subject to the king. And so God is turning this. God's carrying out his plan for Joseph's life. God's carrying out his purpose for Joseph's life. Joseph's doing his part. He's doing right. He's trusting God. And God's working. God's working. Alright, here's my outline of this passage we read a little bit ago. The first thing I want us to notice is the assimilation of Joseph into Egypt, the assimilation of Joseph into Egypt. Now I'll explain what I mean there. Look at verse 44. And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I am Pharaoh, and without thee shall no man lift up his hand or foot in all the land of Egypt. An hour ago he was in prison. Now no man lifts up a hand or foot without his authority. Now look at the next statement. And Pharaoh called Joseph's name Zap Nathpahnea. And he gave him to wife, Asanath, the daughter of Potipharah, priest of Om. How many people are impressed with my reading of those names? I practiced all afternoon. And I impressed myself. What does it mean to assimilate something? Somebody talk to me. If I'm going to assimilate something, what am I doing? Blending it in, bringing it together. Merging it, what'd you say? Making a copy, assimilate, uh that would be a facsimile maybe. Assimilate is taking some. Here, let me give you my definition. It is to take on the resemblance or to absorb into a culture. To become a part of a culture. Pharaoh's no dummy. Nobody knows Joseph, and he's a foreigner And what I think Joseph is doing here, or what Pharaoh is doing here, is he is trying to make Joseph as Egyptian as he possibly can. as quickly as he possibly can. So he says, Joseph, you're number two, nobody lifts a finger without you saying it's okay. The first thing he does is change, give him an Egyptian name and giving him an Egyptian wife. He's trying to get Joseph to be as much, to be as Egyptian as he possibly can. That's what he's doing here. And he has two objectives, I think. With the name and with the wife. Number one objective that Pharaoh has in giving him this name is to assure the citizens that this is okay. That this is okay. Like I said, Pharaoh's no dummy. He he's taken this foreigner that probably the masses know nothing about. He's not been in any position. The people have not heard his name He's not been in the news, he's not been in social media, he's not been nowhere. And all of a sudden the people find out, what, I can't lift my finger Unless this guy says it's okay and he's a foreigner, he's some Hebrew. And so Pharaoh knows that there could be significant pushback If this guy starts saying, all right, we're going to take a significant amount of your food supply, we're going to take it from you for seven years. And this is the guy that has the authority to do it. How many people could see maybe some folks might have a problem with that? How many people see the talked radio might get all uh might get worked up about that And the blogs and everything else. What? Who does he think he is? Bringing his foreigner in? He's gonna tell us we can't keep our food So Pharaoh's no dummy. He's giving a foreigner unlimited authority, and this foreigner is going to be taking a large percentage of their food supply for a long time And he's given all that authority to a foreign slave. I wonder how the people would respond to that. And I think that's Pharaoh's concern. I can hear the people saying Well, if this guy is so brilliant that he's going to see us through these next 14 years, why in the world was he a slave and a prisoner for the last 13 years? If this guy's so brilliant. And I think Pharaoh's trying to head that off. I think uh I think he's trying to assure the citizens here. So what's he do? He gives Joseph an Egyptian name. I'm going to say it again because I worked so hard on it. Zapnath Paaniah. It means, that name means a revealer of secrets. There's a lot of debate about the meaning of the name. It's Egyptian, so it's hard to determine Some say it means revealer of circuit secrets. Others say the name means this, the savior of the world. Now I don't think he just pulled that name out of a hat. Considering what the possible meanings of that name is, I think Pharaoh gave that name to Joseph. deliberately. In fact, I think he looked it up, found one. This is the name we need to give to him. So everybody knows that this is the guy that God used to tell us what's going to happen. This guy is our quote unquote Savior. So to speak. And in a human way, humanly speaking, he was. He's going to get them through an incredible famine, which they are just taking by faith at this point. So Pharaoh's no dummy. We've got to get these people to accept Joseph. And he needs to be one of them, at least as much as possible. So we're going to give him this very significant name that has a very significant meaning. When everybody hears that name, they're going to say, oh, that's the revealer of secrets. That's the guy that's going to save us from the coming famine. Pharaoh knows what he's doing. And so he's trying to assure the citizens, he's sending a message that Joseph is an exceptional person, and that Joseph has Pharaoh's approval. My stamp is on this. He has my approval. So one reason he's trying to assimilate Joseph into Egyptian society, make him as Egyptian as he can, as quickly as he can, is to assure the citizens, but I think there's a second reason to avoid conflict. Now if you would look at verse 45, the second half. First half, he gives them that name. Do you want me to say it again? I'm going to Zaphnath Pa'aniya. Then it says, and he gave him to wife Asanath Now this isn't just some gal. Hey, go find a pretty girl for Joseph. Somebody go find someone. No, no, no. That's not the way it was. He had one picked out. He says, all right, this is who he we need to give for a wife. And he gives her this Asanath, the daughter of Padafarah The priest of own. Alright, what does that mean? Well, he gives him Egyptian name, that's his identity, gives him Egyptian wife, that's his association. She's the daughter, this is all we know about her. We know her name, we know her daddy's name, and we know her daddy's occupation It's all we know. We're not given any more information anywhere in Scripture about this dear gal. So what what does let's look at what we do know. Well, her daddy was a priest of Own. That was a city. Own. ON was a city. It was the center, it was the hotbed of Egyptian sun worship. Now, the Ra, the sun god, was a, they had many gods. They were polytheistic, many gods. And Ra, the sun god, was like the super duper god. Now they had some, several super duper gods. And Ra, the sun god, was one of them. And Oon, O-N, the city of On, was the hotbed of the worship of the sun god. I mean, that's where they had sun god worship conferences. They didn't have sword conferences. They had sun conferences. And they go there and they worship this. It was very perverse, very wicked in a lot of ways. That's her daddy. He's a priest. He's a high level in the religious world of Egypt, particularly in the worship of the sun god. That's her daddy. So that's the kind of home she was raised up in. That's the environment. That was what she was taught. We take our kids to Sunday school. They take their kids to sun school. They taught them about the sun god, the false god. That's all she's known. So her name, Asenath, means to belong to the goddess Neath. That's what the asanath means, belonging to the goddess Neath. Now the goddess Neath was another god that Egypt worshiped. They had Ra, the sun god, but they also had this goddess, Neath, N-E-I-T-H. Now Neath was one of the super duper gods. She was kind a goddess. She was kind of like a warrior god. And she would rule over the other gods they had. Now you understand this is all mythological. Now they believed it was true. They sincerely worship these imaginary gods. And that's my point. This is all imaginary. They don't exist. There is no sun god. They viewed the sun as a deity, as a living entity that they would pray to and worship. And she was named after this other warrior goddess. And so that's what he's getting into. This is the woman that Pharaoh gives to him to be his wife. Now that brings up some how many people that brings some questions up in your mind? Anybody some questions? I have one primarily, I have a question in my mind. And that is this. Why would a faithful Jew Marry a pagan woman like this. You're told in Deuteronomy to absolutely not intermarry With non-worshipers of Jehovah. And by the way, we as believers, as New Testament Christians, we are given that same instruction in Corinthians. We are not to marry unbelievers. And that's, we could spend a little time on that. So why in the world would Joseph, who is by all accounts, a faithful Hebrew boy. Now he's 30 years old at this point, but nevertheless, he's been faithful to Jehovah. He has done right when it would have been very, very easy to do wrong. So why in the world, what in the world is Joseph doing marrying this pagan woman like this. Well, the Bible doesn't tell us So I speculate, and I emphasize the fact I'm speculating. I put this down, one, he probably had little choice. This is Pharaoh saying this is going to happen. So that's the first thing that comes to my mind. He probably had little choice in the matter, but I say that with hesitation. Put number two down, and this one I think is uh is carries some weight There's probably more to the story here than what we're told. We know nothing about this woman other than her name. what the meaning of the name is and her daddy and what his occupation is. So we can speculate how she was raised, the type of home she was in But we don't know what kind of woman this was. We don't know anything about her. The only thing we know about her, as I just said, is her name, her father's name, and his position. And so there's very likely a whole lot more to the story about this scal than what we're told, than what we know. And so that suggests to me this lesson for us to heed. Before we condemn Joseph for doing something. Let's make sure we have all the information before we make that condemnation. There's a whole lot more could be involved here than what we're told. And that's good advice for you and I today. Before you go and make judgment on somebody, before you go and condemn somebody, before you go and run them down, make sure you've got all the information about the situation before you make that decision. That's a good place to say amen right there. And so we don't know. Maybe you didn't have much choice in the matter. Maybe there's more to the story than what we're told, or maybe more information about her that, you know, who knows? Now I do know this. When Potiphar's wife came on to Joseph, remember that? Potiphar's wife, she comes on strong. What did Joseph say? No. I can't do this. I'm not doing this. Now, would you agree with me? Potiphar's wife was in a position of quite a bit of influence. Otiphar was a was an officer and a chief officer in Pharaoh's court. She just made an accusation, Joseph goes to jail. So that tells me something about Joseph. He's not afraid to stand up to authority when it's wrong. He's not afraid to say no, even if it's going to cost him his freedom. And he says no to Potiphar's wife. He goes to jail. So I have a hard time believing that Joseph would have been afraid to say no to Pharaoh. Regardless of what the circum consequences were. You follow what I'm saying? If he was willing to say no to Potiphar's wife, then I would assume he'd be willing to say no to Pharaoh. I don't see Joseph as being afraid to do right. He's pro he has a quite a track record. So that suggests to me how many folks are with me so far. He says no to Potiphar's wife, but he says yes to this woman. So that tells me something about Joseph, obviously. He had no reason to believe that God was not okay with this. Joseph said no to Potiphar's wife, but he says yes here, then apparently it tells me Joseph was convinced that God was okay with this arrangement. For whatever reason, in this situation, there's going to be a whole lot more information that we don't have. And whatever the case was, he takes this woman to be his wife. And by the way, he takes her completely to be his wife. They consummate the marriage and have two children later on So, whatever the answer is to the question, Joseph was convinced that this was okay with God And he went through with it and accepted it. We're never said she she we never hear from or about her again She one little event here, she's given to Joseph. They have two kids. That's all we know. We know nothing more about her. We never hear again from her or about her. But it does tell us this: that Joseph only ever had one wife. To his credit, he was monogamous. Married one woman, and that was it. Less than ideal arrangement, but uh nevertheless, he uh he took it away. So why did Pharaoh and I'll get back to my original point was why did Pharaoh give Joseph this priest, this religious priest in the pagan witch, why would he give a priest's daughter to Joseph? Now he gave him an Egyptian name so the people To to appease the people, assure the people. And it's okay. I he's got he's he's with us. He's okay. It's one of us But why would he take a pagan priest's daughter and give it to Joseph? I think it was for this. The Egyptians were very, very religious. Those big pyramids were all part of their worship They were devout to their false gods. And I think Pharaoh, knowing that Joseph was a dedicated Hebrew, and I think he's convinced Joseph is not budging On his worship of the true and living God. So I'm going to give him one of these priest daughters, and that will appease, perhaps, the religious aspect of the society. And so we're not going to have a religious war here. You follow my thinking a little bit? Now I thought this was a whole lot more profound than what you are responding to, what I'm saying. I mean, I was studying this like, oh, this is profound But I'm telling you, I'm impressed with Pharaoh's political savvy. He anticipates, he sees potential problems. He takes Joseph, he puts it gives him an Egyptian name, alright, and then he takes a uh pagan priest's daughter and has him marry her, so that satisfies there's not going to be any religious uprising against this Hebrew, and the people recognize him from him. So he's assimilating Joseph into Egyptian society With an Egyptian name and an Egyptian wife, and um uh barring God working, I mean we know God's work in this, it worked. And as far as we can tell, the Egyptians, man, they followed Joseph. We see no uprising, we see no pushback We see no criticism of Joseph at all. Which leads me to my second thought tonight, why that may be. Joseph did some things. So number one, we have the assimilation of Joseph into Egyptian society. Number two, we have the activation of Joseph's plan. Now do you remember when he interpreted the dream, seven years of plenty, seven years of famine? Here's what you need to do, find your leader, get a good team together, go out, harvest uh um uh what's the word I want? Tax um uh mandate something uh somebody help me. Confiscate, yeah We're going to take a s a large percentage of the pl plenty years. We're going to store that up so people have food during the famine years. So that was Joseph's suggestion, his advice. Pharaoh says, yeah, okay, you're the man. So now in verse number 46, we find Joseph is implementing this plan. He's been given that responsibility. He's taken it. He's running with it. But look how he goes about it. This is, again, fascinating to me. Verse 46. And Joseph was 30 years old when he stood before Pharaoh, king of Egypt. And Joseph went out from the presence of Pharaoh. And look at the very first thing he does. He's just been given this position. He's just been given these royal clothes, the authority of the ring. He's just been given all this. The very first thing he does He went out from the presence of Pharaoh and went throughout all the land of Egypt. In fact, you go out, go back up to verse 45, the last part, and Joseph went over all the land of Egypt. Joseph wastes no time. He jumps right in. The first thing he does is he tours the land. He gets out from Pharaoh's palace or whatever they're in and he says, Alright, get me that chariot, get supplies, I need some fellows. We're gonna go out and we're gonna have a tour. And he goes all through the land of Egypt. Now land of Egypt is pretty good size. So this is no doubt weeks and months He's going town to town, city to city, up and down whatever type of highways they had or roads they had. And he's going everywhere, throughout, the whole land. Now, what's he doing? I think he's doing two things when he's touring the land. Number one, he's surveying the situation He's got to feed an entire nation for seven years. He has seven years to get the supplies, and then he's going to have seven years that have to last. So what would be the first thing you need to know if you're going to feed these people? You need to know what? How many people there are. Right? I think he's going out trying to get an idea of the size of the population. What are we looking at here? Do we have a census? How many people are there? goes to town to town to town. I think he's just trying to s get an idea of how big a a job this is. How big of a a task is this going to be So he's surveying the situation. I think he's trying to uh uh uh get an idea of the population size, but I think he's also trying to get an idea of the potential props In fact, later on when the plenty starts coming in, it mentions the fields outside the cities and various areas. I think Joseph right now is he says, first of all, fellas, we need to find out how many mammals are we going to have to feed When we have a banquet or something or a conference, one of the first things the ladies with the food say, Well, preacher, how many people are going to be there? And I always say the same thing. I have no idea. And they say, thanks. So he says, all right, how many folks are we going to have to feed? What's the population here? Then he says, what do our fields look like? How many How what what are the farms like? What is the uh potential? What can we possibly anticipate bringing in? I want to go see how big the fields are and how many there are and what type of uh equipment we have to harvest and do this? What are we looking at? So he wants the population size, he wants the potential crops available And then I think he's trying to figure out uh uh a product storage. Where can where are we going to put all this food that's coming in? And he's going city to city all through there, I think, looking at storage places. Where can we store this? In fact later they say they build more And so he I think Joseph is a tremendous This explains a little bit why he was put in charge of Potiphar's wife and put in charge of the prison. He thinks this stuff through And so he's out there getting a population count. He's looking at what the potential crops are, what kind of production sites where we can store all this stuff. He's getting the logistics put together. But I think there's something else going on when he does this tour. One, he wants to uh uh survey the situation, but I think the second purpose for this tour is public relations. I think he's out there meeting and greeting people. Maybe he's having town halls. I'm reading a lot into this, I know, there's a lot of speculation, but I think this is very legitimate could have happened. Come into a town, he sends out messages, all right, want everybody come, we want to meet everybody. I want I'm the I'm number two guy. You can't lift your finger without me allowing it. You can't step your foot without me allowing it. I want to introduce myself to you. How many people it's easier to trust someone you know than someone you don't know? Yeah. So I think he wants to meet them face to face, one-on-one. Talk to them. What do they call it? Pressing the flesh. Shaking their hands, meeting them, greeting them, talking to them. I think he's wanting to gain their trust. He's gonna, he's the one, their lives are in his hands here in a few years. He wants them to trust him. It's gonna get hairy No food for seven years, no crops for seven years. It's gonna, they're gonna need to trust him. And so he doesn't take that for granted. He goes out there, he gains their trust, he earns their respect I think he's explaining the situation to everybody. I think he's telling them, listen, God made it very, very clear. We're going to have seven years of plenty, unbelievable plenty. Prosperity like you have never experienced before in your life And then we are going to have seven years of famine, poverty like you have never experienced before in your life. God has told us this I think that's what he's communicating to all the people everywhere. He wants them to know. Remember back COVID they all just said, alright, start wearing a mask. Nobody explained anything. Nobody they just said, all right, you gotta do it or we'll throw you in jail. I don't think they said that. Anybody remember that? There isn't little or no explanation. Now I got my own personal opinions about it. But I think they might have got a little bit more support if they just explained some stuff a little bit You know? He just didn't know anything and just threw it out there. They didn't know what they were doing is exactly right But my point I'm trying to make is this, Joseph wants everybody to understand exactly what's going to happen, what's going to take place. So he's meeting and greeting, he's wanting them to see him and talk to him, he's introducing himself, he's gaining their trust, he's explaining the situation, and I think he's communicating the urgency. And they wanted to hear from his lips. This is for real. You've got to listen, because it's going to be rough. And so he tours the land. The very first thing when he implements his plan, he activates his plan, he tours the land, survey situation, public relations. Then he taxes the land Look at verse 47. And the seven years, and the set and in the seven plenteous years, the earth brought forth by handfuls. And he gathered up all the food of the seven years which were in the land of Egypt, and laid up the food in the cities. The food of the field, which was roundabout every city, laid he up in the same. That's what I think that tour was part of planning all that out And he gathered corn as the sand of the sea, very much until he left numbering, for it was without number. So he's this prosperity begins almost immediately. And he starts taxing it. He starts confiscating this food from them. Things start happening exactly the way the dreams had prophesied, and I think that reinforced Joseph's message. Hey Seven years of plenty, seven years of famine are coming, and lo and behold, boom, right away, they have plenty like they've never seen before. And it's hard to describe how prosperous these seven years were. That word handfuls there means this, has this idea. Their harvesting capabilities were matched out. Is what the idea is. I mean, their crops are producing so much they can't get in their hands. Their ability to harvest it is being maxed out It's like the farmers come back, we've got such crops. Man, I'm I can't hardly get them in. I don't have room to store them. This was unheard of prosperity. Verse 49, look how it's described, verse 49. This is what he's gathering from the people. And he gathered corn as the sand of the sea. Very much until he left numbering, for it was without number. I mean this is so we can't even keep track This is unprecedented prosperity. Now, I think we don't find any complaining. There's no record of people complaining about donating or contributing their food or having it taken. No, not a peep. I think they're so overwhelmed with what all they have. It's like, yeah, man, we got it coming out of our ears. And for seven years it is unprecedented prosperity. And he's taxing them. He's taxing them. He's bringing it in. And then one last thought. I got a couple Yeah I I I don't know who they're attributing to, but I would guess that they're saying this is exactly what Joseph said would happen. So what God they're giving it to, I can't say, what who they're giving credit to. But they have to recognize this is exactly what Joseph said. And so you would think that they would say, you know, there's something to what he believes. So but I don't I don't know I don't know the answer to that, whether they did or not. Um then my last, so he's taxing it, he's bringing this all in. We're going to look at the seven years of famine, is where the rest of the family comes in a little, and that's where it gets really dramatic. But there's something else here, real quickly, I want us to notice in verse 51. It says, and Joseph called Oh, verse 50. And unto Joseph were born two sons, before the years of famine came. So it's in the midst of this unbelievable prosperity, unimaginable. Prosperity. He has these two boys from uh this gal that he married, Asanath. And notice verse 51. He called the name of the firstborn Manasseh. Verse 52. And the name of the second he called Ephraim. There's something interesting about these names. We'll look at their meanings here in a minute. These are not Egyptian names, these are Jewish names. Joseph's in Egypt. He's given an Egyptian name. He's given an Egyptian wife. He's trying to be assimilated into Egyptian culture and society as much as he possibly can, but he names his boys Jewish names. I'll tell you something else that's interesting. Joseph never uses his Egyptian name. He always goes by Joseph. He never they gave it to him, whatever, I'm Joseph. My boys are Jewish boys. They're not Egyptians. I'm not an Egyptian. I'm God's people. And my point is this, he adhere uh I put it this way, he adheres to his identity. In spite of all the injustice he experienced, in spite of all the changes he went through, in spite of all the peer pressure that's put upon him, he never loses sight of the fact that he was one of God's people. He is not an Egyptian. He is not a pagan. He worships the true and living God, Jehovah. Period. And he holds to that. And he never compromises on that, and he doesn't give an inch in who he was and whose he was. He never lost sight of the fact that he was one of God's people. He never lost sight of the faith and commitment he had made to the true and living God. He never went by his Egyptian name. By the way, Daniel, in the book of Daniel, was given a Babylonian name. Daniel never took his Babylonian name. He always went by Daniel. He identified himself as Daniel. He would not use his Babylonian name because he was not Babylonian. He was one of God's people. Now, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, anybody want to guess what those three names are? Babylonian names. Now I'm not trying to disparage Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, good night, until I get thrown in a fiery furnace, you know, I'm not going to criticize somebody that has been. But they did accept their Babylon names for whatever reason. Daniel did not. Joseph did not. And I like that. And I like to think in an old world that is so wicked, in an old world that is twisting and perverting and wrong on just about everything, I want to remember who I am and whose I am. You and I, if we know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, we are the children of God in a midst of the world that are the children of the devil. And we must never forget that. And we must never adapt or adopt, adapt to or adopt this world's values, this world's titles, this world's principles. I'll tell you, the more I study Joseph, the more respect I have for him. No proud, no arrogancy, no making a big deal. He says, but I'm one of God's people. One of God's people. He never went by his Egyptian name, and he named his boys Jewish names. Never forgot who he was. He never lost his identity of one of God's people. You know what the problem is with a lot of this contemporary movement and all of that? Churches are losing their identity. And they're looking and acting more like the world than they do like biblical Christians. And even individual Christians look and act more like the world than we do like we are the people of God. The name Manasseh means to forget. He says, I've forgotten all the past and put it behind me. I tell you, you'll be a whole lot happier if you can just put past injustices behind you. Quick dwelling on what so-and-so said or did 70, 20 years ago. Forget it. Put it back. Put it behind you and go on. Well, they did, you know, I'll never forget. Listen, you've got to put that behind you and go on. Amen or not. You know, miserable the rest of your life. Joseph could have been bitter. You know why he wasn't? Because he put it behind him We see that in his boy's name. Then his other boy's name, Ephraim, means to be fruitful. And what he focused on was how good God had been to him. Oh, God had blessed him so much. Forgot about all the injustices and the unkindness and the unfairness. He forgot all about that. He said, I'm just going to focus on how good God is. And he names his boys those two names. Some Christians just dwell and dwell and dwell on the faults and failures of others. And they're miserable. They're unhappy. I put this down. Anger does more damage to the one who has it than that which made them angry in the first place. He did not allow injustice to ruin him. He did not allow injustice to ruin his family. No bitterness. Forget it. Preacher, ah, well, he did this, she did that. Listen, forget it. Is God good to you or not? Focus on the goodness of God That's what Joseph did. He raised his two boys in a pagan nation, never lost his identity, and when he comes to his end, we'll s we'll quit, but when we get there, you'll see he goes, hey Don't leave my bones down here in Egypt. You take it back. I'm one of God's people. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to learn from Joseph. Some of his leadership qualities, thinking ahead, planning ahead, help us learn from that Lord, his identity as a child of God, one of the people of God, and not losing that, not letting that go. I pray you'd help us not to forget that we are Christians We are the children of God. We've dedicated our lives to the Lord Jesus Christ. Lord, don't let us let the world take that from us. Wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many say, Preacher, God spoke to my heart tonight? In some area, I'm not sure how. You say, Preacher, God spoke to my heart. And I want the Lord to have his way. Any like that by the uplifted hand? Sure. Hands all around. My heart was stirred as I studied this. May we just come give it to the Lord tonight and say, Lord, help me put that behind me. Lord, help me to think things through, plan ahead, help me to focus on your goodness. Help me to be like Joseph. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name, amen.