Number 37. I want to begin reading in verse number 15. Of course, we're studying the life of Joseph, and uh we've got some introductory messages in, kind of getting to know the guy a little bit. Little bit of where he's coming from, the home he's coming from, is very significant uh I think in in his life and and how God used him And now we're beginning. If you remember, last week I I I emphasized pretty strongly the fact that God had a plan for Joseph's life And he also had a process that had to take place that Joseph had to go through to be able to accomplish that plan. And how many people remember me emphasizing that? God has a plan. And by the way, what's true for Joseph is true for us. God has a plan for your life and my life, regardless of what stage we are of life, regardless of where we're at. In our life, God has a plan for us, and God's plan always requires a process to accomplish that plan. Now here's the thing. Most of the time, and I want to I'm tempted to say all the time, but I'll say most of the time, we don't know uh why that that we don't understand when that process has taken place Most of the time we don't understand where that's leading or what God's doing until after the fact. You follow me? For instance, Job All through the Job's experience of this horrific trials he went through and suffering, he's saying, God, why, why, why? And of course his so-called friends are offering ridiculous answers And uh he doesn't realize probably till he got to heaven that God had a plan. God had a plan. And he had to go through that process. Well, we see that with Joseph. And this plan is beginning to unfold Jacob has sent Joseph to check on his brothers. They're out with the cattle, with the flocks. They're out getting them water and grass. And uh they're headed over to Shechem, if you remember, the place where the brothers had killed all the men because the leader there raped their sister. And so they're on the outs with the folks of Shechem. But that's where they're going to feed the sheep and and tend the sheep, 60-mile trip. So he sends his son, sends Joseph, go check on your brothers. That's the mission. Now that's where I want to pick up tonight, verse number fifteen. Can everybody hear me all right with the baby? Everything o can you hear behind all right. I just want to be sure. Fifteen, and a certain man found him And behold, he was wandering, this is Joseph, he was wandering in the field. And the man asked him, saying, What seekest thou? And he said, I seek my brethren. Tell me, I pray thee, where they feed their flocks. And the man said, They are departed hence, for I heard them say, Let us go to Dothan. And Joseph went after his brethren, and he found them in Dothan. And when they saw him afar off, even before he came near unto them, they conspired against him to slay him. And they said one to another, Behold, this dreamer cometh. Come now, therefore, and let us slay him, and cast him into some pit, and we will say some evil beast hath devoured him, and we shall see what will become of his dreams And Reuben heard it, and he delivered him out of their hands, and said, Let us not kill him. And Reuben said unto them, Shed no blood, but cast him into this pit that is in the wilderness, and lay no hand upon him, that he might rid him out of their hands, to deliver him to his father And it came to pass when Joseph was come to his brethren that they stripped Joseph out of his coat, his coat of many colours that was on him And they took him and cast him into a pit, and the pit was empty, and there was no water in it. So let's stop there. Let's pray. Father, we ask you to bless now our time in the studying the life of Joseph. I pray there be some lessons from here, this passage, that we can glean, that your Holy Spirit can apply to our lives. You know our hearts, Lord. You know where we're at. You know what we're dealing with in life. And so I pray we could your Holy Spirit would just teach us and maybe use something to help us tonight. I yield my will to you. I don't want to impose my will upon your word or the message. Lord, I yield my body for you to use to speak through me. And that is my request for the filling of your spirit and you to use me tonight to help us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I've been started this, I thought, you know, how many years did we spend on David? Four years, something like that I thought, well, we don't want to spend that long on Joseph, so I was going to try and cover big segments of Joseph's life at a time. I can't do that. So we're cutting this down into little bite-sized segments, all right And even what I was going to try and cover tonight, I'm just going to uh do a little bite-sized segment. And everybody said, Amen. Praise the Lord. Joseph is no doubt, no doubt Joseph is unaware of what God is doing in his light at this point in his life. Now we know that later on he figured it out, right? Remember at end of Genesis he says, you meant it for evil, God meant it for good, save many souls alive So eventually he figures out why he had to go through all this and that that God had this process that he was having to go through. But at this point in time, I'm confident Joseph Did not know what in the world, especially what's about to hit him. We'll talk about that next time. But um his world is about to get turned upside down And he doesn't see it coming at this point, and I'm confident he doesn't understand why in the world God's letting this happen. Anyone here ever go through something And you just ask yourself, God, why in the world uh would you let something like this happen? Anyone ever been there sure? Sure. So last time we saw Jo Jacob's mission for Joseph, he sent him off by himself for whatever reason. To go check on his brothers. They're in a dangerous area. We're going to talk about that a little bit. And he wants to make sure they're okay. And Joseph obeys him. And Joseph does what he said what his daddy asked of him, even though it was a dangerous mission in many ways. And we noted that that reflected on Joseph's character. And explains a little bit why God was going to use him because we see some positive characteristics. So that was the mission Jacob gave. And tonight I want us to look at the mistreatment by his brothers. And if you would, notice there in verse number 18 through 20. I'll read again. I know I just read it, but notice it says, and when they saw him afar off, some brothers, they see Joseph coming over the hills. They saw him afar off, even before he came near unto them, they conspired against him to slay him. And they said one to another, Behold, this dreamer cometh. Come now, let us slay him. And cast them into some pit, and we will say some evil beast hath devoured him, and we shall see what will become of his dreams. The first thing I notice here in this section is his brother's conspiracy They have a conspiracy. They see him away off. Notice in verse number 8 it says they conspired against him. That word caught my attention. They conspired against him. We hear about conspiracy theories. You know, that's real big. Oh, these conspiracy theories. Well, these guys, it wasn't a theory. They had a conspiracy. They were up to something. I looked up that word conspiracy conspired. I wanted to know a little bit more about it and some background of it, how it's used. And it simply means this, uh simple definition, to devise a crafty plan To devise a crafty plan. Or you could put it another way, to work together in a deceit for a deceitful plan. They put their heads together and they said, here comes Joseph. And we're going to deal with this guy. And I don't think it was just one fella's idea. I think they put their heads together. Notice what it says. They conspired against him. And they conspired against him. They got their heads together, came up with a plan to deal with Joseph. Now there's a couple things I see here in this conspiracy. The first thing I notice is their diligence. And for whatever reason, this stuck out in my mind as I read this. And when they saw him afar off, even before he came near unto them. And I got thinking, why would God tell us that, you know, why was that included there? I think we can safely assume that the brothers did not know That Joseph was on his way out to check on him. There's nothing to indicate that they had a heads up. In fact, he didn't even know where they were. They were wandering all over. Who knows why? Uh ma many possible reasons. So they weren't and uh I think we're assuming, I'm assuming they weren't aware of Joseph's appro they didn't know that he was coming out to check on them. They had no idea But nevertheless, as they're tending their flock, and they've been out quite some time now, they've got the flock and they're going about their daily responsibilities and whatever that entailed But somehow they were able to notice that Joseph was coming even when he was way off, before he even got close to them. So that indicates to me they had people watching. They had um what do you call it in in the military, you s you set up a perimeter and you have guys out there, what what do they call Different posts out there and they're they're watching and they're looking for danger or whatever coming in. I think that's what the brothers were doing I think to get a mental picture of what they are and what's happening here, they've got incredibly valued commodity in these flocks and in these sheep. This is where their money is. And so they have very valuable uh um uh uh commodity here Um they are in a dangerous place, and I think they're just on red alert at all times. They've been doing this a long time. They're not they're not ignorant. They know what their what what their situation is. They were in dangerous territory. It was not uncommon all through Bible history, even up into the New Testament. It wasn't uncommon for there to be thieves or they called them many times they called them highway men. And these guys would look for people like Joseph's brothers who would have valuable sheep out and be grazing them and watering them and tending to them and The thieves knew the value of this, and so no doubt they had to be on guard, they had to be on red alert for any thieves coming in, or highwaymen, to rob them and take their possessions. So that may be why they saw Joseph coming such a far distance off. Um they're in a wilderness area. They're finding grass and and uh green grass they're looking for water so they're in a wilderness area. They're a long way from home And we know that in the wilderness that there were beasts, wild beasts, that could ravage the sheep, and just they could lose large uh amounts of of valuable sheep just to a bear, to a lion. And we know there were bears and that we know there were lions and not tigers, but bears 'Cause David, number of years, in fact a long time later, but David, when he was out with the sheep, remember? He had a bear come and actually took the lamb, and David rescued the lamb from the mouth of the bear, and same thing with the lion. And so we know there's wild beasts are a very real reality. So they're on red alert. They're looking not only that But they're in the area of Shechem, and we mentioned this last week. Shechem, the Shechemites hated the Israelites. Jacob's family, they had slaughtered the men and took and spoiled their city. And there's no doubt in my mind that these people were not buddy buddy with J uh uh Joseph's brothers. So There was always that threat. And so whatever the case was, either one of these or all three of the reasons They were on red alert and they were very diligent in taking care of their sheep. That tells me a little bit about the brothers. They had a little bit of character to an extent. I mean they were apparently hard workers. This isn't an easy job. They apparently were somewhat responsible and that Daddy would trust them with the majority apparently of his investments On such a long journey, now he was concerned for him. He sent Joseph, but he trusted his sons, and they were apparently being very responsible. Do you know he can be a hard worker and uh be a uh uh uh you can be a hard worker and have a little bit of character, be responsible, and yet still not be right with God And still be a hateful person. You can pay your bills and work an eight-hour day and put your best in for the boss and still be out of sorts with God. I don't question his brother's work ethics. I don't question his brothers' uh uh uh understanding of being responsible for things that would be important to them, no doubt. And yet they are far from right with God. We must never would you agree with me? Christians ought to work hard, right? And we ought to be honest and we ought to be responsible for we uh uh and ha uh with our responsibilities, the things God entrusts us with, we ought to be responsible. But that in and of itself doesn't make us right with God I remind you the devil is a hard worker. I can't read anywhere in the where the devil takes vacations. I mean he just stays at it and stays at it and stays at it. And so I see in the brothers here, you know, there we study them and we're going to Ruben a little bit They had a lot of flaws, but in this area they had some character. They were being very, very diligent. They were making sure that what they were entrusted with and the sh case of the sheep that it was safe and secure in their hands. So the first thing I notice in this conspiracy is their diligence. They're paying attention, they're watching for danger, they've got posts set up And they're made no doubt rotating, watch, and they're keeping her eye out. And one of the brothers, whoop, I saw movement way over there on that hill. And I'm using my imagination here a little bit, but maybe uh uh is that a lion? I don't know, I saw something move. Hey! And they're watching very closely. Now it's not a lion, it's up upright. Maybe it's a bear. No. Those Shechemites. They've hired some guys to come out after us. It's some thieves. No, no. I hear see one of them slap the other, the brother, and say, You know who that is? That's Joseph. What? Yeah. They got the binoculars up. No, they didn't have binoculars. Uh they got looking Sure enough, he's got that coat of many colors on. That's Joseph. And so they notice that Joseph is coming and they begin this conspiracy. In this conspiracy to take out Joseph, their diligence, second of all, I notice their disregard. When they figure out this is Joseph, and they come to the conclusion this is Joseph coming here, they immediately begin to conspire. And in their conspiracy, there's a few things that they really disregarded To dis what does it mean to disregard something? Not care about it? Set it aside. Doesn't mean anything to me. Just disregard that. I noticed two things that these brothers disregarded. When they started this conspiracy to take out Joseph. The first one is they disregarded God's word and God's will Joseph had dreams. He had shared them with his brothers and with his fathers. And it didn't sit with the fellows But everyone knew it was obvious to everyone in that family that these dreams were given to Joseph by God. His daddy knew that, and I'm I I double dog assure you, his brothers knew that this was from God. And I think that's part of what irked them so much. So they knew to an extent that God had a plan for Joseph. They didn't like that plan because they're the ones, and by the way, they were included in that plan They're the ones bowing down in reverence and respect for Joseph for Joseph. They ain't like it And even though this message, these dreams were from God, and were revealing, at least this point in a limited way, the will of God, they disregarded it. They didn't care if it was from God or not. It didn't fit what they wanted. It didn't please them, and so they disregarded it. No concern for God's will at all. No concern for God's glory. God is doing all this for his glory. And no concern for that at all. God had made it clear. He had a plan for Joseph and for all of Joseph's family, mom and dad included. And completely disregarded that. It's a dangerous thing to disregard God's word. To just push it aside. I don't care what God says. I tell you, that's a dangerous statement to say. And that's a dangerous way to start thinking. I know what God says, but I don't care. I've been doing this long enough. I've had that statement literally made to me by people over the years on occasion. I know what the Bible says, but I don't care. It's exactly where the brothers were. I know what God's will is, but I don't like it. I'm not going to do it. They saw Joseph come and they say, Oh yeah, here's that dreamer. He's got all God's going to do all this stuff. We're going to slay him. We don't care what God's will is. We don't care what God told him. It's a dangerous thing to disregard the will of God, and yet it happens. It happens in churches, it happens in individual lives, it happens in homes. I know what God wants me to do. I know God doesn't want me to do this, but I want to. I know God tells me in his word to do this, but I don't want to. I'm not going to do it. That was their attitude. So they disregarded God's word and God's will, but I want to suggest to you they disregarded their father's well-being. I doubt they thought this through to the extent to think, what would this do to our daddy? We kill his son, his youngest son, that he loves more than any of us. How is this going to affect daddy? They they they didn't even if they if they thought about it, they didn't care They're going to crush their daddy. In fact, later on, remember when the Joseph was uh finally number two and they're coming down to get food and he asks, Do you have a younger brother? And he says, you bring your younger brother down, and they said, we can't. It will kill our daddy. But they didn't think about that here I got thinking maybe they didn't care how badly it hurt their daddy. He loved Joseph more than us. He gives him this fancy royal coat to wear. Maybe one of the brothers, and again, this is total imagination on my part, but maybe one of the brothers says, hey, you know, this might hurt daddy pretty bad. This might maybe some of them said, we don't care So they disregarded God's word, God's will, as it was revealed to them. It was limited, I'll give you that, but it was obviously from God. And they completely disregarded their father's well-being, whether deliberately or not. Possibly they didn't even care. About whether it hurt their daddy or not. I tell you, when we when we stiffen our necks and harden our hearts and determine that I'm going to get my way no matter what. We can do a lot of damage. We can do a lot of damage. I'm gonna get what I want. I don't care what God says. I don't care who it hurts Getting what I want. That's the mentality of this conspiracy. That's how they're thinking. So I see their diligence. They're watching very carefully. They spy Joseph. They get together. We're going to slay him. We're going to take him out. I don't care what God says. I don't care what God's will is. I don't even care whether it hurts daddy. We even think of that So we have their diligence, their disregard, and then I notice here the depth of their hatred. These fellas hated Joseph. I mean, in every sense of the word. We throw words around a lot without really thinking about it. We'll say, you know, we'll talk about love. Oh, I love tomato sandwiches. Then we'll look at our spouse say, oh, I love you. Use the same word for tomato sandwich in your spouse, right? I had a friend of mine in Bible college, and he's preached here before, but uh um and he was dating this girl. She eventually married her, but uh he told me, he says, I'm gonna tell her I love her We were real close friends. He goes, so and so. I'm gonna tell her I love her. I said, All right, let her rip. And so they got told he was nervous. He was so nervous. I wasn't with him. He told me later. And he says, I didn't know how to say it or how to go about it. And say finally I told her, I love you more than my dog. He meant that as a compliment, because he really loved his dog. She didn't quite get it exactly the way he meant it So we throw these words around love and we use the word hate. Oh, I hate snow. You know, I hate this, I hate that. Anybody ever say that? Anybody? Yeah, we just throw that word around. When I'm saying these brothers hated Joseph, I'm saying it in the absolute purest sense of the word. They hated him. And they have uh the depth of this hatred. What they're conspiring here is not just the mistreatment of a younger brother. Do we have any youngest children here? The youngest child here. Any? Any here been mistreated by your older siblings at all? Now, I'm the oldest. My sisters were not mistreated at all. It went the other way around. It was terrible. What the brothers are doing here is not just mistreating Joseph This isn't just a merely a sibling rivalry among siblings. This isn't just, oh, I don't like it. And we say this. mention this here in a bit. We say it sometimes. Oh I hate that I hate that guy. I hate her. It wasn't just saying dislike for somebody. They're plotting murder. Would you agree with me? It's a little different in degree of mistreating a sibling and murdering a sibling. Right? It's possible to dislike a sibling strongly. But think with me, but to get to the point Where I dislike them and hate them so much I am willing to violently take their life from them. Would you agree with me? That's pretty intense hatred. The level of hatred that has developed in the hearts of these brothers Is intense, but they would be willing to kill him. There is a deep-seated hatred And anger that has taken root in the hearts of David's brothers to the point where they are willing to cross the line. And not just hurt his feelings, and not just hurt him physically, but to take his life from him. That's pretty hatred. If you would, come with me to Mark chapter number 8, back in the New Testament. I have a couple passages here. I want us to take note. Mark chapter eight. Verse number 15. The Lord speaking to his disciples and he used event here where Uh he's saying, you know, the the Jews would say, you know, if you eat something with unwashing hands or uh you you um uh you know you eat something you shouldn't And then it defiles you because you ate that. And the Lord says, um He says that uh look at verse twenty uh verse nineteen because it entereth not into the heart, but into the belly, and goeth into the drought, purging all meats And he says, that which cometh out of the man, that defileth a man. Now look what he says in verse 21. He says, For from what's that next word? Verse twenty one for from what? Within. Out of the what? Heart of men. Now look at this list he gives. This is what comes from within us, from out of our hearts. From within men proceed evil thoughts, that's their conspiracies. Adulteries, fornications. What's that next word? Murders. Thefts. Covetousness. Wickedness. Deceit, lasciviousness, an evil eye. Blasphemy, pride, foolishness. Now look what he says. All these evil things come from with where? Within the man The Lord is saying that hatred, and by application to the brothers of Joseph, their hatred for Joseph, now this is my thought I want to end with Their hatred for Joseph was the source of that hatred was not Joseph The source of that hatred was not Joseph's dreams. The source of their hatred was the condition of their heart. Joseph and his dreams, Joseph was the object of their hatred. It was not the source. Here's what we do when we get out of sorts with somebody, we get a stinky attitude towards somebody, and We don't like them and we're going to be mean to them. We want to try and hurt them, or we're going to whatever, be anything other than kind and blessing to them. It is not because of the behavior of the object of my dislike, it's because of the condition of my what? My heart that causes me to be that way. That's what the Lord's saying. Proverbs chapter twenty-eight verse seven says, As he thinketh in his heart, so is he. You know why these brothers were hateful to Joseph? Because they had a hateful heart. And that's true all through the history of mankind. It's not the persons as however obnoxious that may be, however hateful their behavior may be. Hatred towards them is not the source of my hatred towards them is not their behavior. My source of my hatred towards them is from the condition of my heart Do you know God loves hateful people? God loves sinful people? Why? Because of what they are? No. Because He is love. It's because of the nature, the character of who and what God is that He loves people in spite of their behavior. Our hatred, their hatred for Joseph was not nothing in Joseph at all whatsoever. It was a condition of their heart. And you could go down the list here. In in our study of Joseph, in this instance, it's the it's hatred. But you could go down the whole list. If somebody lies and is dishonest It's not because of their circumstances. It's because of the condition of their heart. They have a dishonest heart. Um, you know, if somebody uh uh is uh uh steals, they're a thief, they take things that aren't theirs, it's not because of Well, I got these needs, you know, I gotta pay these bills, I gotta do this, I need this, so I'm gonna steal. It's not because of their circumstances that they steal, it's because of the condition of their heart In fact, Jesus, it's repeated over in Matthew, he says basically the same thing. Out of your heart proceed, and he gives this list of things. Joseph's brothers hated Joseph because they had hateful hearts. Hatred begins in my own heart, not in the one that it's directed towards Hatred, if I'm studying scripture and if I'm interpreting this correctly, and I believe I am, hatred is not simply an emotion Hatred is a condition of my heart. Turn with me, if you would, to Proverbs chapter 4. Now we're going to come back. I got another passage in the New Testament, but right now come back Proverbs chapter 4 real quick. And I could quote this to you, but I want us to look at it. If it's not underscored in your Bible, this would be a good verse to To highlight or underscore your Bible. Proverbs chapter four and verse number twenty-three. Notice this is Solomon writing under the inspiration of God to his son, and then through that to us. But he says, keep thy heart with all diligence. Now note the wording of the next phrase very carefully. For out of it the heart. Are the issues of life, are the actions and the attitudes that I have towards others, my behavior towards others, and how I talk to others. It's out of my heart that that proceeds. As a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. As a man, let me paraphrase that just for the sake of illustration. As a man thinketh in his heart, so speaks speaketh he. So behaves he. And he says, keep thy heart with all diligence, diligence. Why? Because out of it comes these things. Yeah, well this didn't just happen overnight, yeah. And we could go back and look. There's all kinds of things. We're gonna look at Ru Reuben next week, and Reuben slept with his daddy's concubine So these guys' hearts were messed up. This is a good point. This isn't an isolated incident. This has been a pattern for them. Because of their heart. And this verse here in Proverbs, it says for chapter chapter 4, verse 23, it says, keep your heart. That word keep This is, I thought I find this interesting. That word keep means to enclose, to imprison, to lock up. Now we often look at that verse and say, Alright, don't let evil influences come into my heart. I've got to keep it, I've got to guard it. And it's you know, there's part of it there, but that's not primarily what he's saying You say, and your heart, my heart, is so corrupt, and has all this the seeds of the most Wicked sins, the most hateful things is in my heart. And I've got to keep that heart. Don't let that stuff That Jesus lifts, out of the abundance, out of the heart proceed these things. Keep those things in prison. Keep those things at bay. Mortify them. Keep them down. Die to self. Don't let them Be part of you, come out of your sinful heart. Now, as believers, we've given a new heart. We have that new nature. And we thank God for that. Amen. Now we have the presence of the Holy Spirit in our lives, and we have the potential for the fruit of the Spirit. But the works of the flesh which come out of the heart are still there. That potential is still there. And so these brothers hated Joseph not because of anything Joseph had said or done. Or dreams he had, that's the object of their hatred. The source of their hatred is they had hateful hearts. Right. And and one of the things the Lord says, one of the uh items that comes out of the heart is pride, which is the root of jealousy. And envy is a term. They're envious of him, and it was their own self-love, it was their own self-worship. And that all comes from our heart. That all comes from our heart. I put this down. My relationship with others begins with the condition of my heart. And you know, some people it's easy to be nice to them because they please us. They they do what I like, they don't do things I don't like. And it's all about Me. Because they make me happy. Therefore, then I like them. And so my relationship with others begins with the condition of my heart. If my heart is in tune with the Lord and I have that I'm diligently keeping my heart, then you know what? I can bless those who curse me, like Jesus instructs me to. And I can love those that hate me. And I can do good to those that despitefully use me. And I can pray for those that revile me. If I keep that works of the flesh, these sins of the heart, if I keep them diligently Let the Spirit of God fill me and let the fruit of the Spirit be born in my life. And I can do these things the Lord instructs me to. My relationship with others is a result of the condition of my heart. Adam and the killing you could die. And that sinful heart, that heart was became corrupt immediately when sin entered into mankind's experience. My relationship with others begins with the condition of my heart. My treatment of others is a result of the condition of my heart. And so I look at these brothers here and I'm thinking, man a lie, this is not just sibling rivalries. This isn't just disliking your brother. This is a depth of hatred that is willing to take his life from him violently. And that's a pretty deep-seated hatred. If you would, I want to end with this. Come back to 1 John. Believe it or not, 1 John talks a lot about this. I just want to look at a couple statements he makes. All the way back, not the Gospel of John, 1 John, the Epistle. And come back, if you would, to chapter 3. First John chapter three, and notice with me verse number fourteen Now, through 1 John, we're not going to take time to look at all these because it's not the subject at hand, but he gives various evidences you could use To know that I'm saved. Some evidences of the new birth, of a new nature. Now, these don't save me. Alright? This is the evidence of it. This is if if I'm saved, then this would be the fruit of my salvation. This would be what it is. And by the way, be very, very careful. Sometimes We say, well, if you don't have this in your life and this life, then you're not saved. The assurance of my save is not based on anything I do or say. It's based on the promises of God's Word. But nevertheless, John is saying, hey, listen, if you're saved, if you're a child of God, then these things will be evident at some point. Notice verse Chapter 3 verse 14. Now notice the words he used. And we know that we have passed from death unto life. Because we what? Love the brethren. Love the brethren. He that loveth not his brother abideth in death Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer Doesn't say whosoever kills his brother is a murderer. He said, whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer. And ye know that no murderer hath eternal life abiding in him. Come over to chapter 4 and notice with me verse 20. Some key words here, you gotta pay attention. Verse 20 says, if a man say, just says this. Would you agree with me? Talk is cheap. Anyone can say anything. If a man say, I love God, look at this, and hateth his brother, he's a what? He's a liar. That's strong language here. This is strong statements. For he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen. How can he love God whom he hath not seen? And this commandment we have from him: that he who loveth God love his brother also. So again, I come back to my statement. My treatment of others and my attitude towards others, my action towards others is conditioned upon, is a result of the condition of my heart. If I love God, I'm going to love my brother Jeff Chester. We always joke about Chester had a tremendous song. You don't love your neighbor, you don't love God. They hated him. They hated him. Here's something and I'll leave this with you. We need to be very, very careful. Let me back up. God takes our words very seriously Right? We need to be very careful in our speech what we say. Jesus said that every idle word that a man speaketh, he's going to be held accountable for. So Things we say we need to watch. I want to advise you, don't ever say this about anybody. Ever. I hate her. I hate him. They may be difficult, they may be unpleasant, they may not be the nicest person on the planet. But my attitude towards them is going to be the result of the condition of my heart, not their behavior. And the brothers hated Joseph, a deep-seated hater. We're going to look here a little bit later how it played out. So the conspiracy, see, they saw him coming, they got their heads together, they made a decision, we're crossing the line. No going back, we're gonna slay him. And we'll see what comes of his dream. We don't care what God said. We don't care what God's will is. I don't think they even thought about daddy. They were so consumed with their self-love and their hatred. Father, I pray you'd help us to not hate anybody ever for any reason. Lord, we want to hate evil, sin itself. But Lord, we want our hearts to be right. We want the fruit of the Holy Spirit to be Born out in our lives as believers. And so we ask that you would help us to keep our hearts and Lord to yield our lives to you and let you fill us and love through us. That the love of God would be shed abroad in our hearts. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I need to pay close attention to my heart, the condition of my heart? I don't want to let that thing get loose and take over. Any like that? Uplifted hand. I had to do business with God preparing this. Lord help me. Lord help me. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen