Number 50. And uh verse number 19 is kind of where we part. We're we're at the end of Joseph's life, we're making our working our way through his life, and we're coming down to his final years. And um his brothers through a messenger approach him as we've already looked at and uh told him a lie and said that their daddy had told them that He needed to forgive them for what they did and and it broke his heart. And if you notice there if you remember we studied it, he he wept when they did this and um it hurt him that they would think that he would hold uh withhold forgiveness and hold a grudge and and that he might even remotely be a chance of him taking vengeance on him And uh and so we've looked at, we've studied his character, his tremendous character, a man of character, uh his integrity stands out, and these are all interrelated, his character is integrity his faithfulness. He just stayed faithful. Uh didn't matter what his circumstances were, it didn't matter uh how he was treated or mistreated. Uh at the top of the ladder, he was just as faithful to the Lord as he was at the bottom rung. And uh just a tremendous, tremendous testimony And there's a few people through Scripture that just have outstanding testimonies. Some have some flaws in there, and their testimonies are stained, but Joseph is one of those that is just exceptional. Now we're, as I said, we're getting to the end of his life, and we've looked at this matter of him forgiving his brothers. Which I don't know about you, but in my mind, that that is profound, uh, his response to the And so what I'm doing, and I started this last week, I just want to park here at verse 19 And I want to talk about forgiveness. I think this is a great place to glean from Joseph his forgiveness to his brothers, his family. And then some lessons for us. Notice verse 19 there. It says, And Joseph said unto them his brothers, fear not. And he makes this statement. And this is This helps us understand why he could so completely and sincerely forgive his brothers. He says, am I in the place of God? And the answer to that is what? No, he's not in the place of God. And, you know, we're I'm probably going to be a little repetitious for the next couple weeks, but when we withhold forgiveness from someone, Family, co-worker, whatever, whatever, whoever it may be, what we're doing is we're putting ourselves in the place of God. I'm putting myself as judge. I'm putting myself as the one that determines whether forgiveness is going to be doled out or not. And Joseph said, I'm not going to do that. I'm not in that position. I'm not going to do that So, Joseph's forgiveness. Let's pray, and we'll look at another aspect of this tonight. Father in heaven, I thank you for the testimony of Joseph, and what an example, what a challenge for us. And I pray as we settle in here and take some time and study the Bible teaching on forgiveness, I pray it'd be more than just a lesson in Milo, heart, and life, and all of us as a church. I pray it would be a challenge to us, and we take it to heart. And we just determine, Lord, Holy Spirit, help us, just determine. And we're going to do what the Bible says, and we're going to trust you, and we're going to respond as your word instructs us. So fill me with your spirit, is my prayer. I ask that you'd help me tonight. I yield myself to you and pray that you would uh apply these thoughts and these scriptures to our hearts and lives. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. You remember we pointed out last week. Have several points we're going to look at, and it's going to be a week another week at least, maybe two. But uh we pointed out last week that it takes faith. Uh faith is necessary for forgiveness And um Joseph had learned that God had a plan and God had a purpose and all the injustice, all the mistreatment he experienced, all the hatred towards him uh the hateful things said, the accusations made, all this, uh Joseph was able to look beyond that by faith And see that God had a plan, God was working. Verse number 20 there is a classic passage in Scripture. He says, But as for you, ye thought evil against me, but God meant it unto good, to bring to pass as it is this day, to save much people alive. He recognized that God allowed them to treat him the way he did God could have intervened. Do you agree with me? God could have intervened and kept them from doing any of this. God could have intervened there with Potiphar's wife and all of that. He could have intervened and kept her from doing, but he didn't He let them say these hateful things. He let them do these hateful things. He let them make these false accusations and all this injustice. God allowed all of that because he had a plan. He had a purpose And Joseph was able to, at least at one point, he came to the point where he was able to see, wait a minute, God is behind all this. And that is a huge act of faith If I can go through some sort of injustice, if I can be treated in an unfair, unkind way, and yet be able to see beyond that and say, God, you've allowed this I recognize your sovereignty behind us, and Lord, I'm just going to trust you. And I'm not going to put take things in my hands I'm not gonna uh be uh hateful, I'm not gonna get bitter, I'm not gonna respond with unforgiveness and vengeance. I'm gonna trust you. And so uh a key part, and I think the starting point for you and I as believers On this matter of forgiveness, and um we're going to talk about this a little more at length later on, but I think we all agree forgiving sometimes is very, very difficult In fact, I want to suggest in some circumstances, humanly, it's almost impossible. But if we trust God, if we put our faith in God and we see God's hand, God enables us to do that which is right and that which he uh wants us to do by faith. By faith. So that's a framework. That's the starting point, I believe. Then we started, we touched on this last week. I want to expound on it now The foundation of forgiveness. Alright, I gotta have faith in God. I've got to see God's hand in my life, what he's allowing, what he's doing. I gotta see that But now, what is the basis, the foundation or the basis of my forgiving another person? Why would I do that? Why would I forgive, why would Joseph forgive his brothers for what they did? There's a basis to it. Now if you remember, last week I suggested There's a twofold basis or foundation for us forgiving others. One is the Word of God, and that's our authority, right or wrong We're a Baptist church, and uh any uh Bible-believing church, any church that understands the Bible teaching on the Bible recognizes that this book is our authority And so the foundation, the basis of me forgiving someone, is because God's Word tells me to And that's my authority. How many folks here, when your kids were growing up, you would tell them to do something, and you expected them to do what you said simply because you told them to? Right? That's reasonable. That's rational. And it's the same principle applies to you and I as Christians, as children of God. Would you agree with me? If God tells us to do something, we ought to do it simply because He tells us to And so one of the foundations of me forgiving someone, Joseph forgiving his brothers, or whatever scenario we want to come up with. One of the basis of that is simply because the Bible teaches that I should. The Bible instructs me to do that. And any any rational Christian I believe would want to obey God and do what He says. So the Bible is our uh uh is uh A foundation, that two-fold foundation, the Word of God. Then I suggested this, and this is where we're going to look at a little more in depth, is not just the Word of God, but the love of God is a basis, a foundation for us for giving. Now, here's where I'd like, if you would, go to Matthew chapter 18. And we're going to spend the rest of our time talking about this from Matthew chapter 18. I want to refer to a couple other New Testament passages. But uh Matthew chapter 18. And again, I just want to take Joseph's forgiveness of his brothers, this point in our study, just park here a little bit. And do a little bit more thorough study on what the Bible says about forgiving others. Matthew chapter 18. I want to begin reading in verse number 23 I'm going to read down through the end of the chapter. So it's a little lengthy, and we may not get through it all tonight, but we'll look at some of this at least. Verse 21, and we referenced this last week. It says, Then came Peter unto him, the Lord Jesus, of course, and said, Lord, how oft Shall my brother sin against me and I forgive him till seven times? And again, uh we said this last week, I'll repeat it now. I think Peter was being very Uh very uh generous in his thinking. Man, surely the Lord will be impressed. I'll forgive somebody seven times And then of course the Lord answers them with that classic statement. Jesus saith unto him, I say not unto thee until seven times, but until what? 70 times 7. Now I want to reiterate here. The Lord is not saying keep count. Get you a ledger and keep count. That is, you're missing the point. I had somebody tell me one time, you forgive 490 times, then it's over. I said, you missed the point of this of this what the Lord's statement here. He's saying, don't keep track, don't keep count. Then he goes on, and here's where it gets, this is where I think it strikes home. The Lord gives this illustration. That clarifies for us so distinctly the basis of us forgiving others. Now think about this as we read through here. Look at verse 23. Now he's building on his statement he just made to Peter. Therefore is the kingdom of heaven likened unto a certain king. Which would take account of his servants. I think he hired Elon Musk and Doge to do an audit of his finances. That's the impression I get. Look at this. And when he had begun when he had begun to reckon, there's that auditing. One was brought unto him which owed him how much? Ten thousand cows. We'll come back to that. But for as much as he had not to pay, he owed 10,000. He doesn't have a penny His Lord commanded him to be sold, and his wife and children, and all that he had, and payment to be made. And the sermon therefore fell down. He collapsed. He worshipped them, saying, Lord, have patience with me. I will pay thee all. And then that Lord of the Servant was moved with what? Compassion. I circled that word. I underlined and circled that word. That's a key word in forgiveness. In this whole illustration, this whole statement of the Lord. That's a key word. Had compassion and loosed him, and look at this, forgave him the debt. Now I'm hoping by the time I'm done this study, we'll appreciate that statement there a lot more than what we do just reading it. But the same servant went out and found one of his fellow servants which owed him what? A hundred pence. That might not mean much. It's well here in a little bit, I think. And he laid his hands on him and took him by the throat. I mean, he's choking the guy. Pay me that thou owest. Let me ask the question. I'm a little ahead of myself, but if he got that hundred pence from his fellow servant, would that pay off his debt to the king? No. Wouldn't he even scratch the surface And his fellow servant, verse 29, fell down at his feet, same response that this fellow did for the king. And besought him, saying, have patience with me, and I will pay thee all, quoted him verbatim And he what? He would not. But went and cast him in the prison till he should pay the debt. So when his fellow servants saw what was done, they were very sorry. And they came and told unto their Lord, that's the king, that he owed this massive amount to. Told their Lord all that was done. Then the Lord, after he had called him and said unto him, O thou wicked servant I forgave thee all that debt because thou desirest me. Shouldest not thou also have had compassion? on thy fellow servant, even as I had pity on thee. And his Lord was wroth, and delivered him to the tormentors, until he would pay all that was due unto him Now that's a significant statement. Here in a little bit, I think you'll appreciate that demand a whole lot more So like now Jesus makes the application. There's his illustration. He made the statement 70 times 7. Don't keep track. Just forgive. And he gives this illustration, and now he makes application in verse number 35. So likewise, in the same way Shall my heavenly Father do also unto you if ye from your hearts forgive not everyone his brother their trespasses? So the foundation, the basis of our forgiveness for others is God's love, compassionate forgiveness of us. And that is the motivating factor to us. Forgiving, and we'll look at this here a little bit in a little more detail, but let me make a few statements. Forgiving someone isn't just doing them a favor. Okay, I'll do you a favor, I'll forgive you. Maybe some of us have said this or had it said to us. All right, listen, okay, I'll forgive you this time. Right? That's doing them a favor. For a believer, for a child of God, for a Christian, forgiving another person is not doing that person a favor. Forgiving another person is obedience to God on my part. It's a world of difference. My motive is just to do them a favor, but remember, you owe me now. That is not biblical Christian forgiveness rooted on the love and compassion forgiveness of God for me. That's doing somebody a favor. That's me in charge. But when I when I forgive someone in obedience to God, who's the one in charge? It's God. I'm submitting to God and saying, okay, yes, I'll forgive. Keep your place here. I told you we'd jump around here in the New Testament a little bit. Come over to Ephesians. And some of you maybe know where I'm going with this, but Ephesians chapter 4, and all the way at the end of the chapter, Ephesians 4, all the way at the end of the last several verses here, beginning in verse 30. Now notice, this is interesting when you put this together in a passage and take these verses in context. It says, and grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby ye are sealed unto the day of redemption. Did you notice we can grieve the Holy Spirit of God? There's something we and I can say and do that will grieve God's Holy Spirit, that dwells within us That was part of creation, part of the Godhead. We can grieve him. Now notice what it is that grieves the Holy Spirit. Grie not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby you're sealed unto redemption. Let all, I circled the word all, not some, let all bitterness And wrath and anger and clamor, that's fussing and fighting and carrying on, clamor, and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice. And he's continuing the thought, these are the things that grieve the Holy Spirit. And be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted. What? Forgiving one another, next two words, vitally important, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. Let me ask you a question. He says, be ye kind. Is it wrong to be unkind to people? Well, do you agree with me? It's sinful to be unkind to people. Yes. And then he says, tenderhearted. Would it be wrong and sinful to be hard-hearted? Yeah, the Bible talks a lot about the stiff neck and the hard heart. Oh, somebody says, well, preacher, I try to be kind to folks, and I don't see myself as hard-hearted, but I'm not going to forgive them for that. Wait a minute, the very next word is forgiving one another. If it's sin to be unkind, then it's sin to not forgive. Right or wrong. He's all grieved the Holy Spirit. If it grieves the Holy Spirit for me to be hard hearted and stiff-necked And not tenderhearted, then it is also to forgive. Come over to Colossians, if you would, chapter 3. Colossians chapter 3, just a few pages. Ephesians, Philippians, you get to Colossians, and look with me if you would at chapter 3 and verse number 12. Colossians 3 and verse 12. Put on, therefore, as the elect of God, he's talking about believers. Says, as the elect, as a Christian, I want you to do this, be like a Christian, be Christian about this Holy and beloved, vows of mercies, kindness, humbleness of mind Meekness, long suffering. Now look at this. Forbearing one another, that means putting up with one another. And help me. Forgiving one another. If any man has a quarrel against any, even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye. Do you see the foundation of forgiveness here? The basis of it, it's not me doing somebody a favor, it's not the degree of how badly they treat mistreated me. The basis of this, one, is obedience to God. Number two, God has been so compassionate. God has been so forgiving to me. God has been so tender-hearted and long-suffering and forbearing with me. He goes, All right, in that same way, you extend forgiveness to others. Forgiving one who has wronged me is not a suggestion, it's a command. And forgiveness in the life of a believer. Forgiveness from the heart of a believer for somebody who has wronged that believer, what you're doing, what we're doing when we do that, we're reflecting the character of God. And we're reflecting that out of our life. Now this what this doesn't this wasn't the exact same situation. But we talked Sunday about Peter and John. It says they took note that they had been with Jesus. There was something about them that reflected The Lord Jesus Christ that portrayed the character of Jesus Christ. And what I'm suggesting to you, when we forgive people When we're tender-hearted and we're kind and we forgive them as described here in our authority, when I'm doing that, I am reflecting the character of Jesus Christ. You go through the gospels and you see how often he would forgive people that no one else would forgive them Everyone else wanted them to be judged. Everyone else wanted them to be condemned. Everyone else said that they were no good. They don't deserve to be forgiven. And Jesus would go and forgive them. Can you think of any illustrations? Woman at the wa or uh the woman taken in adultery. Right? What was the Pharisees' conclusion that she was how she should be treated? Stone her! That's not forgiveness. The Lord says, all right, you guys want a stoner? Of course I'm putting my own words. Then the f one that doesn't have any sin, you throw it first. You that don't have sin, you're the one that can withhold forgiveness from her. If you've got sin in your life, then you have no right to withhold forgiveness from her. See the basis? What we're forgiven, the basis of our forgiveness for others is God's tremendous compassion, forgiveness for us. Now, he tells us in his word to do it, so that ought to be enough, but then he does it to us. He not just instructs us, we experience his forgiveness. How many people here have experienced the forgiveness of the Lord Jesus Christ? Woo! And that's something. He goes, okay, that's the basis. That's the foundation. That's the pattern, the model for you to go and forgive others. Forgiveness reflects the character of God. And with that, if that's true, and obviously it is, then unforgiveness would be ungodliness. Unforgiveness, I'm studying the scriptures on forgiveness here, and I'm coming to the conclusion that unforgiveness is just as condemned by God as drunkenness is How many people agree with me it'd be bad if folks come Christians, members of Mount Lake come to church drunk? That'd be bad. We've had people here, uh visitors come in and they were a little uh buzzed, you know, and we love 'em, we try and put them. But, you know, if the deacons start coming in drunk, we got a problem, amen. Sunday school teachers, pastor Well, if I I'm studying this and I'm coming to the conclusion that unforgiveness is just condemned by God, is condemned by God just as much as drunkenness. Do we ever have Christians come to church that harbor unforgiveness in their heart? Why w where's consistency here? I'm studying it, adultery. It's condemned by God, and I'm seeing unforgiveness. If I I'm studying on the Bible teaching unforgiveness, I'm finding unforgiveness is condemned by God just as much as adultery is Witchcraft. And so our basis, the point I'm making, I want to develop here this evening is the basis, the foundation of us forgiving others Is God's compassion and forgiveness to us. That's the basis, that's the foundation, that's the starting point of me forgiving others. Now, would you agree with me? That takes faith It's by faith I understand I'm forgiven. I've experienced that by faith. And so by faith I extend that forgiveness to family, neighbors, co-workers, whatever. Neighbors. Now, come back to Matthew if you would. I want to look at this story that the Lord tells about this king and his servant. Oh, by the way, let me back up here. Before we get into the details here, go to the end of Matthew 18. And we touched on this. This is the Lord's application. I'm going to try and maybe give application before we look at the details. Verse 35, he says, So likewise shall my heavenly Father do also unto you, if ye from your heart Forgive n uh not forgive not everyone his brother their trespasses. From your heart. Now talk to me a little bit. What what does he mean when he says from your heart forgive for forgive them? Okay, from our inner man or how how else do you think? Hm? Truly. Uh maybe sincerely. Yeah. I think what he's saying is uh f be genuine in it. As opposed to giving lip service. Now maybe some of us are guilty of this. Sometimes maybe we'll say, oh, I forgive you, but in our heart, it's like, uh-uh. And what happens if I forg if I don't forgive from my heart, that unforgiveness in my heart is going to turn into what? Hardness of heart and bitterness and anger. And so he says, listen, you need to forgive, and you need to do it from your heart. You need to be sincere, not just lip service. And not grudgingly. Oh, if I have to, God. Forgiveness from the heart. I I jotted four thoughts down about forgiving from the heart Might want to jot these down. I think they're they'd be helpful. Forgiveness from a heart. If I from my heart forgive someone like the Lord instructs us to here, I put down number one I will deliberately refuse to hold guilt over the head of the offender I'm not going to, if I from my heart forgive them, I'm not going to constantly be holding that guilt over their head. Yeah, I forgave you, but you did this. You, oh yeah, well you and and just constantly keeping them in a state of, I've forgiven you, but try and do everything I can to make them feel guilty every way I can. That is not forgiveness from the heart. Deliberately refusing to hold uh uh if I forgive from the heart, I will deliberately refuse to hold guilt over the head of the offender. Number two, I put this down It puts an end to bitterness and lays aside anger. If I from my heart forgive someone, that'll kill the bitterness. And I can lay aside anger, and we we don't have time to go to all these, but Ephesians and Colossians both say the passages just before what we read here a little bit ago. Say, put away put off all anger, wrath, malice, bitterness. Put it all off. And forgiveness, genuine from the heart forgiveness will put an end to bitterness and it'll enable me to lay aside that anger. Number three. Forgiveness from the heart, number three, refuses to dwell on the offense Now the first one is I'm holding it over their head. I'm trying to do everything I can to make them continually feel guilty about what they did or didn't do. Genuine forgiveness doesn't do that What I'm talking about here, number three, is I don't keep dwelling on it over and over and over in my mind keep uh uh just rehashing it is the phrase I'm trying over and over and over. I mean people can do that for years and years and decades Now nothing outward. They're doing what they're supposed to do outwardly. But in their mind, they just continually rehash something that was said, something that was done, something that wasn't done. Something that wasn't said. For decades that can go on. And if we do what the Bible says, if we follow God's instructions here on forgiving from the heart, that's going to stop. That's going to be put aside. How many people here think God just dwells on all the sins we committed in the past? He's already forgiven us, but he just dwells on it. Anyone here? No, what does he say? I will remember them no more. It's deliberate. And when when God says he remembers them no more, it means I simply, they are not a factor in my thinking about you anymore. As far as the East is from the West, he's put them away. My sins in the mind of God as a believer, forgiven And cleansed by the blood of Christ, my sins are not a factor in God's relationship with me anymore. They're forgiven. And that's what forgiving from the heart is. Let me reword that. My sins are not a factor in God's thinking about me anymore. They've been pushed aside. And so we forgive from our heart, we refuse to dwell on it. I'm not going to rehash this over and over and over and over for years and years and decades. I'm not going to do it I've forgiven. Number four, when I forgive, forgiveness from the heart forgives as freely as I desire to be forgiven. I want God to forgive me. I don't want God to hold my sins against me. Am I alone or is there anybody else? I don't want God to hold my sins against me. Phew. And he says, alright, then you follow my pattern and I won't and don't hold people's sins against them. Forgive as freely as God's forgiven you as freely. And so, from your heart, very key statement here A vital part, vital aspect of genuine forgiveness is forgiving, not lip service, but sincere. Genuine. And it's based upon the Lord's sincere, genuine, complete forgiveness of me. Now, let's look at this story he tells. I I find this fascinating. He says, uh, till 70 times seven, he says to Peter, and then he illustrates it. And he talks about this kingdom. Verse 23. There is a therefore is the kingdom of heaven likened unto a certain king. And he takes account, he does this audit, and lo and behold, he's going through his books, and one of his servants Owes him 10,000 talents. This, as you're going to see here in a moment, is an impossible debt to repay. 10,000 balance, it was impossible for this man to ever in his lifetime pay this step back. A talent, I did a little research, a talent is of the largest, was at that point the largest measurement of money in existence. There was no measurement of money larger than a talent. A talent was worth, one talent was worth six thousand pence. Now, a pence for a soldier, a pence was one day's wage. So we could say whatever your average day's wage is That's what one pence was, whatever your d a day's wage. This guy owed ten thousand Talents, and each talent was 6,000 pence. Oh, I I got ahead of myself. Did I confuse you there? Yeah, I got out of line here. Let me back up Stop the tape. Rewind. A talent, this guy owes 10,000 talents. One talent is worth 6,000 pence. I said that, right? One pence is a day's wage. So what that means is this guy owed Seventeen thousand years uh uh uh let me back up, I'm sorry. This guy owes seventeen years worth of wages. 17 years Okay, 10,000 talents. Each talent's 6,000 pence. One pence is a day's wage. So he owes about 17 years' worth of wages, one talent. I feel I'm confusing myself here right now. Alright, so one talent, 6,000 pence, one pence is a day's wage. So that's 17 years wages for one talent. One talent. Seventeen years wages for one talent. He owes ten thousand talents. That's seventeen thousand years of wages. Is everybody with me? I feel like I just boggled that whole thing. Ten thousand talents. Each talent six thousand six thousand Pence, one pence is a day's wage. That means one talent is about 17 years worth of wages. He owed 10,000. That's 17,000 years wages. Would you agree with me? That'd be tough to repay Seventeen. What you make for seventeen years is what this guy owed. Um that would come out to Either one man, seventeen years wages for one man, or seventeen thousand years for one man to pay, or uh seven It's a lot, all right. I had this all figured out in my study beautifully. It was wonderful So 10,000 talents equals, all right, here we go. 10,000 talents is 17 years wages. For 10,000 soldiers, or 17,000 years for one man. Here's my point. It's utterly hopeless All right, said all that to say this. It's utterly hopeless. This guy is never, ever, ever going to be able to pay this debt back. Now look with me, if you would, at verse number 26. The servant, therefore, He found out what he owed, that he got caught. Obviously there was embezzlement here. You don't accidentally go 17 years wages in debt The servant, therefore, when he found out he got caught, his family and him were going to be sold. He's going to be in prison until he pays this back, and he knows It's never going to happen. He could 17 lifetimes, he's not going to pay this back. Look how he responds, verse 26. The servant therefore fell down. In other words, he collapsed. When he found out what he owed, in total despair, he just collapsed. And it says he worshiped him. And I think what is re what the Lord is telling us here, this guy, in absolute despair, hopelessness, collapses at the feet of this king. And basically says, you have total authority over me. That's what worship is. You have total authority over me. I have no argument. There's nothing I can do. There is nothing. And then he makes this pitiful plea Lord, have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. Is he going to be able to pay this all back? No. He's desperate. He's devastated. Lord, I'll pay you all. And the king knows. There's no way in the world he's paying this back. Then the Lord of that servant was moved with compassion and loosed him and forgave him. He faced immediate and lifelong punishment. Verse 25, he's never paying this back, he's going to prison, his wife, his kids, they're never getting out. But he received, I put this down, he received unbelievable mercy and forgiveness. Now look at what look at what the king says, the Lord of that servant. He loosed him, no consequences. No judgment, no punishment. He loosed him and forgave him the debt. Now, I want you to look carefully here and notice what is not part of this deal. Notice what he doesn't say. He's not going to prison His wife isn't going to prison, his kids aren't going to prison, he loosed them. Alright, there's no consequence there. Now, as far as the debt is concerned, he doesn't say a word about a payment plan He doesn't say, listen, I know you'll never be able to pay this all back, but I want ten percent. You give me so much a week, so much a month, or whatever, for the rest of your life, and we'll minimize the damage And uh we I want some sort of payment plan. None of that, no payment plan. In other words, the king took this debt on himself. He says, I'm going to swallow the loss. I'm going to take this debt on myself. None of it is going to be conveyed to you. You're completely loosed, completely debt-free, completely forgiven. What does that sound like? Taking his debt on himself and suffering the debt himself. What does that sound like? Sounds like what the Lord Jesus Christ did for us, right or wrong? Yes. Our debt to the Lord was overwhelming. We can go to hell for all eternity, never pay it off. We'll be there forever. And the Lord says, all right, I'll take that wages that you owe me for your sin. I'll take the loss myself. You go free. And no payment plan. We don't have to live it or we'll lose it. Right? It's no payment plan. Completely forgiven. Freely. Fully. Completely. This is exactly what was described here is exactly what the Lord Jesus Christ has done for us. Now look at this guy's response to the other fellow, and I'll go through this quickly now. But the same servant, this one guy, that just collapsed Before this guy and was given the deal of a lifetime, went out and found one of his servants, which owed him a hundred pence. And laid hands on him, took him by the throat, choked him, and said, Pay me what thou owest. His fellow servant does the same thing, collapsed, falls at his feet. This su begs him, besought means to beg, plead pitifully, saying, have patience with me, I'll pay thee all. Now a hundred pens, that's a hundred days' wages. So, you know, could that be paid over time? Sure. I mean it's a lot, but you could do it And he would not. He wouldn't even set up a payment plan. He wouldn't he wouldn't cooperate with the guy at all. Wait and cast him into prison until he should pay the debt You could write in the margin of your Bible, unforgiveness. That is a classic picture of a Christian who is unforgiving to someone else. That is exactly what the Lord's illustrating. What happens when a Christian refuses to forgive someone else? Well, one, it hurts other people. It hurts innocent people. Look at verse 31 So when his fellow servants saw what was done, that would be his family, other people that worked for the king, other people around them that knew him. They were very what? They were sorry. They were hurt. This upset them. Didn't bring joy to their life. It didn't bless them. It hurt them. When a Christian who is forgiven so much by God and does not forgive another, it hurts people. Others, that word they were very sorry, means they were extremely grieved by this. And by the way, when you and I withhold forgiveness from someone, whoever it may be, our family sufferers We're adults here, but most of us I think have kids. Our kids are hurt when mom or dad do not forgive, when they withhold forgiveness, when they hold on to unforgiveness It affects our families. It affects a church. Unforgiveness in a church will affect the church. When a church knows there are people in the church that are withholding forgiveness, that are unforgiving to others inside or out the church, that church is affected. It's very sorry. It hurts others. Never, unforgiveness has never been a blessing to a family or a church or a community. Never has it brought blessings or joy It only brings grief and sorrow. I wonder, I wrote this down, I wonder how many people have ended up in hell. Because of a Christian being unforgiven towards someone else, grieved the Spirit of God, quenched the Spirit of God, people were hurt by that and say, I don't want nothing to do with that type of religion If that's what Christianity is, then I don't want nothing to do with it. If that's what Christianity produces, I don't want nothing to do with it. If that's how Christians respond to people that do them wrong, then I don't want nothing to do with it The world does that. That's what the world does. Unforgiveness of one will affect many others. One person Who withholds forgiveness, has unforgiveness in her heart, affects a lot of people all around. That's what happened right here. You see it exactly right there on the pages of Scripture. So it hurts innocent people, but I put this down, it also torments the heart. Look at verse 32. Then his Lord, after that he had called him, this is the king that forgave this guy, he hears about it. These people that were very sorry went and told him what happened. And his Lord, after that he had called him, said unto him, O thou, look at the term he uses. What? Wicked servant. Good night. You want to know what God's Thought about an unforgiving Christian is right there. You have it in black and white. I forgave you all that debt because you desire me. Shouldest not thou also have compassion on thy fellow servant, even as I had pity on thee? Does the king have an argument? Yes or no? Yeah, he does. And his Lord was wroth and delivered him, I underscored that next word, delivered him to the what? Tormentors. This guy was tormented. Until he should pay all that was due him. Question, when is this guy gonna pay all that's due him? Never. He's tormented the rest of his life. Unforgiveness hurts innocent people around us, but it torments. Somebody put it this way. I don't remember where I heard this. Years ago, somebody said unforgiveness is battery acid on the soul of the one who will not forgive Anger, frustration, depression is all the result of a Christian Not forgiving someone that has sinned against them. Oh, we want God to forgive us. I desire, oh Lord, I'm calling on you, forgive me. I confess my sin, forgive me. I'm not forgiving you Torment. Alright, I'll end with this. Come over to Second Corinthians chapter two And second Corinthians chapter two. And uh verse I want to start in verse number ten. Now we know 1 Corinthians There was a mess. In the church at Corinth, there was a fella, 2 Corinthians chapter 10, there was a fella in the church at Corinth that Paul addressed in his first letter. This fella, and we referenced it recently, but this fella, uh uh unbelievably, but this fella was living in adultery with his stepmother Alright? Would you agree? Bad. Worse yet, the church was fine with it. Oh yeah. He's a great guy. And Paul confronts them and tells them, listen, don't have fellowship with this guy. You need to deal with this And so lo and behold, they do. The church confronts this guy, they deal with it, and we're not given the details how all they went about it, but we know from 2 Corinthians they did. They confronted this guy. And lo and behold, he got right. He made things right with God. He humbled himself. He confessed his sin. He forsook it, repented, got things right. Now Paul was writing to the church about this guy who made things right. And look what he says in verse number 10 of 2 Corinthians 2. Let me turn there. He says, to whom ye forgive anything, I forgive also. So he's instructed them, you need to forgive this guy. Apparently the church was Just beating this guy up. He made things right. He confessed it and he says, listen, you need to forgive this guy. Whom ye forgive anything, I forgive also. For if I forgive anything to whom I forgave it for your sakes Forgave I it in the person of Christ. So he's talking about this guy. He says, we need to forgive him. Then look at the caution he gives in verse 11. Lest, in other words, if you don't. Satan should get a what? Advantage of us He's telling the church, if you hold on to unforgiveness, if you refuse to forgive this guy, you're giving Satan an advantage. You could write in the Marjorie Bible, that word advantage means the high ground. It's a military term. If the military has the high ground, they have what? They have an advantage of shooting down on the enemy. And he says, all you're doing by harboring unforgiveness in the church In your home, in the workplace, in the neighborhood, somebody you will not forgive them. You're bitter, you're you're holding on, hardening your heart against them. He says, all you're doing It's giving devil a high road in your home, in your testimony, in the workplace, in the church. I don't know about you. I don't want the devil to have the high ground in the church. I don't want him up there shooting down on us. Unforgiveness gives Satan an advantage in my own life. I'm leaving the door open for him. He can just come right in. I give him the advantage in my home, in my church. Study this. I want to challenge you. Study this sometime. Some of Jesus' harshest rebukes were for those who were unforgiving. I mean, he just whoa. We need we need uh follow with me now. We need to be forgiven, right? I need to be forgiven by my God, right or wrong? Yes. That is the core of my whole re re relationship with my creator is I'm forgiven. I need to have that because I have no relationship. I have no salvation. I am nothing if I'm not forgiven by God. So we need to be forgiven. Equally so, we need to be forgiving. Right? We need to be forgiven, we need to be forgiving. I know this I don't mean this to come across as harsh as it sounds, but it is serious. The greatest hypocrisy in the world My understandings of what the Bible teaches about this, the greatest hypocrisy in the world is a Christian. Who will gladly and freely receive overwhelming forgiveness from Christ, just like that servant did from the king. He forgives me overwhelmingly And I want it and I'm grateful for it and I I need it. And then to turn around and withhold forgiveness from another person. That to me is about the epitome of hypocrisy in the life of a Christian. I'll take it, but I ain't giving it. Right? Joseph gave it. Freely forgave him. Freely forgave him. Now I'm telling you, I don't know, I can't speak for Joseph, but in my shoes that would be tough. That would have been hard, right or wrong. Sometimes for and we're going to look at this, sometimes forgiveness is very, very difficult, but he had faith in God He said, God, I'm not going to go by my rationale, I'm not going to go by my own understanding. I'm going to trust you. You have a plan, you had a plan. I'm going to trust you and do what you say. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to learn from this. Spending quite a bit of time. Lord, it just seems like forgiveness is such a rare commodity in our world anymore. And it's uh even in our Christian circles, forgiveness uh just seems like to be a key missing ingredient. And I pray you'd restore forgiveness to our hearts. Help us to trust you. Help us to have faith in you, and your Holy Spirit will enable us from our hearts. To forgive, be forgiven. And we thank you, Lord. We fall before you and thank you for your forgiveness for us. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many how many tonight I don't know how this may have struck home for us, but I wonder tonight, so I'm going to say, preacher, you know, I need to work on this forgiveness matter. This struck home with me. And I need that. We live in a fallen world. We need to forgive one another. We're all sinners just running into each other all the time. And God forgives us so much. Any others, preacher, this this I I need this. I need God to help me with this. Sure. Maybe an altar would be a good place. Just come and ask God to help and make some decisions. Father, bless. Now the invitation is in Jesus' name. Amen.