And uh I have a different title for the message, Jamie. I meant to tell you, I've changed the title to Joseph in jail. And so if you can maybe make note of that on when we put it on the archive there. Joseph in jail, Genesis 39, and the last three verses, beginning in verse number 20. The Bible says, and Joseph's master, who was Joseph's master here? Potiphar. Joseph's master took him and put him into the prisons A place where the king's prisoners are bound. Now we mentioned that before. That's significant. The Bible tells us that for a reason and I'm not going to get in tonight, but just a quick reminder. This was the prison where like political prisoners were go. This wasn't your high, this uh what do you what do you call it where the dangerous ones are, not high. Maximum security. That's not what he would have been in. He's not in with murderers, most likely not in with murderers and and uh that type of folks. He's more a political This is where uh folks that uh of that caliber would be in. So that's significant knowing Joseph's future. And so anyway, put him in the prison, a place where the king's prisoners were bound, and he was there in the prison. And the reason being was Potiphar's wife's false accusation against him No trial, no jury, just immediately convicted, declared guilty by Potiphar and put in prison. And it goes on and says, verse 21, but the Lord was with Joseph and showed him mercy and gave him favor in the sight of the keeper of the prison And the keeper of the prison committed to Joseph's hand all the prisoners that were in the prison. And whatsoever they did there, he was the doer of it. And the keeper of the prison looked not to anything that was under his hand. Have we heard that before somewhere? That was Potiphar. He trusted Joseph so completely, he said, I'm not going to check the books. You don't have to give an account to me. I completely trust you. And lo and behold, in the prison Joseph finds himself in the same situation. So we'll look at that probably another week. Because uh the keeper of the prison looked not to anything that was under his hand, because the Lord was with him And that which he did, the Lord made it to prosper. So Joseph in prison, let's pray together. Father in heaven, we come to you this evening with our Bibles open, and we ask, dear Lord, That you would speak to our hearts, that you would challenge our faith. And God, I pray that you would help us to understand. Maybe tonight, Lord, we could understand a little clearer or maybe with a little more confidence, why you allow things into our lives that are so unpleasant and seem so unfair And help us to learn from Joseph and how he responded, what he went through and how he responded. So I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit again tonight, Lord. And uh speak to our hearts and uh uh have your way, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. So we've been saying God had a plan for Joseph's life. God's plan for Joseph's life was for him to be number two uh in the house of Pharaoh and to implement policies, I guess you could say, that would save millions of people's lives It's a future famine coming. They don't know anything about this that at this point. It's a future famine coming. God's going to use Joseph to provide and organize so that millions uh uh millions of lives are going to be saved. uh because of Joseph's leadership. But we're not there yet. That's God's plan. So there's a process. What I'm trying to get to is this. There's a process that has to take place before Joseph is in the position where God's plan can be carried out. And I believe that's a principle in Scripture and we can see it In many, many cases, where God had a plan for somebody, and he kind of reveals it to some extent, like he did Joseph in the dream. And then there's a process that takes place till that plan is fully implemented. And so that's what we're studying the life of Joseph, and that's what God has recorded for us here. He didn't record his early life and a lot of things, but he did the part, the process that's taken place to get him where he needed to be to carry out his plan. God's plan always involves some sort of process. He always has to get us from where we are to where he wants us to be. And part of that is preparation. We often say to young fellows, if they say they're called to preach, I've often told them a call to preach is a call to prepare. There's a preparation time. That preparation time often involves a period of isolation A time where a person is isolated, they're alone, just them and God. And God uses that preparation, that experience to prepare them to be what He wants them to be. Can you think of anybody in the Bible? uh besides Joseph here that had to spend some time alone in their uh before God could use them in any significant way. Or got they spent some time alone, just them and God. Can you think of anybody? Jonah, yeah, down in the well. I didn't think of him, but yeah, that's true. Moses, 40 years in the wilderness. 40 years is a long time. And he's out there by himself. He's on the backside of a desert. And God uses all of that to develop. There was things that Moses needed to have take place in his heart and mind that only an extended period of time isolated could accomplish. And God knew that. Anyone else? Can you think of anyone else? Apostle Paul, when he got saved, and God told him, right, he said, Lord, what will you have me do? He said, You're going to be a witness to the Gentiles. But that didn't take place right overnight. He had at least three years where he's in the Arabian desert, he tells us in Galatians that for at least three years he's alone with Jesus Christ in the wilderness being discipled. I think the Lord did for Paul in that three years in the wilderness what he did for the uh twelve disciples while they were with him. uh during Jesus' earthly ministry. And God trained him. He discipled him. Jesus did. And so he had this three-year period of isolation. Some have suggested Paul's time isolated with the Lord was much longer, but we assume it's three years. Anyone else you can think of? That spent some isolation for God to use them. How about John the Baptist? He was out in the wilderness. He was grew up out there. Then he comes on the scene. So he spent years in the wilderness. I put down Jeremiah. Jeremiah spent a period of time in prison. Now he was already into the ministry, but I'm suggesting that that was not just a mistake. It wasn't just an unfortunate experience I believe God allowed that period when Jeremiah was in prison on several occasions to develop him and strengthen his faith. And make him more usable to God. So a lot of times God's preparation involves a period of time of isolation. We see it here with Joseph. He ends up in prison. Sometimes that preparation for being used of God involves heartache. Sometimes God has to break our heart. to get us into a frame of mind, get us into a mindset that we can see things from his perspective, that we can have some insight into what God is doing. And maybe we can have some empathy for other people that have broken hearts. Can you think of anybody in the Bible that God broke their heart and it's to enable them to be a better servant of the Lord? Who? Hosea, exactly, when his wife left him. And he went through all that. One of the most heart-wrenching accounts in all of Scripture. Anybody else you can think of? Job. In fact it's interesting. Job's whole experience. At the end, Job says, I've heard of thee with the hearing of the ear. He says, Now I see. I think what he was saying was, I knew all these facts about you, God, and he loved the Lord. He was faithful to him. He said, I I heard the hearing, I had all the facts, but now I see and I understand Now I see, Lord, your power, your compassion, your sovereignty, your wisdom. And so God used all of that. I put down David David's heart was broken when Saul turned against him. And he admired his king and he loved his king and he respected his king. And so David's heart was broken. I had Job down, Moses. Moses' first wife left them. If you study it very carefully, she said, a bloody man thou art, and she high-tailed it out of there. And so a broken heart, a heartache, sometimes God breaks our hearts so that we can be more effective in our service for Him or whatnot And then how about physical pain? Sometimes preparation requires God puts us through a period of physical pain to prepare us spiritually and to develop us spiritually. Can you think of anybody that had some physical pain as part of their development? Job, yeah, Job would be one. I'm thinking of another one. Apostle Paul. And we're going to look at this a little bit later, but he had a thorn in the flesh. And God says, no, that's necessary for you to be the caliber of believer. That I need to use you. And so what I'm trying to say is this very seldom, if ever, does God use someone that has not been through the fire. Very seldom does God use someone that hasn't been hurt very deeply. Someone that hasn't been through times of sometimes physical pain I have a little devotional that I read uh every morning. It's called Streams in the Desert. Mrs. Charles Kalman Her husband was a missionary. Her and her husband were missionaries in Israel. It's a fascinating account. And they would go out to uh the little um kibbutzes they call them, these communities farming communities and they'd set up and they'd witness and very effective. And I don't remember what the cause of death was for her husband, but God took Charles Calman uh uh home early And she was left widowed, and her heart was broken, and she was lonely. And that uh this was, you know, they were a team and now he's gone And out of that broken heart and out of that loneliness, she put together 365 daily thoughts, and I tell you, they have been a blessing. to millions and millions and millions of people. Dr. Lee Robertson one time, I asked him, we were we were talking, we were met, and he said, I asked him, I said, what's a good book? He said, Read Strains in the Desert. And that was like 1982, 83, back in there. I've been reading it ever since. And so very seldom does God use someone in any significant way. That does hasn't first been hurt deeply. F. B. Meyer said almost that exact quote. He said, I doubt seriously God has ever used anyone that has not been hurt deeply, that has not been through the fire. Joseph is going through the fire. But God is going to use him in phenomenal ways. And here we are, three, four thousand years later, and we're studying his life and we're learning things from him. And so now we come to this passage here. We are actually beginning what I'm calling the third chapter of Joseph's life. You know, our lives have chapters. How many people can look back over your life and you see turning points where your life was a certain way? And then something took place or a decision was made, and it starts a kind of a new chapter. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And you look back over your life. Of course, salvation for us would be one. I see, up to this point, I see three in the life of Joseph. We've looked at two of them so far. There's more to come. But the first chapter that we looked at, and we didn't spend a lot of time on this, but I call it the pampered son of Jacob. Now we're not told expressly in Scripture that he was pampered, but we get the impression uh by the fact that he was uh definitely the favorite of the boys and the response of the his brothers to him tells me he was probably a pampered Boy, at that before Benjamin, he's the baby, and the babies in the family are always pampered I didn't get any amens or nothing there. But um generally I was the oldest. The oldest ones are the ones that are out front have to take all the all the shots. And the kids that come from behind, they got it easy. So, right, Catherine, I got one person on board with me here. So Joseph, I believe, his first chapter of his life, up to about 17 years old, and again, this is Leathermanism, but I think he was probably pretty pampered. He had it pretty easy. He got the nicest clothes. Yeah, uh he stayed back when they went went out and of course he He got older, he had responsibilities. So that's the first chapter. The second chapter, uh, I see is when he becomes the servant of Potiphar His brothers turn on him, sell him as a slave. He ends up down in Egypt. And we have reason to believe that he was in Potiphar's household for a fairly extended period of time. Maybe five, ten years, some have suggested. And so that's a significant chapter in the life of Joseph. He's tremendously successful. He's tremendous at administrating. that household and earns the respect and the trust of everyone in the house and he catches the eye of Potiphar's wife. And so now we come to a third chapter. And I put it this way, this third chapter is, he's an innocent prisoner in Egypt. When Potiphar's wife lied about him and falsely accused him, and Potiphar throws him in prison, a whole new chapter begins. Everything's changed. Everything is different. And so this man, this young man, some have said he's probably maybe around 27 years old, maybe mid to late 20s. He's a man of impeccable integrity. Nobody can find fault with Joseph's morals, with his convictions, or with his discipline. This guy is impeccable as far as the record goes. And now he's sitting in a prison as a condemned, what would you call him, not a rapist, but an accused of assaulting a woman. That is the exact opposite of what he actually is, and he's sitting in prison. And so he's in a whole new circumstance. Now this is what I want to look at tonight. We're gonna I have three thoughts. We're gonna look at the first two. I want to save the third one for uh to uh to focus on that one just itself. The first thing we're gonna notice, I want to look at is the pain of prison, the pain that he experiences in prison. The second thing we're going to notice tonight, hopefully, is the patience that he has in prison. And then last of all, in another message, we're going to look at God's presence with Joseph in prison. In fact, if you notice there in verse number 21, the very first statement was, but the Lord was with Joseph. That's a significant part of this chapter of his life So let's come back. The pain of prison. The pain of prison. I see three pains that Joseph experiences in prison. The first one is the pain of loneliness. The pain of loneliness. Now, uh praise the Lord, I've never been in prison. Now I look out at the crowd, it looks like probably some of you all the way you look, you probably were. But um, huh? It ain't that bad. Um so but anyway, I would assume that getting thrown in prison as an innocent young man Uh as pure as the driven snow, impeccable integrity, and now you're sitting in a prison I I would assume there would be some loneliness, the pain of loneliness. Now think about it with me. No contact with family. Hasn't for a long time. All he knew until the age of seventeen was his family. Jacob and Rachel, brothers, uh the others part of the family. That's all he knew. And now for ten years he's been in Potiphar's household. He's had no contact with family. I mean just abruptly, under hatred, they're cut off. So then he gets in Potiphar's house and he develops, I'm sure, relationships with the others that are in Potiphar's house. I mean they're interacting. They're working with each other. They get to the point where they trust him completely. And now that's all taken away. And the loneliness that Joseph must have experienced when he's thrown into that prison Any relationship with Potiphar's household is gone. Any no contact with his family for years. He's removed from everything that he's familiar with. And as removed from it as you can possibly get, you talk about out of your comfort zone, Joseph in prison. That is such an irony That a man, Joseph, would end up in prison. And the loneliness that would come along with that. I think, I look at scripture. And in my own life, God will often put his people through periods of loneliness. He'll allow that. He'll put us in that position deliberately, I think, sometimes. And say, why in the world would God make me lonely? Why in the world would God put Joseph in a prison where he's all alone? Well, I think there's lessons to be learned. I think primarily maybe God is teaching Joseph in this chapter of loneliness. Maybe he's teaching them that his relationship with the Lord is far superior than any relationship that you and I can have with other people. Jesus told his disciples, he says, if you want to be my disciple, he says, you need to love the Lord more, and you need to love the Lord, and you need to hate your uh mother, your father, your brother, your sister, your wife, your children, and everybody. You need to love me and hate them. Now what's the Lord saying? Is he saying we should have animosity Towards our family members? Is he saying we should despise them? No, I believe what the Lord was saying is, he's saying, you need to love me so supremely that even if you don't have the love and support of family and friends and co- and uh acquaintances, even if you don't have that, you're completely satisfied, you're completely content in your relationship with me. And if we're not careful, we can put people in the place of the Lord. If we're not careful, we can put a relationship with a person, even a good relationship And we can put that before the Lord. And I tell you, there's a price to pay if we do that. I was listening to Aubrey B. Green it several years ago, I've heard him say this, and you'll hear it every now and then. Uh he'll mention it, not often. But I heard him mention one time that they had lost a boy when he was small. He had died. I don't remember what the circumstances were, but one of their boys had died when they were young. And he made this statement kind of in passing He said, um, he said, I just think that maybe God knew down the road that something would come up in that boy's life, and it was better just to bring him on home before that took place. Um what he was saying was, I think what he was saying was, you know, our relations we can't put people in front of the Lord. He had made the statement, this is what I was trying to get to, he had made the statement that he thought maybe I would have put my son before the Lord. And the Lord didn't want that to happen. And so I believe sometimes God lets us be lonely so that we can learn that if I have a relationship with the Lord like it ought to be, I don't have to be dependent on the relationship with others. Am I making sense? You follow what I'm saying? I don't know if I'm communicating this way I want But our relationship with the Lord is far superior than any other relationship. You say, preacher, my relationship with my spouse ought to be number one, top of the list. I disagree My relationship with the Lord ought to be number one top of the list, and if that's what it ought to be, then my relationship with the spouse can be what it ought to be. And so sometimes God maybe puts someone, maybe put Joseph in this prison of loneliness and teaching Joseph, listen, I'm all you need. I'm the relationship. Let's develop this. Everybody in the world's gonna come and want to be your buddy later on when you're divvying divvying out the corn, keeping people alive. Everybody in the world's gonna want to be your best friend. But I need you to learn right now that I'm number one. Your relationship with me is number one. And so the pain of loneliness. Joseph is learning, I believe, that the Lord is all he needs. Anybody here ever uh anybody here ever go into uh Walmart or you go into a store? Maybe us guys, you go into Bass Pro Shop, and there's something you didn't even know existed before you walked in, and you walk in there and you see it and you say, Oh, I need that. Suddenly. You didn't even know it existed before, completely content. You see it. Oh, I need that. I'm here to tell you most of the stuff that we spend a lot of time and effort and finances on, we really don't need But what we do need is a relationship with the Lord, a walk with God. So, in prison, Joseph, the pain in prison. I notice the pain of loneliness. Number two, I notice the pain of loss. He's lost his family, as far as he knows. As far as he knows, he'll never see him again. It's taken away. It's gone. Uh one of the dearest things in his world was no doubt his relationship with his daddy, and it's gone. He's lost everything he achieved in Potiphar's house Would you agree with me that there must have been in the heart and mind of Joseph a sense of satisfaction when he saw what God had done in that home? through his his uh presence there. I mean he hadn't would have had now I'm not saying proud or boasting But just a real sense of fulfillment. I've worked my way up. This whole place, they trust me, everything is under my hand, my decisions. Run this whole place. There has to be a sense of fulfillment there. There has to be a sense of satisfaction. And now that's taken away. Everything he's worked for, everything he's achieved has been taken away. There's a stain over his name in the household of Potiphar. All that's gone. The loss, the pain of loss. Um what's he learning? What's God teaching him? Uh again, I'm speculating here, but I'm wondering if the Lord isn't teaching him that his relationship with the Lord is far superior than any position or possession that this world has to offer. Everything in Potiphar's house, Joseph had access to. It was his to use. That's all gone. No possessions anymore. No more position. No more head of the household. No more office manager title. It's all gone. And it's just him and God. He doesn't have family. He doesn't have associates. He doesn't have position. He doesn't even have a good name at this point. In Potiphar's house, it's all taken away. All he has is the Lord. I'll tell you what Having nothing in this world and having the Lord, a person that has nothing in this world but has a good standing with God has more than the person that has everything in the world and has no standing with God So God's teaching them, listen, Joseph, maybe this is what he's teaching, Joseph, I'm all you need. You're going to be the second most powerful man in the world, perhaps And before you get there, I want you to learn that I'm all you need, that all that is secondary, all that is incidental, your walk. Your relationship with me is number one top priority necessary. And so he's in prison. The pain of prison, the pain of loneliness, the pain of loss. And then I put a third pain down. I put this one, the pain of affliction. You say it doesn't say anything about him being afflicted there. And by affliction, I mean physical pain. And if you read down through here in Genesis, it doesn't say one word. He's just in the king's prison and where the king's prisoners are. That doesn't say anything about him hurting or suffering. Ah, but if you would, take your Bible and turn with me to Psalms chapter 105 And in Psalms 105, we don't know who the penman is here, but he references Joseph in prison and he gives us some information that we are not given In Genesis chapter 39, Psalms 105, and come down, if you would, to verse number 17. Well, let's back up a little bit. He comes up to verse sixteen. He says, Moreover, he called for a famine upon the land, and he break the whole staff of bread. So he's referencing this coming famine to Egypt. And he says, he sent a man before them, even Joseph. Who was sold for a servant. Alright, we've studied that. We're up to that point. We understand what he's talking about there. We're familiar with that. Now look at verse 18. He tells us something we're not told in Genesis. Whose feet they hurt with fetters. He was laid in iron. Until the time that his word came, the word of the Lord tried him, tested him, put him through affliction. According to that one little statement in verse number 18, we understand that Joseph in prison, it was not a luxury time. He physically suffered. I got looking up some of these words here. The word hurt says they hurt says whose feet they hurt with fetters. The word hurt there means what you think it would, to be physically in pain. It means that the word hurt has the idea of something pressing down very hard, in this case, on his feet, that caused physical pain to him. And you say, what in the world did they press down on his feet? Well, it gives us a little more information. It says, um, whose feet they hurt with fetters. Alright, and the logical question is, what are fetters? Well, I got looking it up, and the word fetters has the idea of braiding something together. Has the idea of binding something up. Fetters. What we think he probably had was iron shackles on his feet Did you ever see a prisoner? Do you ever uh every now and then you go downtown past the courthouse, anybody, and you see them uh ferrying prison prisoners over there? I was down there one time and they had Tom ch uh uh no they didn't, I'm just joking Uh he works at the prison. Listen, you you have to laugh so that people think everybody in the auditorium thinks what I'm saying. Forget that. Ha, thank you, Catherine But uh sometimes you drive down there, you'll see a prisoner. I guess it's if there's a chance, uh there's a risk of escape or running or something, but they will have shackles on their feet. Anyone you know what I'm talking about And they'll have these iron chain, they'll put them on. They can walk, but they can't run away. Uh they used to, maybe they still do. I know they used to do that with horses. At night they would shackle their feet a little bit. I get to hobbles hobble their feet. I guess they still do that maybe. And so so they can't run off. They can maneuver around a little bit, but they can't run off I think that's what he's talking about here. They put shackles on Joseph's feet, iron shackles or fetters to use the Bible term, and they hurt. They were extremely painful The psalmist here, under the inspiration of God, says they hurt his feet with these fetters. So Joseph was experiencing pain. I thought, why in the world would God allow a man of the caliber of Joseph that is so committed to the Lord, so committed to doing what's right, that has repeatedly said A presence of God was with him. Why would he allow these ungodly people that worship false gods and live wicked lives? Why would he allow them to hurt him Here's the question, why does God allow pain? Now I can't answer that in every situation. That question why is uh one that's uh usually impossible to answer when it comes to God. There's some things we know why, but a lot we don't. But I do know sometimes God has a purpose for pain that He has told us. Now, if you would, keep your place here in Psalms, because there's something else I want to notice here in a moment, but come back to the New Testament. 2 Corinthians chapter number 12. And here we have an instance where a fellow, one of God's people, a good man, Paul, is experiencing tremendous pain. And he wants the Lord to take it away, and God says, no. God says, no, I'm going to leave this thorn in your flesh. 2 Corinthians chapter 12. And verse number 7 tells us why this thorn was in his flesh. Now, we're not told what the thorn was. We assume it's not a literal thorn. But whatever it was, a thorn is painful and it's in his flesh, so that tells me it's physically painful. And look at verse 7, 2 Corinthians 12. It says, unless I should be exalted above measure. I put in the margin of my Bible pride. He's talking about lest I become proud. There was, through the abundance of the revelation, there was given unto me a thorn in the flesh, this physically painful. We don't know exactly what it was. And he says, a messenger of Satan to buffet me. In other words, Satan was using this pain to beat up Paul in his mind. Now we're not told how, but I can guess. I can hear Satan whispering in And Paul's here, oh yeah, God loves you, you're doing all this for God, and he allows you to have this pain. What kind of God would do that? Remember, Satan is a slanderer. He slanders God. He questions God. He accuses God. He did it to Adam and Eve. He said, God knows if you ate of that fruit, you'd be just like him. That's why he's not letting you eat it. So Satan's all over Job. He has this physical pain. Now notice, look at, let's read on. He says the messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I should be exalted above measure. In other words, lest I start thinking higher of myself than I really should, God has allowed me to have this physical pain. Satan's beat me up with it Now look what happens. Verse 8, for this thing I besought the Lord thrice that it might depart from me. What does that mean? What's he asking God to do? Take it away. God, I want this pain removed. Whatever it was, whatever aspect physically it was, he says, God, take it away from me. And he says, I besought the Lord thrice. That doesn't mean he asked God three times in a row. It means three periods of time. I mean, he had been praying for an extent three extended periods of time that God would take this pain away from him. Now look how God responds. And he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee, for my strength is made perfect in weakness. God says, no, I'm not taking Job. This pain has a purpose. This pain, I'm allowing it. It's helping you. It's good for you spiritually. It's painful physically, but it's good for you spiritually. Because this pain that is causing physical weakness for you is enabling you to experience the strength that I can give you to function even in that condition. Look how he words it. He said unto me, My grace is sufficient thee, for my strength is made perfect in weakness. I think the weakness is referring to the pain that Paul's dealing with. Most and now here's Paul's response. Listen, what an attitude. Most gladly, therefore, will I rather glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me. Therefore, look at this. I take what? Look at verse 10. Therefore, I take what? Pleasures Pleasure in infirmity, in reproaches, in necessities, in persecution, in distresses for Christ's sake. For when I am weak, then I'm strong. When I'm weak physically, I'm strong in the Lord. Now that's not the case for everybody. Not all of us are in that situation where we need ongoing continual pain. to keep us dependent on God and not trusting in ourselves. But in Paul's case, he did. And he allowed him to experience this pain. What an attitude. Uh-uh. Paul is saying what he's telling us here, he says, listen, if God didn't allow me to have this pain, I would have exalted myself above measure. And I would have started thinking, what a great Christian I am, and boy, God really needs me, and boy, I've done this, and I've started all these churches, and I've done this, and I've done that, and I've accomplished this. And God says, no, I want you to always remember it's not your strength, it's mine that's enabling you to do it. We have to be careful. Sometimes uh Early on in my life, I know there was times where you kind of get this idea, you win some people to the Lord, and if we're not careful, we get the idea, boy, I'm I'm quite a I'm quite the soul winner here. Look at all these people I wonder the Lord. We need to remember, all we are is instruments in the hands of God. And that's what he's trying to teach Paul. That's what he's trying to teach Paul. And so Joseph is back here and he's experienced his pain. He's done right. Even when it costs him dearly, his integrity is impeccable. And yet he goes through pain. And I wonder if God isn't teaching Joseph, hey, listen, you're going to have a tremendous position here before too long. And I want you to understand, it's not your abilities, it's not your physical prowess, it's not your mental sharpness, it's my strength I'm infusing into you that is going to enable you to do that. And that's what we need to keep in mind. Now God doesn't send everybody a thorn in the flesh. Sometimes that pain or whatever it may be may have other lessons God's teaching us. I don't know. But I know sometimes, in Paul's case, that's what it was. And I wonder if that isn't the case for Joseph here. And so the pain of prison, the pain of loneliness, the pain of loss, the pain of affliction. Now I want to look at my second point tonight. Stay in Psalms 105. And I pick it up from there. Information were given about Joseph in prison from Psalms 105. And that is this, the patience in prison. Joseph had to learn to be patient. He's going to be here for a while. There's lessons. Sometimes the lessons that we have to learn from the Lord Don't happen overnight, we need to learn 'em over and over and over. I have a friend of mine, Pastor, out in uh out in the Midwest And we went to school together, a good friend, and he took Greek, and he's just a country boy, and he took Greek, and if I remember correctly, he took the Greek class three times. Same semester, same class, one whole semester, he didn't pass. Took it again, whole semester, didn't pass, took it again, the whole semester finally passed. He had it took him three semesters to get that uh uh that passing grade in Greek. Sometimes we have to go through the same test over and over and over and over again until we learn it So Joseph isn't going to learn patience overnight, right? He's going to be in prison for a little while. There's going to be some disappointments. He's going to have to learn to wait on God. And I think that's the patience of prison. Now, look with me, Psalm 105, and look with me at verse 18 Notice what it says. Whose feet, speaking of Joseph, whose feet they hurt with fetters, then it makes another statement that we're not sure what he means by that. It says he was laid in iron. Now I got looking at that and trying to figure out, I look what other smarter people than I am, what they thought it was, what they said. Nobody really seems to know with any certainty what it means that he was laid in iron One suggestion that kind of caught my attention and kind of I tend to agree with was this. When he used the phrase he was Laid in iron, it's it's what they're what he's speaking of is Joseph, his time in prison, made him as strong as iron. With the idea his character, with having to wait on God, this patience, this extended injustice, for years and years and years. It developed a character that was strong as iron in Joseph. They said it it's suggesting perhaps That when he was laid in iron, it means this time in prison, where he's laid up in prison, it was a time that strengthened his faith, and it was like iron. You could not shake his faith Now whether that's what he means or not, I'm not sure. We're not clear. We don't know for certainty. But I do know this. In James chapter 1, it says this. It says, the trying of your faith worketh patience. Do you think Joseph in prison for years and years and years, do you think that tried his faith at all? Do you think sometime he sat there at night all alone in the darkness of this Egyptian prison and said, God, what are you doing? God, what's happening? Now we're not told he said that, but he's a human being. I think we can safely assume that he would have had those thoughts. And so there's no doubt that laying up in prison for years must have tried his faith. And James says, the trying of your faith worketh patience. And then he says, but let patience have its perfect work. He says, be patient with your patience. Don't get impatient with being patient. How many people got in line at Walmart? It's all lined up. And you're looking at your watch and you say, all right, I'm going to be patient. Anybody ever you're in a situation and you say, I'm going to be patient. Anybody ever do that? And then after about three minutes, you're, all right, I'm done being patient. You run out of patience. James is saying, let patience have its perfect work. Don't run out. Don't abandon your patience. Just keep being patient and keep being patient. Day after day after day. Week after week, month after month, year after year, sitting in a prison as an innocent man He laid, he was laid in iron. They laid him in iron, put him up in prison. He says, but let patience have its perfect work. Listen to this. that ye may be perfect and entire. The word perfect and entire means mature, strong, tough as iron. I tell you, what we need is faith that is as strong as iron, that cannot be shaken, that cannot be broken. And I tell you, sometimes being in prison So to speak, going through affliction, going through an injustice, going through a difficulty. Sometimes that's what we need to learn to let our patience develop into maturity. I think one of the chief characteristics of a spiritually mature believer is that of patience, not reacting when something doesn't go, not reacting when something hurts When there's a heartache, a disappointment, an injustice, a false accusation, getting all worked up and getting mad, and ah no no no no. Just being patient, waiting on God. Trusting God. We don't see any reaction. There's no record of Joseph reacting anyway to these false accusations and his unjust condemnation. He's patient. He waits on God. The impatient, not reacting, waiting on God's timing. I don't know about you, but I hate to wait. I get impatient with the microwave. You know, hurry up. And um but uh Joseph had to learn patience. So he's in prison. Number one, the pain he went through was teaching him lessons. He's looking to God. God's preparing him. He's going to use him in a great way. I believe you and I go through heartaches and setbacks and disappointments. And God's teaching us and preparing us and helping us grow. I can look back over my life. And God can help us Be stronger in our faith. And then we learn patience. And just to wait on God and trust Him in His timing. Anybody here ever get ahead of God Boy, you just something and man I need to do and you went ahead and you say boy I wish I'd have waited a little bit more before I jumped in on that. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Boy, I wish I'd been a little more patient there And that's what he's learning, and that's what you and I need to learn. Then the last one is God's presence in prison. And we'll look at that, Lord, well, maybe next Wednesday night. I want to focus a whole lesson just on that. So let's pray together. Father I ask, Lord, you'd help us to learn from the afflictions of life, the setbacks, the quote-unquote prisons of life. That come upon us. Many times they seem unjust, unfair. But I pray that you would allow us, help us to allow you To teach us and grow us and develop us, our faith. I wonder if there's some tonight who say, preacher, I need some more developing of my faith. I need my faith to grow. I need to be developed. Now that may entail some trials, some difficulties, some pain. And we need to be willing to allow God to do that and trust Him. Any like that, preacher, I need that. I need that. I don't like the pain. I don't like the prison. But I sure want to grow. I sure want to be stronger. God knows what he's doing. We trust him. We let him have his way. Father, bless our little invitation this evening in Jesus' name. Amen.