All right, Genesis chapter thirty-nine, now that that's out of the way, I want to begin reading in verse eight. This is right w where we're picking up reading is right in the middle of this event that Joseph is is dealing with with Potiphar's wife. And so I'm picking up right in the middle. We're actually picking up where Joseph responds to Potiphar's. Okay. Verse 8. I'm going to read down through verse 12, which is not the end of this event, but the end of what we're going to look at tonight. I didn't turn them. Hold on. Let me put my mic on. And um I'll begin reading while I'm putting this on. Verse 8, but he refused And said unto his master's wife, Behold, my master wadeth not what is with me in the house What is not what is with me in the house, and he has committed all that he hath to my hand. There is none greater in this house than I. Would you agree with me? He came a long way from the auction block. There's none greater in the house than I. Neither hath he kept back anything from me but thee, because thou art his wife. How then can I do this great wickedness and sin against God? And it came to pass, as she spake to Joseph day by day, that he hearkened not unto her, to lie by her, or to be with her. And it came to pass about this time that Joseph went in unto the house to do his business, and there was none of the men of the house there within. And she caught him by his garments, saying, Lie with me. And he left his garment in her hand and fled and got him out. We're talking about Joseph and Potiphar's wife, particularly Joseph's integrity. So let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father, we have our Bibles open now. And we ask dear Lord that you would speak to our hearts from your word. I pray you'd teach us lessons from this. I believe probably there's principles here that all of us could apply, could be applied to all of our lives. And so I pray that your Holy Spirit would would do just that. I yield my will to you, Lord. I present my body anew And I pray again tonight, for this hour, with all my heart, that you fill me with your Spirit, and that you speak through me and have your way. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. It's a lot of lessons we learned from the life of Joseph. Here we're learning how he dealt with temptation that came to him. If you remember last week, I believe it was, we noticed Potiphar's wife's advances. In verse 7, she came to him pretty directly. She wasn't very subtle about it and just said to him, straight up, come and lie with me. And then she pressed that in verse 10. We noted day by day she kept pressing this, pressing this, until finally down in verse number 12. says she caught him by his garment. I mean she's physically going to drag him in here, into the bedroom. And so his wife's advances, and we noted that she fits the description of Proverbs. Strange woman, a strange woman that's described in Proverbs, fits Potiphar's wife to the T. And we can say dogmatically she is what Solomon calls a strange woman. And we looked at all those characteristics. Now tonight, what I want to do tonight is I want to notice how Joseph responds To her advances, and which really is a very real and no doubt a very powerful temptation for Joseph to deal with. And I'm telling you, we can learn a lot. From how on how Joseph responded. I put it this way: the first was Potiphar's wife's advances. Now I've entitled this section, Joseph's Principles in Action. His principles in action. I think if there's one word that describes the life of Joseph, and I already mentioned it this evening already, is the word integrity. Does anybody want to take a shot? What is integrity? If someone has integrity, what does that say about them? What are we saying about them? They're what? They got good character, they're honest, they're dependable, they have integrity They're trustworthy. You can trust them. They're going to be where they're supposed to be, when they're supposed to be there. They're going to do what is the right thing to do, regardless of circumstances, regardless of consequences. They're going to do right. Integrity. Sometimes you'll hear there'll be an earthquake or something or a terrible wreck on a bridge somewhere And the inspectors will come in and they will inspect the integrity of that bridge. What do they mean when they say they're checking out the integrity? They're checking out to see what If it's okay, if it's safe, if that bridge can be trusted, can I drive across here and trust that it's gonna not collapse on me? So integrity I put some definitions down, I glean from various sources, and I put together a little ensemble of definitions, because integrity, you don't hear that term too much anymore. So what is integrity? Integrity, one suggested, is unbroken moral character. Consistently honest. Consistently honest. Some people are honest, but not consistently. Right? Depending on the circumstances, they might not be honest. But someone has integrity, they're going to be honest consistently, regardless. Um to be morally reliable, to consistently do right. I put this down. Integrity, to have integrity means doing right regardless of difficulty. Would you agree with me? And it doesn't matter. We're not talking about teenagers tonight. We're talking about all age groups Would you agree with me? Sometimes it's not easy to do the right thing. Would you agree with me? Yeah, sometimes. Man, what's everybody else doing? You're in the family. You have a big family. Christmas party get together. There's some things going on, and they're enticing you to get involved. And man, if you don't, then people are going to be offended. You're going to be odd man out. You're going to be the weirdo. And so sometimes doing right is not easy. Sometimes it's very difficult to do right. It'd be a whole lot easier, just go along with the crowd. It'd be a whole lot easier, just do what the family's doing or whatever But someone with integrity is going to do what's right, even if it's difficult, do what's right. It means doing right regardless of consequences Somebody says, boy, you do wrong, there's going to be bad consequences. You know, sometimes if you do right, there's unpleasant consequences. Joseph, right? Sometimes there's a price to pay for doing right. Sometimes if we do right we may miss out on some things, we may lose some things. We may bring the ire of somebody against us. There may be, it may cost us, but there's been more than a few Christians who did what was right on the job and lost their job Integrity does right, regardless of whether it's difficult or not. If doing right was always easy, everybody'd do it. Regardless of consequences and regardless of popularity, it's not always the guy doing right isn't always the most popular guy in the class, on the job, in the office Doing right, doing right. It's integrity. Can you think of anybody in the Bible besides Joseph here that displayed integrity? Daniel, of course, is one of the first ones. I put Daniel and Joseph, brother, they're they're on the same pat uh they're on the same shelf in my library of people with integrity. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Not popular, not easy, pretty rough consequences, but God saw them through. Anybody else? Esther did right, if I perish, I perish. And uh she stood up for her people regardless. How about any others? Jacob? Jesus, yeah. Absolutely. He is the epitome of integrity. I put down Moses, and I got that from Hebrews, where it says he'd rather suffer affliction with the people of God than enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. He was going to do right, even though it brought affliction And he missed out on pleasures, integrity. I put down Moses, I put down here Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, Daniel. How about New Testament? Stephen did right, absolutely, a first martyr. What about the Apostle Paul? He says, I with all good conscience. Standing before, I think it was one of the governors, and he says, I do with all good, I have a good conscience between God and man. And Paul did right. Paul did right. So we're looking at integrity. If there's one word that describes Joseph, and man, it comes, it's it's it's so clear. In his response to Potiphar's wife, that this is a man of absolute genuine integrity to his very core. Albert Einstein, anybody recognize that name? He said this. One who is careless with the truth in small matters cannot be trusted in important matters. I heard someone say years ago, I don't remember who it was, but they're what they said stuck in my mind. They said, if you will lie, they were talking to an employee, and they said, if you will lie for me, then you will lie to me. What are they saying? They say you need to have integrity. You have integrity. Um another quote I came across This person said, I will not, it was a lady, she said, I will not cut my convictions to fit this world's fashions. That's moral integrity. That's integrity in the area of modesty and dress. She said, I will not violate my conscience just to fit in with the world. I will not violate biblical convictions, and you can apply this in any issue. I will not violate biblical convictions just to fit in. Don't do right. That's integrity. Integrity. I think Joseph displays here one of the clearest examples of integrity in all scripture. You have Daniel and others we listed, but It comes through loud and clear right here. I believe in this instance here, this event here that we're studying He gives us one of the greatest models for being people of integrity, you'll find in all the scripture on how to respond to an enticement to do something that is wrong. Now, whatever the something that is wrong is, in our case, could be various things, but the pattern, the motto is here for us To follow the principles that are given here for us to incorporate into our lives so that we can be people of integrity. What's true for us as individuals, we need also to be true for us as a church. I would like for us as a body of believers to be a church with integrity. We do right, we're honest. We live by scriptural conviction and principles. And regardless of what the world may or may not do, regardless of what the consequences may or may not be, but the only way it Only way you can have a church body uh uh with integrity is to have church members with integrity. And I understand everything rises and falls on leadership and you need a pastor And so there's lessons here for all of us to help us to incorporate into our lives and to apply when we find ourselves enticed to do something wrong. So Joseph gives us a clear and a tremendous example of integrity. Two thoughts tonight, after all that, two thoughts. I want us in verse number seven notice the testing of his integrity. And then in verse number eight and down through the next four or five verses, I want us to notice the tactics of his integrity. First of all, his integrity is tested. And then he has some tactics he uses to counter Potiphar's wife's advances. So let's first look at the testing. Look at verse 7. We already looked at this a little bit last week, but let's run over it again. And it came to pass after these things, he's very successful, he's worked his way up the ladder there as a slave, and he's become uh pretty much the office, the whole property manager here and everything, after these things, that his master's wife cast her eyes upon Joseph. And she said, Lie with me. Alright, so there's the test. Joseph, several Bible commentators and scholars I looked up, believe he's probably in his twenties maybe at this point. We don't know how much time has passed that he's been in the household. probably a little bit of time for him to earn that trust and get to the position he's in, perhaps several years. It's been suggested. So let's say he's in his early to mid-twenties, perhaps And she says, we don't know what she looks like, but nevertheless, she says, come and lie with me. So his integrity is being tested. Any man of integrity, that integrity is going to be intested. Any woman that has biblical principles and convictions, they're going to be tested. Any person Christian that has convictions, those convictions are going to be tested. Daniel's were, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego's were tested. And Joseph's was tested. I notice here his temptation, the testing or the tempting uh of of uh Joseph. If you would keep your place here and I want you if you would come to the New Testament to 1 Corinthians chapter 10 And maybe if some of y'all were thinking ahead a little, you may have anticipated this verse showing up. 1 Corinthians 10, and notice with me, if you would, verse 13. How many people thought, I'll bet you he's going to end up in 1 Corinthians 10. 13? Anybody? Wow, how about that? I caught you all by surprise. 1 Corinthians 10:13. If this verse is not highlighted in your Bible, it really should be. Every Christian ought to be familiar with 1 Corinthians 10:13. Notice what it says. There hath, what's the next word? No temptation taken you, but such as is common to man. But God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able, but will with the temptation also make a way to escape that ye may be able to bear it. A couple observations here. Now keep Joseph in mind. Keep Joseph's situation in mind. Says, there's no temptation taking you, but such as is common to man. That tells me that temptation in general is very common. Say, boy, I'm really being tempted. I must be uh unique. No, you ain't no you ain't unique. Everybody's tempted. It's common. It's part of it's part of everyday life, temptation. How many people here, now be honest, how many people here have ever been tempted? Raise your hand. See, some of y'all were tempted right there not to raise your hand. Of course, it happens all the time. There's no temptation taking you, but such is common to man. It's everyday occurrence. It's common. I was doing a little more research on Potiphar's wife, not her in particular, but the women in her stratus of society. The women that were married to high-level government employees in the Egyptian government at this time, that that class of society, if you want to put it that way. And apparently, according to several writers, they said, they suggested that her behavior was actually pretty commonplace In that uh that that society, high society, that these women were apparently pretty loose. Well, I mentioned before, if you remember last week, it sounds to me this isn't the first time she's done this. And further research and studying, I've found out that that's probably the case. So Joseph wasn't the only one that faced this temptation. He's not the first one. He's not the only one. He's not the last one. Temptation is common to everybody. Somebody says, boy, I must, boy, I'm really tempted here, and I got tempted there, and yesterday I was tempted on this. You say, what's wrong with me? There's nothing wrong with you. It's common. It happens to everybody. Um young Christians, old Christians. The difference is, the difference is, I'm a little off Ahead here a little bit, but the difference isn't whether a victorious Christian is not somebody that's never tempted A victorious Christian is tempted just as much as anybody else, but a victorious Christian knows how to deal with the temptation. Knows how to respond to it and deal with it in a successful way so he can live so she can live a victorious Christian life. Are you with me? So, according to 1 Corinthians 10. 13, this isn't uncommon what Joseph is facing. This is everyday stuff, perhaps, or at least temptation in general is. It's universal, everyone everywhere. Such is common to man, to mankind. Been a been had the opportunity, I'm grateful to the church. for making it possible. I've had the opportunity to be on various mission fields around the world over the years. And you know what I found out? There is temptation in every country I've been in Been out west, lived out west, people out west face temptation and deal with sin. People live down south, down there, Philadelphia, the whole place is saturated with temptation and sin And so it's universal. It's everywhere. But notice if you would, now this is where it gets encouraged. You say, oh great, my whole life I'm going to have to deal with temptation. Yeah? But notice there's a little encouragement in this verse. There's no temptation taking you, but such is common to man. But God is faithful. I'm glad God's faithful, aren't you? And will not, who will not suffer you, or in other words, allow you, to be tempted, look at this, above that ye are able. So temptation, though it's very commonplace, everybody deals with it, but according to this statement from God God will not let anybody be tempted beyond the point that they are able to resist it. Now think with me a little bit. Let's reason together a little bit. If I'm being tempted in some area, God is suffering me, allowing me, permitting me to be tempted in some area, according to that statement That means I can have victory over it. Right? Because if I could not have victory over it, he wouldn't suffer me to be tempted. It would be above what I'm able So I'm here to tell you, everybody raised their hand and said, yeah, I deal with temptation. I'm telling you, the fact that you're being tempted in whatever area it is is proof that you are able to not give in to it. Because you say, preacher, the temptation is so great, I can't help it. I just give in to it. I just can't. I'm unable to resist it. No, don't say that. You're calling God a liar. Because that verse says God will not suffer you to be tempted above what you're able. It's a very fact that uh let's say, for sake of illustration, let's suppose I'm tempted to smoke cigarettes. I used to have this recurring dream years ago. I haven't for a long time. How many people want to know what my recurring dream was? Three. How many people could care less? Yeah, figure they I I seriously I had this recurring dream that I smoked cigarettes still from before I was saved How many people would be disappointed if you found out Pastor Lynn smoke cigarettes? I would be. And I have this dream that I'm still smoking them, but I'm trying to hide them And I'd smoke in my office and spray stuff. I'd have this weird dream. So anyway, let's say for sake of illustration, I'm tempted to smoke cigarettes. And man, I want to go smoke that cigarette. The very fact According to this verse, the very fact that I'm being tempted to smoke that cigarette means that I can, I'm able to say no to it Because if I couldn't, then God would not suffer or permit me to be tempted in that area. Right or wrong. That's what it says. And so, say, oh, I'm being tempted. Why not be, oh, good, I'm being tempted? That means I can say no. Because if I couldn't, then God wouldn't let me be tempted there. And so temptation is limited and temptation is avoidable. In other words, I can't escape it. Look what he says. Well, not suffer you be tempted above the able, but will with the temptation also make a way to what? Escape. God always has an escape hatch. In every temptation, he always has an injection seat. Not injection seat, ejection seat. I can get out of this thing. I can get out without being without blowing my testimony. I can get out of this temptation without ruining my integrity It all comes God comes down to trust in God, what he says here. Abraham was tested. Everybody everybody is going to be tested and tempted in the area of their integrity. Abraham was tempted when he showed up at the promised land. He left his his country not knowing where he was going. Brought his wife. He gets to the land where God promised him, Canaan land, and the very first thing he runs to is famine. God had told him he's going to take care of him, it's going to be great. He gets there, it's not great. There's famine. And so now he's tempted to do what? Go down to Egypt. They're not having famine down there. I came here to where God told me to go, and it's famine. Down in Egypt, there's no famine And so here he's tested. He's being tempted. Is he going to trust God, do right, stay there, and just let God take care of him and see him through this? Or is he going to give in to the temptation? What did he do? He gave in. His integrity was tested and he stumbled. Now, thank God, when we fall, we can get back up again. Amen. And he did, and there were consequences. We can be forgiven, but that doesn't necessarily forgiveness removes the judgment of sin, but it doesn't always remove the consequences of sin So he had to deal with that. I thought about Moses. He was tempted. We talked mentioned him a bit ago. And he stood the temptation. And he chose to suffer affliction with the people of God rather than enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. Now he had some other struggles, temper and whatnot. David stumbled, didn't he? Shadrach, Neshach, and Abednego, they were tested and they stood. Daniel stood. Joseph's test integrity is tested. He's being tempted and he stood. No one is exempt from temptation. God's greatest men and women were not great because they didn't ever get tempted. They were great Because when they were tempted or tested, they held to their integrity. And they did right, and they did right. I think temptation, temptation, for you and I studying the life of Joseph, his temptation reveals to us the strength of his integrity. We would not know How we would not have known of Joseph's integrity if we did not see this account of it being tested. Right? Trials reveal the strength of our character. So the testing of his integrity. So Joseph, here he is, he's tested. He's done everything right. He's, as far as we can tell, he's maintained a good attitude through all of this nightmare. He's worked hard, he's been honest, he's done right, he's worked his way up the ranks, and he's number two to one of the leading officers in the Egyptian government And now he's tested. Number two, my second and last point tonight, is I want to notice the tactics of his integrity. How did he respond? How did he deal with this temptation? How to respond? I see three responses on Joseph's part. Number one, in verse number eight, the first part, I circled these first three words. But he refused. Number one, his first response to his temptation was refusal. Write that down. When temptation comes, my first response to temptation must be refusal. There's no other way to respond to temptation initially other than refusal. Now, what does it mean to refuse something? Talk to me, help me out. Say no! It means to deny it. Come lie with me. Denied. It means to reject. Joseph, come lie with me. Rejection. It means to say no. Joseph, come lie with me. No. That's the beginning point in dealing with temptation. Begins, first of all, by saying no, refusing it. The first thing you do is not sit down, well, Joseph, come lie with me. Well, let's talk about it a little bit. He's going over the cliff, right? He does that, he's gone. Forget it. Joseph's done. Oh, Joseph, come lie with me. Well, let's weigh the cons and the pros and the cons on this. He's cooked. The first response to temptation must always be what? No! Refuse it. You sit down. I very seldom do this. Sit down after work or whatever evening, you sit down, you click the TV on. And um uh on the few times I do that, I usually spend a half hour trying to find something I watch, and then after that, it's like pfft, there's nothing I'm gonna watch. But you go through and all of a sudden, boop, there's a little something. Fly with me. Watch me. Huh? Well maybe uh maybe this is a Christian show. No! There ought to be a button on there that says refusal. Oh, by the way, there is. It's called off. The very first response is refusal. The word no is one of the smallest words in the English language. But I'm telling you, it's one of the most important words in the English language. No! I think the majority of our problems in life can be traced back to the failure to refuse temptation. The majority of the problems in our life can be traced back to our failure to say no. How many lives have been lost because somebody didn't say no to something they knew it was wrong? Huh? You say, preacher, uh, you ought to preach this to the teens. I know they need it preached, but you know what? So do you and I Doesn't matter what the temptation is, the first response is always no. Refusal. No, I'm not going there. No, I'm not doing that. No, I'm not listening to that. No, no, no, no. What part of no don't you understand? How many testimonies have been destroyed? Because a Christian didn't say no. How many homes have been ruined? How many churches? How many ministries have been destroyed? Because a Christian didn't have the character and integrity to say no. Saying no requires courage Tell you what, Joseph, if he if he the he says no here, he's in hot water Sometimes saying no requires courage. Sometimes you've got to go against the grain, say no. The whole world saying yes But it ain't right, so I'm saying no. No, no. Um, I was years and years and years ago, I was in a wedding, and um They it wasn't a Christian wedding and they were serving they were serving alcohol at the reception afterward and I was part of the wedding party And uh they were surrounded. And before it all started, before we went in, one of the people pulled me aside and they said, uh Dennis, this is before I was, I think I was still in Bible college at the time, they said, uh, Dennis, now we know that you don't drink. So we put ginger ale in the glasses, and it looks just like champagne, but it's ginger ale, it's not alcoholic, and nobody will know. So it it so it's there, so you can drink it What do you do? I said, I can't do that. I said, well, just it's not alcoholic. Just go along. Just go along. So I got up there and they did everything and it came time to do the toast or whatever. I don't even like toasting stuff. I don't even like toast unless I'm eating eggs. But um it came time and there the glass was and it's ginger rail everybody else is bubbly I just sat there. I said, I am not doing this. And so everybody else got it up and I just sat there and stared straight ahead. Felt like a heel. Feel like you're a stup a stupid numbskull. You know what I'm talking about? I could not do it. Sometimes saying no takes a little bit of courage. That's what I'm trying to say. Sometimes saying no requires confidence. Joseph knew who he was. He was a son of Jacob. He worshiped Jehovah. He knew what he wanted. He wanted to please God above everything else. He knew where he was going. He didn't need this. And I tell you, if you and I as Christians will just remember who we are, we are children of the King of Kings. And we want to please our king more than we care what this world thinks about us. And we want to get to that judgment seat of Christ and hear our Savior say, well done. Amen or not? That's confidence. When we're in that position, when we have that frame of mind, we can say no with confidence. It requires conviction. Compromised conviction is no conviction at all. This woman came back Day, look at verse 10. Came to pass as she spake to Joseph day by day. He just came back and came back and came back and came back and came back. If Joseph didn't have any convictions, he'd have given in But his convictions govern his actions, not his circumstances, not the whim of the moment. Conviction govern his actions. Dr. Lee Robertson used to tell us preacher boys all the time, you better establish some Bible convictions in your life. And what he said to us, preacher boys, I say to every Christian, every Christian ought to have some Bible convictions. To govern us and to govern our actions and give us confidence to say no when temptation comes. He used to say, he is, now listen, if you don't have any convictions of your own, borrow mine till you get some. Requires courage, requires confidence, requires conviction, and it's constructive Saying no. So if I just say no, I'm never going to get anywhere. I tell you what, if you don't say no, you're not going to get anywhere. I tell you, you and I learn to say no to temptation. We're going to live a better life than if we say yes to it. Huh? We're going to be better off. Would you agree with me? David would have been a whole lot happier to say no than saying yes Saying no is good. Saying no is constructive. And the world says, oh, just say yes to everything. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'll say no to saying yes. Sometimes we have to fight a battle more than once. And convictions will enable us to do that. I notice, come back here, look at verse 8. But he refused. Notice it's the very next statement after she said, lie with me. There's no time frame in between. He didn't have to stop. Well, let me think about that a little bit first. No, no, no. His reaction, his refusal was immediate. Toso, fly with me. No It was without hesitation. You didn't have to think this through. No And it's interesting, his refusal is just as bold as Potiphar's wife's advancements were. Would you agree with me? She's pretty bold about this, right? Made alive. And he comes back just as direct. Nope. Uh-uh. Denied. Rejected. Psst I don't think he was too concerned about her feelings about his refusal. It was absolute determination. It was without negotiation. So, number one, temptation must be refused directly, immediately, without hesitation. No Number two, I notice his second response to temptation. Look with me, if you would, at the second part of verse 8. He refused and said unto his master's wife, Behold, my master woteth not what is with me in the house. He doesn't even know what all he's committed to me. This place is grown. And he hath committed all that he hath to my hand. I write his checks. I deposited his money. I order his supplies. I do everything. There's none greater in the house than I. I think he's referring to authority. Joseph could tell the others what to do and what not to do. Neither hath he kept back anything from me but thee, because thou art his wife. The second thing, number one, he refuses right up. Then, second of all, he reasons a little. He explains, he takes a moment, and he explains why this is not going to happen. Under no circumstances whatsoever I think the first thing he reasons with her a little bit is the ruin that would be the result of him giving in He says, man, we got a good thing going here. And God has blessed. In fact, Potiphar said that. God has blessed his house because of Joseph's integrity. If I sacrifice that, if I violate that. It will destroy and hurt so many people. The ruin that would result, he'd hurt his master and his master's family, his master's business. He'd destroy his own testimony. I put this down. There's nothing good about adultery. Nothing good about fornication. It is one of the most destructive sins known to man. It destroys nations. It destroys churches. It destroys homes. It destroys lives. Study Proverbs chapter 5, 6, and 7. If you would, turn quickly with me to Galatians. Keep your place there, because I got one more and we're going to quit. Galatians. Back in the New Testament, 1 2 Corinthians, Galatians, chapter 6, right after chapter 5 And notice with me verse 7. Again, this is a passage that really ought to be highlighted, underscored something in every Christian's Bible ought to be very, very familiar with verse 7 and 8. Be not deceived, God is not mocked. For whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. You cannot argue with that statement. Now look what he says in verse 8. For he that soweth to his what? Flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption. Shall of the flesh reap corruption. He's talking about adultery, I think, there, fornication, sensual sins. He said it brings corruption. Corruption. So he argues, first of all, he reasons, I should say, with Potiphar's wife. Now this is after he's already said, no. By the way, one, it would destroy my master's house, it would destroy so many people's lives, it would ruin my testimony, it would bring corruption upon me and all of us And then he gives a second reason, come back to Genesis 39 there, and look at the end of verse number 9. Now, if anybody tries to justify fornication or adultery in any way, shape, or form, they need to listen to very carefully what Joseph says here. How then, because of all the damage it would do, how then can I do this great, what's the next word? Wickedness and sin against God. He says number one, it would ruin that would result. We're not doing I'm not doing this. One, the ruin it result. Number two, the wickedness it is to God. The sin to God. That phrase, great wickedness, means this, exceedingly evil. It's translated along those lines other places in the Bible. Intensely sinful. In fact, Proverbs I think it's chapter 6. It says, if a man steals something, would you agree stealing is sin, right or wrong? Yeah. But Proverbs says, God says in Proverbs that if a man steals to satisfy his soul, he can pay that back. Fourfold. He steals an apple and gets caught or he gets convicted. Oh man, I shouldn't have. He can give four apples back and he can make it good. But if he goes on, Solomon goes on and says, but if a man commits adultery, and I'm putting my own words here, you can't pay that back. The damage is done. It is exceedingly sinful. It is exceedingly evil. Damaging. I think if I understand the Bible correctly, the damage adultery does cannot be undone. Now we can be forgiven, thank God for it, and we ought to forgive people. Amen. And we can be forgiven, we can get back up and go on. But it can't just be re just replace an apple I stole, and it doesn't work that way. So he reasons with her a little bit. First of all, he refuses. No. Oh, and besides, and there's no way this is happening, the damage that would happen to so many people with corruption, it would ruin us. And number two, it's wickedness before a holy God. It's exceedingly sinful. Then he gives a third response. Removal. Refusal, reasoning, removal. Look at verse eleven. And it came to pass about this time that Joseph went into the house to do his business, and there was none of the men Of the house they're in. Uh-oh, right? Ooh, not good. He's in the house, Potiphar's in the house, nobody else around. Yikes Now the question is, did he mess up here? Did he make a mistake? Was he not being careful and checking things out first? Just caught up in his work and not thinking, gets in there and all of a sudden yee, yeah, yeah, yeah. Or, and I think somebody suggested this last week, and I think there might, it's a possibility, maybe Potiphar's wife set it up that way. Who knows? We're not told. Whatever the case is, it's not a good situation. It's not a good scenario. So here he is. And I notice three words how he responds here. And uh came to pass, he went into the house, and she caught him. So it's just the two of them. Anything that happens, it's going to be his word against her word. Nobody's going to know except the two involved, Joseph and Potiphar's wife. So she catches him by the garment and says, I'm figure she's up in his face, lie with me. And notice I see three words here. And he left his garment. The word left means to forsake, abandon, leave behind. Boom, she grabs him by his coat, he squeezes out, he's out of there He leaves it behind. He abandons it. No material possession is worth what adultery would cost him. This is his second coat that's become an issue. And he leaves it behind. He lost his first one of many colors. Now this one he leaves behind. There ain't no coat in the world worth losing your testimony over. So he left that, then notice another word, he left his garment in her hand and fled Again, that's another removal word. He left the coat, he forsook it, abandoned it, left it behind. Now he's fled, he's fleeing. The word fled there means to escape quickly without hesitation I like the one definition, to disappear. My picture, I get pictures in my mind when I'm studying this. And what I pictured in my mind when I was little, the cartoons were actually funny On Saturday morning. And um it was uh and uh one of my favorites was Bugs Bunny. I mean old school Bugs Bunny. Politically incorrect Bugs Bunny And inevitably something would happen and it would just be and he'd disappear and it would just be like dust in his shape sitting there. Anybody remember seeing that it was just boom, he disappeared, and it would just filled her down his shadow or whatever. That's the picture I get of Joseph. He's disappears. She grabs him. And it says just a coat there. He di vanished. In other words, he got out, he uh what we would call he high-tailed it out of there. It means to take flight. Zing. I think that's in the Hebrew. Zing And then one more, real quick. He left his garment in her hand and fled. And then it adds this, just to re-emphasize how quickly he's removing himself and got him out. He's out of here. Do you ever see remember the little thing? Exit stays right. That's the idea. He got him out. He delivered himself. One thing to do in temptation is flee. Removal. Refuse? No. If you need to. Oh, by the way, I think he's negotiating there a little bit. I think he might have been trying to squelch any future temptations. No, I'm not doing this. It's not a temporary feeling of mine. It's not just I have a headache. No, this is a principled decision. It damages and it's sin against God. That's what I'm refusing And then that didn't work. The only then you get out. You get out. No negotiating, no debates, no discussion, no analysis. No entertaining, no playing with temptation. Out I was reading about venous flytraps. Anybody familiar with venous fly traps? Yeah, they're down in South Carolina, this is one species. There's another type of Venus fly trap. They call it different. I got the name here somewhere. But it's down in Australia, a certain area of Australia. The one in Australia is a plant and it is very attractive. And I think the Venus flight trap is too. But they're describing it, and it says um uh it's called a sundew Has a slender stem, tiny little round leaves, fringed with hairs. They glisten with drops of a little sweet-tasting liquid that comes out almost like dew And boy, those little bugs are flying by. Ooh. And they come down and circle around and check that out. Ooh la la. And they come down there and they land, and it has these little fuzzy things all over. And they come down and sometimes they'll land on the leaves that are harmless. And um it's like the plant is just playing with them. And they're horsing around, they're watching that little juice, sweet nectar. And eventually they end up over on that little pad where all those little hairs are. And the amazing thing about a Venus flytrap and this sundew plant down in Australia is that plant don't tell me we don't have a incredible creator. That plant is able to know the difference between a raindrop falling on that pad and a plant and and a A bug landing on that pad. If a raindrop falls on it or just a piece of dust or a twig, it doesn't do anything. But if a bug lands on it, it can sense that And that thing lands on there and boy it tastes so good and man, it's so wonderful. It's dead. It's dead. You know what the best thing for that bug to do when he was flying by that little ladybug or that horse fly? And look down and sees that sundew. No. Refused. Denied. Reject. And come back, by the way, you destroyed me and all my kids, my family, and everybody else. No! Zing! That's what Joseph did And so I elaborated maybe too much on his refusal of Potiphar's advances, but I think there's a lot we can learn from him. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, dear Lord, you'd help us to follow Joseph's example. Help us say no. Refuse. Help us, Lord, to have principles and convictions on why we say no. And then Lord, help us to stay far away from spiritual poison. And anything that would hurt us and hurt others and hurt our testimony and hurt the cause of Christ, pray make us people of integrity. I wonder how many would say, Preacher I I need to work on establishing and maintaining real integrity. Now this might be personal, this is between you and God, so I understand that, but I need to work on it. We're all vulnerable. We're all tempted. It's common to man. I wonder if some would say, preacher, pray with me that I'd just be a little more vigilant there, just a little bit more. Attentive to that. Any at all like that? Say, preacher, pray with me. Sure. My hand's raised. We gotta be vigilant. We've got to be sober. Our adversary like a roaring lion. Like a Uh a potipher's wife is out to devour us. Father bless, I pray and help us in Jesus' name, Amen.