39, we're studying the life of Joseph, and uh he's been sold by his brothers uh as a slave to a bunch of merchants heading down to Egypt. Once he gets down there, the merchants fell in. uh to a fellow Potiphar, we're familiar with um the story. And uh Joseph is uh goes from being a favored son to a piece of merchandise being auctioned off and sold and bartered. And um he ends up in the household of Potiphar. And uh I'll read again reading in verse one. And we've been looking at this for a while. I want to finish up this section this evening But notice verse 1, it says, And Joseph was brought down to Egypt, and Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh, captain of the guard, an Egyptian, bought him of the hands of the Ishmaelites, which had brought him down thither. And the Lord was with Joseph, and he was a prosperous man, and he was in the house of his master, the Egyptian And his master saw that the Lord was with him, and that the Lord made all that he did to prosper in his hand. And Joseph found grace in his sight, and he served him. And he made him overseer of his house, and put all that he had, and all that he had, he put into his hand. And it came to pass from the time that he had made him overseer in the house And over all that he had, the Lord blessed the Egyptian's house for Joseph's sake. And the blessing of the Lord was upon all that he had in the house and in the field. Now if you would, just flip back to verse number 23. This is quite a bit later. Joseph is in prison. We're jumping ahead a bit here. But I want us to notice a statement here. Verse 23, the keeper of the prison looked not to anything that was under his hand. Almost identical to Potiphar's situation with Joseph. And then it says this, because the Lord was with him, and that which he did, the Lord made it to prosper. Joseph is now down in Potiphar's house, and if you remember, I noted three things from this passage we just read. The first one we talked about. was Joseph became uh uh Joseph was uh became the possession of Potiphar. Joseph no longer has any rights. He has no freedom of the uh uh freedoms whatsoever. He can't decide what he's going to do that day. He no longer has any possessions of his own. He is like uh he is a piece of machinery, so to speak, owned by Potiphar. Um and we pointed out that uh uh the household that Potiphar was in, if you remember, was a pagan household that Egypt worshipped over two thousand gods. Their primary one was the sun god Ra. And so Joseph is living in that sort of environment. So we noted number one that Joseph was the possession of Potiphar. The second thing we noted, I believe it was last Wednesday, is that Joseph experienced the presence of the Lord It says three times here, I believe, that the Lord was with him. The Lord was with him. The Lord was with him. And um and uh uh uh that's a significant and it became obvious. Now tonight what I want us to notice, the third thing, and then we'll move on to the next segment of his life But I want us to notice that Joseph prospered in Pharaoh's house. He was a possession of Pharaoh. He had the Lord's presence in Pharaoh's house, and he also prospered. And I get that from verse number two, if you would look with me again. It says, And the Lord was with Joseph, and he was a prosperous man. Interesting how that's worded. We'll look at that. Then again, down in verse number three, his master saw that the Lord was with him, and the Lord made all that he did to prosper in his hand. The last part of verse 5 says, And the blessings of the Lord, the blessing of the Lord was upon all that he had in the house and in the field. And then at the end of the chapter again, in the prison, it says he prospered. He prospered. So did I did I pray? I don't think I did. Let's pray. Father, bless now our study of Joseph, particularly this one aspect of his prosperity as a slave. And so please fill me with your spirit, I ask, Lord, and speak through me. Help us to learn something from this that would help us in our walk with you and our Christian witness. and our develop uh uh uh uh development as a believer. So uh again I yield my will to you Lord I present my body I pray And ask, dear Lord, that you would fill me with your spirit and speak through me tonight. In Jesus' name. Amen. I just have a few observations I made about this. It says he was a prosperous man. He prospered, all he did prospered. And then verse 5, as I read there a minute ago, I think it ties in with it. It says that the blessings of the Lord was upon all that he had I think that's an aspect of God's prosperity. Now, when we think of prosperity, we need to understand the world's definition, the world's understanding of prosperity. And God's understanding of prosperity are fundamentally different. When the world talks about prosperity, they have one particular thing in mind When God speaks about prosperity, he has something very, very different in mind. For instance, the world's understanding of prosperity is primarily materialistic. Now what do I mean when I say their understanding of prosperity is materialistic? Somebody help me out. What do we mean by that? Possessions, material things. In fact, I got looking up the word prosperity, the world's definition of it, and according to dictionary. com Their definition of the word prosperity means this, to be fortunate or successful in financial respects. In other words, if you're fortunate or successful in financial respects, you're what? You're prosperous. You're rich. They equate prosperity with wealth. with abundance of possessions, whether you worked for them successfully or you just were fortunate. You were lucky enough to come into it They further went on to define to thrive financially or materially, to flourish financially or materially. Now let me ask you a question. Is there anything uh is there anything uh inherently wrong With being prosperous materially. No, uh-uh. I'd better say, in fact, I guarantee you every one of us here is more prosperous materially than 70% of the rest of the world. I guarantee it And so there's nothing inherently wrong with being prosperous, being financially, materially, having a nice house or having a a good income or or even being wealthy Some of the greatest men of God, all through Scripture, were incredibly wealthy. And we have reason to believe that Paul was perhaps a very wealthy man. So there's nothing inherently wrong with being the world's definition of prosperity. There's nothing necessarily wrong with that However, material prosperity is at very best temporal. Um it is uh um it is uh it's pleasurable, um it's probably more pleasurable, I mean materially wise, to have a wallet full of money than to not have any money in your wallet. Right? I mean we enjoy that over the other, but it's temporary at very best. Um the world's understanding of prosperity, when they when the world reads this that Joseph was prosperous, says, oh, he was rich. He had nice clothes. He wore fancy clothes. He had drove nice chariots. He had lots of land and houses. That's the world's understanding of prosperity. However, God's understanding of prosperity is fundamentally different When God speaks of prosperity or Joseph being prosperous, he is primarily dealing with his spiritual condition. Verse number five, the end part of verse five, notice what it says. And the blessing of the Lord was upon all that he had in the house in the field. The Lord blessed the Egyptians. God's understanding of prosperity is not necessarily material. It may include that But it's not that exclusively. In other words, you can be prosperous in God's sight and not have a dime to your name. You and I can be prosperous in God's definition of the term and not own a house and not have a car and live in a tarper shack. Take your Bible if you would, and I keep your place here because I want to come back and look at sometimes. But if you would, go with me to the book of Psalms. And Psalm 37, as I was studying here this idea of prosperous in God's eyes, I came across Psalm 37. And uh I think we have a good definition of what we what God means by Joseph being prosperous. Now he doesn't use that term here, but I think he's describing it. Psalm 37. Look with me through it at verse number three Says this, trust in the Lord and do good. That's a simple statement there. Trust in the Lord and do good. I put it this way: trust God and do right. Then he goes on. He says, So shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed. Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart. Commit thy way unto Lord, trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass. And he shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light in thy judgment as the noonday. Look at verse 7. Rest in the Lord and wait patiently for him. Fret not thyself, because of him who prospereth in his way, the wealthy. That's the world's definition. Who prospereth away because the because of the man who bringeth wicked devices to pass. I think what the Lord is saying here, that he's contrasting the wealth of the world, how they understand prosperity, the wealth And God's definition is this. Here's my understanding. Being prosperous in God's eyes means I'm trusting God and I'm doing right. I'm carrying out His will in my life. Spiritual prosperity is trusting God and fulfilling His will for my life. Following His instructions, following His leadership And uh getting to the end of my life and at the judgment seat of Christ, hearing our Lord say, What Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Do you agree with me? Uh spiritual prosperity I would rather get to the judgment seat of Christ and hear the and not have a penny and hear the Lord say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant, than get to the judgment seat of Christ and be loaded and hear him say uh uh you've yeah and not say that and say, you know, you you came up short. You follow what I'm trying to say? So spiritual God's definition of prosperity is very, very different than the world's. Now, God's following the Lord, trusting God, and and doing his will for my life, doing what's right, letting him lead me, carrying out his will, that may or may not include material wealth. For some people, God's will it includes uh uh uh wealth, riches sometimes. But prosperity is trusting God and doing his will, fulfilling God's plan for my life. We won't take time to turn there. But uh Matthew chapter 5, the beginning of the Sermon on the Mound, Jesus speaking to his disciples, he gives a list of ten blessings. We call them what? The Beatitudes. And he says, Blessed is the man. And he goes down this list of the man that is blessed, or for the sake of the con our message tonight, the topic of our message tonight. Blessed is the man, or could I say it this way, prosperous is the man in the eyes of God. And not one of these beatitudes, not one of them relates anyway to anything materialistic. Not one of them has to do, it all has to do with attitudes. Meek, lowly, poor in spirit. Doesn't talk about how many houses you own. It doesn't talk about how big my bank account is. Doesn't talk about how large my wardrobe may or may not be It has everything to do with my spiritual condition, my spiritual well-being. It is possible to be blessed, to be prosperous spiritually in my heart and soul, and not own a dime. And so the Bible says that Joseph was prosperous. Now, the world's definition, well, obviously he must have had lots of cattle and he had lots of fancy clothes and he owned a lot of property and buildings and had big bank accounts. I want to remind you, Joseph was a slave. He didn't own a thing. He didn't own the clothes on his back. Joseph did not own a dime. He had zero material blessing, uh possessions. None. He was a slave. Even in prison, I mean in the prison, it says he was prosperous. He was prosperous. So that tells me very clearly prosperity in the eyes of God has little or nothing to do with my financial well-being, my materialistic well-being. Joseph is not getting rich here. You understand that. Uh come back if you would to uh uh Genesis thirty-nine. And it says that um Down come down to uh verse three it says, and and and that the Lord made all that he did to prosper in his hand This material prosperity that's taking place here is not going to Joseph. Potiphar is the one that's getting rich But Joseph is the one that said to be prosperous. Down verse 5. It came to pass that time made him over uh that he had made him overseer of his house and over all that he had. The Lord blessed the Egyptians' house for Joseph's sake. And the blessing of the Lord was upon all that he had in the house in the field. This is all going to Potiphar. When Joseph leaves Potiphar's house here in a little bit, under false accusations, he's not taking anything with him. He's not leaving a bank account behind. Everything was Potiphar's. Yet God says Joseph was a prosperous man. A prosperous man. I'm afraid That this materialistic understanding of prosperity has infected the church. I think a huge, I think a large portion of Quote unquote Christianity in our day and age has bought into this idea of prosperity, meaning you own big houses and have lots of money and drive fancy cars We have a segment of Christianity today, a large segment of Christianity today, that is preaching the idea that God's blessings equal material prosperity, and they are wrong. I just listened to a clip earlier today. I was looking up what some of these guys are saying. And there's a fellow, his name is Jesse Duplantes, I think is how you say it. He's out of Louisiana and he's gone on and on and on this huge crowd of people about uh he has the largest house in Louisiana. He had a picture of it and He has um uh the most expensive staircase in all Louisiana. He has the largest house of any preacher in the United States of America. He just went on and on and on, and he's equating that with God's prosperity. Now I'm afraid we've bought into that. And we have this idea. I had a preacher, he's a friend of mine, but years ago, and he had preached a message that because he tithes And gives the Lord. Therefore he drives a big truck, he telling about how big his truck was and how nice his house was and how expensive his clothes were Problem with that is I know folks that tithe and give way above their tithe and don't drive a fancy car. They drive a jalopy. And they live in a very modest house, to say the most, but they're faithful in giving to the Lord. I want to suggest to you the one in the tar paper shack. is more prosperous than the rich millionaire preacher that is disobeying God. You say, well, it's a modern phenomenon. I got news for you. It was that thinking was in the church way back in New Testament times. In fact, I want to show you, if you would, turn with me to Revelation, the book of Revelation. And the first couple chapters in the beginning of the book, the Lord is addressing seven churches And he goes through and he says to each of the churches, he says, I know your works, and he gives them uh, he kind of critiques them a little bit. And one thing I find interesting that he refers to the pastor of the churches as an angel. How about that? The pastor is an angel. So, never mind. Anyway, but notice if you would, chapter three And verse number 8, he's addressing the angel or the pastor, is how is who he's referring to, but he calls him angel, and unto the angel of the church of Smyrna, right And he comes down, he says, these things, say the first and last, I know thy works, thy tribulation. Now look at verse number um nine. And no, I'm in chapter two, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, go to chapter three. I got sidetracked on the angel business. Go over to chapter 3. Look at verse 17. I got ahead of myself there a little bit. Alright. Chapter 3, verse 17, he's addressing the church at Laodicea. You remember this church? Says they wish you were hot or cold, but you're lukewarm. I'll spew thee out of my mouth. This church made God sick. Now notice what he says in verse 17. Notice the wording here very carefully. Because thou sayest, I am what? Rich and increased with goods and have need of nothing. Uh world's definition of prosperity. Oh, we got our bank accounts good. We we can get what we need. We don't need anything. Uh we're uh incre well we've got nice facilities, we've got the best vehicles, and uh we have the best salaries. Oh, we're in great shape. We're rich Look at the Lord's assessment. We have need of nothing, and knowest not that thou art wretched and miserable. And what's the next word? Poor and blind and naked. Their definition, their understanding is, oh, we're great. We've got all these uh material, we got beautiful houses, we got big bank accounts, we got all of this. Obviously we're blessed of God. Obviously we're very, very prosperous. And God says, oh no, no, you're not prosperous at all. You're poor and wretched and naked. And um God's what I'm trying to say is this God's definition of prosperity and man's definition of prosperity are two very different things. And I would far rather have God's prosperity than man's prosperity. And we fret and we worry and we get angry and we get all worked up Overworld's prosperity, materialism, and yet so often we pay such little attention To whether I'm obeying trusting God and walking in the will of God and letting Him lead me and doing what He instructs me to do. Now, if you would come back to chapter 2. As I said, I got a little ahead of myself there. And notice with me, uh verse 8, he's writing to this angel at the church at Smyrna. And he says in verse 9, I know thy works. And thy tribulation and thy what? Poverty. The exact opposite of what the world considers prosperous. But look what God says. I know thy works, tribulation, and poverty, but thou art what? Rich. Ah, you you don't have much buildings. In fact, they might not have buildings at all. Ah, your bank account's pretty pitiful. They might have been in the red for all I know And they looked at themselves and they said, you know, we're not much of anything. We don't have much and we don't have the nicest suits at the preachers meetings and we don't have the those uh first class buildings that the other churches have. Oh, we're not much of anything. God says, oh no, no. I see your heart And you love me and you're faithful to me, and you're trusting me, and you're letting me lead you and direct you. Oh, you're not poor. You're rich. You're rich. I'll tell you what, I'll take those riches over the world's riches any day. Those riches last beyond the grave. Amen. Those riches are not just temporal like the world's the riches of God's prosperity carry on beyond the grave and influence the world. A materialistic understanding of prosperity infects the church. And Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church I mean God has blessed us materially, right or wrong. I was thinking today, we got beautiful facilities. It's all paid for. We own a dime. We're able to help, we're able to do things financially, we're able to function financially. And it's cause of the giving of God's people. I understand that. But what I'm telling you, more importantly than the things we own and the bank account we have, more importantly is our walk with God and our submission to the Lord and our faith in God and our obedience to this book right here. That's prosperity. That's prosperity. So it's possible for a church or a Christian to have very little possessions and yet be very prosperous. It's possible for a church to have a little storefront building and run an old jalopy for a band to pick up people and Maybe the preacher has to work a part-time job, but if that church is trusting God and doing what God says, I'm telling you that's a prosperous church. Another church may be the biggest building in the county. They might have the biggest crowds and run the have the biggest budget and run the sharpest programs I tell you what, if we're not trusting God, we're not obedient to the Lord, we're not letting Him lead us, we're poor and wretched. It's possible to have very little possessions and yet be very prosperous. It's possible to have great possessions and large crowds and yet be poor. I thought about when I was studying this, I couldn't help but think about came to my mind, one of our missionaries been out in South Dakota for over 40 years, I believe I'm correct. Brother Gary May. His wife Donna. They're actually Donna's out of this church years ago. Did you know? Did you Bilbert did you guys know Gary and Donna? She was a Reems. They came out of this church years ago, I think I want to say early 70s maybe, somewhere back there. Went out to South Dakota. Brother Gary's been out there in South Dakota for over 40 years trying to reach those dear Indian people with the gospel. He's got a little building there. They burned it down twice since I've been here. He's totally dependent on the giving of other churches. They squeak by. But I tell you, old brother Gary's been faithful out there preaching. The gospel of Jesus Christ, warning them of hell, pointing them to the Savior. I mean, as faithful as any missionary you would ever want to have. And I'm here to tell you, Brother Gary and Donna are prosperous missionaries. They're doing what God called them to do in an incredibly difficult circumstance with little material results. But yet they've been faithful. He came in, it's been a number of years ago, and he preached a Wednesday night for us. They were back east for a little bit. He was able to come be with us. I said, I want you here. I want you to preach. I'm telling you, he preached just a simple uh message. It wasn't real dynamic, but I'm telling you it stirred my heart. He preached on hell And how Indian folks need to be saved to escape hell just like everybody else. I'm telling you, I I consider Brother Gary and Donna May to be very, very prosperous in the eyes of God. So Joseph is said to be prosperous. He didn't own anything. He was a slave. He had no freedom. He had no possessions. He had no bank account. Everything he did went to another man, but God says he's prosperous. Now, if you would come back to chapter 39. I want to make a few observations here. At a couple statements a couple statements I want to make concerning some verses, some statements here in the Bible. Come back to chapter 39 and look with me again at verse number 2 It says, and the Lord was with Joseph. And we looked at that previously. And he, now notice how it's worded, he was a prosperous man. A prosperous man. Doesn't say he had prosperity. It says that's what he was. It's describing Joseph, the kind of man he is. He is a prosperous man. Now, what does that mean? The word prosperous, and we looked at this in a previous message, but the word prosperous itself, in its very root word, means this: to push forward or to push up and above Or I like this definition to push beyond the limitations. That idea in the materialistic world means I make more money than I had before. I go up and above. I go beyond. what my financial material limits were, I've gone beyond that. Uh I've broken out my where I was limited and what my possessions were. Now I have no more. That's a materialistic idea What's it saying here? It's not talking about materialism. He doesn't have anything. I think it's talking about his character. I think it's describing Joseph's work ethic. In other words, he was a prosperous man. He went up and beyond in his work ethic. He had faith in God. He was a man of character. We're going to see that throughout his life. It's describing he worked more than what was expected of him. He's a slave for Pete's sake. He's not going to do anything more than they can beat out of him. But not Joseph. He's a prosperous man. He goes over and above, up and uh uh what's the phrase? Uh above and beyond What was expected of him. And that stood out. Would you agree with me? A slave owner that has to beat work out of everybody, and here you've got one I don't have to beat him. He goes above and beyond everything I required of him. Would you agree with me? That would probably stand out. It says he noticed that God was with him Joseph was a prosperous man, describing what kind of man he was. He went above and beyond. He went forward. He pushed beyond the limits of what was expected of him. and did more. I think it's describing his character in his honesty. Slaves were not known for their honesty. Joseph was an honest man. We're going to see here in the next chapter of his life how it unfolds. We're going to notice the integrity of Joseph, a man of integrity. He was prosperous in his honesty. He was prosperous in his integrity. He told the truth. He did what was right. Even when maybe that was not expected of him. I think it's describing his character and his demeanor. I think he was kinder than what was expected. He was more giving than what was expected of him. He was prosperous in his kindness. He was prosperous in his graciousness. He was prosperous in his work ethic. He was prosperous in his honesty and his integrity. He stood out above everybody else, more than what was expected of him. I was reading one commentator and he said that Joseph wanted to be the best working slave uh Potiphar had. I don't agree with that statement. I don't think Joseph was in competition with anybody. I think he was just what he was Whether anybody else was that or not, whether he was working harder than anybody else, I don't think that was even a factor in his mind. He was a prosperous man. That's what he was. That's what his character was And it stood out. And I believe that's God saw that long before, and he had a plan for Joseph's life because of the tremendous integrity of Joseph. He was a prosperous man. Then notice verse 5, and I'll end with this. It says it came to pass from the time that he had made him oversee in her house. Now think about how I just described Joseph. Made him oversee in his house and over all that he had, that the Lord blessed the Egyptian's house for Joseph's sake. Because of Joseph's character, because of his hard work, because of his integrity. Because of his faith in God and commitment to trusting God and doing right. Says the Lord blessed the Egyptians' house, Potiphar's house for his sake. And the blessing of the Lord wasn't just on the house, on all they had in the house, but in the field. God blessed Joseph's prosperity, quote unquote. was good for Potiphar's home and for his business. Because Joseph was who he was, God bless Potiphar. I said this in a previous message, but I want to repeat it here. I believe it with all my heart. A spiritually prosperous Christian is good for a community. A community will be better off if there is spiritually prosperous churches and spiritually prosperous Christians in that community, that community will be better off. It might not be a big fancy church, it might not be a rich Christian. But if we're right with God and we're trusting God and doing right and walking with Him, we will be a blessing and be a help. to a community. It could possibly change the very nature of the community. I've been saying this for years now. We know America is in a mess. And it bothers us and we dwell on it I'm here to tell you, I'm convinced the answer to America's problems and any country's problems, you name it, is the Christians in that country being everything God intends for them to be. And that will influence the country for righteousness. There's a reason we're called salt in the Sermon on the Mount. Not the government's not called Salt. The public schools aren't called SAT. The Elks Club isn't salt It's the church, and when the church is prosperous, when the church is what we ought to be, and when Christians are what we ought to be, and we're filled with the Spirit, and we're walking in faith, and we're Letting the Lord lead us, we're doing what he says, then we have a tremendous influence on that community, on that home. Maybe in that workplace. God blessed Potiphar because Joseph was a prosperous man. And by the way, God with him is what made him so prosperous. It's the presence of God in his life. Spiritually prosperous Christians and spiritually prosperous churches are good for communities and for nations. So Joseph was the possession of Potiphar. He had no rights, he had no property, he had no liberty. But he had the presence of God. The presence of God in his life made a difference and made him a prosperous man. I don't know about you. I want Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church to be prosperous. I'm not talking about our bank account, and I'm not talking about our vehicles or our buildings. I'm talking about the spiritual blessing and presence of God upon us. I want to be that, my home and my community, and my realm, the world that I live in. Amen? Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now that we could learn from Joseph. And Lord, help us to resist materialistic thinking. We're grateful for how you provide for us so abundantly. And Lord, we are grateful, but God, we don't want to misconstrue your material provision for spiritual prosperity. I ask you to stir us and revive us. And I pray your spirit would move that we could trust you and step out in faith and let you lead us and use us. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I want to be more prosperous spiritually. I want my spiritual life to be more prosperous. Any any feel that way? I sure do. It's been my prayers. I studied this. And so let's let the Lord lead us. Let's trust Him. Psalm 37. Let's follow that example given us there, that pattern Father bless now I ask as we give the imitation in Jesus' name I pray. Amen