Chapter fifty. And like I said, uh verse number nineteen. Now we've looked at this last week. We're working our way through. The next event as we're studying through the life of Joseph, Joseph is his death. is the end of chapter 50, beginning in verse 22. It gives his last few statements about his life, and then he passes away. So before we get to that, I just wanted to stop and look at this matter of his forgiveness of his brothers. And I just wanted to stop there. Verse number 19 says, And Joseph said unto them, Fear not, for am I in the place of God. And if you remember the context, they were after Jacob's dead and they came to Joseph, said Daddy told us, and of course they were lying. We pointed all this out last week. That uh Daddy told us to tell you to uh not hold this against us what we did to forgive us And um and Joseph reacts to that, and he's a uh almost, I don't know, appalled might be a strong word, but he's he's almost appalled that they would even think that he would seek revenge or he would withhold forgiveness to his brothers. And uh that's what I want to talk about. I've entitled it Joseph's Forgiveness. And I want to look, I've got about five or six lessons that I pick out here from Joseph's forgiveness of his brothers about forgiveness. We're not going to look at all those tonight. I was going to just cram them all and just buzz through them, but I want to stop and take a little time on those on on all of these. So I believe forgiveness is a huge, huge issue in life if we don't get a handle on that. And so let's pray together. Ask the Lord to speak our hearts tonight. Father in heaven, again, we're grateful for the Word of God and for the testimony of Joseph And Lord, the feedback we've gotten over the last many months of folks that you're dealing with people's hearts from lessons from the life of Joseph. And I so I pray now as we park here on this matter of forgiveness. I ask that you would uh fill me with your spirit and I yield myself to you, my will, and present my body I pray you'd teach us, Holy Spirit, please teach us how to forgive and about this matter of forgiveness and help us to learn this and master this. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. You think about the life of Joseph, and I was kind of, as I was looking at this, I kind of went back and just reviewed some of some of the things that he endured. through his light. Now stop and think about this. You think of somebody going through trials in the Bible, who do you think of stands out immediately? Job. And I get if you get thinking about what Joseph went through, it's probably not the degree that Job went through, but there are very few others in the Bible putting Job aside, and of course the Lord Jesus on the cross that endured uh injustice and trials and difficulties as much as Joseph did. You think about the fact of his brother's hatred, the hatred within his family. And the Bible uses that term uh numerous times in describing his brother's attitudes towards them. They hated them And uh I'll tell you, what a difficult thing in a home and in a family for there to be hatred in a home and a family. And that's what Joseph grows up with as a young boy, this hatred towards him And then he had this betrayal where his brothers turn on him and totally betray him of all people that he should have been able to trust Uh they betrayed him and then total rejection as they lie to their daddy about what happened and he's they just write him off. Oh, sorry, a wild beast must have killed him, Daddy And that's it. Total rejection by his brothers. And then he gets down to Egypt, and the injustice that's there is he's falsely accused of rape. And um and uh thrown in prison with um just the testimony of one person. So he endures this injustice and then he's in prison he's forgotten about He's helping, he's working hard, he's applying himself and making the best of his situation, and the two uh Butler and and Baker forget about him for years, two years And so, would you agree with me? In my mind, it would be hard to imagine that he would not be very bitter. Right? I mean to me somebody go through all of that and we see really nothing negative on his end that he's he's doing to anybody. He's working hard, he's making people's lives better, Potiphar and in the prison. And yet he's so mistreated and so hated. And it would be hard to imagine that he would not be bitter in all that and be angry. about what his family did to him, about how he was treated. And here's what we're getting at. Be unforgiving. Most people would say, hey, listen, he doesn't forgive his brothers. I can understand that. You know, after what they did, and they're still lying to them here You know, I think we would say we can understand if he was bitter and angry and unforgiving. But here's the thing, he wasn't Now there's no hint of bitterness on the part of Joseph at all. If it was there, it wasn't displayed, at least not in the biblical record. No hint of anger on his part towards Potiphar's wife, towards his brothers. No hint of anger there or unforgiveness Now here's the thing. Early in his life, and I know I'm reviewing here a good bit, because I want to kind of go somewhere with this Early in his life, it was revealed to him, God revealed to him, that he would ultimately have a position of great authority, great power. Now, God told him that in the dreams. That one day he would hold a position, great authority, great power. His family is going to bow down to him. Now that's all he knows He wasn't told what that position would be. The dreams did not tell him that he would be the number two authority and the most powerful nation in the world at that time, Egypt. They didn't tell him that. He just said you're going to have authority, you're going to have position. People will bow down to your family in particular. He wasn't told how that would come about Wasn't said, listen, you're going to go through these awful valleys, you're going to go through some real mistreatment, you're going to be hated and mistreated and uh falsely accused, forgotten And then you'll be he wasn't told any of that. All he was told was someday your family's going to bow down to you. That's all he knew. He didn't know what that position was. He didn't know how that was going to come about He didn't know the reason he would be put in that position. Why are they bowing down to him? Why does he have this authority? What's the purpose of it? All he knew was at some point that was going to happen And so, with that in mind, he maintained his integrity through all this mistreatment. Now I got thinking about that. Two questions come to my mind. Now I hope I can get you thinking with me and questioning this with me. The first question is When did he realize that all these trials he's going through were part of God's process of getting him to the position. When did he realize and say, oh wait a, because remember he said there, look at look at verse 20, he says, as for you you thought it evil against me But God meant it unto good, and he says that in various ways numerous times. So at some point he figured out Man, all this I'm going through, being thrown in a pit and sold as a slave and uh falsely accused and forgotten in prison, all that was part of God's plan. Now my question is, when did he figure that out Did he know when his brothers turned on him there when he was coming to check on him way back y years ago? When they did that, did he say, oh, you know what? This is part of the process God is using to put me in position. I don't think so. In fact, the whole time he's going through this horrific treatment, I don't know that he's putting two and two together and saying, you know, God is God is meaning this for good. I don't see where he has that figured out up until, look with me at chapter number 42. And verse number 9. And we mentioned this when we got to this in our study. But I want to come back to it for a reason. Chapter 42, and look with me at verse number 9. I think this is when he finally dawns on him. He finally realizes, ah, all this I've been going through, I see now how this what God is doing 42 verse 9. This is when the brothers showed up the first time. And it says, and Joseph what? Remembered what? The dreams which he dreamed of them. Ah, I this is my opinion. This is just studying his life here for the last Year two. My thinking is that's when all of a sudden the light bulb came on. And all of a sudden it was like, ah Okay, I see what's happening here. I see how I got to this position. He remembered the dreams. If it says in 42 verse 9 that he at that point he remembered the dreams What does that imply about him and the dreams up to that point? He had forgotten them. Right? I think it just got put in the back of his mind. He's dealing with all these issues and it they it just didn't they weren't there. They were in the back of his mind. He had forgotten all about these dreams coming up, but now when he sees his brothers, they bowed down to him Bingo that thing uh that that thing comes back to his mind says, ah, now I see and understand So he finally, he he realizes this late, late, late into the I mean all these trials are behind him. Now he's number two, he's in a palace, you know, he's he's sitting pretty And now he realizes what God was doing. Now that leads me to my second question. Why, when he's going through these trials, forgot about the dreams, Not realizing what God's doing. All he knows is just, do you ever make this statement? Man, it's just one thing after another. Anybody ever been there? I was there today. Just one thing after it's like, man, and then something else hits. Now something else hits. That's all he knew. But Here's what I'm getting at. Not knowing what God was doing, just one thing after another trying to deal with these. Yet in every situation he did what was right Now my question is, what motivated him to do right when he's being treated so wrong? What motivated him to tell the truth when he's being lied about? What motivated him to work hard when he's being completely forgotten about? What motivated him to help others and try and make other people's lives better in the situation he finds himself in, make it better in circumstances? Why does he keep doing that when people are making his life worse? It wasn't, it obviously was not the fact, it wasn't that he understood what God was doing, because he really didn't understand that till much, much later. You follow my line of thinking here? So what was it that Stirred him, prompted him to do right and help others and be honest and do those types of things. The Holy Spirit in them and the Bible references the Spirit of God working in them. And he and he what do you think Here's my conclusion. I think because he did right, because he was a man of integrity. It's what he was. He was a man of integrity. It didn't matter what everybody else was going to do, he was going to do right. If everybody else around him is lying, he's going to tell the truth If everybody else around them is living for themselves and trying to get what they can out of him, he's going to give. He's going to die to self and Do his best to help others around him. I think Joseph, and we said this repeatedly, but it just kind of reinforced in my mind as I'm looking at this how he's responding to his brother. He says, hey, God meant it for good. And he didn't realize that until later, so that the whole time he's doing right simply because it's right. And I'll tell you, if we can get to the point in our lives where we tell the truth for no other reason than it's the truth. And we work hard for no other reason than we ought to work hard. And we're a blessing to other people for no other reason than to simply be a blessing to other people. If we can ever get to that point We are maturing in our faith and we are becoming men and women of integrity. When we just do right for the sake of doing right, Bob Jones Sr. put it this way, and uh Ron Hamilton made a little ditty song out of it Uh do right till the stars fall. And believe me, Joseph's stars fell. They were falling on him the whole time. Yet he just kept doing right. Just kept doing right. Just told the truth Help worked hard and did the best he could to have faith in God and have a testimony. That's called integrity. Doing right for the sake of right is called integrity. Now that leads me to this question. Why did he forgive his brothers so completely? I believe because he was a man of integrity. It was the right thing to do. And so that's where we want to get to One profound lesson that we learn from the life of Joseph, as I just tried to point out, is the importance of integrity. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we ought to do right because it's right. And us as individuals in our homes, in our workplace, in our community, we ought to do right for no other reason than it's right. It's right. We ought to be distinctive in that. And so the importance of integrity, the necessity of integrity. If we as Christians, as the people of God, do not have integrity Then our testimony in this world is stained and is going to be hurt, right or wrong. And so the importance and necessity of integrity, which leads me to the next The importance, the second profound lesson is what I want to focus on tonight and maybe a week or two more, is the importance of forgiveness. Forgiveness. In fact, let me put it this way: the necessity of forgiveness. And by forgiveness, we're talking about forgiving others That have done wrong to us, forgiving others that have done wrong to us. And we're going to touch on God's forgiveness for us in a little bit. But the focus here, Joseph was able to forgive uh his brothers in a situation that every one of us would say would have been very, very difficult to forget, right or wrong. Yes. And so let's look at this matter of forgiveness. And this is not going to be a comprehensive study. It would be months and months. But I want to look through here some lessons on forgiveness from the life of Joseph. And again, I was going to just race through them all tonight, but I want to break it up. And so we may be, there is a remote possibility, there is a very real chance that we may be not as long as we normally are How about that? You guys are frozen, I think, tonight. Number one. Uh And you might want to jot these down. This is what I put down. Number one, faith is necessary for genuine forgiveness. If I'm going to be able to genuinely forgive someone who has done me wrong, I mean seriously done me wrong, I'm going to need faith in God. Faith in God. Forgiveness is a, if not the, central theme through biblical Christianity. Forgiveness is the very core of our faith in God. It's the very beginning place of our faith in God. Forgiveness is Faith in God is absolutely necessary for forgiveness. Forgiveness is the central theme of biblical Christianity. And the Bible is very, very clear: it is God's will that we forgive others. It is God's will. I want to please God. I want my life to please the Lord. I want to be a good testimony. I want to be Christ-like. And if I'm going to accomplish that, if I'm going to be a good Christian, if I'm going to have a good testimony, if I'm going to be sincerely Christ-like, not just an image, but I really am Then I have to forgive. It's absolutely necessary. It's absolutely vital. So it's God's will for us to forgive others. It is in our best interest to forgive others. And we're going to notice this as we go through. It's in our best interest. What happens if I am unforgiving? Somebody's hurt me, somebody said something, there was some injustice, somebody has treated me hatefully, they've lied about me, they've neglected me in some way, and I refuse to forgive them. What happens? What's the result of that? Yeah, yeah, and we're going to see that. Come with me to Matthew chapter 6. Jesus talked quite a bit about this, actually. And Matthew chapter 6 is the Lord's, that is his classic sermon in all the Gospels Matthew 5, 6, and 7 is the Sermon on the Mount. And if you're gonna s if you're gonna have one sermon, then say that is the Lord's Sermon. Sermon on the Mount is it. Now he had a bunch of others You know, they're all inspired, don't misunderstand. But the Sermon on the Mount is profound. And the Sermon on the Mount, chapter 5, 6, and 7, if you look at the beginning of chapter 5, you'll notice He's speaking to disciples. Question. Are disciples saved people? Yes or no? Yes. You can't be a disciple if you're not saved. Now you can be saved and maybe not be a disciple, or at least a not very good one. But you can't be a disciple if you're not saved. He's talking to saved people. How many folks here tonight you're saved? You know it. Say amen. Alright? So that means he would be addressing us. I do this often, but how many folks here say, preacher, I'm saved? I would like to think of myself as a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. Anyone like that? Yeah, you're here on a freezing rain Wednesday night. I mean there's some level of commitment and desire for the Lord obviously. And so he's talking to us. And look in chapter 6 and notice with me verse number 12. Now this is his prayer. He's teaching the disciples how to pray. He's teaching us how to pray. And he gives a prayer, verse 10, verse 9: Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. We're familiar with this. But notice In verse number 12, he makes a statement. He says, forgive us our debts. What's that next little word? As we forgive our debtors. Now he uses the word debt there in debtors. What's he talking about? He's talking about what? Yes, somebody that is wrong, somebody sinned. And that little word as is profound He says, forgive us our debts. Lord, we want you to forgive us the things we do wrong. We say unkind to others and neglect others and hateful to others and show bitterness to others. I've done these things to others. Lord, I want you to forgive me for that. How many people here want God to forgive you for the things you say and do that hurt other people? Yeah. Then he says, as. Do that. Lord, I want you to forgive me for these things. As. What does that word as there mean? Likewise, in the same way. In the same manner. Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. Let me ask you this. How many of us here tonight want God to forgive us for our sins the same way we forgive others for what they've done to us? Mmm. Huh? Now wait a minute, preacher. Yeah. You see, if I withhold forgiveness for someone One, uh I'm commanded by God, but I'm hurting myself. It hurts myself. That's kind of what Derek was saying. Um come down to verse number 14. He finishes up his prayer, verse 13, For the glory of thine be the power, and for thine is the kingdom, the power of the glory forever. Amen. Now he's preaching this sermon, and he used this illustration, this example prayer. And then he goes and picks up right on what he said in verse number 12. He says, moreover, he says, for If ye forgive men their trespasses, your Heavenly Father will also what? Forgive you. Would you agree with me? That's a pretty good motive to forgive other people for their sins against me, right? Yeah, I want God to forgive me. And he says, you forgive others, God will forgive you. Now he puts the other side of the coin, verse 15, but If you forgive what? Not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. Now I want to stop here real quickly and point out, he's not talking about the forgiveness for the salvation of my soul. That's settled the moment I trust Christ as Savior. Alright? Romans makes that clear. We could dwell on that. You say, well then what forgiveness is he talking about if I'm saved and the blood of Jesus cleanse me from all sin? I'm no longer under condemnation. What sin what what am I being forgiven? What how is him not forgiving my sins? What does that affect is that? It doesn't have to do with my relationship with God. It has to do with my fellowship with God And there's a difference between those two. For instance, I've got two boys. My boys are my boys They're always since the moment they were born, since the moment they were conceived, the my boys are my boys. They always will be. Would you agree with me? Regardless of their behavior, they're still my boys That's our relationship. That's unchanging. The moment they were conceived, they were the a child, a son of Dennis Leatherman That will always be true. Like it or not, that will always be true. It cannot change. The moment you and I trust Jesus Christ as Savior, we're born again into the family of God. We are the children of God. Regardless of our behavior, that relationship does not change. Praise the Lord. However, my fellowship with my boys can fluctuate You know, I'm over here at the office working or I'm out visiting or preaching somewhere. We're going back years and this didn't actually happen, so But um and uh where and I come home and say one of the boys threw a baseball through the pitcher window of the house. How many people agree with me that would be bad Yeah. How many people agree with me? I could be uh daddy might get upset about something like that. Especially if they did it on purpose. Ooh, that's a whole nother story. Let's say they did it on purpose So I come home and I say, what in the world? There's a picture window shattered. What in the world happens? And what if they say, I don't know? Then what are they doing? They're lying on top of it. And um and here's what would happen. Uh they're wrong, they know they're wrong, they're lied to daddy, and that not this exact scenario, but growing up there have been uh examples of this that have happened where they didn't admit something And they felt guilty about it. Anybody ever see a kid that felt guilty? They didn't want to be around daddy. They don't want man, they're avoiding our our fellowship is strained. And uh they know they did wrong, and I'm suspecting they did wrong, and this going on and on. And uh that is the forgiveness that Jesus is talking about, not the relationship, but the fellowship Now I'm going to ask a personal question. How many people here have ever been out of fellowship with the Lord for any period of time at all? Anybody at all? Yeah. Pleasant or unpleasant? Very unpleasant. Then we come and say, God, you know, I I was wrong, I was wrong, I want to be right. Prodigal son comes back, and the father embraced us, we're restored. Right? That's what Jesus is talking about And he says, if you don't forgive, if you don't forgive someone that's done you wrong, you don't forgive them, then I lose my fellowship with God. You with me? And so uh my statement is this it is in our best interest to forgive. To forgive. It affects my Fellowship with God. It hinders my fellowship with God. And I tell you, the most important fellowship interaction I have in the world is my fellowship with my God and my Savior. And I've got to guard that and I've got to maintain that. You say, well, I don't like the person that you're saying I need to forgive. I don't like them. Well, you just the fact that you love the Lord and want to maintain his fellowship, you ought to forgive them. Just out of selfish reasons. Because it's in my best interest to forgive others. And we're going to pick up on that later on as we look at some things. So my unforgiveness hinders my fellowship with God, but it also destroys my witness For the Savior. How many people here want to be a good witness for the Lord Jesus? Sure. What kind of Christian wouldn't want to be a good witness for Jesus? Come over to chapter 18 of Matthew And again, our Lord addresses this subject of forgiveness. And look with me if you would at verse number 21, Matthew 18, verse 21. It says, Then came Peter to him. Are you there? Then came Peter to him, to Jesus, and said, Lord, now look at Peter's question. How off Shall my brother sin against me and I forgive him? How many times should I forgive this person, whoever it may be, uses the term brothers Just anybody and that has sinned against me, how often uh should I forgive him? Till seven times? Now, I think Peter I think Peter was trying to be very, very generous. I think he was trying to say, Lord, somebody sin against me How often do I forgive them? Seven times they come and they lie to me, and then I confront them about it, so I forgive them. Okay, they come and lie to me again And we go through it, I forgive them. They lie to me again. How many times is that? Three. And we deal with it. I forgive them. Okay, I forgive you. I just uh they lie to me again. That's four. And then they go and we deal with that and they hide me again and they do it again and they do it again Lord, seven times? Do I forgive him? Well, you know what the Lord says. This is very well known. What was Peter doing? He was viewing forgiveness from the perspective of his own personal rights. He has no right to keep lying to me like this. She has no right to treat me this way. Now I'll forgive him. Now forgive them again and again and again and again and again up to seven times I'll forgive them. Lord, surely that's enough I mean, they're violating my rights. They're disrespecting me. I deserve to be treated better than this. And so we'll give him seven times. What do you think, Lord? I think, and again, this is just me, I don't know But my suspicion is, I suspect that Peter thought the Lord would say, Peter, that's quite a bit. That would be fine. That would be very, very generous on your part to forgive them seven times. Can anybody here imagine Peter expecting that answer? Sure. Seven times for crying out loud. Look what the Lord says. Jesus said unto him, I say not unto thee until seven times, and I see him looking in Peter's eyes, deep in his soul. And he says, I say not unto thee until seven times, until what? Seventy times seven. Whoa! Now is the Lord saying uh is the Lord saying keep track of how often you forgive someone? Get you a little ledger. Every time you forgive them, put a little mark down. And until you get to 70 times 7, what's that? 490? So when you hit 490, then you don't have to forgive them anymore. You're off the hook. You can be unforgiving, you can be bitter at them. You can hate them, you can be angry at them, and withhold forgiveness after 478 times. Who in the world thinks Jesus is saying that? He's not saying that What the Lord is saying here is make forgiveness a habit. Don't keep track. Forget, forget, forget. And then he goes on. Well let me back up here a little bit So my testimony for the Lord. The Lord, anybody here has, how many folks here? The Lord has forgiven you seven times For a sin. Anybody here? Seven times, yeah. How man how how many people here the Lord's forgiven you only seven times? Eh How many people hear the Lord's forgiven you 490 times? I mean, today. Probably. And so what's the Lord saying here? And we're going to see this, and this is brought out throughout the New Testament over and over and over. This is why I said forgiveness is at the very core of biblical Christianity. And my testimony for the Lord is if I withhold forgiveness, then my testimony as a witness of Jesus Christ is going to be affected. For forgive and get even at the same time? Because um And I'm not going to quote this right. It's in Proverbs, and he just pulled it off the top of my head here. But in Proverbs talks about uh pouring uh something, oh uh somebody help me there, uh where you're pouring Hot coals on them. In other words, I think the act of forgiveness is getting back. Coals. Yeah. And so uh in the Lord's economy, and here's the thing, and we're this is again going to be another point. Um this for g this matter of forgiveness. In fact, you may have just set me up for it here. Let me s let me uh make my statements, and I think I'm going to touch on what you just said I think one of the most ungodly actions I can commit as a child of God, that's been completely forgiven by God, completely One of the most ungodly things I can do is to withhold forgiveness from somebody that sinned against me. God has completely forgiven me for my sins to him. And then I turn around and I withhold forgiveness to someone that forgives me. That is the most unchristlike, one of the most unchrist-like things I can possibly do. Now let me come back to my statement, my point. My point is this, faith is necessary for forgiveness. The decision to forgive someone, someone who's done me wrong, and man, I'm steamed. And um I I gotta make a decision. I can by faith trust God, who clearly tells me I need to forgive Him. And all right, Lord, I trust you And I forgive them. Genuinely, sincerely, from my heart, he says, forgive them. Or I can lean on my own understanding and say, you know. They need to pay for this. I need to get back at them. What does Proverbs 3-5 say? Trust in the Lord. With all thine heart and lean not unto what? Thine own understanding. My understanding, and I hate to admit this, I'd be uh I hate to admit this, but I tend, in myself, the old Denny, pre-salvation denny that still indwells me, tends to hold a grudge. I know I do. Somebody does me wrong, man. My old self is I'll never forget that. And that's the way I am. Y'all are looking at me so pious right now. But I know that's the way I am. I know I am And so I need to by faith not lean on my own understanding and not react in my natural way That my flesh wants me to react. And I need to dynamic, mortify the deeds of the flesh, and by faith say, alright God, I'm going to trust you. This isn't, Lord, this isn't the way I would do it But you're wiser than I am, and you're God, and I'm not. And I want to keep my fellowship with you, so I'm going to trust you by faith. I'm going to forgive completely and let you deal with it. And let you deal with their sin that they committed against me. I'm not in remember Joseph said this. Am I in the place of God? Uh therefore if I have any other either, for instance, getting old or five Yeah. And so that enemy would be somebody that's mistreated me, somebody that has been unforgiving to me. Servant and one owning the whole. So he was gonna have his wife's toe, his kids toe, and Oh, pay me all that. He didn't even make the case. He went out and promised the only owner So there's money to be on the growth that he was. He said if we can't say it he would have heard it. And he went there to open the key. Right. That's my next point. Matthew eighteen. And uh the next point is the foundation of our forgiveness is God's forgiveness to us. And that's the basis. And we'll pick that one up next week because uh I want to spend a little time on that. I don't know where we're at. I know this. I know I know two things is true about every one of us Every one of us say and do things that are wrong and hurt others at some point, right or wrong. As hard as we try, and we don't want to, I want to be filled with the Spirit But inevitably, this old tongue is going to betray my wicked, sinful, deceitful heart, right or wrong. My actions are going to be there. I got them there. Paul acknowledged that. So I know this about all of us. We have said and done things that have hurt others that we would like for them to forgive us. And I know this about every one of us Others have said and done things against us that have hurt us. Right? You can't live in a fallen world and not Jesus said offenses will come. They're going to come. You're going to be hurt. People are going to say stuff. It's going to hurt you. Now here's the decision. Just in this first thought from Joseph. Joseph had to make a decision. And back up, I think he struggled with it a little bit. When he saw his brothers. Remember, he treated them hatefully. He was harsh to them for a little bit. Then he went back and forth, back and forth. I think he was making a decision He saw them, he remembered the dream. It's like, ugh. And he struggled. And sometimes, we're going to talk about this. Sometimes forgiveness is very difficult. Sometimes it's hard. And Joseph's situation, good heavens. But he had to make a decision. Am I going to trust what God is doing in my life? Am I going to look at everything that happened to me in the light of God's sovereignty and God's plan and purpose for my life and respond to them in light of that? Or am I going to respond in my own flesh? And let them have it. And he could have let them have it. And he made a decision by faith. I'm not going to retaliate. I'm going to forgive them. And I think that's a pattern for you and I You're getting the up. Yeah. Uh I'm not sure I know exactly what you mean, but there is definitely a spiritual aspect to this. This is part of spiritual warfare. I don't know But um and you know the devil obviously doesn't want us to forgive and he'll bring things to mind. I know that's true. That we need to forget that win is how easy to win anything off. Oh yeah. Yeah, I think the devil would do that and try and keep us from doing that. I think well we just need to come by faith and you know make a decision. I'm gonna forgive him Resist the devil, James tells us, he'll flee from you. And um you know Yeah, just uh say it's not technically available, so same with Jeroy Oh, he could mess them up. So I I'm not sure if I'm answering your question or not, but I know Devil will bring And here's something I know from experience, the devil will bring back to mind things that people did against me. And it's almost like you have to maintain an ongoing, forgiving attitude. You know, it's a decision I make, but I sometimes I have to maintain that. You know what I'm saying? Because then it comes back and it's like man they did this. And no, no, no. That decision's made. I I forgave them. I'm not going to act on that Then a day or two later something comes back and says, No, I'm not gonna do that. I read that this way. I remember what my head was together. Yeah. So Right. Well I wanted to do it, but how do you guys look at that? Yeah, I to be honest with you, I don't know the answer to that. I don't know how God did that if it was just in his mind or if he heard an audible voice. Well that might have rated when it goes three. That might also be very similar to all. Yeah. Absolutely. His faith was incredibly strong. Now he struggled, there's no doubt. In my mind, there's no doubt. Other Bible commentators will debate whether he was struggling when he treated the brothers like that. I think he was struggling But in the end he was he said he overcame that and he forgave him. So And so all that we were getting like the wrong way is uh of course they call it short, but that's what it's one of the Right. Problem. Well, he said he's left us a phenomenal example. And the first point I want us to get tonight is this. It's by faith. I don't lean them on our stating. I trust God and I make that decision. So let's pray. Father, we come to you, Lord, this matter of forgiveness and its lifelong issue Lord, it's not always easy, but like everything in our lives, Christian life, it's by faith. And so, Lord, we trust you. We ask that your Holy Spirit fill us and enable us. To forgive even as we are forgiven. And uh pray this would help us tonight in Jesus' name. Amen.