Alright, Genesis forty-four. I'm gonna read we want to read the first thirteen verses. And uh Genesis forty-four. The Bible says, And he commanded the steward of his house, saying Fill the men's sack with food, as much as they can carry, and put every man's money in his sack's mouth. How many people heard that before? And put my cup. Now Joseph is instructing his steward to do this, unbeknownst to his brothers, and put my cup, the silver cup, in the sack's mouth of the youngest. and his corn money, and he did according to the word that Joseph had spoken. As soon as the morning was light, the men were sent away, they and their asses. And when they were going out of the city and not yet far off, Joseph said unto his steward, Up, follow after the men. And when thou dost overtake them, say unto them, Wherefore have ye rewarded evil for good? Is not this in which my Lord drinketh, and whereby indeed divineth, ye have done evil in so doing. And he, the steward, overtook them, and he spake unto them these same words. And they said unto him, Wherefore saith my Lord these words? God forbid that thy servants should do according to this thing. Behold, the money which we found in our sacks' mouths, we brought again unto thee out of the land of Canaan. How then should we steal out of my Lord's house silver and gold? With whomsoever of thy servants it be found, now listen to what they say, let him die, and we also will be my Lord's bondmen. And he said, Now also let it be according unto your words. And he with whom it is found shall be my servant, and ye shall be blameless. So he alters their offer here a little. Then they speedily took down every man his sack to the ground and opened every man his sack. And he searched and began at the eldest and left at the youngest And the cup was found in Benjamin's sack. Then they rent their clothes and laded every man his ass and returned to the city. Joseph's Silver Cup. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless. As we study this portion of Scripture, again, Lord, we recognize that you've preserved this event many, many, many years ago. And in your word for our admonition, for our example, for our learning. And so I pray that tonight your Holy Spirit would apply some truths here and principles here to our lives that we can be stronger in our faith and more effective in our witness, closer to you in our walk. So I yield my will to you again this hour. Father, I pray that my mind would be yielded completely to your word and that I yield I present my body and ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit as we try to preach tonight. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. We find ourselves in a society that has convinced itself That it is possible to completely disregard truth and yet be no con there be no consequences. We live in a society has convinced itself we can completely disregard reality And yet experience no consequences from that or suffer no consequences from that. And that thinking, that idea that I can just disregard what is true I can just disregard reality and not have any consequences. That thinking is creeping into the churches. Is that we can disregard God's word, we can disregard facts of life, reality of life, and yet not be affected by that. It's crept into our Christian homes even. uh that idea. There's a fellow by the name of Richard Weaver. He is or at least was a professor of English at the University of Chicago And he made this statement. I like this statement. He said, modern man has become a moral idiot. I think that's the truth in a lot of ways. God put it this way in Numbers chapter 32, verse 23, be sure your sin will find you out. We cannot ignore reality and think there's not going to be any consequences for that action. We cannot ignore the truth and think there's not going to be consequences. it will find us out. Just as certain as the law of gravity takes effect and cannot be ignored, moral and spiritual laws cannot be ignored without consequences. You can say, well, I um uh I I identify as someone that duh is not affected by gravity. Go ahead. Child, step off the building. Uh Curtis Hudson used to tell the story just thought of it. This is why my sermons get long. Um Curtis Hudson uh t would tell this story in one of his messages. About a fella, two guys were up on the sky up in a high apartment, high-rise apartment. And uh they got drinking The guy got so drunk he flew the window open. He said, I'm Superman, I can fly. And he jumped out the window and uh splattered on the floor. He's in the hospital in a body cast And uh his buddy a day a day or two later comes by to visit him. And the guy looks at his buddy and says, uh, he goes, Why in the world did you let me do that? He says, uh, you idiot, why didn't you stop me? And the buddy said, I thought you could fly too. We cannot ignore the law of gravity and we cannot ignore we cannot ignore ignore the law of gravity without suffering consequences. Can we get a consensus on that? And you cannot ignore the laws of God and the laws of reality and truth without there being some consequence. And for nearly twenty years, Joseph's brothers have have cu had convinced themselves that they could treat him the way they did, and they could sin against God, they could murder innocent people, they could attempt to murder their brother, sell him by own As far as they knew, their brother was dead. And all this time, think there would never be any consequences. There would never be anything come back on that. Fact of the matter is, they've well, they thought they got away with their sin against Joseph. They thought there would be no consequences. They thought no one knew what they had done. The fact of the matter is, God knew what they did. Proverbs 15:3 says: the eyes of the Lord are in every place, beholding the evil and the good. 1 John 3:20 says, God knoweth all things. Hebrews chapter 4, verse 13 says, Neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his sight. But all things are naked and open unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do. God knows. God sees God saw what they did on that caravan road in the wilderness as Joseph came out to try and find his brothers and just check on them at the at the instruction of his father. God saw what they did. Psalms 139 goes goes expounds on this and says, tells us that God knows our downsetting, our uprising. He understands our thought afar off. God even knows what we think. Now, there's no doubt in my mind, his brothers knew that God saw everything. God sees everything. There's no doubt in my mind they knew that. But they ignored it. They ignored it. And that's when you and I get in trouble. So we do something, or we say something, or we have this little secret of ours. We know it's not right, we know it's wrong, but we want it, and we want to do this. And we know that God sees everything. We know that God is all-knowing. We know that God is present. But yet somehow in our minds we Convince ourselves we can just ignore that, and there's not going to be any consequences. Anybody know what I'm talking about? The brothers knew that God saw what they did, but they just ignored it. The other thing is not only did the brothers know not only did God know what they did, but there was somebody else who knew what they did. Who was that? Joseph. Joseph knew. Um Now, the brothers, I think, they ignored God's, they ignored the fact that God saw what they did, knew what they did But I think they were ignorant of the fact, not that Joseph knew it, but they were ignorant of the fact that Joseph was still around In their mind, Joseph is no longer a factor in their lives. In their mind, Joseph is no longer an issue that they have to deal with. And whatever they did to Joseph, ignoring the fact that God saw it, Joseph is gone. He's no doubt he no longer is even alive. And it's not an issue. But the fact of the matter is, Joseph was still an issue. And he was still alive. Sometimes we convince ourselves, sometimes I I believe, sometimes we convince ourselves we've done something. We're convinced there's nobody on the planet that knows what we did. Oh, God does, but we ignore that. I'm here to tell you there's chances, it's a very good probability that there's somebody out there that knows what you did. You don't think so? You don't think, but I'm telling you, I've been doing this long enough to know that there are very few genuine secrets kept, and there's a good probability that somebody knows about it. Now they may not speak up. You may not even know that they know. It's a good probability that someone knows. So here you have Joseph's brothers. They were going to kill Joseph. Um they changed their mind and uh they sell him as a slave, he's off to uh down to Egypt. They go about their business, never thinking a second thought about it, although it's eating at their conscience, we know. And as far as they're concerned, that's over and done with. Now this famine shows up And they head down to Egypt, they get down there, and this Egyptian ruler, as far as they know, gives them a hard time, throws them in prison Goes back and forth, asks about their family, demands that their youngest brother come down, if they ever come back again, keep Simeon in prison for two years Finally they come back the second time, and that's what we've been looking at, and they're scared to death. They show up down there the second time. They bring the money back that was in their sacks the first time, which they don't understand. They brought it back some kind of mistake here, we want to pay this back And rather than being talked to roughly and treated like spies, this time they're treated like not royalty. Remember, we looked at this last week. And man, they're eating in the governor's palace, so to speak. And uh they're treated like royalty And then they're loaded up and sent back. Here's the thing I'm getting at, and the purpose for my introduction statements I made there is these boys' lives are about to be turned upside down. What they thought was a hidden secret, done and gone, over with, 20 years ago, nobody would ever know. It'll never be a consequence of it. It'll never be an issue. Lo and behold, it's about to blow up in their face. So let's look at this passage here. I broke it down into different thoughts. Number one, I want us to notice Joseph's plot. Joseph is has another plan. Notice what it there in verse number one. And he commanded the stewards, Joseph Of his house, saying, Fill the men's sacks with food, as much as they can carry, put every man's money in his sacks, mouth And put my cup, the silver cup, in the sack's mouth of the youngest and his corn money. He did it according to it, and it goes down through there. Joseph's not finished tormenting his brothers just yet. But I think there's a little bit of a difference here For those that were in our previous studies, when they showed up the first time, Joseph was rough. And as I've been saying over and over again Um, I think Joseph was really struggling with unforgiveness. I think he was really struggling how to treat these guys after what they did for him. And I tell you, he roughed them up pretty good. I'll tell you one thing, he scared the daylights out of them. throws him in prison for three days and changes his mind. But I notice a difference on his little plot he has now, this little scheme he has to mess with him again, torment him a little bit It's a little bit different. The first time it seemed almost impulsive what he was doing. They show up, he didn't know they were coming. They show up, he recognizes them And there's this struggle going on and how to treat them and man he'll treat him roughly, then he'll kind of back off a little bit, then he'll treat him roughly, back off, throws him in prison, gonna keep him there, then he backs off, just keep going, I'll send you back This time it seems a little bit more deliberate what he's doing. This time I don't sense the malice. That he had the first round when he was treating with them. This is a little more strategic. I think he's got a plan. I think what he's doing, he's doing deliberately to accomplish something, and we'll see that. Notice he first of all he supplies them abundantly. He says, fill their sacks. I looked that word fill up, and it means this: completely, fill completely, no more room. Has the idea of pressed down, shaking together, and running over. He's making sure they they they there's no possible way they have any more room to get supplies in Notice it says there also with food, as much as they can carry. I mean load those donkeys down till they're neither buckling. And so he supplies them abundantly. I put this statement down. A good man is a generous man. Um I think uh do you ever go to a business where you feel like they're trying to give you as little as possible for the money you're paying them? Anyone ever been there? 99% of the places. But every now and then you come across a business where you feel like they are genuinely trying to give you your money's worth and maybe a a little bit more. Anyone know what I'm talking about? And you come out and say, Wow, that's a good portion. Um what's that? Yeah, I was just gonna say that. Uh there's a restaurant down in Kaiser, Italian restaurant. You go down there and uh what's the name of that place? No, it's not Delano's. Castellias. This is an advertisement. So if you're watching I want a free meal. Man, you go down there, you cut anybody ever been there, you come out of there, you got enough leftovers to eat for a week. And that's what Joseph is doing here. Joseph's a good man. He loves his brothers. He loves his family. He's not trying to rip anybody off. He says, you load them down. So number one, he supplies his plot here. First of all, he supplies them abundantly, but then he sets them up very cleverly. Look at this. Verse 1, he says, fill their sacks with food, as much as they can carry. And and I would love to know what this steward is thinking. I I see a smile on his face. I think he's snickering. Heh, these Hebrews. Put every man's money in his sack's mouth. So put it in the mouth, that means they're going to what? As soon as they open up, what's going to happen? They're going to see it. He wants them to see it. He wants them to know it's there. He's not doing this. He's not doing this just so that they had plenty of money. I don't think money was an issue with Jacob and his family. They were unbelievably wealthy. So he's not doing this to help them out financially. He's doing this to make a statement. He's doing this to accomplish something. This is part of his plot. Put in every man's sack and put his mouth. And then And put my cup, the silver cup, he's pointing out which one he means. It's a very specific cup, in the sack's mouth of the youngest. Who's that? It's Benjamin. Woo. Well you wanna you talk about stirring up things up But my cup, the silver cup, and the sacks of mouth the youngest and his corn money, and he did according to the word that Joseph had spoken. He's setting them up, money in money in all their sacks and the mouth So they see it. Then he puts the silver cup. Now he could have put anything in his household he could have put in there He could have put a silver fork, he could have put uh a plate, he could have put anything that might have been in the dining hall the dining room of his mansion. He could have put any number of things. But he put, he's very specific. He says, put the cup, the silver cup, my cup. Put it in that boy's Sat. Now my question comes up, why did he choose this silver cup? What's this significance of putting this silver cup in there? Well, I think there's several. Number one, it was a personal item. You know, it's one thing to steal something, uh it's one thing. It's one thing to steal a towel out of the motel room. I know none of y'all have ever done that. It's one thing to steal a when I before I was saved and I'm not proud of this, I didn't do it, my friend did, but um I want to point that out. But remember they used to have those glass Coca-Cola cups. You'd go somewhere and they'd have a glass, not cup, a glass glass and say Coca-Cola on it. Anybody remember I don't know if they still have them or not. He would steal those things left and right. And um it's one thing to steal something like that. It's something else to steal somebody's personal item. You follow what I'm saying? I mean it's bad enough to steal anything But he's putting a very, very personal item of his into that cup. That's making it personal. This isn't just a thief, this is somebody who's stealing something that's precious to somebody, important to somebody There for a while there was and I think one of our church folk uh was affected by this, um, but there was somebody who was going into homes when there was a funeral, while the people were at the funeral, people were breaking into the homes of the people. who were attending the funeral and stealing personal things. Anybody remember when that happened? And personal stuff, mementos and heirloom type stuff. Well that's kind of what this is And so why does he put the silver cup in the air? One, he's making it very personal. He is setting them up in such a way where he could express extreme personal anger at them. He's setting this up in such a way where it would be very, very offensive for them to do this. You follow what I'm saying? So the silver cup, and he says, my cup, put in there. And so one of the reasons I think he put his silver cup in there is to make it personal, to make it what what they he setting them up as having done would be very, very offensive Second of all, it's very valuable. A silver chalice or goblet is probably what it was, rather large, no doubt, extremely valuable. And so he puts it in there because it's something of great value. But there's something else about that silver cup that I found as I did some research here. The Egyptians were pagans, as we know. They worshipped a lot of false, non-existent gods, gods of their imagination. But they were very superstitious. And they would have specific especially the the um uh leaders and especially like uh the political leaders and heads of state, people in positions of significance Many of them would have their own particular cup, and they called it the diviner's cup. They would use it for divination. Anybody know what I mean by divination? In other words, what they would do, the history books tell us that they would have this cup, this superstitious cup. And a lot of times they would put water and some oil, they'd mix it together into this cup, and they would stare into it, and they would watch how the oil would form itself on the top of the water, and depending on uh its formation and and depending on its reaction and what it would do, that to them was information. It would reveal secrets about other people, they thought. It would prophesy future events Very similar to like a palm reader or something like that. Or they uh today sometimes people will read tea leaves. You know what I'm talking about? And I say, Oh you you you and those uh they'll say all this stuff, oh you have a wonderful future. It's always something wonderful, you know And uh I have a friend of mine, Charlie, out in Arkansas. We went to school together when he was a teenager. There was a there was a um uh what do you call them? Uh Not a uh Yeah, they read terror cars. What do you call those people? Fortune teller. There was they had a little shop set up down the road from where he was at. And uh he was all fired up for God and he wanted to be a witness, he is, he's I'm gonna go down there and win this fortune teller to Christ So he went down there and went in the door and um got in there and she goes, I'll be with you in just a minute. I have a customer. So he's sitting there in a waiting room He's going to win her to Christ, waiting on Christ. And so finally she's done the person lead. She goes, All right, come on in. What would you like for me to tell you? He goes, Well, I'm here to talk to you about Christ. She goes, wait a minute, let me see your hand Okay. He said by the time he left she read his fortune and did all this stuff and he never actually got to witness to her. But anyway, you had to know Charlie for that. But um he failed totally in trying to witness to this gal is what he said. So they would use this goblet or this chalice, this cup, they would put, sometimes they would put wine and some precious gems. into this cup and they would uh mix it up a little bit and they'd watch and how it clouded and how the gems uh lay in the bottom and stuff. They would uh divine, they would prophesy what's going to happen or they would learn secrets about others. And so this cup that Joseph is using was a divination cup. In fact, he references that, if you would. Look at verse number five. This is after they're being confronted. They find this cup, they're being confronted. Notice what he says. Is not this it in which my Lord drinketh? Look at whereby indeed he divineth. speaking of the cup. That's what this thing was. So they have a personal item, they have a very valuable item, and it's a very significant item. It's a divining cup. Now the question that comes to my mind, did Joseph actually do that? He says, he implies to his brothers, this is the cup that I use to do divination. What would Joseph what we know about Joseph, would he do that? Well I Got looking a little bit, and there's actually no prohibition. God does not say anything about this until Mount Sinai, when he gives the law to Israel, and then in the law he forbids divination. He says very clearly, you're not to do that. And there's no statement on it previous to that that we know of. So my question comes up and I look to see what people smarter than I thought, and it was about 50-50. Some said yeah, he probably did. It wasn't really forbidden at this point in time yet, so he probably did. The others said nah. Uh there's no way Joseph would do this. How many people are interested in my conclusion? Two. All right This is what I think, and I have no way of knowing, but I don't believe Joseph would do this. The reason I say that is this. He didn't need some superstitious thing to interpret the dreams. He knew he knew what the but butler and butcher, what the uh um but uh the butcher, the baker, and the candlestick maker, he knew He knew what the butler and the baker. He knew what their dreams were. God told him he didn't need some stupid, superstitious cop. When Pharaoh dreamed his dream, God told him what the dreams meant. I have a hard time believing. Joseph would sit and look in a glass full of wine with rocks in it So then what does he mean when he says this is the cup that I I du divine with, I do divination with? You know what I think? I think he's putting on the show. I think it's part of his plot I think it's part of his disguising himself that he's been doing this whole time. He doesn't speak Hebrew, he speaks Egyptian, so they don't know He's in Egyptian garb so they don't know. When he breaks down weeping, he hides himself so he don't know. I think he's part of his charade that he's been doing deliberately Now the other question is, why did he put the silvered cup in Benjamin's? Sack. I mean who what would it matter? If they got his cup, they're dead meat. Why does it matter who they put it in? I think, again, and we're not told, the Bible doesn't tell us, so we got speculation here, but I think it was very strategic on Joseph's part. Number one, it would give the shit would have a shock effect, right? This is daddy's baby boy. Joseph is dead, as far as they knew This is Benjamin. This has been the point of contention between the boys and their daddies this whole time about whether to bring Benjamin down or not. They finally caught daddy into letting him come down. They've made it through this whole process. They're finally going back with Benjamin. Everything's okay. And he puts it in Benjamin's sack to absolutely turn their world upside down again. So that's one reason, I think. I think there's another reason. I think Benjamin is By putting it in Benjamin's sack and then bringing him back, and he says, if you notice when we read through here, and we'll look at it here in a minute, he says, I'll just keep Benjamin, you boys go in your way, I'll keep Benjamin. I think Joseph's part of his strategy was to use Benjamin as leverage to get Jacob back down to Egypt. I'm wondering if in Joseph's mind he was thinking the only way I'm going to get my daddy down here is if I have Benjamin here, he'll come down to get Benjamin. I don't know. Again, we're not told. But he puts it in the most the most volatile person of the crowd. He puts it in his sack. So, number one, he supplies them abundantly. He stacks their back, he just fills them up to the full. He sets them up with this very clever strategy And then he accuses them directly. Look at verse 4. He sends his servant out. As soon as the morning verse 3 As soon as the morning was light, the men were sent away, they and their asses. So this is the next day. They had lunch at noon. Joseph showed up the previous day. They had this amazing meal, their heads spinning They're all loaded up that night after the meal. They get all their everything's loaded up and this little these little uh sneaky things are done, the guys don't know it They get that night's rest first thing at daylight. Notice it says, as soon as the morning was light, they are back on the road. Would you agree with me? These guys are anxious to get home I see them leaving Egypt, leaving the city, and they got they're loaded down and they're just amazed at everything, and they get out of the city limits, and I see them doing this. Whew We made it. Uh we're we're c we're clear. And when they were not out and when they were gone out of the city and not yet far off. Joseph said unto his steward, follow after the men, and when thou dost overtake them, say unto them. He tells them specifically what to say. Wherefore have ye rewarded evil for good? Is not this it in which my Lord drinketh, whereby indeed he divineth He have done evil in so doing. Man, he's gone right at them. He's not allowing for the possibility that they made a mistake. He's not allowing for the possibility that there's some mix-up and accidentally happen. They are judged and condemned before they even know that anything is an issue. Now, Joseph is putting on. This is part of his plot, part of his strategy. But man, he goes right for the jugular here. In fact, he accuses them of three things, I believe. In verse 4, he accuses them of ingratitude. Notice what he says there again in verse 4. Wherefore have ye rewarded evil for good? He says, I've been so good to you. I fed you from my own in my own house, my own food. I gave you so much supplies. I treated you so well. I went over and above to treat you respectfully and give to you generously and you don't appreciate it. Wow. I think he's accusing them of ingratitude. He's accusing them obviously of theft You took this chalice there, verse 5, is not this which my Lord drinketh, whereby indeed he divineth. So you're thieves, you're ungrateful thieves. That's what he's saying to them. But then, and again, this is implied here a little bit, and I'm maybe misin uh misinterpreting this. I don't think so. But I think he's accusing them of apostasy under the Egyptian religion. He says, this is the cup that he divines with. Ye have done evil In so doing. That word evil is translated other places in our Bible very, very wickedly. So they have offended The number two most powerful men in Egypt, they showed him ingratitude. They're a bunch of sorry, no-good thieves, and they blasphemed his religion. How many people agree with me? Their relief in leaving the city has suddenly burst. Put yourself in their shoes. Um so number one Joseph's plot. That's his whole plot. I think he had this planned out. He knew he was going to do this whenever they showed up. First time first round they showed up unexpected. He kind of was uh impulsive, improvised what he was doing, struggling, and uh this time he knew they're coming back And he says, all right, he thought this through. He has a very strategic, deliberate plan what he's accomplishing. So then we have, number two, the brothers' plea. Look at verse 7. And they said unto him, Wherefore saith my Lord these words? God forbid that thy servants should do according to this thing. First of all, they do an earnest denial. That little phrase there, wherefore saith my Lord these words, we might word it this way. What in the world are you talking about? We didn't steal nothing. Number two, they're instantly dumbfounded. Verse 8, they appeal to their honesty. They said, Behold, the money we found in our sack sacks mouths the first time. Brought we again to thee out of the land of Canaan. How then should we steal out of the Lord's house silver or gold? Man, we were honest before. Come on, let's be rational here And then they make this deal, innocently make this deal. Now they don't know what they're saying Look at verse 9. With whomsoever of thy servants it be found, both let him die They have no idea what they're saying. What are they saying? They're just saying that, listen, Jose Benjamin's gonna what They don't know they're saying that, but that's what they're saying. This is the deal they're making. Listen, if you find this, whoever it's in, kill it. They don't know what they're saying. And then they say, uh, that's extreme, and then they say, we'll be thy servants. And notice um notice the servant, he accepts their deal, but he modifies a little bit. He says that that's a little extreme. He says, verse 9, with whomsoever of thy servants it be found Or I'm sorry, verse 10. And he said, Now also let it be according to your words. But he with whom it is found shall be my servant. And we're not killing anybody. He'll just come, he'll be my slave, he'll be my servant. Just like Joseph showed up, became Potiphar's servant, the steward saying, All right, whoever has this be my servant. Sermon. I have a sneaking suspicion that's exactly what Joseph wanted. He wanted them to see what happens to Benjamin, what happened to him, what they did to him. Let it be according to your words, with whom it is found shall be my servant. Ye shall be blameless. And so the brothers plea, and then last of all, end with this: the brother's perplexity. They are in total confusion at this point. Total despair. They speedily took down. Verse 11, every man is sacked to the ground. They opened every man's sack. He searched and began at the eldest and left at the youngest. Very interesting. And the cup was found where Benjamin sat. Can you imagine? Can you imagine what goes on in the hearts and minds of these brothers when they pull that thing out of Benjamin? Absolute despair. Their worst fear has just taken place in front of their eyes. There is no hope. Joseph, well God through Joseph, but Joseph has just broken his brothers. All their self-confidence, all their pride, all their cruelty, all their arrogance Has now been shattered when that cup comes out of Benjamin's sack. God's breaking them down. We cannot ignore the consequences of our actions You and I, listen, you and I are free to make whatever choice we want. We have a free will. I can choose this or I can choose that. But we cannot choose the consequences of our actions. Those brothers could have treated Joseph respectfully when he came out. They might not have appreciated All the way that daddy was treating Joseph, that they could have treated him with respect at least as a half-brother. But they didn't. They chose murder. They chose kidnapping. They chose slavery for their brother. Ultimately, in their minds, death. You and I are free to make whatever choice we want. Listen, we can choose to do right or we can choose to do wrong. We can choose to be honest or we can choose to be liars. We can choose to be grateful or we can choose to be selfish and ungrateful. We can make that choice. God gives us that free will to choose what we want, but we cannot choose the consequences of those actions. These boys, it is this house of cards that they've been living in is now collapsing on top of them. In total confusion, total despair. They are broken. They went from having the they went from the relief And j and uh uh relief of getting through this and heading home. We've got Benjamin, we've got this, we're heading home And brother, in a few moments they went total despair. Benjamin's going to be a slave the rest of his life. Daddy's going to die. Kill us, and then he's going to die. In just a matter of moments, our world can turn upside down in just a moment. Go to a doctor and the doctor says, Oh, we found something. Anyone know it? And your heart sinks. Anybody know what I'm talking about? God forbid they use that hateful word cancer. And suddenly we're going vol. Somebody was telling me just recently, somebody just found out they had cancer a week ago. Within a week they were gone. They had no idea anything was wrong. I'm telling you, our world can turn upside down in just a moment. What about Job? Man, he's doing great. He's got the family. He loves God. He's one God. And man, in one day, his life is completely altered. What about David? Man, he's the king of e uh of Israel, and they're winning their wars, they're having victory, extended period of prosperity, an extended period of victory. And one night David goes up on the top of his house, and in a moment he lets down his guard, and his life is never the same, and it's turned upside down for the rest of his life because of one night. You follow what I'm saying? This ought to be a warning to all of us. Number one, there's consequences to the decisions we make and the actions we take. It may not be for a long time. But they're there, just as sure as the law of gravity takes effect, so does the law of reaping and sowing. Say, what do I do, preacher? Well, let me say this. I could, and I've said this before over the years, and I could ruin I could ruin in five minutes, tonight, I could ruin in five minutes or less a testimony that I have sought to establish for the last 31 years. One foolish decision, one foolish action, one ignorant beh uh act of behavior, I could ruin it Well, I've worked thirty plus years to try and establish, and by the way, so could you We live in a society that has convinced itself I can do whatever I want and there's no consequences. I'm telling you, the consequences are coming. Mark it down. So what do we do? Say, preacher, what do we do? I put a few things down. I end with this. Number one, stay close to the Lord. Stay close to the Lord. Get up every day and spend some time alone with God and His Word and pour your heart out to God in prayer. I'm telling you, just about every I I want to say every time I've dealt with somebody that messed up bad. It it the the Bible reading and prayer was missing at some point. People come out, I've said this before, if people come off as And they're out of all this. One of the first things I'll ask him, let me ask you a question. Have you been reading your Bible, spending time alone with the Lord and praying? And every time it'll be, no, preacher, let that slip I tell you, stay close to the Lord. Exactly. It's the law of sowing and reaping. You reap the same thing you sow, you reap more than what you sow, and you reap later than what you sow. Yes. In this case, 20 years later, it's coming down on them. So stay close to the Lord. I put this down, number two, die to self. When something swells up inside you, that old selfish, sinful nature swells up inside you, crucify it. When those boys saw Joseph coming and that envy and that anger and that hatred swelled up, what they should have done is crucified that. Die to self, die to self. I don't have to have my way. It doesn't have to be what I want. I die to self and I yield to the Lord. I'll tell you, that'll save us from a lot of negative consequences. Died itself. And then last, number three, I put this down: keep my heart and mind clean. David prayed in Psalm 51:10, Create in me a clean heart, O God. Keep our heart and mind clean. So they didn't think anybody knew. Well, they ignored the fact that God knew, and they were ignorant of the fact that there actually was somebody out there that knew what they did. There's probably somebody out there that knows what you and I have done. We may not even know they exist, but all these things we hide, probably somebody knows. When I was in when I was in elementary school, and I want to say it was probably around fourth grade, somewhere there. It's back before the Civil War. Um Long time ago. The kids believe me. Um I was fourth grade, I was somewhere around there. But we had this In literature class, we had this writing assignment. We had to write a short story. We had to come up with a short story. Anybody ever have to do that in school? You have to write some little short story Well, being the very diligent student that I was in fourth grade, I waited until the night before it was due To try and come up with something. I couldn't think of any stupid story. I'm not a writer. And so I'm sitting there eating Cracker Jacks. Anybody remember Cracker Jacks? So I'm eating Cracker Jacks, and what is inside every box of Cracker Jacks? A prize! And this is a true story. I am not embellishing this. I am not exaggerating. You're not going to believe me. You're thinking he's making that up, but it's true. I go to great lengths to point out the true things I say And so I mean this Cracker Jack and I'm this stupid story and I dump it out and a prize comes out. And the prize was a little booklet. They had this little story about a little girl. I mean it was just, and I'm reading through it. I think that is a short story. So, no joke, I write down verbatim that little story Take it to class the next day. I got the best story in the class. We had to read them up front. We got up and I read my story. I'm up there reading my story. And there's a little this is the truth. I'm not embellishing this at all. There's a little girl in the class that had eaten Cracker Jack at lunch. And in her Cracker Jack box, anybody want to guess? There was a prize In her Cracker Jack box, uh just like the prize was in my cracker. You know what the prize was? The same stupid story And I'm reading it up there, and she's sitting back there with her little prize. And that little rat thing went up to the teacher afterward and said, Teacher I got an F minus. Now what I'm trying to say is this God sees. God knows. And we may think we got away with something. We may think nobody in the world knows. This is the perfect scheme But I'm here to tell you, we have a God in heaven that we are open and naked. Everything we do is open to his eyes. And there's people all around us. Chances are they see also, and we We have to understand whatsoever we sow, we will reap. Remember Harold Clayton, I gotta quit. Remember Harold Clayton preached here a revival years ago? He was the guy jumping up and down, putting the fire out over there and went back in the anybody remember that? Anybody? Nobody remembers it. Harold Clayton Yeah, he would have a handkerchief. He'd say, hold my mule while I shout. Now you remember He told a story when he was preaching. He had a great message. I still remember this. He told a story. He's in an airport and he was in a faraway state. And he said nobody knew him. He was nobody around knew him anywhere anywhere near there. And he said he was this was back before cell phones and everything And he was looking at the books there. You know, they always have a bookstore in the airport, read while you're traveling. He's looking at the books, and there were some magazines there, and there was some nasty magazines And he said this from the pulpit. He said, the thought went through my mind. Nobody would know. Nobody knows me. Nobody would see. He said, but I didn't do it. And he said, about that time I turned around and a fellow comes up and said, Brother Clayton! Good to see you. And he said he went. Now I don't think he would have gone through. He's a great man of God, tremendous man of God, but he's a human And all of us are vulnerable. And we have to remember, whatsoever we sow, we reap. The boys did this 20 years before, and it's crashing down on them. Let's stay close to the Lord. Amen. Let's die to self. And uh let's trust the Lord. Father, bless now. Help us to learn from these fellows. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Catherine's Coming up to the piano, maybe we just need to make a new commitment. Lord, I want to stay close to you.