Chapter 47. I want to read a little extended portion. We're going to start in verse eleven and I want to go down to verse 26 is where we're going to read through and We're not going to spend a lot of time on each verse tonight, but I want to take this whole section together in one message. It doesn't break up very easily, so I want to make this one message and See if God will use this to help us tonight. Genesis forty-seven and verse number eleven, the Bible says, And Joseph placed his father and his brethren and gave them a possession in the land of Egypt. in the best of the land, in the land of Ramses, as Pharaoh had commanded. And Joseph nourished his father and his brethren, and all his father's household, with bread according to their families And there was no bread in all the land, for the famine was very sore, so that the land of Egypt and all the land of Canaan fainted by reason of the famine. And Joseph gathered up all the money that was found in the land of Egypt and in the land of Canaan for the corn which they bought, and Joseph brought the money unto Pharaoh's house. And when the money failed in the land of Egypt and in the land of Canaan, all the Egyptians came unto Joseph and said, Give us bread, for why should we die in thy presence? For the money faileth. And Joseph said, Give me your k give your cattle, and I will give you for your cattle, if money fail. And he brought their cattle unto Joseph, and Joseph gave them bread in exchange for the horses and the flocks and for the cattle of the herds. for asses, and he fed them with bread for all their cattle for that year. When that year was ended, they came to him the second year, and said unto him, We will not hide it from my Lord How that our money is spent, my Lord also hath our herds of cattle. There is not aught left in the sight of my Lord but our bodies and our lands Wherefore shall we die before thine eyes, both we and our land? By us and our land for bread. And we in our land will be servants unto Pharaoh. Give us seed that we may live and not die, that the land be not desolate. And Joseph bought all the land of Egypt for Pharaoh, for the Egyptians sold every man his field, because the famine prevailed over them, and so the land became Pharaoh's. As for the people, and as for the people, he removed them to cities from one end of the borders of Egypt, even unto the other end thereof. Only the land of the priests bought he not, for the priests had a portion assigned them of Pharaoh, and did eat their portion which Pharaoh gave them, wherefore they sold not their lands. Then Joseph said unto the people, Behold, I have bought you this day and your land for Pharaoh, and lo, here is seed for you, and ye shall sow the land. It came to pass in the increase that you shall give the fifth part unto Pharaoh, and four parts shall be your own, and uh for seed of the field, and for your food, and for them of your households and for food for your little ones. And they said, Thou hast saved our lives, let us find grace in the sight of the my Lord, and we will be Pharaoh's servants And Joseph made it a law over the land of Egypt unto this day, that pharaohs should have the fifth part, except the land of the priests only, which became not pharaohs. And so I entitled it, Joseph and the Ongoing Famine. Let's pray and see if we can't learn some things from the Lord in this passage tonight. Father We ask now you'd bless our continued study of the life of Joseph and what a tremendous example and testimony he is to me personally, I believe to all of us. Lord, integrity is a challenge, and your hand, we see your hand in all of this. So I pray that you would open our eyes tonight to any principles and truths here that would help us live for you and trust you. Live by faith, be a good witness. I yield my will tonight anew for this message. I pray you guide my thinking and my speaking, my preaching according to your will I yield my body, I present my body anew, and pray you'd fill me with your spirit, and that you would please speak through me tonight and help us in this. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. One word that I keep bringing up that through our study here we keep going back to when we're talking about Joseph is the word integrity. We talk about the integrity of Joseph, and just about any commentator or author on the life of Joseph is going to reference Joseph's integrity. I thought I'd take a moment And just consider what integrity is. What do we mean when we use that word? Well, I got looking it up and it has this idea to be complete. If something is everything it ought to be, it has integrity. uh to be undivided or unbroken. And I think the idea behind that is the uh is the idea that uh whatever uh Joseph was, it it wasn't divided. In other words, what he was on s put it on our context, what he was on Sunday, he was on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday. There wasn't a division there. In other words, he didn't compartmentalize his faith in God He didn't compartmentalize his his uh uh uh honesty. In other words, some place to be honest, other places not so much. That wasn't Joseph. He had integrity It was unbroken, it was undivided, it was all the time. It means to be morally upright and pure in heart and mind. It means to be honest. And this is a key word, reliable. I think I've referenced this before illustration, but Uh whenever there's like an earthquake or something or some sort of storm comes through, maybe floods, uh inspectors will come and inspect buildings And uh bridges uh down in New Zealand, uh on the South Island particularly, they had an awful earthquake here a number of years ago. They had inspectors come in and they inspect the buildings and the bridges, the various structures, and they're inspecting and determining the integrity of that bridge or the integrity of that building. Anybody ever hear that term used in that context? Checking the integrity. In other words, is it reliable? Has uh it has something happened we can't trust it to drive over it. And so when we talk about Joseph's integrity, we're talking about someone that can be trusted in all circumstances and every situation. Joseph is a man of integrity. He is trustworthy. I put down a couple ways just by way of introduction on areas that Joseph's integrity is evident, and we've been seeing it all through his life. But I put this down. His integrity is evident in the purity of his faith. His faith in God permeated his entire life. He didn't, and I kind of got ahead of myself a little bit there, but what I mean by this is he didn't compartmentalize his faith. In other words, he didn't have certain days he exercised faith, and other days he did his thing You know, somebody's singing praises to God on Sunday, and then they're taking God's name on butt on Monday. They do not have, their faith is not a faith of integrity. They're pr if they're pr what did I say? They're praising God on Sunday and they're taking God's name on Monday. Did I say that? Oh, okay, good. I wasn't listening to myself. And um but integrity, he he uh uh the purity of his faith, he went from being a prisoner to being a prime minister and his faith unchanged. In the prison house, he had faith in God. He did right. He worked hard. Told the truth. Served others. As a prime minister in a palace He did right. He trusted God. He told the truth. No difference. We see no change in Joseph's integrity when he goes from the prison house to the palace, becomes prime minister. The purity. uh of his faith. In every situation, in every circumstance, his faith was unchanged, undaunted. And that's a good thing. I want my faith to be consistent. I asked uh when I was uh early in Bible college, I got working in the bus ministry and eventually got my own route, and this is a big bus ministry, so having a route was something at least in my mind significant and then later a a division leader and um I was talking to the le uh the director one time, good man, Tom Sexton. He's been here, some of you might remember Tom Sexton And um I asked them one time, we were talking about the Christian life and living for God and serving the Lord. I said, what's the secret to consistency? Now, this is a great man of God, and he says, when you figure it out, you tell me. That's a great challenge. Am I right or wrong? That's a great challenge in the Christian life, being consistent. Regardless of circumstances, regardless of the situation, just trust in God, trust in God, trust in God. It's easy to trust God when you're in the palace, maybe not quite so easy in the prison house For some people it's the other way around. When things are going bad and things are falling apart, oh I'm trusting God, I'm going to look to God. Then when things come together and everything's fine, they forget all about God. Huh? I've seen that. And so the purity of Joseph's faith, his integrity is evident in the purity of his faith. I put this: his integrity is evident in the priority of his family. His actions towards his father and his brothers here, particularly his brothers, in these last uh s uh messages we've looked at, these last lessons His attitude towards his brother is borderline miraculous. How he is taking care of them His family took priority over his hurt and his failure, their failure. Sometimes if somebody, even within our family, if they hurt us My hurt that they've inflicted on me, that hurt that they've inflicted on me, is a higher priority than me being a blessing and being a uh an encouragement, a help in loving them. In other words, you hurt me, I'm not going to love you, you hurt me. In other words, I'm putting my hurt a higher priority than my responsibility and my love for them. And you don't see that with Joseph. He struggled a little bit there for a while But in the end, he loved those who at one point hated him. He blessed those who at one point were cursing him, wanted him dead. And it was family. And uh they had priority over his own hurt and his own feelings. They had priority over his own family, over his own work life, I should say. We're going to see here, he sets his responsibilities aside. When daddy and the boys and the whole family show up, he sets his responsibilities aside and he says, I need to take care of my family I need to make sure daddy's got a place to stay. I need to make sure daddy has a food to eat and taken care of and the boys and their families. And he sets everything aside. Now he goes back to his responsibilities. But when it came up, when there was a need in the family here, he met the need of the family. Priority. Family over his hurt and the pain that they caused him is they were still a priority to him. His work life, his personal advancement He could have said, oh, I don't got time for this. I'm good night. I'm Prime Minister of Egypt. But no, it's his own advancement. He, and we touched on this last week or the week before, he took a big risk in bringing his family down to Egypt. They're shepherds, remember? And shepherds were a what to Egyptians? An abomination. They hated him. And he was putting his job on the line, and this could have really caused problems And there could have been real division, and he could have lost his position. They found out that his family was shepherds. But he was willing to risk that. He was willing to do that for the well-being of his family. Priority of family, priority of family. Relationships with the family are second only to our relationship with the Lord. Lord's relationship first. Most important relationship you and I have is our relationship with the Lord. And when we have that right, number two is family right behind that. Family right behind that Then of course there's church and work. I like what Bob Jones Sr. said. He says responsibil duties never conflict, is what he said In other words, I can love God like I should, and He can be number one in my life, and I can love my family like I should and be number one in my life, and there's no conflict between those two Follow? I can be faithful worker. I can work hard, be faithful and loyal to my job, and yet make my family a priority. There's no conflict there. Follow what I'm saying? Duties never conflict And so we see that in Joseph's life. And so the purity of his faith, the priority of his family, and then this is what's going to lead us into our passage: the pursuit of fairness. Joseph could have very easily abused his position and taken advantage of the authority that he had over these people. Were you paying attention when we read through there? He's got he ends up with all of their money. He ends up with all of their cattle, all their income, all their in our context it would be their machinery, their office equipment, everything Everything they use to work and make money, he ends up with all of that. And then he ends up with all their land. All of it. And then he ends up with them themselves as servants of the state. He could have very easily abused that, and we're going to look at this a little bit. And here's what tips me off to the fact that he was being fair. You say, what's so fair about that? Well, he's keeping them alive. Go over with me, if you would, to verse number 25, chapter 47, and I'm ti and this is what tips me off, as I said, to the fact that they thought he was being fair to them. Look what they say. And they said, Thou hast saved our lives. And let us find grace in the sight of the Lord, and we will be Pharaoh's servants. That doesn't sound like somebody felt like they got ripped off, does it? That sounds to me like somebody is very, very grateful for what's been done for them. To the point, and we'll talk about this here in a little bit, but to the point they're willing to say, hey, listen, we'll be your servants voluntarily, willingly. And so the pursuit of fairness, pursuit of fairness. So let's look at our text here. I broke it down here into two sections. Verse 11 and 12, I notice that his family is being cared for. Look at verse 11 again. Now remember Jacob and the boys, all the households come down. He's introduced them to Pharaoh, and that went very well. It could have been could have been bad. It went very well. Joseph was very tactful and um and now they're in Goshen, they're settled in, he's getting them settled into the land that they're gonna be. Their their idea, their understanding is we're just gonna be here for a while, just till the f just till the famine's over, then we're gonna head back. But um and we know how that turns out. And so that's the context. Now look at verse eleven. And Joseph placed his father and his brethren and gave them a possession in the land of Egypt. That's up in And uh can and um uh uh not Canaan uh Goshen up in Goshen In the best of the land, in the land of Ramses, as Pharaoh had commanded. And Joseph nourished his father and his brethren and all his father's household with bread according to their family. So he's his family is being cared for. First thing I notice under that thought is he gets them settled in. It says Joseph placed his father. He gets them placed where they're going to be I looked up that word place, because I always look up words, and I found out it has the idea of an abiding habitation. Or um a settled, I put it this way, a settled dwelling. In other words, Joseph gets them up here in Goshen. It's in the northeast corner of Egypt, up as close to Canaan as you can possibly get, as close to the homeland as you can possibly be. It's far from the populated cities of Egypt, so you got that separation. They're close to home. They're not intermingled with the Egyptians too much. And Joseph goes up there and he makes sure that daddy and the boys, that their housing, the place they're going to live, the place they're going to dwell, is not just some temporary shabby place He places them there a permanent, structured, reliable, safe, secure dwelling place He didn't just stick them in some back alley. He didn't just find some old chicken shed sit uh chicken uh uh Coops uh well be bigger than a chicken coop, but um uh some uh didn't find just uh uh some old corn crib or something Uh sticking, well you guys are only going to be here a while. These little shacks here and you can stay there. No, no, no. You guys know no no we I need a place the daddy's going to be safe, the boy family's going to be okay And so he places them, God uses that word, he places them there. A place of security where they can settle in and make it as much of a home as they possibly can. And then he gets their possessions for them. Look at verse 12. He nourished his father. He nourished his father. Oh, and verse 11, the second part, he gave them a possession in the land of Egypt. In other words, he gave them their own property. Um this is yours. Well as long as you're here, this is your property. You feed your cattle on here You grunt the sheep graze and uh if you need to dig wells, whatever you need to do, this is your possession. It's yours to use As long as you're here. So I'm getting the impression he's wanting them to feel welcome. He's wanting them to feel at home. He's wanting them to feel secure. And he's getting them a very, very nice place here. Now here's my question. So I'm studying this. I get thinking, what in the world are those boys thinking? Huh? All they did, we treated them, we did all that stuff, and I just I don't know. This is just the way I see it. I s I I see Simeon and And uh uh Ruben and those guys, I see them shaking, scratching their heads, saying, why in the world is he doing all this for us? I mean, just the fact that he got us the place, and now he goes overboard to make sure everything's good and everything's secure. We feel at home. And Joseph loves his family. He loves them. And he's taking care of them. So he gets them settled in, verse number 11, and then he gives them the supplies they need. He supplies them with bread. Look at verse 12. And Joseph nourished his father. The word nourished means what you think it would mean, but it has the idea of ongoing support. You didn't just throw them in there and say, all right, here you go, here's a place, it's nice, secure, do what you want. Here's a bunch of food, and then walk off and forget about them. He took care of them. He made sure they had the things they need. He made sure that they had bread and that they were supplied. And so the word nourish means to meet needs, to sustain. So he's concerned for his family, not just do a little bit for them and then leave them on their own. No, he wanted to make sure they're okay, and that they were ongoing would be okay. Now there's something interesting here. Notice at the end of verse 12. It says he nourished his father and his brethren and all his father's household with bread. And then it has a little phrase at the end there. Notice what it says: according to their families. Now, why does it say that? Why would he inject that in there? He nourishes them, his brethren, all his father's household with bread. Why would you not just stop there and then say according to their families Anybody want to take a shot? This is what I think. Yeah, I think what it is is he's he's not just dumping it off, but he I think, this is what I think. I think he's still rationing. The resources. Remember, in their middle they're in the middle of a famine. There's still years to go. In other words, he's not being reckless with supplies. He could have said, This is my family, this is my blood, these are my people. Alright, I'm going to make sure they get more than anybody else does. I think he's rationing to them just the same as everybody else Now he makes sure sure they're being taken care of. He's got them all settled in and just like they live there, like it's their own. But he's not being foolish and he's not being reckless And he is not taking advantage of the fact that these hurt his family. He's going to give them according to their families. He's going to ration it out. You got a you got a got more family? Alright, you get a little more bread. A smaller family? Alright, not quite as much. And I just see the wisdom and integrity of Joseph here In caring for his family, he's not going to be reckless. He's not going to be extravagant. Good night. He's prime minister. He could just load them up But he doesn't. It's according to their families. So the first thing I noticed in verse 11 and 12 is that his family is cared for. His family is cared for. We ought to take care and provide for our families By the way, that's the man's responsibility primarily. To care for the family. Take care of the family. That's what we answer to God for as men. And we ought to take care of our family. Uh brothers ought to take care of sisters. That's a hard one to swallow right there, but um sisters ought to take care of brothers. Amen, preacher If you don't know, I grew up, I didn't have any brothers, I had two sisters. It was a very abusive home. Two sisters, no brothers. Um parents ought to take care of the kids Don't learn don't don't just r let them run wild. Take care of them. Make sure they got food. Make sure they got clothes. Do what you gotta do. Take care of the kids. Hey, the kids ought to take care of the parents Some point, I mean all through there. I think the little child ought to be helping out around the house. I think little child ought to have responsibilities and chores in the house there and help, help, help, family And caring for each other and taking care of each other and helping each other. That's what Joseph is doing. I'll tell you, one of the biggest troubles I tell you, I think the breakdown of our society, I don't think so much is Hollywood or the music industry or the politicians, although no doubt that all plays a role. But I think the breakdown of the home Is the underlying foundational failure in our society, and thus you have the collapse. And with the home broke down not being the way God designed it, then Hollywood, music, politicians have much more influence on that home than if it was in place. You follow what I'm saying? To the family. Family. Joseph's taking care of family. Number two, I notice in verse 13 down through verse 26, this is a long section. We're not going to break down every verse, but I notice that this famine is continuing. The story doesn't end when Jacob and the family shows up in Egypt. Joseph gets them settled in, takes care of them. It doesn't end there. This famine's still going on The situation hasn't changed. The circumstances haven't changed. It is still a very, very serious situation. I know number one, in verse number 13, I put down this famine is catastrophic. In its effects. We hear we got hurricanes going on, and one going on now down in Florida the other week, and we hear uh we hear people use the term it's catastrophic The devastation is uh catastrophic. It's a catastrophe. This famine was catastrophic It was uh, notice what he says there in verse 13, and there was no bread in all the land, for the famine was what? Very sore. Very sore. That means, what you it implies, what it looks, sounds like it means, it means it was extremely difficult. It was extremely, one of the words used in one of the definitions I looked up was oppressive. It was extremely grievous, was one term This thing was was not easy. It wasn't just a dry summer. This was very sore. Notice again it says and there was no break. The famine was very sore, so that the land of Egypt and all the land of Canaan fainted By reason of the famine. And you have huge, this entire nation, the whole land of Canaan. It's very short. And they're fainting, fainting. The word faint is translated sometimes languish. Think of that word. In other words, it's at the point where the people are losing hope. They don't have any strength left in their hope. This is hopeless. How in the world are we going to survive this? Imagine seven years, no rain. No nothing. The word fainted there means to be overwhelmed with difficulty and hardship. They don't know how they can make it. They're just languishing in this famine with with little or no hope That's the condition. That's this catastrophic situation. Now, I want to stop here just for a moment, and I want to point out how did this famine come about? In other words, who what caused this famine? What or who? God did, right? This was God causing this famine. And I've been studying my Bible lately, and I've done this before. I did a study years ago in this, I kind of restarted a little bit, looked it back up again And I got looking in the Bible, who is in charge of weather, who controls the weather? Who determines when it's going to rain and how much it rains and where it rains? Let me give you some verses, and I'm not going to quote them verbatim, but Jeremiah chapter 10 and verse 13, the Bible says that clouds rise up that God causes clouds to rise up. God's the one that makes lightning in the rain, and He brings the wind from His storehouses. Wind, rain, lightning? What's that sound like? Sounds like a storm. Psalms 147-8 says that God's the one that puts the clouds in the sky, he prepares the rain. Lightning and hail, snow and clouds and winds. He executes them. He's the one that causes all that. In Job chapter 2, we notice that Satan brings these storms on Job's household, the wind, and collapses and kills his family and his servants. Say, oh, Satan can control the weather, Satan can control the weather. Satan could only do that because God let him And I could go on down the list and point out passage after passage after passage after passage where nobody controls the weather but God. Listen to what the disciples said after they saw the Lord calm the storm on the Sea of Galilee. They said, what manner of man is this? That even the wind and the sea, listen to this, obey him. Now, man can't cause storms. I don't believe for one minute, I don't uh now this is my opinion, okay, and people would get might might strongly, I don't believe for one minute that we are causing any kind of climate change I don't believe it. Only God can do that. Now God may allow things to happen But God is the one behind the weather. Well, we we had a big day plan and old devil got in there and made it rain all day. No, no, no. God's the one that controls the weather. How many people here ever heard me complain about snow? Every time I do, I have to go get alone with God. God's the one that can listen, he's got the whole world in his hands. He's got the weather, he's got the snow, he's got the frost, he's got, he's got uh anybody here ever think, boy, I'd like to be in charge of the weather just for one week. Brother, we make a mess of that, I'll tell you. God knows what he's doing. You think God sends that hurricane? God, God's the one that sends the wind and the tempest In fact, there are some places in Psalms David said that the mountains melt. It's figurative speaking, but he's talking about earthquakes, he's talking about volcanoes God's in control of all of this. And he allows things for his purposes and his reasons. And we may struggle with it. We may ask why. And I don't know. I had somebody today call me up. Why? And I'll tell you, I can't answer that question why. And 99% of the times I can't answer the question why. But I know this, God's a whole lot smarter than you are and I am God's a whole lot wiser than we are, and he knows the end from the beginning, so what do we do? We trust him. We trust him We do what we need to do. So I just thought I'd inject that in there, but this famine is catastrophic. And they're having to deal with it. Notice the next thing I notice under this famine continuing, it's going on. They got to deal with it. God's allowing. He said seven years. This famine was catastrophic. I put this down. The famine was costly. Look at verse 14. And again, we're not going to look at all of this, but highlight a few things. And Joseph gathered up all the money that was found in the land of Egypt and the land of Canaan for the corn which they bought. So he's selling this corn to them, and he's taking up the money. And what happens eventually the money what It runs out. And so then you have a uh uh uh you have the cattle In verse number fifteen, he barters with them. Say, Listen, you got some cattle, I'll give you and I'm I'm no doubt what we know about Joseph, I'm confident he was fair. All right, that cattle's worth, you know 175 pounds of grain or whatever, that can't, I don't know what the formula was or what the valuation was. But I'm no doubt Joseph was very, very fair. But eventually they ran out of what? Cattle. Cattle. And so this was extremely costly. What we're reading here, what I read through a few moments ago, what we're seeing is this uh tremendous transfer. A massive transfer of wealth and possessions from the people to Pharaoh. Talk about the redistribution of wealth. This is redistribution from the people to the Pharaoh And it's a huge, huge thing. And yet there's no indication, and I touched on this at the beginning, this huge transfer of wealth. I mean they're we're talking in today's dollars trillions of dollars. I mean, massive entire economies. The entire land of Egypt has been transferred in just a few years from the people to the government. To Pharaoh. Wow. This is huge. All their money, they got it all. Um and yet there's not one hint of Joseph profiting from this big transfer. How many how many politicians you think I know I'm being Overly critical maybe. But how many politicians you know that a nation would have a transfer like that and they wouldn't walk away with a lot of stuff in their pockets You know, people go into office, they have a net worth of half a million dollars, two years later come out, they have a net worth of half a billion dollars That's not Joseph. That's not Joseph. And no hint of any any propheting uh personally or any Or acting dishonestly in any way. In fact, look at the last phrase of verse number 14. Notice what it says. And again, I think God puts these in here to make us see and understand something. It says and Joseph, the very last phrase, and Joseph stashed some of the money in his private account. No. And Joseph brought the money unto what? Ferris heaven. He went where he was told it was supposed to go. He put it where it was supposed to go. You know what that is? That's integrity. Honesty. Um do you think he would have had opportunity to skim some off of there? Oh, for Pete's sake, sure. These are pagans. They may have even expected it. But he took the money, put it to Pharaoh's house, right exactly like he was supposed to. Now the question, and this is, and I'm not going to try to I I don't know that I have the answer to this, but this question came up to my mind in my mind is man, you know, you're taking the everything from these people I'm not sure it would have been a good idea just to give the supplies to them just free of charge. Then you're developing a what? Welfare state And just giving it out and and giving it to people. I'm not sure that's healthy. But man, you just took everything from the people and gave it to Pharaoh, the king. And I struggle with that a little bit. And I was reading one fella, and actually there's a couple that suggested this. And there might be something to it, that Before this event, before Joseph's rise to power, before the years of plenty and the and the famine, that um that Egypt was pretty much a feudal state In other words, every man they just had their own little kingdoms and all over. There was Pharaoh and it was overruled, but it wasn't very unified. It wasn't one unit as a nation And this one fellow in particular suggested that God was using this to get everything under one hook one under one head, under Pharaoh, that he would have control, so that They would be able to, and again, this is all in God's plan, sovereignty, but so that they would be able to get to a point where Israel would could be controlled as slaves If it was all divine, everybody doing, you know, just their own little authorities all over, that would have been very difficult to do. But now Pharaoh has everything. And he can say, eventually, down the road, several hundred years He can say, all right, you're going to be slaves, and he has the control of the nation where he can do that. Why was it important for Israel to become slaves? So that God could show His power and bring them out of there as a million-plus member nation. They're being transformed from a family into a nation. And that fires of slavery had to be uh take place for Israel to come together as a nation and come out of it. Do you follow what I'm trying to say? Now I'm not saying that's Why God allowed all this transfer of property and and and uh of economy uh this massive transition. I'm not I don't know that that's the reason, but I thought I can see God using this to develop his nation. All this is to get Israel into a position where he can establish them as a nation. So some speculation there. Nevertheless, the famine was costly Joseph, I believe, as I said, charged a fair price. I think he bartered for their cattle. And when we get to the end, uh we notice that um They're okay with it. Look at verse 18. Not only was the family famine catastrophic and costly, but verse 18, it was critical. Look at verse 18. It says And when the year was ended, they, the people of Egypt, came to him the second year and said to him, We will not hide it from our Lord, have it our money spent. My Lord also has our herds of cattle. There's not aught left of the sight of my Lord, but our bodies and our land. All we got left is us, our physical bodies and our land. That's all we have left, Joseph. Wherefore shall we die before thine eyes, both we and our land? And now this is the people of Egypt suggesting this. Apparently they got together and got some representation and sent him uh up to the city, to uh to the capital there and to talk to Joseph. And it says, wherefore should we die? And before thine eyes both winter and land, buy us and our land for bread. And we in our land will be servants unto Pharaoh. Joseph's not coming and telling them you need to do this. They're coming to Joseph and offering their land. They're offering themselves I mean, this is a critical situation. If we don't do this, we're going to die. And so they're giving up their land. They're giving up their liberty. They are in desperation at this point. Now notice verse 22. Here it gets a little interesting. Come over to verse 22. And Joseph agrees to their offer. And uh verse 21, as for the people, he removed them to the cities. Remember, they said, We're your servants, you do what you want with us. He says, All right, move them all to the cities. Why do you think he moved them all to the cities? Easier distribution. Right? He's got them now. He can control. Alright, let's get everybody together. We don't have to ship it all over the place. We have a little we can easier distribution. I would imagine that would be one of the reasons And from one end of the borders of Egypt even to the other end thereof. Now look at verse 22. This caught my attention. Only the land of the priests thought he not. For the priest had a portion assigned them of Pharaoh. What priests is he talking about? It's certainly not the priests of Jehovah. It's not the priests in the tabernacle in the temple. How do we know it's not the priests in the tabernacle in the temple? There is no tabernacle or temple yet. That's not going to be for a long, long time. Who are the priests talking about here? These are the Egyptian priests of the sun god and their pagan priests. These are ungodly people If you study their worship, it was very, very wicked. And Joseph does not take their land. He doesn't there's no transfer of their land. They don't become servants of the state. The state doesn't take possession of their lands because they're priests, pagan priests Now, why in the world would Joseph do that? Well, it tells us. It says, uh, only the land of the priests bought he not, for the priest had a portion assigned to them of Who? Pharaoh. And did eat their portion which Pharaoh gave them. Wherefore they sold not their lands. Did you notice Joseph isn't in on this deal? This is none of Joseph's doings. My what I get from this, my impression, is Pharaoh overrode Joseph. He says, you can do whatever you want, you've got total authority, you answer only number to me, no one else. You got authority. I'm the only one that's more authority to you. And in this one area, j uh Pharaoh steps in and says, Hold it. You're not taking those priests, my priests' land. You're not taking their money. You're not taking their making them servants I don't think Joseph, I don't think Joseph uh uh this was his idea. I think that was unfair For for that, that they don't have to give up. Everybody else does. They get the grain, they don't give anything up. And so I thought it was kind of interesting that Pharaoh stepped in here and he gives a tax exempt, so to speak. for these pagan priests. And then last of all, the famine was catastrophic, it was costly, it was critical. And then notice last of all the citizens were thankful. Again, verse 25. And they said, Thou hast saved our lives. Let us find grace in the sight of my Lord. Doesn't sound to me like they're bitter and angry at him. Sounds to me like they're very grateful. That his administration, his wisdom, and foresight made it possible for them to still be alive. And we will be Pharaoh's servants. And this is what I put down. And I had this in my margin of my Bible. Their salvation, quote unquote, salvation of their lives, produced gratitude. And their gratitude produced submission. They said, You saved our lives. You saved our lives. We're so grateful. We'll find grace in your sight. We're so grateful. And that gratitude we want to serve. We'll give ourselves to serve Pharaoh. We're so grateful for what he's done. You know what that sounds like to me? That sounds to me like the basis of the Christian life. How many people here you're saved to know it? Say amen. How many people here are grateful that God saved you from sin in hell? Gratitude. And that gratitude stirs our heart that I want to serve God. I want to serve. He's done so much for me. He says, uh, uh uh uh, Lord, you saved my soul Oh, I want to find grace to say, Lord, I'll give myself to you. I'll serve you. I'll serve you. Christian service is not Rooted in fear of God, it's rooted in love and gratitude to God He's done so much for us. He's been so good to us. And everything every Sunday school teacher teaches and serves God because they're grateful for what He's done for them and they want to serve Him. Amen. Soul winners go out and knock on doors because God's been so grateful, so good to us. We're so grateful we want to serve Him and share it with others. Missionaries go That is the basis of the Christian life. Why do you people do all that? We were down, uh, had a bus route in Chattanooga, and I'll end with this. We had a bus route in Chattanooga And um we're in the inner city projects, and I've talked about this a lot over the years, but I mean rough, rough, rough. Drugs, prostitution, gangs, you name it. Link drinking, murder And we're walking around there. When I first went into the that section, started visiting there, one of the workers that had been doing it for a number of years, I was new coming in, they said, you need to be You need to get you a big Bible and carry it around so that they know that you're not with the narcs, the police department, narcotics And that you're a preacher. So I ordered I got a big old uh Lester Roloff Bible. It was like a family Bible. And walked around there. And we were in there one time and some guy was witness guy and this guy came from the back of the, it was big housing, government housing, this guy came from the back room and He says, I know why you guys, you you Highland Park people are coming down in here. You're getting money from the government to come down here and pick up our kids and bring them into church I thought to myself, boy, that'd be nice, you know. We weren't getting no money. We were spending it on gas and and candy and stuff. No, we don't do it because the government gives us money. We don't do it because anybody gives us anything. You know why we do it? Because God saved our souls, and we're grateful for what He's done for us. We say, Lord, we'll serve you. We'll serve you. Amen? That's the root, that's the motivation, that's the basis of our service. Gratitude and love for the Lord for what He's done for us. That's what these Egyptians were, and that's what we ought to be to the Lord. Father, bless our invitation. I ask you'd help us. To see the right motivation for serving you, not to be blessed, but because we've been blessed You've been so good to us. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, I need to be more active in serving God. I need to get involved in and in some way, just just out of love for the Lord, serve him. Maybe it's giving out tracts, going out soul-winning, I don't know what it may involve for you, but I want to be great. I want my gratitude to be evident in my service, Lord. Any like that? Uplifted hand. My hand's raised. I want to serve God because He's been so good to me. God bless you. Father, bless our invitation I ask now in Jesus' name. Amen.