Genesis chapter number thirty-nine, I want to begin reading. We're studying uh Joseph and Potiphar's wife. I've entitled this ongoing message. We're on part three, I think, at this point Joseph's integrity. And nowhere is a person's character and integrity revealed more than in the heat of temptation. And you find out what you are in the heat of temptation or trials. And Joseph is is in that situation, if you remember He was bought as a slave by Potiphar. We know the story. He works his way up. No doubt several years went by, for probably But he works his way up and he becomes the head manager of Potiphar, who is who is uh uh in the service of the king. He's a high-level official in the Egyptian government And Joseph works his way up, becomes number one manager of everything Potiphar owes, all his investments, all his household operations, I mean everything, the whole shebang. And then Potiphar's wife sets her eyes on Joseph. And she was uh she wasn't very subtle about it. And she just comes right up to him and says, Come on, lie with me And he goes, no, he and we talked looked at talked about that last week. He goes, No, no, no, I can't do that. And he gave some reasons. And then she pressed him and just pressed him and pressed him and pressed them until finally He uh ends up in the house with just her, I'm sure inadvertently, or she set it up that way, maybe, and she grabs him by his coat and says, Come on. And uh he flees out of there. We know the story. So that's where I want to pick up is verse number uh 13 of Genesis 39. I'm gonna read down through verse 20. We're gonna see the fallout from Joseph's stand and uh his integrity. Verse 13 says, and it came to pass when she, that's Potiphar's wife, saw that he, Joseph, had left his garment in her hand, and was fled forth, that she called unto the men of her house. Now remember, they weren't in the house, so now she's getting them to come on in She calls the men of her house and spake unto them, saying, See, he hath brought in a Hebrew unto us to mock us. And he, the Hebrew, came in unto me to lie with me, and I cried with a loud voice And it came to pass, when he heard that I lifted up my voice and cried, that he left his garment with me and fled and got him out. She laid up his garment by her until the Lord came home, that be Potifer. Till the Lord came home, and she spake unto him according to these words, saying, The Hebrew servant, which thou hast brought into us. Came in unto me to mock me. It came to pass as I lifted up my voice and cried that he left his garment with me and fled out. It came to pass when his master heard the words of his wife, which she spake unto him, saying, After this manner did thy servant unto me, that his wrath was kindled. And Joseph's master took him and put him in a prison in a place where the king's prisoners were bound, and he was there in the prison. Joseph's integrity, let's pray. And we'll look at this a little bit tonight. Father in heaven, we ask now as we come into your word, our first time together in the new year, I pray that you would speak to our hearts. I pray you'd teach us something about what integrity is and what it costs us sometimes. I pray that these lessons and principles from the life of Joseph, that your Holy Spirit would take them and impress them on our hearts and minds, that we could be men and women of integrity, that our church would be a church of integrity. I ask, Lord, that you would please fill me with your Holy Spirit. And I yield my will to you. I present my body anew with all my heart. I pray that you would be the preacher, the teacher tonight through me. Your word through me. And so I ask this in Jesus' name, Amen. I broke this whole sorid event into three sections for sake of studying, and we've already looked at the first two. The first one was Potiphar's wife's advances. As she's coming on to Joseph and enticing him to lie with her. And then the second we looked at the other week, a couple weeks ago, was Joseph's principles in action Joseph was a man that lived by principle. And that's important, I think, in our Christian life. If we would learn to live by principle, most Christians, I'm afraid, we do not live by principle, we live by circumstances. Or we live by whatever our desire is at any given moment. That's what dictates our actions. Joseph was a man of integrity. Joseph was a man that lived by biblical principles, principles of right and wrong, and those principles dictated his actions, and they dictated his response to other people's behavior around him. We'll see that throughout his life. And so Joseph's principle we see Joseph's principles in action and um his response he uh we said that uh we noted the testing of his integrity If anybody has integrity, if you have a man or woman of character, that integrity, that character, those principles are going to be tested. This old world's going to test it. The old devil's going to test our our commitment, our integrity, our character And uh our old sinful nature will press against it. So we noticed his testing of his integrity, his tactics He got out of there, he refused her advances, then he reasoned with her the devastation that this would do if he would indulge what she was uh uh asking him to do, if he indulged that, the devastation that would took place, that would take place. And then we notice his removal. He got out of there. He got away. He fled. And so tonight what I want to look at is the third section as I broke this down. And that was Joseph's persecution was activated. Potiphar's wife made some advances. Joseph's principles kicked into action. And as a result of that, persecution took place. Verse number 13, if you would notice, it says, When sh and it came to pass when she saw that he had left his garments in her hand and was fled forth that she called unto the men of the house and spake unto them, say, and then she gives this story. Every time a person faces a crises, like Joseph did here, would you agree with me? This was a bit of a crisis. What what action he takes here is going to determine his future. What decisions he makes at this point in time, with this woman in front of him. The decisions he makes, the actions he takes is going to profoundly affect his future. It's a crises point And I believe every time a person faces a crisis, we have to make one of two decisions. Number one, we will either compromise our convictions or we will confirm our convictions. Every time we face a crossroad, those principles, those convictions that we have established, we are going to either compromise them and go down the wrong road, or we're going to confirm them and hold to them and do what is right. By the way, every Christian, this would be a good topic to preach on, every Christian ought to have convictions. We ought to determine in our heart and mind what is right and what is wrong. Those convictions must be Bible-based convictions. We must base them on scripture. Um little aside here, but I was preaching one time in Philadelphia. And I usually wear a white shirt when I'm wearing a suit. Not always, but most of the time I do. And for whatever reason, uh I wore a blue shirt with my suit to this meeting. And uh when I walked in, Dr. Sheldon Smith was there, and Dr. Smith said, Oh boy, you look sharp. And I had the suit on. And uh I said, well yeah, of course And um but he he said, you look sharp. I said, thank you very much. And man, I my head's getting vague and I'm sitting there thinking, boy, I look sharp for a change. And um and the preacher's up there preaching, he goes off on uh preachers who don't wear white shirts. And I mean he's just going off on it. And he's a good guy. I don't know. And so afterward I told Dr. Smith, I said, I'm confused. He told me I was sharp. He told me I'm a compromiser. I don't think what color shirt you wear has a biblical basis. And the point I'm trying to make is this: we ought to have convictions, but they need to be Bible-based convictions. Based on Scripture. And everybody ought to have conviction. So when we come to a point where there's a decision to be made, we come to what I'm calling a Crazy's point, maybe not as severe the degree that Joseph finds himself in, but we're going to make a decision one way or the other. Either it's going to be a compromise and go down a wrong road or a standing firm, confirming, say, no, I'm going to do right. And that's where Joseph was here. To compromise my convictions requires zero strength. To compromise that which I know is right. To compromise that which I know is true, what should be done, and compromise with that, that requires no strength on my part, to compromise with the world or the flesh. Requires no character Requires no faith. If Joseph would just went along with the opportunity, just went along with, in this case, the crowd being one person. No character involved there, no courage involved there, no strength, moral strength involved there. Just go right along. And we live in a world that so many Christians compromise their convictions. There's no spiritual strength there. There's no moral integrity there Well, we'll just shade here. It's a little questionable. It's a little gray there. That requires no faith. Just go along. Just fit in. I tell you, the longer I'm and some of you folks will appreciate maybe, understand maybe what I'm trying to say is, but the older I get, the less I care about fitting in with this old world. And so it requires no strength, it requires no character, it requires no faith just to go along with the world, just to give in. But if we're going to hold to our convictions If we're going to hold to that which is right, which the Bible clearly teaches is right, then that's going to require a little bit of strength of character. Would you agree with me? It's harder to go against the current than to go with the current. A dead fish can go along with the current. But you need a fish that has some strength. You need a fish that has some character, some some uh uh strength to it to go up against the current, I'm telling you As children of God, as Bible believers, we are against the current of this world. That requires some strength of character, requires some moral integrity. Requires some faith in God. Lord, if I do this, Lord, if I if I stand for what's right, if I say no It's gonna cost me. I'm gonna be made to look like a fool by this whole world. That takes some faith. That takes some courage. I think there's a common thinking. I'm trying to get somewhere with my statements here. There's a common thinking among Christians, I believe. That, well, if you do right, then everything will go well. You stand for right and and uh you have some convictions and some character, some integrity about you, well then everything will go well. The fact of the matter is, that's not always the case. In fact, I want to suggest to you it's often not the case. When a person does right. How many people here ever heard a preacher, either here or somewhere, you ever hear a preacher talk about the high price of sin? Anybody ever hear talk high price? And by the way, there is a high price with sin Pay a heavy price. We disobey God. We indulge in sin. There's a heavy price to be paid when we engage in sin. But I want to suggest to you there's also a price of righteousness. There's also a price of godliness. A godly man in an ungodly society is going to face opposition. A godly woman in an ungodly society is going to face injustices and persecution. And opposition. Now, if you would keep your place here in chapter 39, I want to go to some New Testament passages to support what I'm saying. If you would, come with me to Matthew chapter number 5, first book of the New Testament, Matthew chapter 5. Jesus is in the early stages of his great sermon on the mount. He's talking to his disciples. He's instructing them. This is how disciples behave. This is how disciples think. The first beatitudes, he's talking about the attitude of a disciple of Christ. And he goes down through and he gets very detailed in many different areas. And in verse chapter five and verse number eleven, he talks about the subject we're talking about tonight, the price Of righteousness, the price of godliness. Look at verse 11. Now notice the words here very, very carefully Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you and say all ma and say all manner of evil against you falsely. Now notice the last three words for what? For my sake, not because you're a knucklehead, not because you're acting stupid, but if they do all this, they revile you and say all manner of evil against you falsely, and they persecute for my sake, because you're doing right. Because you're trusting me and walking with me and serving me, because you're a Christian of a little bit of character and conviction about you for my sake It says, rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven, for so persecuted they the prophets. Which were before you. Now come back up to verse 11 and notice an important word there. It's the fourth word in verse number 11. What's the fourth word? When Notice what he does not say. He does not say, Blessed are ye if men shall revile you and persecute you and say all manner of evil against you fall. He doesn't say if. He doesn't say they might. When he says when, what is he implying to us? What's he saying? It's gonna happen. He's saying, listen, if you're a disciple of Jesus Christ, he's saying to his disciples, if you're one of my disciples, And you're going to live by the Word of God, and you're going to live by the principles and convictions of Scripture. He says, listen It's a coming. It's gonna happen. It's gonna happen. No no no questions about it. No qualifications If you would, come over to the Gospel of John. Just a few more back here. Matthew, Mark, Luke, John And chapter number 15, the Lord is about to go to the cross. He's having some final conversations with his disciples. He's not talking to the world at large. This is his followers, folks that have trusted him as Savior and they've committed their lives to follow him and live by his teachings. And notice in verse number uh 19, John chapter 15, and notice verse number 19. He says, if ye were of the world, he's talking about society. When he used the word world there, he's talking about society. If you're of the world, the world would love its own. But, because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world what? Hate if you don't say they might. Says they do. I've called you out. You're not of the world. You're my disciples And this whole world hates you. Now look, he goes on. Remember the word that I said unto you. The servant is not greater than his Lord. If they have persecuted me, question, did they persecute Jesus? Yes. Goodness. Almost from day one, the old Pharisees are all over him, and it just intensified, it snowballed, till finally got him nailed to a cross, mocking him while he's hanging on a cross dying. Look what he says. If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they have kept my saying, they'll keep yours also. What is he saying? He's saying persecution for righteousness, doing right, but yet being right about Doing right and being reviled. Doing what God says, living the life that God instructs us to and being persecuted for it. There's a high price on sin. It's a heavy price to pay. We indulge in sin and we don't deal with it. We don't confess it. We just live in sin. I'm telling you, there is a heavy price to pay for that. The consequences. are devastating. But I tell you, there's a price to pay to do right also. It's a price to pay for righteousness. It's the opposition of the world, the hatred of the world, the reviling of the world. One more, if you would, come to 2 Timothy. Back a ways into your New Testament. 2 Timothy is right after 1 Timothy. And I try to be as helpful as I can, Dorothy. 2 Timothy, and then chapter number 3, and a lot of you will be familiar with this verse, I'm sure. How many people already have an idea where I'm going with this? Anybody? Oh, good. 2 Timothy chapter 3. Look with me if you would down at verse number 10. Paul's writing to this young preacher boy, and he's it's not the most pleasant subject, chapter three. He talks about the last days and Just the uh wickedness and the condition of the last days, the first part. Then he comes down uh verse 10. He says, But thou hast fully known my doctrine. Paul taught him biblical doctrine. My manner of life. Timothy saw how Paul lived his life. My purpose, faith, longsuffering, charity, patience Paul's not bragging. He's just saying, listen, you've seen what Christ has done in my life. You've seen how the gospel has affected my life. Now look at verse 11. Persecutions. Afflictions which came upon me at Antioch, in Iconium, at Lystra, what persecutions I endured, but the Lord deliver but out of them all, the Lord delivered me I'll tell you, there is very few people in church history that lived by their convictions more so than what the Apostle Paul did. And this guy was fearless. This guy was unmoving. He was grounded in the Word of God, in the will of God, and he was not going to budge. And he says as a result of that I lived in nice houses and everybody loved me and I was healthy and everything was wonderful. Right? No. So as a result of that, there was a price. It's persecution, rejection. In fact, he goes on. Listen, look at what he says to Timothy in verse number 12. This is a young preacher boy. Yea, and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer what? Persecution. He's describing Joseph to a T in my mind. Every one of these passages, the Lord Jesus in Matthew chapter 5, and then in John chapter 15, then Paul. to this young Timothy, this young preacher boy named Timothy, every one of them are saying, listen, as a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, you're going to experience what Joseph experienced. He stood for what's right. He lived by biblical principles. He had some scriptural moral integrity about him, and it cost him. And the same thing is going to be true for you and I It's been throughout history. It's been throughout history. There's a price to pay for righteousness. There's a price to pay for doing right. I find nearly, I've gone through scripture, I find nearly as many men and women in Scripture suffered for righteousness as those who suffered for unrighteousness. Can you think of anybody in Scripture that did write and it cost them? Who? Daniel's who I thought of. Man, get thrown at how many people would like to get thrown in a lion's den? Now God took care of them, God was with them, but man alive, for a little bit of time there, that would be a little stressful Anybody else? Chadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. I mean, you just go through scripture. Paul. How about the Lord Jesus Christ? All through Scripture I find almost, if not as many people that paid a heavy price for doing right as those that paid for their sin. Paid the price for doing their sin. Now let's come back to our text. That was all set up. All right, there's a price of righteousness. There's a cost to doing right. Here in Genesis 39, verse 13, it says, It came to pass, she saw that he, Joseph, left his garments in her hand, that's Potiphar's wife. and was fled, that she called unto the men in the house and spake unto them, saying, See, he hath brought a Hebrew in unto us to mock us. And then she goes on with her story. The lust in the heart of Potiphar's wife for Joseph turned quickly into hatred. There is a very thin line that divides lust from hatred. And 99% of what this world calls love is nothing more than raw lust. On television and movies and music and all that garbage. Talk about love. No, no, it ain't love, it's lust. There's a very thin line. When lust is denied, it turns to hatred. In fact, let me add to that, when lust is indulged, it often turns to hatred. Anybody recognize the name Amnon? And Tamar. Amnon lusted, he loved, the Bible says he's talking about lust for his uh for Tamar. He finally deceived her and tricked her and ended up raping her And then the Bible says that the love lust that he had for her was now hatred. Was now hatred. So Potiphar's wife now didn't get what she wanted, and she turns on Joseph. I mean she turns on him. You've probably heard the saying, hell hath no fury, like a woman scorn. Potiphar's wife is scorned, and her fury is ignited. Her fury is ignited. Couple things here. I took a long introduction there. Look, a couple things I want you to notice. How does she respond to Joseph? Number one, Joseph is belittled by Potiphar's wife. Look at verse 14. She called all she called unto that she called unto the men of the house and spake unto them, saying, Now look at her wording here. He hath brought in a Hebrew unto us. And then up in uh in uh verse number uh 17, uh she spake unto him. Now she's talking to Potiphar, according to these words, saying, The Hebrew servant which thou hast brought into us. The Hebrew. She's using this term deliberately. The Egyptians hated the Hebrews They despised them. Why did they despise them so badly? Well, we find out much later on in the book of Genesis, when Joseph's family finally show up down there, he tells his father, I think it's around chapter. 48, 49, somewhere near. He tells his father, listen, when I introduce you to Pharaoh, don't tell him you're a shepherd. Whatever you do, Egyptians hate shepherds. Don't tell them you're a shepherd. And so he brings Jacob in. And uh they're introduced. This is very formal. This is a high state level uh meeting, and he's coming into Pharaoh, that's like going into the president, the White House And he's meeting them and Pharaoh they greet each other and Pharaoh says, well, what's your occupation? The first thing out of Jacob's mouth, we're shepherds. I can see Joseph in the corner. No, no, no. He told him, he says, Egyptians hate shepherds. Don't tell them you're a shepherd. For whatever reason, because of their false pagan worship, they hated shepherds. Hebrews were shepherds. The Jews at this point were shepherds. So the Egyptians disliked Hebrews, number one. Egyptians distrusted the Hebrews. There's been animosity between Egypt and the Jews for centuries, millennials And I often wonder why they are so distrustful of a Jew. Well, I'm wanting this is speculation on my part. The first time they were introduced to a Jew by the name of Abram. He lied to him and told him his wife was his sister, and Pharaoh almost took her to be his wife, committed adultery. He finds out and he's furious with Abraham. Why'd you lie to me? So I wonder if that didn't set a precedent in their mind. These Hebrews up there from the north come down here, the northeast of us, they're a bunch of liars. Right or wrong, but that was their perception. So the Egyptians disliked Hebrews, they distrusted Hebrews, and when she says he brought in this Hebrew, she is speaking down to Joseph. She is using that term to communicate to all the crowds she has around her, these people are inferior to us. These Hebrews. She was communicating. These, this is an undesirable person. He is an unimportant person. He's a Hebrew. He's not one of us. He's not equal to us. And Potiphar brought him in here. God's people always have been mocked. God's people always have been ridiculed by the world. God's people always have been belittled and scorned by the world. What's happening in the Middle East today is nothing new. There's a millennial of history of the world hating God's people. And then the church comes on the scene. And the world has always belittled the church. The world has always considered the church unimportant below them. In Acts, the Bible says they were first called Christians in Antioch, and I mentioned this recently, and I've mentioned all over the years, but uh but uh that term Christian Was used by the unbelieving Antioch people, the Gentiles. They use that as a derogatory term for these followers of Jesus Christ. The word Christian means a little Christ. And it was used to mock them. It was a term they came up with to ridicule these disciples of Jesus Christ. But the great thing about this is, I love this, is rather than being offended by being called a little Jesus, rather than being uh uh humiliated by being called a little Jesus They basically said, thank you very much. And they embraced that term. And now all around the world you have people who claim, and you and I call ourselves Christians But that was a term to mock the people of God. It was a term they came up with to ridicule and belittle the people of God. It's always been that way. Jesus on the cross. I mean he's hanging there, bleeding and dying, suffering, struggling for every breath, hanging naked before all the world. And they're reviling him and they're mocking him. Come on down if you're God. It's always been that way, the world, to God's people. What Potiphar's wife was doing to Joseph is nothing different than the world has been doing to God's people all through the years. I worked at a meat packing plant when I got saved. And rough crowd, really was. And uh I mean rough. About 25-30 guys on the floor where I worked, we'd cut the meat And uh I got saved. God changed my life. You know the story overnight. But I'm telling you, these guys that were three, four days before what I would have considered some of my best friends. We went out on weekends. We were buddies. I tell you what, I got saved and I claimed the name of Christ. God did it all. I'm telling you, they turned on me. One fellow's name was Bob. I still see him shortly. He came up. I was only about a week or two into my new Christian life as a believer. He comes up and he says, I'm going to tear you up, let him He's a heavy drug addict, and uh he was going to do all this stuff to me afterward, beat me up and all this stuff, you know, leave me for dead. For no other reason than God changed my life, and I didn't want to live that way anymore And they'd call his name. There was times that whole floor where those guys were just yelling. There was two others, a lady got saved about the same time I did, and one of the foremen got saved about the same time And that whole floor, they'd just be hooting and yelling and calling us names, obscene stuff. You know, we say, oh boy, that's pretty rough. Listen, that's the way it's been all through the history. What Joseph is experiencing has been what the church and God's people have experienced all through the years. So she's belittling him. You're on the job or you have some family members or neighborhood, you're out trying to witness, and people make fun of you, or call you a name, or try to humiliate you, or belittle you. Listen, just rejoice in the Lord. That's what they did to Jesus. That's what they did to God's finest servants. Now there's something interesting here that I picked up. She kind of deflects blame and attention towards her husband. Did you pick that up? Notice there in verse number 14, she says, um See, he, talking about her husband, Potiphar, he brought in the uh in and Hebrew unto us. It's Potiphar's fault. That's my stinking husband put me in this horrible situation. Look up at verse number 17 Talking directly to her husband, look what she says. The Hebrew sermon, which thou brought in unto us. Hey, I'm here to tell you, Joseph showing up in that household was the best thing that ever happened to that household. They're prospering. Everything that Joseph did, the Lord caused to prosper. He was the best thing ever. And she goes, You brought in that Hebrew. That stinking Hebrew. Immoral people never accept responsibility for their immorality. They always it's always someone else's fault. They never own up. It's always someone else's fault. It's my husband's fault. It's my wife's fault. It's my parents' fault. It's his fault. It It's her fault, it's the preacher's fault, it's the church's fault I tell you, people of integrity own up to their own actions. People of character and integrity take responsibility for their own decisions. And don't go around blaming everybody else. She blames her husband for an imaginary scenario that never even happened. And she's trying to convince everybody up. So number one, Joseph is belittled. Number two, Joseph is lied about. Look at verse 14 again. He came in unto me to lie with me, and I cried with a loud voice. That is what we call a bald-faced lie. That's exactly what she was doing to him. She just turned it around. Notice she uses a word twice. Verse 14, he came in unto me to lie. Let's see. No, back up. See, he hath brought in the Hebrew unto us to mock us. Then back in verse seventeen at the end, came in unto me to mock me. She uses that word twice I think she's using it deliberately because she's trying to paint a picture of Joseph in their minds of what kind of person he is. And it's a lie. The word mock, I got looking up, is an interesting word, by the way. One definition is, and the most common, is to treat disrespectfully. If what she was saying was true, that Joseph is making advances on her trying to lie with her, would you agree with me? That would be awfully disrespectful for Joseph to do that. That's what she's accusing them of. It means to ridicule. It has the idea, now, this is a definition I thought was interesting To treat as a toy. She's saying this. Joseph came into me, and all I was to him, he saw me and wanted to treat me like some toy. How many people if somebody did how many fellows if somebody did that, your your wife, you'd be infuriated That's what she's saying. It's a lie. She was it was the exact opposite. She wanted Joseph It means, another definition was this, to treat as an item of pleasure. Just a toy, just something to make me happy, to bring pleasure to me. This is a bald-faced lie. How many people here like to be lied about? Anybody here ever been lied about? Anybody ever lie about you? If not, become a pastor of a church. It happens. It hurts. When someone lies about you, it hurts. And it we we're afraid that it hurts our testimony, right? Somebody goes out there and starts lying about us, and we've had it here. On social media, people, I mean just within since COVID hit, we had people on social media saying lies, flat-out lies about our church. It hurts. And it can it can, we're afraid it hurts our testimony. However I like how Joseph responded to these lies. And I think he sets an example for you and I. If somebody lies about us, we're doing right, we're trying to live by scripture, we're following the Lord, and somebody turns things around and says stuff that's just a flat-out lie. We have to be very careful. It takes some strength of character to not retaliate. Oh yeah And all we do, if we retaliate in the flesh, if we retaliate in carnal ways, all we do is reinforce the negative impression people that they're trying to establish about us. Joseph doesn't do any of that. First thing I notice is there's no response at all from Joseph. No word. Zippo, nothing. He doesn't say a word. Nothing recorded. I think if he'd have made a scene, if he'd have protested and gotten a hollering, shouting match with her, I think we'd have read about it. But there's none of that. No response, no reaction, no retaliation. If he had, it would have only hurt his testimony even more. Here's what Joseph did. He allowed his integrity to speak for itself. Listen, some but people may say stuff about you and me. The whole world can lie about us. I tell you, I think the best thing to do is just keep on doing right. Just keep on being honest. Just keep on living for God. Just keep on holding to our conviction. Let them say what they want. Don't retaliate, no reaction, no retaliation. What Joseph was spoke louder than what she was saying. In 1 Peter 2, verse 23, speaking of the Lord Jesus, it says this: who when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not, but committed himself to him that judgeth rightly. Listen, God's awfully good at taking care of that stuff. God's awfully good at taking care of those who lie against the people of God. Joseph didn't raise his voice. In fact, we have no record of any response at all. He just, like the Lord Jesus, committed himself to the God who judges righteously. If we maintain our integrity, God will take care of our reputation. And then last of all, I end with this. Joseph was locked up. First he was belittled. Then he was lied about. Then he ended up being locked up for no other reason than he did right. Now I find something interesting here. Verse 19 it says, It came to pass when his master heard the words of his wife, but she spake unto him. After this manner did his servant unto me, that his wrath was kindled. Now look at this. Now what anybody here remember, I I'm ending. Anybody here remember what Joseph or what uh Potiphar's Responsible one of his responsibilities as uh uh in the in the court of the king. Anybody remember what we said? We said he was the executioner. Anyone remember that He was the one that executed the political enemies of of uh of um of the pharaoh. Kind of like never mind um Uh he he's the one that the the enemies of the Pharaoh would just kind of disappear. They'd be found somewhere dead. Oh, they fell off a cliff. Oh, they committed suicide. Oh, they had a heart attack That was his job. That's part of his responsibility. Execute people that were condemned to death Does he notice what it says there? Look at verse 19. It came to verse 20. And Joseph master took him and executed him. Is that what it says? No. He didn't execute him. Wonder why. That's what he does. He is an expert at it. I think, and we touched on this before, I don't think Potiphar believed his wife Because if he did, he'd have killed Joseph. There's no doubt about it. So I don't he didn't execute Joseph. Second thing I noticed, he put him in the king's prison. He put him into the prison and he put him into the prison where the king's prisoners were bound. Isn't that interesting? There is no other prison in Egypt where Joseph could have been in such close proximity to Pharaoh or to Pharaoh. This is where Pharaoh sent it to uh the the butcher and the baker, and I think the candlestick maker was in there too. This is where Pharaoh put his guys. This is the one prison where Joseph could possibly have some connection to Pharaoh. This wasn't just the common prison where the pickpockets and the murderers and the bank robbers went. This was the king's prisoners. That he gets put in. The perfect position to eventually step up into Pharaoh's administration. Do you see God's hand in all of this? He put him in the king's prison, not a common prison. And I notice this, this is the second time now that Joseph escapes death. Remember his brothers were going to kill him, and God sovereignly intervenes and keeps them from being killed. Now he's he's being accused of attempted rape of the executioner's wife, of all people. But he's not executed. What I'm trying to say is this: God has a plan, God has a purpose And we might have to go through a process to eventually fulfill God's purpose, but to do that, we've got to do right and just keep doing right and just keep doing right and keep doing right and understand there's a price that often has to be paid for doing right doing right. Let's pray. Father I ask you to take these thoughts here and these examples of Joseph, that you'd help you and I, that you would help each of us. To establish some good biblical convictions for our lives. And then, Lord, help us to stand by them, whether they're popular or not, whether we fit in or not. I pray you'd help us to be strong in our integrity, our moral integrity, help us to be strong in our commitment to your word and your will. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if any would say, Preacher, I need to work on establishing biblical convictions in my life. I want to determine what God says is right and wrong, and I want to hold to it. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? I want biblical convictions, sure Like what Dr. Roberts said, he said, if you don't have any, borrow mine until you get some. And maybe there's some say, preacher, you know, I'm trying to do right and I'm taking some heat Maybe from family member, maybe from a neighbor, a worker, I don't know, an old friend. They're putting a squeeze on, they're giving you a hard time. Maybe you'd say, preacher, pray that God will help me stand true God will help me stand for the Lord. Is there anything like that? Preacher, pray for me. God will help me stand. God bless you. Number of hands around. I want to do right. It's not easy. It takes courage, it takes strength, it takes character. But God will help us. Father, I pray you'd bless now as we give the imitation in Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stand again