Genesis 37, we're looking at the life of Joseph. We just started here last month and just kind of getting introduced to them And uh it just the biblical record of Joseph just kind of starts off right there in his 17th year. He's a 17-year-old boy. A young man, and uh we get a picture, one of the first pictures we have of Joseph, descriptions, is his home life, and if you remember we noted, uh we observed that his home life was less than ideal. He had a pretty rough home life. There was a lot of dysfunction there and division and uh envy and and hatred even. And that just seems to escalate here as the chapter goes on. And we're going to pick up here in verse number 12, and I'm going to read an extended portion because we're not going to preach on all this tonight. But I want to read the extended portion because I want to get the overall picture of what's happening here. And I know most of us were very familiar with this, but Let's look at the biblical record. And this is Joseph's brothers betraying him, his betrayal by his brothers. So we'll begin in verse 12. And his brethren Joseph's, of course, his brethren went to feed their father's flock in Shechem. And Israel said unto Joseph, now who is Israel to Joseph? It's his daddy, it's Jacob. Israel said to Joseph, do not thy brethren feed the flock in Shechem? Come, and I will send thee unto them. And he said unto him, Here am I. And he said, And he said unto him, Go, I pray thee, see whether it be well with thy brethren, and well with the flocks. And bring me word again. So he sent him out of the Vale of Hebron, and he came to Shechem. And a certain man found him, Joseph, found him, and behold, he was wandering in the field And the man asked him, saying, What seeketh thou? And he said, I seek my brethren. Tell me, I pray thee, where do they feed their flocks? And the man said, They are departed thence. For I heard them say, Let us go to Dothan. And Joseph went after his brethren, and he found them in Dothot. And when they saw him afar off, even before he came near unto them, they conspired against him to slay him. And they said one to another, Behold, this dreamer cometh. Come now, therefore, let us slay him, and cast him into some pit, and we will say some evil beast hath devoured him, and we will see what become of his dreams. And Reuben heard it, and he delivered him out of their hands, and said, Let us not kill him. And Reuben said unto him, Shed no blood, but cast him into this pit that is in the wilderness. And lay no hand upon him that he that he might rid him out of their hands to deliver him to his father. So he says, Listen, no kill just throw him in his pit, we'll just leave him there, he'll die naturally, rather than having his blood on our hands And his whole scheme was to deliver him later on, he didn't want him to be killed. We'll talk about that later. Verse 23. It came to pass when Joseph was coming to his brethren that they stripped Joseph out of his coat, his coat of many colors that was on him. And they took them and they cast them into a pit, and the pit was empty, and there was no water in it. And they sat down to eat bread, and they lifted up their eyes and looked, and behold, a company of Ishmaelites came from Gilead. with their camels bearing spicery and balm and myrrh, going to carry it down to Egypt. So they're going to take this items down to Egypt and sell them. And Judah said unto his brethren, What profit is it if we slay our brother and conceal his blood? Come, let us sell him to the Ishmaelites, and let not our hand be upon him, for he is our brother in our flesh. And his brethren were content. Then there passed by Midianites, merchant men, and they drew and lifted up Joseph out of the pit, and sold Joseph to the Ishmaelites For twenty pieces of silver, and they brought Joseph to Egypt. Joseph's betrayal by his brothers. Let's pray, and we'll get started here on this segment of his life. Father, I ask you to bless now as we uh study the life of Joseph. Lord, we want to learn from him. We want to, Lord, I pray you would help us to see, observe the facts and uh the incidences that take place here. But Lord, I also pray that you would You would teach us principles from this and lessons we can learn that our faith would be stronger and we'd be maybe more cautious. and uh wise in our our life and our behavior. So I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit, and I pray that the Holy Spirit would be our teacher tonight, that you would speak through me. The Word of God, and so I yield my will to you. Present my body, Lord, again now, so that you can use me and help us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We know that God had a plan for Joseph's life. He was the immediate plan for Joseph's life was God was going to save a lot of people's lives. down a road away when that famine hits and be able to uh um put things in place so a lot of lives would be saved We're going to see that, but that's part of God's plan. God had a plan, something beyond just Joseph, though, but God had a plan for the children of Israel as a nation. And that plan included them going to Egypt. He had to get the family of Israel, Jacob and his boys, his household. They're multiplying, and they're going to be they're going to be a large number pretty quickly, and and we're going to see this later on But he he God's plan was for them to get town on Egypt so that when they come out of Egypt, they would be a mighty, powerful nation. I guess what I'm trying to say is this, God is trying, God not trying, God is in the process of making Israel a nation. Right now it's just a large family. You follow follow what I'm trying to say? And so God has this plan for Joseph. He has a plan to use him to save lives, but beyond that, he's going to use Joseph. to fulfill the plan for Israel as a nation, to develop them into a nation. I want to suggest to you God has a plan for your life and my life also. I am absolutely convinced that every life has a purpose. Every person, regardless of the circumstances of our birth I had young people when I was in Naples, I had a a young person one time said to me, he said, My parents didn't want me. I was an accident. They didn't want me. His parents weren't married. He says, I have no purpose in life. In fact, I wasn't even, I was an accident, and the very fact that I'm alive was an accident. I said, it doesn't matter what your circumstances are, God gave you life. And he gave it to you for a reason and gave it to you for a purpose. In every single life, God has a plan for that life. I am absolutely convinced of it. And regardless of circumstances, regardless of our background, regardless of what kind of home we come out of, we're looking at this with Joseph. And so God had a plan, and it our God's plan for your life and my life might not be the same magnitude as his plan for Joseph. Would you agree with me? That's a pretty sensational plan for Joseph's life. Chances are God's plan for you and I is not to be number two in command of the most powerful nation in the world. Not at this point in life. Most likely not going to happen. But God's plan for your life and my life is just as divine as God's plan for Joseph was. In other words, God Had that plan. So if God has a plan for my life, then that plan is important. Regardless of the magnitude of it, it's important because it's God's plan. Everybody follow what I'm trying to say here. So I'm looking at Joseph, I'm studying his life, and I and you know you go to the end of his life and you look back over this whole account and you say, Man, God had a plan right from the get-go God had a plan for his life. God not only has a plan for Joseph's life, but he has a process. To accomplish that plan. And that's what we're running into here. That's what we're getting into here. This process that God is going to use To carry out his plan for Joseph's life. God has a process. We're going to see here, and it continues throughout his entire life almost. This process where God is arranging circumstances and He's putting into motion a series of events. That ultimately bring about his plan. It's not, alright, I got a plan for Joseph, poof, he's number two in Egypt saving millions of people's lives. It doesn't work that way There's this process that Joseph has to go through in order for that plan to be accomplished. Now, at any given point in this process, Joseph perhaps has no idea what God's doing. And I think that's true in your life and my life. God has a plan for all our lives. But there's a process that he goes through to accomplish that plan for our lives. And many, and I want to say this, most of the time God's allowing circumstances in our life, and he's arranging events that at the moment we have no idea what God's doing. You with me? They have no idea what God's doing. Now sometimes we look back and say, oh, I see why that took place. In fact, that was just uh uh Brother Chip and I were talking And he was saying different events that happened in the past. He said at the time I didn't even know I thought, why in the world, God, why are you doing this? Why are you letting this happen? Why am I going through this? Why Why are these these events taking place in my life? And now he's taken that church. He says, I look back and he says, I see, I wouldn't be here doing what I'm doing now if I did not go through that process And that's what we're starting to see with Joseph. We're in the beginning stages Of this process where God is going to bring, God is going to put Joseph in circumstances that I guarantee you he would not have chosen himself to be in. And there's going to be events are going to take place that he would not have chosen to happen. But God knows what he's doing. And God is working, God is working, God is working towards that plan, that end game that He's trying to accomplish. And so we're in the early stages here. Joseph is being sent by his father out to Shechem to find his brothers. And then we have these series of events that start taking place. That you and I, we know the end of the story. We look back and say, Oh yeah, I see what I do. I see how I see where his God's gone with this. Because we already know the end we we already know the the end of the story Joseph doesn't know that. Nobody does at this point. Take your Bible, if you would, turn over to Psalms 37. And I've been thinking about this fact that God has a plan, but not just a plan, he has a process that we need to go through To accomplish that plan. Psalm 37 is a tremendous Psalm. It's a lot of choice verses in here. Now, all scriptures given by inspiration of God, but there's some scriptures that just are special. You know what I'm talking about? Some just stand out. Psalm 37 is one of those. Now this isn't the text I want us to look at, but we're right here. I'd like to read verse 3. What a great verse Trust in the Lord and do good, and so shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed. What a promise. Just trust God and do right. Verse 4, delight thyself also in the Lord. He shall give thee the desires of thine heart. Now there's two ways to take that. I can take that to mean that God will give me what I desire. You know, the object of my desire, or it may be saying that God will give me the desire itself I had somebody tell me just in the last month that gotten saved some time ago, their life has changed, and they're not in our church, but I know them. And uh they said, I can't believe how different I am They said, the things that I liked before I don't like anymore. And that's what this verse is, I think this verse is saying, Delight thyself, Lord, He'll give you those desires, those new desires. And he shall bring forth. Now, here's what I want to get to, verse five. Commit thy way unto the Lord, trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass. That word commit there means this, place into the hands of, or put under the control of. Commit thy ways. Place them in take your ways, place them in the hand of God. Put them in the control of God. Commit thy way unto the Lord. And the word way there means the course of my life, the journey of my life. In other words, I think he's saying this. Take your life. And whatever is left of it, whatever your your your your your the course of your life is going to be, just take that and put it in the hands of God. Just put it under the control of God. And look what he says. Commit thy way unto the Lord. Trust also to him, and he shall bring it to pass. I think that applies to Joseph. I thought this applies to Joseph. Joseph's a young boy, 17 years old. We've already noticed he's committed to do right. And though it doesn't expressly say this, I think we can safely assume Joseph has committed himself to the Lord. And we're going to see that play out throughout his life. And God says, all right, you put it, you just, trust me, you just do right. And I'll accomplish that plan I have for your life. But you've got to go through this process. You've got to go through this process. Romans 8. 28. Somebody tell me. Romans 8. 28, what's that say? All things work to them that love God, to them who are called according to his purpose, all things work together for good. I think Joseph picked up on that truth because in Genesis chapter 50 and verse 20, very end of the book of Genesis, Joseph says this ye meant it unto evil, but God meant it unto good. He's quoting almost verbatim Romans 828 in a sense. And so I take my life. I'm 63 years old. I take my life where I'm at now. I take my life as it is, and whatever that's leading, whatever the future has for it. I put it in the hands of God. I put it under the control of God. I trust Him. I I let Him lead me. I follow His leadership. I submit to His control over my life. And He says, I'll fulfill my plan and purpose for your life. Now, we've got to go through the process. God begins arranging circumstances and he puts into event motions, he puts events into motion that bring about this ba about uh his plan for my life. When I was I was twenty I was twenty October of nineteen eighty five. I was twenty-five years old and I'm told this often. I was saved I'd been Preaching and soul winning. I've been involved in ministry for a number of years at that point. Um I traveled a year on Bible time. And one Sunday night, August, it was it was August of nineteen eighty five. One Sunday night, God stirred my heart And I had ideas, you know, I was going to teach elementary school, had all this stuff I was had in mind. I wasn't, you know, interested in in pastoring or anything like that But God broke my heart and I knelt at an altar at Highland Park on Sunday night and I said, God, whatever whatever you have for me, I just give it. I commit the rest of my life to you And I can look back at this point now, you're talking forty, what, years ago almost, and I can see God putting me Putting events in place and circumstances. You follow what I'm saying? Some of you all can look back at your life and you say, oh, okay, I see what God did here. God did that. God did that. And that's what we're looking at at Joseph. That's what I'm kind of building up to. This is what's beginning this process that leads to His um God fulfilling His plan for His life. I thought about this. When I was twelve, my parents separated. And um, you know, they went my mom left and and went their separate ways. We were we grew up in um In a denomination, I've told you this many times before. But Dad was very religious. I mean he was a faithful church member as far as that goes. He did right for the most part. He wasn't sinless But he was unsaved. You know it's possible to be religious and lost? Mom was right there, you know, when I was young, she was in the church, and they did stuff. Believe the Bible, all that religious, but lost. And my dad and I talked of this often, that had not the family uh developed the way it did, had that had that separation, ultimately divorce, if that had not come in, he may have never sought the Lord He may have just been content and lived his life, a religious lost man, dying going to hell. Now that doesn't mean that God wanted the divorce. That wasn't God's will, but God allowed it And God used that to bring Daddy to the end of himself. Daddy gets saved. My sisters trust Christ, make professions. I get saved. Mom eventually gets saved. And though, although we're not I think you understand what I'm saying, we're not condoning what took place, but we are saying that God had a plan, God had a purpose. He allowed that and was able to use that To bring a whole family to Christ. And so there's a lot of things we're going to see happen to Joseph here. There's no way in the world we can say it's God's will that his brothers try and kill him. I mean the Bible says thou shalt not kill. And the Bible, you know, back in the law it talks about kidnapping people and taking people as slaves against their will, you know, and death penalty. So they're violating God's will here. So we can't say, oh yeah, it's God's will for them to do this. However, God allowed it. And then use that to accomplish his plan for the life of Joseph. And we're going to see that over and over and over again. And this process began. Not all events that happen are God's will, but he can, and he does use those events to bring about his plan. Brother Chip was had his ordination council on Saturday and I was up there for that in the morning. And he brought up an illustration I had used years ago, and he mentions it often to me when we talk. I I don't remember what I was preaching on, but I used this illustration. God is like a master chess player. And I don't know if you play chess. I used to a little bit. I played Matt, Pastor Matt one time. He beat me, so I never played him again. But um it's like God's a master chess player and a master chess player he'll have the the pieces set up and he has a plan And he's going to take out your king and he's going to make about eight moves. And he's already got it planned out. He's going to do this move and this move. And boom, checkmate. Now I'm on the other side and I don't want to have checkmate and I want to get his checkmate. So It's uh for a master chess player, I make a move and it may now you've got to think with me a little bit on it, I may make this move and it may interfere with his initial plan to take out my K. Follow what I'm saying? But if he's a very good chess player, he can take that move I made that wasn't what he wanted me to do, he can take that move and manipulate it around and still accomplish his goal. Follow what I'm saying? And that's what God's doing here. These brothers are going to go, oh yeah, we're going to kill Joseph. God can take their evil intent, manipulate it around, and still fulfill his purpose, and it becomes part of that process. Alright? So I spent a good time kind of setting the stage here because we're going to look at what happens here. And on the surface, just not knowing anything beyond this, we say this is terrible. But God has a plan, and to fulfill that plan, he has a process. So let me get back to my text here. Genesis 37. Now This whole section here, I have three things I noticed. Number one is the mission of Joseph. The mission of Jo of Jacob for Joseph. He has this mission he sends Joseph on. Then we're going to notice the mischief of his brothers. They're out to do harm. And then we're going to look at the merchants heading to Egypt. So tonight I just want to look at this mission of his father. Look at verse number 12 with me. And his brethren went to feed their father's flock in Shechem. So the brothers take the flocks, and by the way, these are huge flocks Jacob is fabulously wealthy. I mean this guy is incr he is Donald Trump wealthy. Alright, he is Elon Musk wealthy. Jacob is an incredibly wealthy man. And so they take these flocks, which are no doubt massive. And they go to Shechem. Now, what do we know about Shechem? I did a little research. Shechem is the place where God promised Abraham That he would give them all that land one day, and he gave out the dimensions of it, and this phenomenal tract of land. He promises Abraham and Shechem That he is going to have this and his ancest his offspring are going to be more than the sand of the sea and more than the stars of the sky and they're going to have all this land. That was at Shechem where that took place So it's it's significant in the in the history of Joseph's family. Abraham, the father of Israel, the father of Athel. He's given this promise here. And by the way, later Jacob shows up at Shechem, and God reaffirms that promise to Jacob, says, I'm going to give you all this land. Unconditional promise. To Jacob, to uh Abraham, to Jacob, and then through them to the nation of Israel. By the way, one day Israel will own all that land. Be the millennium They haven't owned it all to this point. They haven't possessed it all at this point. So Shechem was a place where God promised the land to Abraham, later to Jacob. Shechem was a place of submission. In fact, come back there. Genesis chapter 12. Come back real quick if you would. Genesis chapter 12. And notice verse 6 is where God makes this promise to Abraham. Genesis 12, look at verse 6. It says, And Abraham passed through the land unto the place of Shechem. Spelled slightly different, in the plain of Murah. And the Canaanite was then in the land. And the Lord appeared unto Abram and said, Unto thy seed will I give this land So he has this promise. Again, later on, he did the same thing to Jacob. Now look what Abraham does. And there builded he an altar unto the Lord that appeared unto him. He built an altar. Jacob shows up later on. God reaffirms a promise. What does Jacob do? He builds an altar also. Now, what does this altar imply? Why does God appear to Abraham says, I'm going to give you all this land? Your offspring give you all this land. Abraham says, I'm going to build an altar. Jacob shows up years later, God appears to him and says, I'm going to give you all this land. He says, Oh, I'm going to build an altar. I don't suggest to you that the altar was an expression of submission to God. So I'm building this altar. Lord, I I'm I'm submitting to you. I'm making this sacrifice to you. I want your will to be done. I want you to accomplish that. That's what the altar here in church is. It's coming, Lord. You spoke to my heart. You made a promise. You challenged me. You corrected me. I want to come and just submit to you. I'm going to agree with you. And so Shechem is significant in the history of Israel, and that's where God made this phenomenal promise that Israel still to this day claims. It's where they submitted to God, Abraham and Jacob submitted to God, but Shechem is also a place of incredible disobedience, sin, and disgrace. And that's an amazing thing. Go with me if you would to chapter number 33 of Genesis. And here we have this Cunnum, bizarre event to an extent. Genesis Chapter 33. I'm a little ahead of myself. Look at verse 18. God told Jacob to go back to Bethel In verse 18, he came to Shalem, the city of Shechem. So Jacob doesn't go all the way back to Bethel. He stops in Shechem. All right, it's disobedience. But look what happens then in verse 1 of chapter 33. And Dinah, the daughter of Leah, Which she bare unto Jacob, look at this, went out to see the daughters of the land, the women of Shechem, Dinah, the daughter of Jacob and Leah, she wants to go out and see the woman of the world. It's what it is. Oh, I want to see how they dress. I want to see what what their nightclubs are like. I want to go see what they're watching, what their movies are. And she was allured by the world. And so she goes out there and says, I want to I want to see what the uh what these women of the world are doing. Look what happens She went out to see the daughters of the land. And when Shechem, the son of Hamor, the Hivvite, prince of the country, now this guy is named after the town that he's in, the area is in. He saw her. Now look at this. He saw her. He took her and lay with her and defiled her. What did he do? He raped her. She's out playing with the world, and the world doesn't play the way Christians play. And he defiles her. And to make a long story short, the brothers find out about this, and they are hot. And uh putting this in my own words, but they say nobody messes with our daughter and gets away with it. I mean our sister and gets away with it. Nobody messes with our sister and gets away with it. And they are furious. And so they come up with the skeep. And um uh the fellow here, uh um Uh Shechem, the son of Hamar, he comes and says, I'd like to m I'd like to m take Dinah and be make her my wife. I'd like to have her to be my wife. And what's your dowry? What uh what do I need to do to to have Dinah to be my wife? Now brothers say, well, I'm putting this in my own words, they say, well, if uh if you're going to want her to be your wife, then you've got to take on some of our customs. And what they do is they come up with, they say, all your men need to be circumcised. Alright? So these are grown men. And they say, pfft. And Shechem comes back to the men of Shechem and he says to them, Hey, listen, they said all we got to do is be circumcised. Now I don't know about you, but I'd be like, what? And he says, No, no, no, if we do this, then all their possessions. I mean Jacob is incredibly wealthy. And if we do this and we do it right and cooperate with them a little bit, man, we can get all their flocks, we can get all their possessions, and man, it will make out like bandits. However, Jacob's sons have a different approach. And so they agree, all right, so they all get circumcised. They're pretty sore day or two into it. And all the boys come in there and just slaughter them all. And kill them all. So this is the place where Joseph's brothers are taking the sheep. This is some time later, time has gone by, and they're taking the sheep back here to this place. So that's the that's the setting. Verse 12, come back there to 37. And uh verse 12, and his brethren went and fed their father's flock in Shechem. And Israel said to Joseph, verse 13, Do not thy brethren feed the flock in Shechem? Come, and I will send thee unto them. And he, Joseph, said unto him, Jacob, Here am I. And he said, Go, I will pray uh go, I pray thee, and see whether it be well with the brethren, well with his flock. So first thing I notice here is that the brothers are out in Shechem in this place that's significant But brother, it's some bad stuff happened there. And um he says, Joseph, I want you to go go to Shechem, check on your brothers. And the thing I notice is Joseph's obedience To this mission that his daddy gives him to go check on his brothers. I don't get initially I had this impression of Joseph when he was young. He was a spoiled tattletale brat But the more I'm studying it, I don't think that's necessarily the case. In fact, this is not a picture of a spoiled brat To me, I see here a man with some character. This mission that Joseph, Jacob is sending him on is a difficult mission. I got measuring distances from where they are to where Shechem is is over 60 miles. Now they don't have four-wheelers, they don't have Jeeps, they don't have motorcycles. He's probably walking, maybe camels, sixty miles riding a camel. Would you agree with me? That's not just a Sunday afternoon ride. So this is a difficult mission that Joseph is agreeing to. He's going, all right, Dad, I'll do it. All right, 60 miles away through the wilderness. And by the way, what kind of attitude did his brothers have towards Joseph? They hated him. They couldn't even speak peaceably unto him. So Joseph is going to his brothers who can't stand him, can't say a nice word to him. He's got to go 60 miles there. How many people like me would say, Dad, I'd rather not? You know, I don't even like being around them. They're so hateful to me. But we don't find any negotiation on Joseph's part, we don't find any argument on Joseph's part, we don't even find any hesitation on Joseph's part. Daddy says, this is what you're going to do. He says, yes, sir, I'll do it. So it's a difficult, that's not a spoiled brat in my mind. It's a difficult mission. It's a dangerous mission. This 60 miles plus miles is mostly wilderness. And if you pay close attention, Daddy sent him by himself I mean there's thieves, there's wild beasts. In fact, remember when they sell him, they went back and told Jacob, oh, wild beast killed him And Jacob didn't say, wild beast, where did it come up there? Why would there be wild beasts? No, there was wild beasts. It made perfect sense to him. He didn't question that. So this is incredibly difficult. Brothers hate him. It's a long way. It's dangerous. This is all wilderness. There's beasts. And he's by himself. And Joseph responds without argument, without hesitation. He's not negotiating, oh daddy, why can't you send a servant? Good night, we're wealthy, we got servants coming out of our ears. Why don't you send one of those guys? No, he just says, here am I. Okay, Dad, you want me to, I'll do it. I'm getting impressed with Joseph I see here a young man with some character about him. He understood as the son of Jacob, he understood his responsibility to honor And obey his father. And he understood that. And even though no doubt he would rather have not done this This is not easy. It's going to be dangerous. I'm going by myself. 17-year-old boy. He says, but I honor and obey my daddy. I tell you, you show me a young man that can honor and obey his father, and I'll you I'll show you a young man that has some character about him. That's Joseph. Joseph. Um My boy went in for an interview at a job, and uh they said, Well what what can you do? What are your skills? He says, Well, I can do what you tell me to do. They hired him on the spot. They said, that's what we want. Someone that'll do what we tell him to do. That's what Joseph was. And I believe so I believe he had some character. This tells me when he says, Here am I at with this dangerous mission Here am I, he had some character, but I think it was more than just character. I think Jacob I think Joseph loved his father. I think he loved him dearly I think Joseph loved his brothers. I really do Years later, they're saying all this hateful stuff to him. You don't find any reaction back on Joseph's part, responding in kind back to them. He's not hateful back to them. They can't speak peaceably to him. He doesn't respond the same way. I see here a young man that loves those that hate him, that does good to those who despitefully use him. Remember when he eventually is number two in Egypt, his brothers show up, they don't recognize him. What does he do when he sees them? He weeps. This, I'm more impressed with Joseph all the time. He loves unconditionally these brothers that hate his guts. Um so I think when he his daddy says, go do this difficult mission, it's dangerous mission, he says, Yes sir, here am I. No arguing, no hesitation, I'm going to do it. I think he loves his daddy a lot. And we I wish I had time, we don't, but in John chapter 14, if you notice about seven, eight times, Jesus made this statement. If ye love me, ye will keep my commandments. He that keepeth my commandments, he it is that loveth me. He says that over and over and over, all down through the second half of John chapter 14. It is possible to obey without loving, right or wrong? I can obey somebody. Jerry's the military. I'm sure he obeyed some of his commanders, and he didn't love them very much, I'm sure. You can obey without loving, but I'll tell you this: you can't love without obeying. I think Joseph loved his daddy and he loved his brothers. So Joseph's obedience to this mission that Jacob has for him. And then quickly, I got a couple minutes left. Jacob's obedience. objective in this mission. In other words, why was he sending them there? What was the purpose of sending Joseph to Shechem to his brothers? Look at verse 14. And he said unto him, now Joseph's agreed to go. He's committed. Yes, sir. And he said unto him, Go, I pray thee, and this is what I want you to do. See whether it be well with thy brethren and well with the flock. So he's worried about his boys and he's worried about his investments. And bring me word again. So he sent him out of the Vale of Hebrew and he came to Shechem. So his objective here was to check on the well-being of his brothers and the well-being of his livelihood. All is cheap. I mean it's a huge investment in this. So make sure the boys, make sure your brothers are okay, and make sure the sheep are okay. Two questions. I'll end with these. My first question is, why did he send Joseph alone? Why didn't he at least send some servants with him? Jacob knew he had traveled the same route before. He knew what Joseph would have to go through, what he was sending him through. Why would he send them by himself, just thieves alone and wild beasts, a seventeen-year-old boy? Why didn't he send someone along with him? It's a long trip. It's difficult. He's got to find his brothers somehow. This is a huge area. In fact, look there at verse 15. It says a certain man found him, Joseph, and behold, he was wandering in the field. The idea behind those words there is he's just walking in circles. He's lost, he's confused, he doesn't know what to do, he can't find his brothers Why in the world would Jacob send Joseph by himself? Here's my answer. I don't know. I've I've tried I've looked to see what other nobody nobody addressed it. I have no idea why Jacob sent him by himself, but this is what I think I think God's working out this plan. For whatever reason, God stirred Jacob's heart. Maybe he didn't think it through, whatever, but God put it in the mind of Jacob. Send Joseph out there. I wonder, and this is just me wondering, I'm wondering after he had sent Joseph, about a day later, I wonder if he said, What in the world was I thinking, sending that boy up? I must be nuts You know, God can stir the hearts of people. The Bible says the hand of the king, the heart of the king is in the hand of the Lord. Remember Cyrus, God stirred his heart to let Israel go back and build their uh temple, and he says, Oh, by the way, here, we'll give you all the supplies and money you need. I heard Sam Davis preaching that, and he said later on a bunch of the advisors came to Cyrus, he said this, and he says, What in the world are you thinking? Why are we sending them back? He goes, I don't know. I don't know why I did that So the only thing I can come up with reason why Jacob would send his favorite son, who he loved more than others, and he showed favoritism to, by himself into a wilderness for 60 miles Is God just put that on his heart? God has a plan. God has a purpose. You know, sometimes people do things that make no sense, but God is working. And God is working. My second question is, number one, why'd he send Joseph alone? I don't know, but God's got the things in process here. God's got the the the the the process in place My second question is this, and this has been asked by a number of people, why were the brothers in Shechem? Why would they go there? Shechem was incredibly dangerous. Remember, it wasn't too long ago, they just slaughtered. Nearly all the in in a cheapskate co uh um what's it called when you hit punch somebody in the side of the head they didn't see it coming? Sucker punch kind of He just killed it. You're never going to convince me these people didn't hate Jacob and his boys. And they go back there with all their sheep, with all this vast wealthy uh this uh uh uh this wealth in sheep they go back to this place where they just killed a whole slew of people. Are you kidding me? These people hated Jacob. They hated his sons. It's an incredibly dangerous place for all people then to be there. So the Bible doesn't tell us why they were in Shechem, but there's some people a lot smarter than I am that have made some suggestions. And a couple of these make sense to me. One fella suggests that Jacob's boys, Joseph's brothers, were in cahoots. with some people in Shechem that when they were down there for whatever reason, slaughtering that, somehow something there appealed to them. And they had some sort of nefarious thing going on with some of the people in Shechem. And that kind of makes sense. If you go back a few verses, remember, Joseph brought their evil report to their daddy. They were doing something sneaky behind Daddy's back. We don't know what it is, but now they're over in Shechem, which is a very wicked city. That's a very dangerous place. So I'm wondering if maybe they had uh cut some deals, they got something going on there. Maybe they're selling sheep and making big money I don't know. We don't know. Some people suggest they had gotten involved with the people of Subjec uh Shechem in some sinful way and they didn't want daddy to know about it. They're going so far away they're involved in something You know, when people are hiding stuff from you, it generally means they're up to something. They're a long way off. But uh this is I got thinking about Shechem. And uh there was something about Shechem that attracted Jacob's kids. Remember Dinah? Something about Shechem, she wanted to go down there and see the women and see what it was like. There was something about Shechem that all his b uh uh Joseph's brothers, they all go back there, even though it's dangerous. Something is attracting them to Shechem. There's something about those pagans. There's something about those wicked people. There's something about that lifestyle they're living that appealed to the children of Jacob I don't know what it was, but I know this. There's parts of that this world is awfully attractive to the sinful heart of man. Now I'm not a big fan of Hollywood, but there's something about Hollywood that attracts people to it. We want to go see those movies. When we go see what they're doing, man those movie stars. Brother, you get some movie star wear something, and all of a sudden everybody's doesn't matter how ridiculous it is, they're wearing it, everybody's I think movie stars if they wore a boot on their head, everybody start wearing boots on their head. There was something about Shechem, this wicked place, that attracted the children of Jacob. They're up to no good. So the answer is, why did Jacob send Joseph alone? And what in the world are the brothers doing in Shechem? And the answer that we can be sure of is this. God has a plan for Joseph's life, and he's putting a process in place. And he's putting events in motion that are going to end up with Joseph exactly where God wants him to be. And a lot of it at the time doesn't make sense. Doesn't make a bit of sense why you would send a boy by himself. Doesn't make a bit of sense why these fellows would go over there with everything J Jose Jacob owns and people that hate him But God has a plan, God has a purpose. They needed to be in the place where those merchants are going to come down here in a little bit. They needed all needed to come together. Here's what I want to leave us with. God knows what he's doing. And it doesn't make sense to us. Just commit thy way unto the Lord. Trust also in him. And let him bring it to pass. Let him lead you and direct you. Amen? Let's pray. Father, I pray you'd take these thoughts about Joseph's uh and the events that are beginning that are starting to unfold here in his life and they seem kind of nonsensical to us why these things would happen, but God, we see that you have a plan, a purpose. And Father, I think sometimes we look at our lives. And we say, Lord, I don't understand this. Why did this happen to me? Why did you let that happen? Why did you let them do this? The Lord, we just commit it to you. We trust you. Keep doing right. And I believe you'll help us. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, Preacher, I there are some things going on in my life I don't understand? And maybe even say they're not right, and they're not. They say, I'm going to trust God I'm going to help ask him to help me just stay on stay the course, keep walking with him, keep trusting him, and let him work. Is there any like that, Preacher? There's some things that don't make sense and I don't understand. There's some hurt Some confusion there, but I'm just going to trust God. God bless you. Hands all around. I'm telling you, I didn't know why things were happening in my home the way it was at the time. But I look back now and see God was using it. God allowed it and God used it Father, I pray you bless our imitation now, help us to trust you at all times in Jesus' name, amen