And uh if you've read through your Bible or through Genesis at all, you know if we're at chapter 50, we are winding down our study of the life of Joseph. And uh we're coming to uh the final days of his life, or at least the the account of his life. And so let me get hooked up here, and I want to begin reading, and I'm not going to get to all of my message tonight because I want to save the last thought, the last point. I don't want to spend one whole message on that point. But I want to begin reading in verse number 14 And just the setting, the background to get us uh up to speed here, if we're not, Joseph's daddy had just passed away, Jacob has passed away. They traveled with an incredible entourage from Egypt back up to Canaan to the barian grounds that Abraham had purchased And where Jacob had insisted that his boys take him back there and bury them. So they've been up there. They've had this quite a processional from Egypt, 300 miles up to Canaan, to the caves there where he was buried, uh quite a uh crowd of people, Egyptians, Canaanites, the family. And uh he's been laid to rest. And then we'll pick up in verse number 14. That's where we're at. Verse 14 it says, and Joseph returned unto Egypt, he and his brethren, and all that went up with him to bury his father, after he had buried his father And when Joseph's brethren saw that their father was dead, they said, Joseph will peradventure hate us, and will certainly requite us of all the evil which we did unto him. Now that's the first time we find them mentioning the fact that what they did was evil. And so we'll look at that. Look at verse 16. And they sent a messenger unto Joseph, saying Thy father did command before he died, saying, So shall ye say unto Joseph, Forgive, I pray thee now, the trespass of thy brethren and their sin. For they did unto thee evil, and now we pray thee, forgive the trespass of the servants of the God of thy father And Joseph wept when they spake unto him, and his brethren also went and fell down before his face, and they said, Behold, we be thy servants. And Joseph said unto them, Fear not, for am I in the place of God. But as for you, ye thought evil against me, but God meant it unto good. to bring to pass, as it is this day, to save much people alive. Now therefore, fear ye not, I will nourish you and your little ones. And he comforted them, and spake kindly unto them. And I'm entitled it tonight, Joseph Comforts His Brethren. Let's pray. And we'll look at this here. Father, I ask now you'd bless our study of this passage of Scripture and this event In the life of Joseph and his interaction with his brothers here, I pray that your Holy Spirit would open our eyes and we could see some principles and some examples and some truths here that would help us in our interaction with one another and our faith in you and our walk with you. And so I pray again, as always, whenever we teach or preach your word, I ask that your Holy Spirit would fill me God, I yield myself to you. All I am, and you could take me as just a tool in your hand, a conduit, for you to speak your word through me and help us, Lord, revive us. And um restore relationships maybe we need tonight. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Joseph and his brethren are Entering what I'm calling an uncharted territory of life. They have never been in this type of situation before where they are without their daddy. Up to this point, Jacob has been a a central figure in their lives. In fact, he has been the authority in their lives, their entire lives up to this point. And we noted that as we worked our way through Joseph's life, we've seen a number of times where they would uh recognize their father's authority over them even into their adult years. And now daddy's gone. And they're in a they're in a a part of life that they've never experienced before. And um I pick up, they're trying to make their way through this as best they can Now Joseph, if you think about it, he had been on his own for, at this point, almost 40 years. He'd not been under Jacob's authority, although whenever Jacob moved back down, Joseph did submit himself as to his daddy, but for the most part, and in reality, Jacob or Joseph was in charge. Even when Jacob was there. And so, in fact, Joseph was really an authority over Jacob. for quite a period of time. And so but for the brothers it's never been this way before. Um Daddy called the shots. You go back over the record we have of this family and and daddy was daddy and he was the authority. He was without a doubt Jacob was the head of the home. Now the boys didn't always behave themselves the way they should, but Jacob was ahead of home, but now he's gone. That authority figure, there's a uh what I'm picking up, a vacuum here. In this family with daddy out of the picture. Now I have a number of observations I made in these passages I read, verse 14 through 21. I'll give you my outline, then we'll come back and look at a few of the points. And like I said, I want to Spend one message on the last point. The first thing I notice in verse number 14 is their return back to Egypt. And then verse 15, the reasoning of the brothers. They get talking among themselves and they come to a conclusion. And then verse 16 through 18, the request of the brothers that they make to Joseph And then last of all, verse 19 through 21, we have the reassurance of Joseph, where he comforts them, he reassures them that everything's okay. So let's come back and look at verse number 14. And I have some questions. When I was looking at verse 14 and studying this a little bit, I had a question that came to my mind. Look what it says. And Joseph returned unto Egypt, he and his brethren, all his brothers. And all that went up with them to bury his father, of course that would have included the the uh the Egyptians and the m the magistrates and the the representatives from the Egyptian government. There was, if you remember, there was a large body of Egyptian leaders, government leaders that went up there, diplomats And then of course we had the military we picked up and there was probably an escort. So all of those, of course, would come back to Egypt. That makes sense. But it seems like God's word emphasized the fact that all the brethren, all the family that went up to Canaan They all came back to Egypt. Now here's the question that came to my mind as I'm studying this. Why did they go back to Egypt? Canaan is a land of promise. Abraham was promised of God that all this would be his and God would bless it. Isaac had that same promise restated to him, reassured by God Himself, that this is your land and your offspring. Jacob experienced that firsthand when God assured him, this is the land I've given you, this is the land I've promised. Why would they go back? Canaan was incredibly important. to this family. And of course in the years to come that land is identified with Israel. We call it Israel. That's Jacob. And so I got thinking, um, why why would they come back? Nobody stayed up in this promised land. Nobody stayed in this land that is given by God To Abraham and his offspring. None of the brothers stayed. All eleven brothers came back with Joseph. All that went up came back to Canaan. So I thought, why did they go back? Why would they do that? There's no obligation to dra the the famine's been over for years and years and years. Upwards to 20 years probably the famine's been over, maybe more. And so that's not an issue. So I come up with three possible reasons. One, I think it's pretty definite. Probably two of them are pretty definite. One is possibly. First of all, I think one reason they came back was they had it pretty good in Egypt. If you would, come back and look at chapter 45, just a few pages back here, and just a reminder what Pharaoh had promised Jacob. In chapter 45, and come down, if you would, to verse 18. This is Pharaoh. He's met Jacob now. They've come down because of the famine. And uh Pharaoh is extending an open door invitation to them and welcoming them to Egypt in a very official way, but in a very uh extravagant way, really Verse 17, and Pharaoh said unto Joseph, Say unto thy brethren, this do ye, laid your beasts and go and get you into the land of Canaan. Now listen to this. And take your father and your households, everybody associated with your family, come unto me, and I will give you the what? The good of the land. And if you remember, we talked about it a little bit. He's promising them the best land Egypt has. They're they're on uh uh they're on the upper s they're on the right side of the tracks. He's putting them there where it's nice Um, this is where they don't get any snow and flowers come out in January, you know He says, God, I will give you the good of the land of Egypt, and ye shall eat the fat of the land. What does that sound like he's saying to you? Yeah, I'm gonna take good care of you. Now we've picked this up before and we've seen it. Egypt loved Joseph. They understood their indebtedness to the leadership of Joseph and God's hand upon Joseph, they would not have survived if it was not for Joseph. And so Pharaoh recognized that. I believe the people of Egypt recognized that And Joseph is held in incredible esteem. If they did surveys of popularity, Joseph is busting the roof off of that chart. They love him. And so when his father and his family shows up, Pharaoh says, I'm taking care of you. I am taking care of you guys. And he did. And so they've been living there under this extreme generosity of Pharaoh and the Egyptians. We have no reason to believe anything has changed. And so they had it pretty good down in um in uh Egypt. They'd been there a long time, they're settled in, they've been treated very, very well. So that would be, would you agree with me, that would be a motive To go back, it's become home really in a lot of ways to them, to come back there. I think there's two other reasons that they came back. They returned rather than staying in the land that God had promised them is second of all, Joseph had promised Pharaoh they would return. He would come to chapter 50 again and look at verse number 5. Joseph, as we studied, I think it was last week, he approached Pharaoh and got the okay, the official sanction for him to be able to go up there. He was very respectful to Pharaoh's authority And verse five it says, He's speaking to Pharaoh. Joseph says, My father made me swear, saying, Lo I die. And in In my grave which I have digged for me in the land of Canaan, there shalt thou bury me. Now therefore, let me go up, I pray thee, and bury my father again. And then he tacks on that statement, and I will come again. And if we know anything about Joseph, we know that his word is good. Right or wrong? I mean, he's displayed phenomenal integrity. Up to this point, even in some of the most horrific circumstances, he was honest and true. Even to his hurt, he was honest and true. And so In Joseph's mind, I'm confident, hey, I told Pharaoh that I'm coming back, I'm coming back. And you know, as people of God, our word ought to be good. Right? If we have to sign all kinds of contracts and do all kinds of legal stuff for someone to trust us and believe that what we say is going to be so, there's something wrong with our integrity. Now we live in a day and age where that's required, but um nevertheless our word ought to be good How many people ever heard your parents or your grandparents say, Yeah, I remember the day you didn't have to sign nothing, you just word was good. Anybody ever hear people talk like that? I I've never got a loan from a bank where I didn't have to sign something But Joseph's word was good. He told Pharaoh, I'm coming back, I'm coming back. Even though that was the land God had promised. That was the land where his offspring would have. That was where the presence of God would be. That's where his forefathers, his daddy and his grandfather, his great grandfather met personally with God, but he goes back because I said I would. And then there's a third reason. And that is because God had prophesied to Abraham that his offspring would spend an extended period of time in Egypt. So whether Joseph and his brothers were aware of it or not, and sometimes God can ordain things to happen that we may not even be aware at the moment that that is God directing it. But I think there was God behind the scenes stirring and moving Joseph back down into Egypt because God had prophesied that that's what would happen. That's what was going to take place. And just, we said Joseph's word is good. I'm here to tell you, even more so, God's word is good. And the reference for that there is in Genesis 15, verse 13 through 16. God tells Abraham, you know, you're going to be up there 400 years And then you're going to come back to the Promised Land, a great nation, and know whether they completely comprehended what all that involved or how that would transpire I doubt seriously. They envisioned 400 years of slavery. But nevertheless, God had prophesied. God said this was going to happen And so it happened that way. Now, there's no doubt we have a free will. Don't want to really get into that subject. God has given us a free will. But God is able to, even us with our free will, still accomplish His will. And I think we're seeing that here by them coming back. down there. And then along with that, this almost might be a fourth reason, but if you remember back in verse number eight, they left their children in Egypt and all their cattle. How many people agree with me? Getting back to the kids would be a big motivation to go back. Yeah And so they return to Egypt for various reasons, but they're back down in the land that God said that They his people would end up being for an extended period of time. So first of all, I notice verse 14, their return to Egypt. Second of all, as I said, I noticed the reasoning of the brothers in verse 15 Says that uh and when Joseph's brethren saw that their father was dead, and this we're not given a time frame here You know, some is it is this right after Daddy died before they went to Canaan? Was this in route on the way back? They buried Daddy, he's dead. They're on the way back and they get with Joseph. We're not told. I feel like, it seems to me, they're probably back in Egypt at this point. They made the journey of 300 miles, so that took a little while. They made the journey, they're back in their homes, they're back in their houses They're back with the kids. They've got the cattle and herds and all of that and the flocks all they got all that taken care of. And uh perhaps they call a meeting with Joseph. Say, Joseph, we need to talk to you That comes a little later. But here they're reasoning among themselves. Maybe they all got together and said, listen, we need to address an issue. It says, when Joseph's brethren saw that their father was dead, they said, and this is among themselves, I should clarify, Joseph will peradventure what? Hate us Daddy's dead. Joseph, you know, there's a real possibility here. It's very plausible that Joseph is going to hate us. And we'll certainly, it's not just a possibility now, before it was peradventure, they'll hate us. But he will certainly, whether he hates us or not, he's certainly going to requite us of all the evil which we did to them. And so think about this. This is 40 years after they treated Joseph the way they did. This is 40 years after they forcibly assaulted him. And in reality, kidnapped him with the intention of murdering him And no doubt, when it's all taken place, Joseph is pretty much aware of the fact these guys are planning on killing me They end up putting them in the pit and then selling them as slavery. It's kidnapping and then selling them as slavery, which, by the way, God's law later on condemns all of that. And so this has been 40 years later that they assaulted him and kidnapped him and sold him as a slave. And yet they're still haunted by their guilt. Time, somebody ever hear this saying? Time heals all wounds. Anybody ever hear that? One thing, time, and that may or may not be true. But one thing time does not do, it does not erase the guilt of sin. That guilt can linger a lifetime. And these guys are obviously feeling the sting of guilt. Notice how they were, and like I said, this is the first time any indication Where they recognize among themselves that, hey, we did wrong. Now back when they saw Joseph, remember when they first showed up, they said, oh, we're just getting repaid for what we did There was a sign that they're still feeling guilt. Now, here they come out and say it. He's going to requite us of all the evil which we did to him. They're acknowledging that what they did was evil. And that guilt is haunting them. Proverbs 28:1 says, the wicked flee when no man pursueth. The fear that guilt produces. In other words, what Solomon was telling his son in Proverbs there, he's saying, listen, a sinful person, a guilty person, will get paranoid. Right? Oh they n they know. I know they know what we did. Um Uh well uh you're not gonna believe this. This is gonna come as a shock wave through the church scandal. But when I was a little kid I stole some bubblegum from the grocery store. I thought you'd be shocked and dismay. One time I was preaching, this is years ago, and I took the boys to how many people know what monter monster trucks are? Man, I was in love with them. I was just fascinated years ago. And uh so I took the boys, it's called um it was uh what do they call those uh uh monster jam So they call it monster jam. So I took the boys and I used an illustration in a sermon about this monster jam. And Betty Gallagher, she's might be listening, I don't know. But she thought m a monster jam was a rock and roll concert I told her I took the boys to the monster jam. She goes, So I had explain. But I tell you, you steal a little something like that and you're walking out the store. Now they didn't have cameras back. You know, I used to be able to go to the grocery store when I was a kid. I could get a whole bag full of candy for nothing But then they installed cameras. And you know you walk now I know some of you all know exactly what I'm talking about, but you got that in there and you're absolutely convinced that guy sees you. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Oh, he knows, he knows, I know. And for a week, you know. That's the way these guys are, except it's forty years later, and they're still experiencing this guilt Now the fact of the matter is they had no reason to suspect that Joseph hated them. Notice they said, per adventure he'll hate us. He's real good possibility. Joseph's gonna hate us. Daddy's gone. We can't hide behind Daddy. Daddy loved Joseph. Daddy's gone and you know what, Joseph, they get talking among themselves, Joseph's gonna hate us The problem is, Joseph had given them his word that he would not do that. Come back, if you would, to chapter 45 again. Go back and see what Joseph said when this initially came up about how he was going to treat his brothers because of what they did. Chapter 45, look with me at verse number 4. Now we've already preached through this, but just Reminder that these brothers had no basis for thinking that Joseph is going to hate them. Verse 4. Joseph said unto his brethren, Come near unto me, I pray you, and he's revealing himself to them at this point. And they came near and he says, I am Joseph, your brother, whom you sold into Egypt. Now therefore, be not grieved, nor angry with yourselves that ye sold me hither. Now the fact of the matter is I can't find anywhere where they were angry with themselves or grieved over what they did other than repercussions from it. For God did send me before you to preserve life. For these two years hath the famine been in the land, and yet there are five years, in the which there shall neither be earring or harvest. God sent me before you to preserve you a prosterity in the earth and to save your lives by a great deliverance. Now it was not you that sent me hither, but God And he hath made me a father to Pharaoh and Lord of all his house and ruler throughout all the land of Egypt. Haste ye and go up to my father and say unto him, thus saith the Thy son Joseph, God hath made me Lord of all of Egypt. Come down to me, tarry with me. And ye shall dwell in the land of Koshen, and thou shalt be near unto me, thou and thy children, thy Children's children, thy flocks, thy herds, all that thou hast, and I will nourish thee. For there are yet five years of famine, lest thou and thy household and all thou hast come to poverty And he goes on and look there at verse 14. And he fell upon his brother Benjamin's neck and wept. And Benjamin wept upon his neck. Now look at verse 15. And moreover, he kissed all his brethren And wept upon them. And after that his brethren talked with them. That doesn't sound to me like somebody that hates them. Their basis for suspecting that Joseph would hate them was unfounded. They had his word, that he loved them, and he cared about them. He would take care of them. And not only did they have his word, but they had his witness. He displayed that. For all these years. He did exactly what he promised them to do. And my point is this: for them to suspect that Joseph hated them was an unfounded suspicion. It was a groundless fear. This fear was rooted in their guilt, not in the actions of Joseph. This fear was the result of unresolved sin. Not the result of the attitude of David or uh Jake uh Joseph. And so they had no basis. He had proven by his actions that He would not hate them. He did not hate them. So they said, Peradventure he will hate us. And then they took it a step farther and they said And he will certainly requite us of all the evil which we did unto him. Now that word requite means this, to go back on your word. To rescind the promise. Alright, we know what he said, but Daddy's gone now, and he's going to rescind that. He's going to uh requite uh of us. He's gonna re and and another idea in that is he's gonna require of us revenge for what we did to him. Now, to be honest with you, this is cruelty on the part of these brothers to Joseph to even think this way. He loved them. He displayed that. He told them. He loved them. He would take them, take care of them. And for them to not believe him. And for them to get together and reason together, thinking, oh, he's going to hate us, he's going to take back his promise, don't you think, I don't know, that we're not told this But I would imagine that would have stung Joseph a little bit. You have someone you love and you care about, and you've given your word and you try to take care of them, and then they accuse you Or suspect you of not loving him and not caring for him. Would you agree with me? That would hurt. And I think these brothers just an extension of their cruelty. And they've proven themselves that they can be awfully cruel. And we see it here again on their part. It's cruelty on their part. And to be honest with you, it reveals their character. This says more about the brothers than it does about Joseph, of what their mindset is, of what their attitude is, of what their character is. Why would they suspect, here's a man that has been nothing but the epitome of integrity, he's shown them nothing but compassion and mercy and forgiveness. He's gone overboard in caring for them and taking care of them, them and their children and their children's children. And then to turn around and suspect and indirectly accuse him of going to go back on his word of what he's going to do, go back on his word and hate them I tell you, that says more about them. Their fear was the result of their own reasoning, not the result of what Joseph's word was. And I'll tell you, we have the same problem with God. We get afraid. God's not going to take care of me. God's doing me wrong. God's not treating me right. God's not doing this and God's doing that. Rather than taking God at his word, God says all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are called according to his purpose. By the way, that's what basically what Joseph says a little bit later And then we turn around and God has assured us of his kindness. He's assured us of his mercy. He's assured us of his grace and his compassion for us and then something we get reasoning we look at things and circumstances and daddy's dead and oh man he's going to treat us wrong and we do the same thing to God. Am I right or wrong We don't take God at His word. We walk by sight, not by what? Faith. Look at our circumstances, think, oh, God's not treating us. I wonder how badly we grieve the Lord. When we gripe and complain, we find fault when God has assured us He'll take care of us. Has God not proven himself good? Yes, absolutely. And that's what the brothers did to Joseph. They suspected him of not what he was doing, but what he's going to do. And it was rooted in their own guilt rather than anything on Joseph's part. We need to take God at His Word. They sinned against Joseph, and Joseph, back in chapter, what was it, 45 He said, basically, you know, God did this. I don't hold anything against you. I'm not I don't have any uh revenge in my mind. I don't hold this against you at all. I saw God's hand. By the way, we'll look at this next week, Lord William But Joseph had a remarkable insight into God's hand in the events that was happening in his life. He could see God's hand in the most terrific circumstances He saw God working God's hand. That's tremendous spiritual insight on Joseph's part. Of course, they didn't see that. The brothers didn't. And so They had sinned against Joseph. Joseph, in so many words, said, listen, don't worry about it. It's nothing to worry about. It's taken care of. I've forgiven you. I'm not holding this against you. Sometimes we sin against God, right or wrong. Not we might sin against God, we do. And God has assured us if we come and confess our sins. What's 1 John 1. 9 say? If you confess our sins, he is Faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. That is God's word. That's a promise of God. I was in early in my Christian life, I learned pretty quick, and some of y'all know what I'm talking about, I learned pretty quick that I still had a sinful nature. Anybody there yet? If you haven't learned that yet, you're either not alive or you're pretty dense. In fact, if somebody ever tells you, oh, I don't have a sinful nature anymore, ask their spouse about that. And so early in my Christian life, it became painfully clear to me that I still had a simple nature, and I had to go get with the Lord. Come on now. Y'all look pious. And I know you're all wondering, I wonder what he did. It's none of your business, Ron. And uh And so I had to go do business with the Lord. But as a new Christian, I had a difficult time accepting the fact that God forgave me. Anybody know? And I still remember I went a day or so and I just confessed this over and over and over and over and over. And I didn't feel forgiven. You know what I'm talking about? And so finally, and it was a, and here I am 40, almost 45, 46 years later. 45 and a half years later, whatever, and it's still profound in my mind. Is it I I kept confessing this and I kept begging God, please forgive me. I'm sorry, please forgive me And I went back to 1 John 1. 9, which the fellows had taught me to memorize that verse. And finally, the Lord kind of shook me a little, and he said, Either I'm lying or you're forgiven. Says if you confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And so I had to come to the point where I do not no longer relied on my feelings as to whether I'm forgiven or not But taking God at his what? Word. And God said, confess it, you're forgiven. I didn't need to carry it. And it was like, oh Thank you, Lord. Thank you, Lord. And these boys never got to that point with Joseph. He had assured them previously that, hey It's okay. God was working on this. It worked out incredibly. It's forgiven. It's taken care of. And here they are, 40 years later, 20 years later maybe. And um They're still dealing with that 40 years later. And so we need to learn to take God at His Word. And by the way, that same thing is true with assurance of our salvation. Uh when I first got saved, uh was about one month, just about one month, and there was a little uncertainty there whether I And, you know, am I really saved or not? And I read a sermon, you've heard me tell this many times, no doubt, but I read a sermon in the sword of all places of John R. Rice on Romans 10, 13 Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And I was operating on feelings. I've been only saved several weeks And I read that and it dawned on me either God lied to me or I'm saved, because I know I called on the Lord. He said, whoever calls on the Lord shall be saved. So either God told the truth or he lied. And we know that God can't lie. And so the basis of their guilt was not on the word of Joseph. He had already Put that aside, what they did to them is no longer a factor in their relationship with Joseph, is no longer an issue. As far as Joseph was concerned. But um they leaned on their own reasoning. And then the third thing I notice in verse 16 through 18 is the request of the brethren. Now this gets interesting. Look at verse 16. So they get together, they reason this out. There's a real possibility Joseph's going to hate us, and of a certainty, he's going to go back on his word. We're going to pay for this. So they came up with a solution. Look at verse 16. And so they went and talked to Joseph themselves in person. Right? Oh, that's the wrong version there. Sorry about that. They sent a what? A messenger unto Joseph. I tell you, these guys are something else. Saying, Thy father did command before he died, saying, so shall ye say unto Joseph They send this messenger. He goes to Joseph. Joseph, uh uh, I got a message for you. Uh your daddy said before he died, he told your brothers that you're supposed to um uh forgive thy brethren. And their sin. Joseph, forgive, I pray thee now, the trespass of thy brethren and their sin, for they did unto thee evil. Now we pray thee forgive the trespass of the servants of the God of thy father, and Joseph wept, and they spake unto him it heard them, I think. But they sent a messenger, and to me, there's two things that take place here, three really, that reveal their character again. What they are keeps coming through. Of the image they put up, but what they really are keeps coming through. The first thing I notice is they're cowards They send a messenger rather than going to Joseph personally and saying, you know, Joseph, we really need to talk to you. We need to make something right. They don't do that, they send some third party And that's pretty characteristic of these guys. They're not afraid of things that are no threat to them. For instance, in Genesis 34, and we won't take time to go there, but they had no fear of slaughtering the Shechemites. The king's son had raped Dinah, their sister. And so rather than going down there in person, arm to the teeth, and take them on You know, just right up. You did this to our daughter, boom, our sister, oh, you're gonna pay for it. They didn't do that. Remember the story? And they said, Oh tell you what, you know, sure you can have our sister and it's all y'all y'all gotta get circumcised, you know, and then you if you do that then you can have her So they had no problem going in and slaughtering people that were defenseless, couldn't do anything in return, right? They didn't take them at their full strength. They uh they waited till they couldn't fight back. They had no problem, no fear, assaulting and kidnapping a little teenage brother, outnumbered, 11 to 10 to 1. Oh yeah, we'll beat him up and we'll kill him. There's no threat to us. But whenever there's an actual threat to themselves, then all of a sudden, oh, we'll send somebody else to go do this At no point, I got looking and went back over these guys' lives. At no point in their lives can I find where they displayed any ounce of courage Everything they did was hidden or or they had the advantage in some way. So I see them, one, they're cowards, they send a messenger. Number two, they're liars. Look at the second part of verse 16. Thy father did command before he died, saying, We have no record of Jacob telling his brothers this statement. I have no doubt in my mind. Maybe I'll get to heaven and find out I'm wrong, but I'm sure I won't. I'm positive I'm correct on this. They are lying through their teeth. And by the way, it's not the first time they lied They lied to the Shechemites, as we just mentioned. They lied to their father about Joseph when they came back with the coat many coat of many collars dipped in blood and presented it as if they're both, oh, we found this. We don't know what happened. Liar, liar, pants on fire. They lied to Joseph about their father right now. These guys were liars. And it's not just in a pinch, it's been characteristic over an extended period of time. The majority of their life, we find them lying. Lying is a serious character flaw. It is impossible It is impossible to succeed and be victorious in my Christian life and be a liar. The two are opposites. They're like water and oil. They cannot mix. I cannot be a liar and be right with God. I cannot be a liar and be spiritual and be m spiritually mature. It's impossible. One of the Ten Commandments. What is it? Commandment number six. Thou shalt not bear false witness Jesus said, I am, I, I am the way, the truth, and the life. He doesn't have the truth, he doesn't know the truth, he doesn't tell the truth, he says, I am the And if I lie, it's about as anti-Christ as you can get. Dishonesty is a natural sin. We are born dishonest. How many people hear how to teach your kids how to lie? Not one of us. I never I've used that illustration a gazillion times. I've never had anybody come up and say, you know, my child from day one just always told the truth I had to tell, show them how to lie. Nah. Comes naturally, right or wrong. It's a natural sin. It's a common sin. All classes of society lie. Poor people lie, rich people lie. Educated people lie, uneducated people lie. Sickly people lie, healthy people lie. We won't talk about physical characteristics, but all of society lies, right or wrong. So it's a natural sin. We don't have to teach it. It's common. All classes of society lie. And I put this down, it's a devil sin. Lying. We live in a society where lying is just kind of accepted. The media lies. Government lies, businesses lie. You across the board. There's religions lie. It's it's common, but it's of the devil. John chapter eight, verse forty-four, and if we weren't so into this so long I would turn there. But Jesus says, speaking of the Pharisees, he says, you are of your father the devil. He was a murderer from the beginning and a liar, and listen to this, the father of it. All lies find their root in the devil himself. And so these guys are liars They're cowards, they're liars. And I notice the third thing, and we're going to end with this. Look at verse seventeen, the last part The first part, forgive, I pray thee, Jacob told us, our father said, Forgive, uh Joseph, forgive now the trespass of thy brethren their sin, for they did For they did unto thee evil. Now we pray thee forgive the trespass of the servants of thy father. And um and uh Well, I put this down. The third thing I notice, one, they're cowards, they're liars. Number two, they have a what I call a backdoor confession. Verse 18, his brethren went and fell down before his face, and they said, Behold, we be thy servants. They never directly confessed their sins. Did you notice that? It's all through a third party. This is not an acknowledgement of guilt. This is an attempt to avoid consequences of their guilt. And there's a difference. Do you ever notice criminals when they get arrested, they're sorry? Oh no. How often do they come and say to the police station and say, hey man, I did wrong You know, oh we don't know anything about it. But I did, I did wrong here, you need to rest me. They're not they're not admitting any guilt here. This isn't they're not under conviction of their sin and coming saying, you know Joseph, we sinned against you. We did evil. It was wrong. They're sending a third party and what's what I like I said, I call it a backdoor confession. What I did was I went, and again we're running out of time, but I went and compared their confession and how they went about it to the prodigal son's confession. Familiar with prodigal son? He's sinned against his father, he goes out to the far country, wastes his living, unriotous living, shames his daddy's name, shames the family name, wastes all the uh the the livelihood of his father he gave him. Finally he comes to himself. And what does he say when he shows up to his daddy? Father I have sinned against heaven and against you. That is confession. That is taking personal responsibility for what I did, owning my actions and acknowledging it and confessing it and condemning it In the same manner that God condemns it, adapting the same attitude towards it that God has towards my sin. That is confession. I took the boys, these brothers, their confession, and again we don't have time, I wish we did, and I compared it to King David's confession. Of adultery of Bathsheba in Psalm 51. What a powerful prayer of confession and repentance Psalm 51 is. Every Christian ought to be very, very familiar with Psalm 51. And he says, Against thee and thee only have I sin and done this evil in thy sight And if we had time, we'd go down through there and he owns it. He takes responsibility. I have done this, this wickedness, this transgression, this iniquity. David is condemning his sin with the same terminology and the same attitude that God condemned his sin. But that's not what these boys are doing. It is a backdoor confession. And so we have their return to Egypt. They have their reasoning, they get thinking. Joseph's not gonna, Joseph's gonna hate us, he's gonna take revenge on us. They make this request in this bizarre way For Joseph to forgive him. And then next week, we'll look at Joseph's reassurance that he's not holding anything against them. If a person's sins are unforgiven, it's not because of anything God is holding out on. It's because my refusal to acknowledge my sin and accept responsibility for my sin before God, that's what's holding, keeping the forgiveness away. You follow what I'm saying? God is ready to forgive. God's ready to say, Whosoever call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. The reason people die and go to hell isn't because God sends them to hell. God's done everything uh on his end to keep people out of hell. People die and go to hell because they refuse to come and trust Christ The only reason these boys were in this condition wasn't because of anything Joseph was holding over their head. It was because of their refusal to deal with it and accept it in a proper way. So if we've if we have something in our life that's not right, we come to God. We confess it. We acknowledge it. Not a backdoor. You don't go to some priest or a little thing, Father, I have sinned, and he somehow goes to God. That's sending, that's what the boys did. They sent a messenger of, oh, uh God, this guy down here did this. We go directly to the Lord, right? We open up and we acknowledge it and we agree with Him on it. We confess it. And involved in that confession, implied, is repentance. And God forgives us. And we can get up and go on and don't let it hang over our head. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray that these boys here that we can learn from this And be an example for us how to deal with our sin, an example of how not to, maybe, and uh how to accept you at your word and get up and go on. I wonder if there's some here this evening who would say, Preacher, I need to take God at His Word. Whatever it may be, I don't know what the particular might be, but maybe there's an area where you've been leaning on your own understanding or your feelings. I've been dictating and what you reading really need to do is come and just take God His Word. Is there anybody like that tonight? Preacher, pray with me. I just need to take God His Word. Anybody at all? Anybody at all? God bless you God bless you. I don't know. That's between you and God, whether it's sin or just an area of fear, or but I just need to take God at His Word. Father, bless now our invitation. I ask, have your way in Jesus' name. Amen