Fairly lengthy portion here uh just to get the whole context of what's happening. Then we're going to back up and our w we'll work our way down through that. I have entitled the message And it's going to be several messages until we get through it. But I'm entitled it, Joseph's Integrity. I was uh re doing some studying this week and I came across a statement a fellow made and it got made, it got me thinking And um my thought was this, uh more than we need good men in our homes and in our churches and in our nation, more than we need good men, we need godly men. And so I believe when we're studying Joseph's life, we're going to find an example in the life of Joseph of what a godly man is. And because of his integrity, because of his godliness, he helped every household that he was in, even as a slave in Potiphar's house. That home was better off because there was a man in the home with some integrity. There was a man in the home that was godly in the genuine sense of the word. And then it not only affected the home, but it affected the entire nation. Because there was a godly man in the nation, Egypt was better off. Um Joseph's family, Israel, who they're not technically not a nation at this point, I don't think you could say, but nevertheless, the future of Israel as a nation was impacted in a profoundly positive way because of the integrity of Joseph. And what we're going to read tonight and study the next several weeks is going to display to us in a very clear way, a very understandable way, what integrity is, what godliness is, and that's what we need. Let me bring it home. We need it in the pulpits. We don't just need good preachers. We need godly preachers. We don't need just good officers in the church. We need godly officers. church members and Sunday school teachers, busworkers, just the whole gamut. And so that's the challenge I'm taking away from the study of this passage here. So uh let me re begin reading in verse number seven Very familiar. I'm sure most of us are familiar with this event in Joseph's life, but let's look at it. Verse 7, it came to pass after these things that his master's wife That's Joseph's master's wife. Potiphar was his master. His master's wife cast her eyes upon Joseph. And she said, Lie with me. Verse 8, but he refused. And he said unto his master's wife, Behold, my master wadeth not what is what is with me in the house. He's put it all in my hands and my trust. And he hath committed all that he hath unto my hand. There is none greater in this house than I. Neither hath he kept back anything from me but thee. Why? Because thou art his wife. How then, look at this, how then can I do this great wickedness and sin against God? I tell you, right there is a statement of integrity. That's godliness being expressed, displayed. Verse 10, it came to pass as she spake unto Joseph day by day. She kept saying the same thing. She's hounding him on this. Day by day, that he hearkened not to her to lie by her or to be with her. It came to pass about this time that Joseph went into the house to do his business And there was none of the men in the house there within. And she caught him by his garment, saying, Lie with me. Exact same statement she said initially, lie with me. And he left his garment in her hand and fled and got him out. And it came to pass when she saw that he had left his garment in her hand and was fled forth That she called unto the men of her house and spake unto them, saying, See, he hath brought in a Hebrew unto us to mock us. He came in unto me to lie with me, and I cried with a loud voice. And it came to pass when he heard that I lifted up my voice and cried, that he left his garment with me and fled and got him out. And she laid up his garment by her until his Lord came home. And she spake unto him according to these words, saying, The Hebrew servant, which thou hast brought into us, came in unto me to mock me. And it came to pass, as I lifted up my voice and cried, that he left his garment with me and fled out. And it came to pass when his master heard the words of his wife, which she spake unto him, saying, After this manner did thy servant unto me, that his wrath was kindled. And Joseph's master took him and put him in the prison, a place where the king's prisoners were bound And he was there in the prison. But the Lord was with Joseph and showed him mercy. And then it goes on Joseph's integrity, let's pray and ask the Lord to teach us something from this passage. Father in heaven, I thank you again for the Word of God And how it has helped us all these many years as a church and Lord as individuals, your word means so much to us. And I pray now as we study this portion that you've recorded and preserved for us, that you'd help us to glean from it principles and lessons. Help us to learn, help us to see the warnings that are given to us here and what integrity is. So, Lord, I yield myself to you as the preacher tonight, and I ask that you would please fill me with your Holy Spirit God, I yield my will to you, present my body so that you could speak through me, Lord, and you'd be the teacher and help us learn from this. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Did you ever read through the Old Testament sometime and you come across some story and it's just almost bizarre? Anyone ever see that and you think, what in the world? Why would this even be in here? I believe with all my heart, I'm convinced, and I think the New Testament bears this out, that every Old Testament event recorded in Scripture, every event that's recorded in the Old Testament Is there, at least for one reason, to illustrate or to be an example of some scriptural principle Or some scriptural lesson. There's so many times you'll be reading where the Lord is teaching, or often in Proverbs. We end up in Proverbs a lot. We're going to tonight. And we see this proverb, and then we go to some event recorded in Scripture, and we say, Oh, there's an example of that truth that that proverb is teaching or that truth in the New Testament that Jesus was teaching or one of the epistles So these Old Testament stories are not put in the Bible. This event here with Joseph and Potiphar's wife, it's not put here just to entertain us. Sometimes, and I'm not totally against this, I'm not a big fan of it, but sometimes folks will try and make movies out of portions of scripture, or they'll try and act it out and portray it FBN has that. And I'm not totally against it. But I think it's important to understand the Bible wasn't written as a movie script. It's not given to us to be a script for a play or a theater. It is written to instruct us. It's in written and given to us in such a way to help us To apply to our lives truths and principles and practices that will help us trust God and live a life that's pleasing to the Lord, that's a blessing and successful. And so this account here of Joseph, it's an Joseph's whole life actually is an ongoing illustration. Of many biblical truths, biblical principles. We look at Joseph's life and we see firsthand how that plays out. This is how that truth is practiced. This is what happens if this instruction is disregarded and what the consequences are. It's an illustration, a real-life illustration. We look at the life of Joseph, just the overall life of Joseph, we see the sovereignty of God. God's hand in every move that Joseph makes. Every event that comes in his life, everything that somebody does to him, we see the hand of God leading and directing him to his ultimate purpose for his life, where he is number two on the throne and he saves millions and millions of lives. Even in this event here, we see the hand of God leading and directing. We see the animosity of the world or the depravity of the world When you have one man with some integrity, one godly man, and how the world reacts to that man. They don't raise him up on their shoulders and sing for he's a jolly good fellow If he stands for what's right and he does what is godly, they turn on him. We've seen that already, and we're going to see that. An illustration, a real-life illustration of biblical truths in the life of Joseph. And we see the necessity of integrity If Joseph had not had the integrity he had to respond the way he did, this story would have panned out completely different. You would have never had the seven years, you would have never had, uh unless God would have used someone else, no doubt, but if Joseph had not Had the integrity he had, it would have played out a completely different way. The necessity of integrity. We see that in the life of Joseph. I think the Lord, I think Joseph already understood. What the Lord taught years later, I mean thousands of years later, at the Sermon on the Mount, the Lord made this statement. He said, Blessed are the pure in heart. Blessed. I think Joseph already had that truth in his heart and mind, even though the Lord wouldn't teach that till thousands of years later. The pure in heart. Another turning point, we're at another turning point in Joseph's life. Now he's been an extremely successful servant in Potiphar's house In fact, he's in he's at a point now where he says, his own mouth, he says, everything Potiphar has, I have access to. All his possessions he has put in my hands. He needs a chariot, go use Potiphar's chariot. He needs to get some goods, use Potiphar's money, go get it I don't think he abused the privilege he had, but he was extremely successful at this point. And we looked at that before. He had the complete trust of Potiphar, the complete trust of him. He was apparently exceptionally gifted, and we touched on this earlier, that he was able to administr probably a very vast enterprise, Potifer Enterprises, whatever that entailed. Very gifted administrator. Apparently he was very good with money. Working with human relations. He was working with uh other slaves. He was able to organize them. He was uh apparently very, very popular. So he was an exceptionally gifted man, and if you would, look at verse number six. He was an exceptionally attractive man. Look at the last part of verse 6. And Joseph was a goodly person. I think it means he was pleasant. He was easy to get along with. He worked well with people. He was very good at what he did. And then the last statement, and well favored, I think it means he was a strong, handsome man. And so he was gifted, he was attractive, and he caught Potiphar's wife's fancy. And she got looking at him. I've broken down this portion that we just read into three sections. We'll look at the first one tonight. The first thing I notice here in chapter 39 this passage is Potiphar's wife's advances on Joseph She makes these advances. And that is verse 7, and then verse 10 through 12 we'll look at this evening. And then we're going to notice Joseph's principles in action. In other words, he lived out his integrity. He lived by the principles of godliness. They weren't just words on his mouth. They were actions in his life. They were anchors. They were governed. They governed his actions. And we'll talk about that later. And then Joseph's persecution is activated. All that live godly in Christ Jesus, Timothy, we're told in Timothy Shall suffer persecution. I'm here to tell you, Christians, mark it down. If we do right and stand for what's right, not everybody's going to think we're wonderful. We're going to have some enemies. There are going to be people who turn against that and dislike it. And we see that very clearly in Joseph's case here. So let's look at the first thought tonight real quickly. Potiphar's wife's advances. Look at verse seven here where we started. Came to pass after these things that his master's wife look how it's worded here cast her eyes upon Joseph. He caught her fancy. She likes him. He's smart. He's uh he has a great personality. He's good looking. And she said, lie with me. Well, you can't get much more direct than that, huh? It's just, whoa. Come down to verse number 10. And it came to pass as she spake to Joseph day by day. Same thing. He says, No, how can I do this? He responds, we'll look at that later. The next day she sees him wherever he's at. The shop, in the kitchen, the office, or I don't know where. She comes and says, Hey, Joseph, lie with me. The next day, the same thing. The next day, the same thing. The next day, same thing Day by day, and that he hearken not unto her. Or to lie with her or be with her. He's avoiding her. Again, we'll study that a little more later. And it came to pass about this time. Look at verse eleven. Joseph went into the house to do his business, were doing his work, his responsibilities Uh-oh. And there was none of the men in the house there within. Uh-oh. It's just him and her. I don't know, and again, we'll look at this later, but let me just throw it out there. I'm wondering, did Joseph make a mistake here? Now, I do not believe he got in that situation deliberately. I think he's just trying to do his work, trying to be responsible. And lo and behold. Circumstances that he finds himself in the house with just her. Would you agree with me? Bad news. Man, that not good And exactly. And she takes advantage of it. Look at verse look at verse twelve. This time she's not telling him to lie with her. Look at it. And she what? She caught him by his garment. I mean, she's grabbing him and is going to forcefully bring him into the bedroom, apparently, and have her way. She caught him by his garment, saying, lie with me. And he left his garment in her hand and fled and got him out. Joseph is at, up to this point in his life, he is at the pinnacle of success He's gone from a guy standing, a total stranger, a Hebrew, unknown by anybody, abandoned by everybody, on a on a auction block for sale as a slave, a piece of equipment. Owning nothing, having nothing, to being in charge and having access to one of the leaders of the nation of Egypt. Totally trusted by Potiphar. I mean he is a he is in a, would you agree with me? He's been fairly successful In fact, I would correct that. He's very successful. If he was running his own business, if he wasn't a slave, man, he'd be phenomenally successful. And here, what I'm trying to say is this: it's in times of success and prosperity that we must not let our guard down. More Christians have messed up their testimony in times of success and prosperity than they have when things were going tough and wrong. When we're down on our dollar and we're scratching to get by and we're having a tough time, what do we tend to do as Christians? Cry out to God, God, I need you to help me. And well Lord, I promise I'll make everything right. And we do everything we can to try and get right with God. And man, we're reading that Bible, we're looking for help We're asking God to do this for me. We're asking God to help me. But when everything's going well, and we're successful and we're popular and we're prosperous I tell you, that's the time to not let our guard down. Joseph is at the epitome of success. And that's when the temp tempter shows up, the temptrist shows up. See, we must not let our guard down. We must not become careless. When things are going well. And what's true for us as individuals is true for us as a church. When our bills are paid and God is blessing and things are going well. That is not the time to get careless in our walk with God. It's not the time to get careless in our Bible study. commitment to the Word of God and our teaching and preaching the Word of God. And as an individual individuals, our walk with God and our daily time with the Lord, we can't get careless on that because everything's going well I thought about Noah. He survives the worldwide flood. He does exactly what God says, and he and he follows the Lord's instructions to a T, and a flood comes and floods the whole world. And he and his family survived the flood by God's grace. And they come out and they build an altar and they're praising the Lord and they're enjoying Their enjoying be them alive by God's grace. And what happens? Gets out, gets drinking wine. And he ends up what? He gets drunk. He gets drunk. Time of success. He did what God said. They survived. They're alive. They're a whole new start. And he goes out and he lets his guard down. And his boys mess up even worse. I thought about David. We studied his life here the last few years. David is king of Israel. He's been king for decades. They're defeating their enemies, their military, they're having military victory and success. The economy is booming Everything is going well. Israel is unified behind David and they're worshiping Jehovah there in Jerusalem. And it's success, and it's prosperity, and there's victory. David stays home, and what happens? Bathsheba. We've got to be careful when things are going well and the bills are paid and the health is pretty good. That is not the time to let our guard down. Joseph's at his peak To this point in his life, in every area. And temptation comes in like a flood, and he gets hammered. He faces his most intense temptation when everything else is going well. When everything is going his way. Now, I got looking at Potiphar's wife. What do we know about Potiphar's wife? Almost nothing. We don't even know her name. She is one of at least forty-two women that are referenced in the Bible That we're never told that we're never told what their name is. We have no idea what Potifer's wife's name is. I got doing some research and digging. I thought, I'm sure she had a name. Somebody knew her name And of all things, the Quran, the Muslims' holy book of Islam, references Potiphar and Joseph in the Quran, and in the Quran they give a name to Potiphar's wife, and uh it happens to be the same name that Jewish legend gives to her. How many people want to know what that name is? Come back next week, I'll tell you No, I'll tell you right now. Her name, according to legend, is Zulika You say, is that really her name? I have no idea. It's just Jewish legend. It's in the Quran. There's a lot of stuff in the Quran ain't true. And so, I don't know, but we're told very little, almost nothing about her. We have no background about her family, who her parents are, what her lineage is Did she come from a poor home and Potiphar raised her up and brought her up to this level? Or was she a part of an aristocracy to begin with? And he married into some wealthy uh royalty? We don't know. We don't know anything about her. Uh we don't know anything what she looks like. You have no idea. She might have been the ugliest thing this side of the Mississippi. Who knows? She might have been incredibly attractive. We're not told We have no idea what she looks like. We have no idea where she came from. We have no idea what her background is. We know nothing about her family. We don't even know her name But we know this. She was one of the bad girls in the Bible. And by the way, there's a number of bad girls in the Bible. Did you know that? Can anybody think of some bad girls that are mentioned in the Bible Jezebel's the first one. I mean she was like the baddest of the bad. She's bottom of the barrel bed. Any how about others Delilah. She wasn't a good one. Anybody any others? I have a couple here. Who? Yes. Killed the uh if I remember killed uh the king's family. There were several of the Old Testament king's wives that were bad girls. I got another one I'm thinking of. We studied her in Sunday school a little bit here not too long ago. Herodias! Would you agree a woman that has her daughter dance a lewd dance so that she can chop the head of the preach the head of the preacher's head off? Well I that would qualify for a bad girl, Wilbur, I think, in my book Topotiphar's wife is in a elite group of very nasty women It's the only record we have here in this passage, the only record we have of her in any way, shape, or form, it's just this fairly brief encounter with Joseph. But I tell you what. In about 20 some verses, around 20 verses or so, we learned a lot about this go. We learned some things about her, and that's what I want us to consider a little bit. I'm reading how she's interacting with Joseph. I'm reading about her advances on Joseph. And I get the impression this gal's used to getting what she wants. Don't you? She sees something, she wants it, she's going to get it. Doesn't matter what it costs. Doesn't matter who it hurts. Doesn't matter what the consequences are. She wants it. She gets it. I picked that up pretty clearly of old uh Potiphar's wife. Um I just thought of this. Maybe that's why he became a eunuch. I'm not sure, but um I don't know But what she wants, I get the impression here, she gets what she wants. I got another impression off of Potiphar's wife, and that is this. I don't think this is her first rodeo. In other words, I think she's done this before. I think this is uh uh uh not her first rodeo with another man The reason I say that is if we study down through here and look at her arrogance, her uh brazenness, her forwardness. I don't see any nervousness on her part about what she's doing. I don't see anything timid. About her approaching. And by the way, I found this out in my studies that adultery was punishable by death in Egypt at this time. So this isn't just, oh, this is the way everybody is. Now there was a lot of people like that, always have been, always will be. But the interesting thing is she's not being sneaky She's not timid in the least bit. She doesn't seem at all nervous, like she's afraid. It looks to me like somebody says, oh yeah, I can handle this. I've done this before So I think she's a woman that gets is used to getting what she wants. I think she's a woman that's been down this road before You can't study Potiphar's wife without going to Proverbs. Proverbs is penned by Solomon, as we're all aware. Solomon being the wisest man that walked the earth apart from the Lord Jesus Christ, he had supernaturally given wisdom. The book of Solomon is so profound and so significant because it is Solomon, the supernaturally wise man, sharing with his son wisdom about life. Things to do, things not to do, and how to go about things. Proverbs is a profoundly significant book. I think every Christian ought to read from Proverbs regularly. I read every day. I read whatever date it is. Today's the 12th, right? Today's the 13th. This morning I read Proverbs 13. Tomorrow will be fourteen. Yesterday was a twelve. So I read that chapter that corresponds. Proverbs is penned by Solomon under the inspiration of God, and he's giving his son wisdom. He's sharing with his son instructions he needs to be successful in life. And that's of tremendous value for you and I. That's of tremendous value to our for our young people We have the supernaturally given instructions and wisdom on how to live life successfully. Good night. What would you pay for that? In his instructions to his son, he warns him of three things. Over and over and over through the book, he warns his son about three dangers. One of those dangers is wealth, mishandling of finances. And he talks about that significantly. About being wise. He talks about taking sureties. That's uh interest. He talks about what we would call cosigning, the dangers of that. He talks about honoring the Lord with the firstfruits of your increase. He's talking about giving. He gives tremendous instructions on handling finances. And he warns his son that, listen, you got to be smart here because they can mess you up bad. He warns his son of wealth. He warns his son of wine. Over and over and over through the book of Proverbs, he warns his son about drinking alcoholic beverages. In fact, in one point, he says: don't even look at it When the wine moveth itself aright, it's alcoholic. Don't even look at it, let alone have it in your house. And then he warns them of a third thing. And this is his greatest warning through all the book. One, wealth, number two, wine, and number three, anyone want to guess? Women. Sorry, ladies. But he warns them. He says, son, you tie in with the wrong woman, she will mess you up. That's what he says. Don't get mad at me. And he warns her over and over. In fact, he warns about women's influence more than he does about wealth or about wine or whiskey. He warns them about women In Proverbs 31, he has one of the most tremendous descriptions of a virtuous woman you will ever find. A virtuous woman. Now let me say a word to the guys. I know I'm drifting off here a little bit from subject, but I'm going to come back. But let me say a word to the guys. Every guy, every Christian guy wants a virtuous wife. I'm here to tell you, a virtuous woman is, according to Proverbs 31, is very, very rare. In fact, he makes this statement. He says, who can find one? And so every guy wants a virtuous wife. Here's the problem. A lot of times a Christian guy will expect his wife to be a virtuous wife. Even worse yet, he will demand her to be a virtuous wife. But I'm telling you, if you want a virtuous wife, you've got to invest in it. How many people here plant a garden? Anybody here, a few people? If you plant a garden, you expect to get some fruit out of it, right? But what do you do? Do you just put it out there and you don't invest any time and effort in it? No, you're out there weeding it and you're fertilizing it and um um uh injecting or g hormone therapy into it or whatever. I mean you're doing whatever you can to get those tomatoes perfect and get you're investing time and effort so that your Have a quote unquote virtuous garden. I'm saying I know I'm off track here, but I just want to challenge the fellows. Listen, you want a virtuous wife, you better invest some time and effort in helping her be that. Don't just sit back and demand it, you knucklehead. It's very, very rare. It's precious. You've got to work on that, invest in that. So back to our subject. Solomon is warning His son about the dangers of and he's instructing him about wisdom. Proverbs 31, he talks about the virtuous woman However, throughout the book of Proverbs, now we're coming back to Potiphar's wife, he references a different type of woman. And what is that? Anyone know where I'm going with this? A strange woman. And you go through Proverbs, and I think it's at least nine times, I think I'm correct, eight or nine times. Proverbs, Solomon writing to his son, references and warns him of a strange woman. Now when he's referencing a strange woman, he's not talking about a weirdo. Alright? He's not talking about some oddball. He's talking about, it's mentioned eight times, and by the way, Jephthah, if you remember Jephthah in the Old Testament, his mother was a strange woman. She was a harlot. And so he goes through and he describes in great detail through Proverbs this strange woman And I got studying Potiphar's wife and got looking at what Solomon, under the inspiration of God, says about a strange woman, and I've found I've found two women of like Of like category. If you would go with Proverbs to me real quickly, we're trying to figure out what this woman, Potiphar's wife, was like. Well, as I read her encounter with Joseph, and I read what Proverbs describes of a strange woman, and I find that there's great similarities here. A strange woman, according to Proverbs, let me just go through a few of these. Definition of a strange woman is an immoral woman. A woman that is immoral. She violates normal morals, biblical morals. I found this definition. Kind of looking up and how it's used, I modified it slightly. But here is my definition for a strange woman. Any woman That would entice a man to give up his purity or be unfaithful to his wife Any woman that would entice a man, maybe he's not married, to give up his purity, she entices him to give up his purity, or If he's a married man, she entices him to be unfaithful to his wife. That would be categorized as a strange woman. I studied through this, and the only woman I find in the Bible chasing after men is a strange woman. I don't find anywhere in the Bible a virtuous woman being a man chaser. It's the strange woman that's always the aggressor, always the one going after the guy. It's never the virtuous woman. Characteristics of a strange woman, let me give you a few of these quick and then I'm going to end with a statement and um we'll finish up. If you would, take your, go to Proverbs, or in Proverbs, go to chapter 2, and look with me, if you would, at verse 16. We're going to flip around here in Proverbs a little bit, so keep your Bibles there. Proverbs chapter 2, look at verse 16. He's warning his son, he's giving him instruction. Notice what he says to deliver thee from the strange woman. Look at this. Then he describes her, even from the stranger with which flattereth with her words. Come over to chapter 5, just a page or so over there, and look at verse number 3. He brings this gal up again. He says, for the lips of a strange woman drop as a honeycomb, and her mouth is smoother than oil. She flatters, her mouth drops as a honeycomb. She's her words, uh, her mouth is smoother than Oil, come over to chapter 7, just a page over. Look at verse 5. He touches on this woman again. He said that they may keep thee, he's talking about keeping the Word of God, memorize the Word of God, that they may keep thee from the strange woman. Look how he describes her again, which flattereth with her words. Look at verse 21. With her much fair speech, she causeth him to yield. With the flattering of her lips, she forced him. In other words, a strange woman, I put this down, is a smooth talker. Brother, she can talk this guy into doing whatever she wants. And he's just a knucklehead there, and he believes her flattery. You know what flattery is? Flattery is exaggerated compliments in order I can, so that I can get my objective. I'm flattering this person so that I can get something out of them or I can accomplish my objective. It's like honeycomb, it's like lies smothered in honey, smoothered in oil. It's complimenting somebody to get what you want or to gain an advantage This guy, uh a smooth woman, I mean a strange woman is a smooth talker. Brother, you've got to watch out Look at chapter 2, flip back to chapter 2 here again, and look at verse 17 He's going on about the strange woman. He says, Which forsaketh the guide of her youth and forgetteth the covenant of her God. What do you think the covenant of her God would be? To her marriage vows. I wrote in the margin of my Bible, marriage vows. She just disregards any vows she took between God and her husband Says she forsaketh the guide of her youth. Everything she's been taught as a child, she throws out the window. Completely disregards that And Solomon is writing his son. You say, you watch out. You watch out. So, number one, she's a smooth talker. Number two, she spurns her training and marriage vows. Number three, she's savage. Again, look at chapter 2, verse 18 with me. Look what he says. For her house inclineth unto death, and her paths unto the dead. None that go in unto her return again, neither take they hold of the paths of life. Man, this girl's bad news. Come over to chapter 7. He picks this up again in verse number 22. So in verse 7 he's telling this story. He saw this young man down on the street corner late at night and this strange woman comes up to him. She s engages him in conversation and she entices him to come back to her house. We'll see here in a bit. Her husband's gone. And she has her way. And look at verse 22. He, this knucklehead, Goeth after her after her straightway. Look how he describes it. As an ox goeth to the what? Slaughter. You can call it slaughterhouse lovers. He's gone to his slaughter. Or as a fool to the correction of the stocks. Till a dart strike through his liver, as a bird hasteneth to the snare, and knoweth not that it is for his life Look at verse 26. She casteth down many wounded. Yea, many strong men have been slain by her. Her house is the way to hell, going down to the chambers of death. Good night Would you agree? That's pretty strong stuff. She's savage, no concern for the one that she's enticing. Do you agree with me? I don't think Potiphar's wife cared one hoot about Joseph's well-being. She wasn't doing this so it would help Joseph, make him a better man. See, it was about her. Didn't matter what it cost him, didn't matter how it affected him, didn't matter what it cost anybody, what the consequences were. I want what I want. And it was Solomon says it's the way to hell. Real quickly, let me give you a few more I picked out here, and then we'll quit. Chapter 5, verse 6. She's shifting. Lest thou shouldest ponder the path of life, her ways are movable, that thou canst not know them. Well, you don't know, you can't trust her. From one day to the next, you don't know what it's going to be. She's sensual. Chapter 7. Go back and forth here. Look at verse 10. And behold, there met him a woman with the attire of a harlot, just the way she dressed. Was sensual. Now, I don't think this gal in chapter 7, well, I can take time and prove it here, I think. I don't think she was actually a harlot. I don't think she went and sold herself for money. She's a married woman. Later on we find out, but she dressed like one. So that tells me there's a certain way I can dress that communicates A message, right or wrong. However, she was dressed, it said to people, so no, that's a harlot. It wasn't how she talked, it wasn't how she behaved, it was just the way she dressed. So dress is important So this gal is sensual in her appearance. She's subtle. Look at verse 10. Behold her metam woman tire of a heart and subtle of heart. Brother, she's deceitful. She'll lie at the drop of a hat. She'll just trick him. Remember it says about the devil's most subtle of all creatures. Look at verse 11. She's stubborn. She is loud and stubborn. That's the exact opposite of submissive. She's stubborn. She's sassy. Look at verse 12. Now is she without, now in the streets, and lieth and wait at every corner. She caught him and kissed him. And with impudent face said unto, Boy, that's pretty forward, don't you think? Good night. She's sassy. She was the aggressor. Look at verse 16 through 18. She's seductive. Says, I've decked my bed with coverings of tapestry, with carved works, with fine linen. I've got the best bed in all of Egypt. I've perfumed my bed with myrrh and aloees and cinnamon. Come, let us take our fill of love until the morning. Let us solace ourselves with loves. Good night, this woman is a seductress. And then she's sneaky. Look at verse 19. For the goodman, who's the goodman of the home? It's her husband. For the goodman is not uh verse 19, for the goodman is not at home. He's gone on a long journey. He had taken a bag of money with him, and he'll come home at the day appointed. He'll never know. She hides stuff from her husband. She's sneaky. She has this little underworld she lives in I think I just described Potiphar's wife. Huh? I think that's the woman that Joseph's dealing with. Potiphar's wife had no concern for her husband. She had no concern for Joseph's well-being. All she was concerned about was getting what she wanted when she wanted it. All she was concerned about was the desires, her own desires at that given moment. And she was going to have it no matter what. I tell you, I'm trust that not talking to anybody that's even close to Potiphar's wife. But I tell you, if we're not careful, we can get a little bit in that same frame of mind. This is where I want to bring some application in to myself and all of us. Sometimes we get something in our head that we want it. We get something in our head, we want to do this, or I want to go there, or I want that. And we know what we've been taught from the Word of God. We know what we've been taught from a child We know the consequences are, but we get caught up in what I want when I want it. And we act We act like a strange woman and we do something that is destructive. Can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Might not be this degree, good heavens But it's the same category, the same way of thinking. I thank God that Joseph had some integrity. And he said no. And let's st let's learn from Joseph and not allow ourselves To get into that mindset. If Joseph would have been thinking even remotely the way this old gal was thinking, it would have been disaster. And have been the end of his testimony and probably his life. I think Potiphar didn't really believe his wife. That's why he put him in prison. And we see the sovereignty of God there. I think if Potiphar I think if Joseph would have went to bed with Potiphar's wife, Joseph would have lost his head. He'd have been dead. And thank God he has some integrity. So let's pray. Father, I pray we can learn something from a little dark, ugly situation here and an unpleasant subject. But I pray you'd help us realize that we need to be on our guard. We cannot let become careless. And help us, Lord, to be what you intend for us to be. I wonder, with heads bowed, eyes closed, and this is I don't know how you might apply this, but I wonder if some would say, you know, preacher I need to be more careful in my walk with God. I'm not suggesting you're messing up. Maybe you're doing very well. But we've got to be careful. Is there any like that? Say, preacher, I need to be a little more careful in my walk with God, my Bible study, my prayer my time, Lord, anything like that, sure, sure. We've got to keep that going. We've got to be diligent, persistent in that walk with God. And sometimes we get, like I said, wrapped up and we want what we want when we want it. We disregard things that we know. And we've got to die to self. We've got to put that aside. And live by principle and have integrity. Father bless now as we finish this up in Jesus' name. Amen