Alright, we're in Genesis chapter forty five. And I want to read the I'm going to read the first eight verses here in just a moment. It's been about a month. Since uh we've been looking at Joseph, of course we're in the midst of our series on the life of Joseph. I've enjoyed it. I don't know if anybody else is getting anything, but I've sure enjoyed studying This man Joseph, and what amazing, unique man of God he was. Genesis 45, as we begin reading this chapter, we're in the midst of a very tense situation. Just to refresh our memory, what's going on so we have the context of what we're looking at here in chapter 45. It's a very tense situation. If you'll remember Joseph had, I guess you could say, framed his youngest brother Benjamin. They'd come down, gotten grain. And they're heading back. And um Joseph had his servants plant his silver cup. in the sack of grain of of Benjamin. Anybody remember that? And um And the silver cup w had significance. There was some religious significance in the minds of the Egyptians anyway, and their pagan religion. That was a pretty sacred thing. And for For Joe for Benjamin to have stolen it, it was quite an offense. It would have been offense. Now he didn't. Joseph just set that thing up. Then he sends people out after him, sends his servants, they stop them, they don't get far stop them, say, hey, you guys stole our s our silver cup And Judah speaks up and says, he goes, we didn't steal your cup. Listen, I'm telling you, you find, whoever you find the cup in, you can kill them. The rest of us will be your servant. He didn't know what he was saying. So lo and behold, there's the cup in Benjamin's sack. So it all come uh tramping back to Egypt. And um Joseph confronts them and they and uh he says, Listen, um you you guys, all the rest of you uh all the rest, all y'all, you didn't do anything. You go on home. I'm just keeping Benjamin. He's staying here. Now Joe Joseph's messing with them. And this is part, I'm convinced he had this all planned. He knew they were coming back. He knew what he was going to do. And so Judah speaks up and he gives the little history of Benjamin and he continues this story that Joseph somehow died Well they're you remember they sold him as a slave, but they don't know this is Joseph they're talking to. So Judah goes through, he says, our our your our our dad's favorite son is dead Here's Benjamin. He's the youngest. If we don't come back with Benjamin, daddy's going to die. And he says, I'll stay here. You keep me in Benjamin's place. Let him go, please. Let him go. So that's the context that verse 1 Of chapter 45 begins. So look look at the setting here. They've been accused of stealing this sacred silver cup from the number two man in all of Egypt, on top of all things. Benjamin's condemned by this second in command of Egypt, who is Joseph, but they don't know it. He's condemned Benjamin to servitude for the rest of his life. He's going to be a servant to the number two Pharaoh for the rest of his life. And so there's all these authorities around. They're in the palace. And they're waiting for this number two guy, this authority, this high authority in Egypt, to give an answer to Judah's offer of sending himself and sending Benjamin home. So it's very, very tense. It's a very formal setting. There's authorities here. It's in the palace. And then, so keep that in mind as we begin reading verse 1 of 45. Then, all right, that's the setting. They're all standing there, they're waiting to hear from Joseph. What's he going to say? Keep Benjamin or send him home. Then Joseph could not refrain himself before all of them that stood by him. And he cried, Cause every man to go out from me. And there stood no man with him while Joseph made himself known unto his brethren. So he ran all the Egyptians out. So it's just Joseph and the boys. And he wept aloud. And the Egyptians and the house of Pharaoh heard him. He's crying so loud, it's echoing down the halls and all through the the capital there, the building. Joseph said unto his brethren, I am Joseph. Doth my father yet live? And his brethren could not answer him, for they were troubled at his presence. And Joseph said unto his brethren, Come near to me, I pray you. And they came near, they gathered around, they huddled around him. He said, I'm Joseph, your brother, whom ye sold into Egypt. Now therefore, be not grieved nor angry with yourselves that ye sold me hither, for God did send me before you to preserve life. For these two years hath the famine been in the land, and yet there are five years into which there shall neither be earring or harvest And God sent me before you to preserve a prosperity in the earth and to save your lives by a great deliverance. Now it was not you that sent me hither, but God. And he hath made me a father to Pharaoh and a lord of all his house and a ruler throughout all the land of Egypt. I've entitled it, Joseph Reveals Himself to His Brothers. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now as we look at this fascinating event. here in the Old Testament. I pray that you would, your Holy Spirit would take the principles and the truths, the examples we see here. And apply them to our hearts and lives, our homes, our relationships, that we can be the Christians you saved us to be, and we can function and operate the way you intend us to. So I yield myself to you, my mind, my thinking. I pray you'd take control. I present my body anew. I ask you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit, as you did the believers in Acts and in the New Testament. And Lord, I pray you'd speak through me and teach us. Be our teacher tonight. Open our eyes, Lord. We can see what you'd have us to see here in this. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I think this Is one of the most profound moments in all of Scripture. Joseph is revealing himself To his brothers. I think it's one of the greatest reconciliations in all of Scripture, one of the greatest reunions. I got thinking about different times in the Bible where people were reunited. Where there was a reunion or a reconciliation and would be very dramatic. Can anybody think of any times in the Bible that instances where people were separated and they were reunited Reconciled. Can he think of any? Who's it? Prodigal sons, the first one comes to mind. He's gone. He comes back. Isn't that a phenomenal story when Daddy sees the boy coming back And he runs out to him, and the boy's trying to confess what he's done and make things right, and Daddy says, Ah, never mind. Uh get the fatty calf, get the ring, get new clothes on this boy. My son is coming home again. Isn't that fantastic? Can you think of any others? Jacob and Esau. When Jacob is out with Laban and he gets the wives. and uh Rachel and Leah, and then he's got all these uh uh sheep and oxen and God tells him, go back to Bethel, and he's coming back. And before he gets back to Bethel, he's got to go through Esau Who the last time he saw Esau, Esau said, I'm killing you. And then Esau's coming out with 400 men. That was not a welcoming party. And God intervenes and they get together. It wasn't quite as positive as the prodigal son reunion, but nevertheless it was a reunion. Can you think of any others? In the Bible. Great reunions, reconciliations. Yeah, when Jacob comes down then, yes. Yeah, and they see each other. I think there's only one more profound and more maybe dramatic than Joseph's revelation of himself and and re- and uh reunion with his brothers, there's only one more dramatic, and that is, in my mind, when Jesus rose from the dead and saw the disciples. Can you imagine that? And they were they they were he was dead. They saw him dead. Now, Jacob thought Joseph was dead, but these guys saw Jesus dead. He was dead. They knew he was dead. He was absolutely dead. And lo and behold, three days later, here he is. So I think that's a little more significant, maybe a little more profound. But apart from the resurrection and reun reunion of Jesus and his disciples Joseph with his brothers is a tremendous thing. And just the way it's recorded, my wife and I were talking about this, just the way it's recorded is so profound And um just a tremendous thing, tremendous thing. I thought about this reunion and reconciliation. I thought about it's been a number of years ago. I think my mom was in her sixties at the time, about my age probably My mother was adopted. She never knew her biological parents. She spent the first five, six years in her life of in about five, six different foster homes until my grandparents adopted her as five or six years old. And so she never knew her parents. She never had her her biological parents never met them, didn't know their names, didn't know anything about them at all. Zero, zip, not them And so when she got uh later on, like I said, I believe it was in her sixties, she may be watching, I'm not sure, but she uh in her sixties, I believe was about my age, she did some research And whoever does that reached out to her biological mother and asked her if she would be willing to meet with her daughter. And she said yes. And so they made the arrangements. And of all things, on Christmas Day, my mom met her biological mother for the very first time since her birth. And spent time together, and I got to meet her. She's passed away here now a number of years ago, but I got to meet her. And um, and just an amazing thing. Well, here you have Joseph His brothers convince themselves that Joseph is dead, and no doubt they really believe that he never survived slavery in Egypt, a Hebrew of all things. surviving any length of time as a slave in Egypt would have been unheard of. And so what a dramatic, dramatic thing. I've got three thoughts here, three observations I made from the passage I just read. The first one is: I want us to notice Joseph's announcement of himself. I am Joseph. I am Joseph. Now put yourself in the shoes of his brothers. Just picture yourself standing there, and here's this terrifying man that has wreaked havoc in their lives for the last two years about. They are terrified of this man. He has, humanly speaking, he has absolute authority over them. And they're standing before him, waiting to hear what their destiny is going to be, what the rest of their life is going to be like And um this man says he's crying and he says, I'm Joseph. Now, put yourself in the in those boys' shoes. What would be going through your mind? How would that affect you? I am Joseph. I'd put down shockwaves. I mean knock them over. And what's in their heart and mind? Just a nuclear bomb has just gone off. Confusion. How in the world could this be Joseph? How does this man know anything about Joseph? Denial. Now I'm thinking for myself. I know how I think. My first thought would have been, no, you ain't. You ain't Joseph. There ain't no way You can try and fool us all you want. You're not Joseph. There ain't no way. You're not Joseph. I don't know how they reacted other than what a little bit we're told here, but I would imagine this was a bombshell going off for them. So let's look at the announcement itself. Let's look at it. In verse number one, I put this down. It's an impromptu announcement. It's an impromptu. What do we mean by that? It was unplanned. I'm convinced, now I I can't say dogmatically, but in my mind, I'm convinced that this whole plan, Joseph had this whole second encounter with his brothers, he had that all planned out I'm convinced of that. The first time they showed up, he saw them, that was more winging it. He was just kind of reacting and and again I think he was up and down what to do, how do I treat these guys Vengeance, no doubt, was in his heart and mind to an extent. He's struggling with that. But this time he knows they're coming back. He knows they're on their way. And if they're coming back, that younger brother is going to be with them because they're not coming back without him. He's convinced of that. And so he had a whole two year or two, whatever it was, he had a whole period of time to think about and plan out how he's going to meet them. And I think, and again, this is total speculation, I think he had it all planned out how he was going to reveal himself. I think he had a plan in place, but that plan never happened. He got back and he heard Judah Ref refresh or rehearse their whole history, talk about their daddy, and daddy's not going to live if we don't bring Benjamin back. Daddy's not going to live. He's going to die of a heartache. He's already lost his son Of one son already. And I think it was too much for Joseph. And um he broke. He broke. Now remember, this is an official setting. There's Egyptian authorities there. There's official charges been made of robbery. And um Now he can't contain anymore. So it's an impromptu announcement. I don't think he planned this. Very formal setting. This was not the time. This was not the place. This was not the way he was going to do this. It just happened, I think. The second thing that I come to the conclusion looking at this, and it's pretty obvious, it was a passionate announcement. He didn't just dryly say, oh, listen fellas, look at me. Recognize this face. Hello. I'm your brother. It wasn't that way at all. It wasn't some cold, uh bitter, there there's not a hint of anger. In Joseph's response and his revelation of himself to his brothers. His passion. Notice what it says there in verse 1. Then Joseph could not refrain himself. That word refrain means to hold back or control yourself. It has the idea of a bridle on a horse and holding that horse back. He couldn't hold it back anymore The passion, the emotion, the desire to reconcile with his brothers was greater than what his self-discipline was. And Joseph was no doubt a very disciplined man. But this was, he couldn't do it anymore. He couldn't hold back anymore. It broke. The dam broke. He's crying and he tells him I'm Joseph. I think his heart had been breaking from the first time he saw his brothers. I think his heart broke. If you would, just as a reminder, come back real quickly, chapter 42. Now we already looked at these, but I just want to bring them back to what's taking place here. We're coming to this head. We're coming to this climax of Joseph's love for his brothers. Look at uh verse number chapter 42 verse 24 It says, uh his brothers were there, verse 23, and they knew not that Joseph understood them. They're talking among themselves about what they did to Joseph. And they knew not that Joseph understood them, for he spake unto them by an interpreter. And he turned himself about from them and wept. And return to them again. His heart was broken way back when he first saw him. But he was able to restrain himself. He was able to refrain himself. And he walks away and he breaks down, weeping and bawling and crying And he cleans himself up and he comes back to him. He's able to keep it under control. It's there, but he's able to keep it under control. Then come to chapter 43. And verse number thirty And he sees the boys, they come down the second time. And Joseph made haste, for his bowels did yearn upon his brother Benjamin, and he sought where to weep, and he entered into his chamber, that would have been his bedroom, his private living areas And went there and he washed his face and went out. Look at it. And what? Refrained himself. So he's able to keep this emotion under control. up until this point and suddenly everything breaks loose. So it's impromptu. He didn't plan on revealing himself this way, I don't believe. It's very, very passionate. Notice again at verse 2 of chapter 25 or 45. And he wept aloud, and the Egyptians and the house of Pharaoh heard him. He's giving in to the emotions. They took over, and they heard him all through the palace. They could hear him weeping out loud. And then I notice the third thing about this announcement. It's a personal announcement. And I kind of touched on this already. But look at verse 1. Now picture this very formal setting, very tense. authorities here. The men, the w whatever would be equivalent to our police or our military have grabbed these boys, brought them back. They're under arrest. They're re- being restrained. A lot of authorities here, a lot of formality stuff. And Joseph cries out He cries, cause every man to go out from me. I think this was out of character for Joseph. Now again, I'm giving a lot of speculation, so and I'll try and point, when I'm speculating, I'll try and point that out. But I don't think, personally, I don't think these Egyptians ever heard Joseph talk like that before. Not to them. I don't see anywhere in the record where he ever spoke like that. But now that word cried out has the idea of very firmly, very loudly. He's basically saying this. Get out of here. All you Egyptian, get out of here. No Egyptians loud in. And so it's very personal. This was personal. This was family. And now he begins speaking to them in the Hebrew tongue. He's not talking through an interpreter. It's just him and the boys. And he says in their language, he says, I am Joseph. So the announcement itself. And then second of all, I want us to notice in verse 3 the brother's amazement. At what takes place. And that's an understatement, amazement. Joseph said unto his brethren, I am Joseph. Does my father yet live? Now look how the brothers responded His brethren could not answer him. I mean, they lockjaw kicked in, for they were troubled at his presence. Again, we said, put yourself in their shoes. How would you respond to the information you've just been given if you were Joseph's brothers? I am Joseph. Is my father still alive? Again, shocked. Confusion I would say there's an element of fear. In fact, I know there's an element of fear. They're afraid that now, did you ever notice how many thoughts can go through your mind in a split second? Anybody ever did you almost have an accident or something's going to happen and your whole life flies before your life? You know, and you can think of so many things in such So many thoughts go racing through your mind in a split second. And I'm wondering what is going through these boys' minds? He's going to kill us. He's gonna hang us by our toes and slice our wrist and let us bleed out. I mean they're going through all kinds of Imaginations what Joseph is going to do to them. So there's unbelief no doubt there's fear. Again, as I said before, perhaps unbelief. There's no way this is Joseph In fact, the fact that he repeats himself and expands on a little bit tells me he saw unbelief in their eyes. So notice their reaction, their amazement. It says, first of all, they were silent. They could not answer them. Time froze. They're just standing there, dumbfounded. So they froze, and then I put down, or they were silent, and then I put down, they were shaken. It says, for they were troubled at his presence. That word troubled means terrified. In fact, it's translated in our Bible, other places, terror, to be terrified. They were shocked. Their lives came to a standstill. Now what's going to happen? What's gonna happen? And I'm convinced they're thinking we're all gonna die. We're all gonna die. Joseph's gonna take vengeance of us. Um They no doubt, no doubt, everything Joseph had just done to them for the last couple years is coming back to mind. He threw us in prison, he framed us, he did all these accusations. He said, uh all this is coming by. Now what in the world is he going to do? And so the brothers' amazement, so first the announcement Very passionate, private, calls him in, tells him very passionately he's weeping, he's crying. And then last I want us to notice Joseph's assurance. Now this is where I think it gets tremendous. Joseph's assurance. Look at verse 4. And Joseph said unto his brethren, Come near to me, I pray you. I think the first thing he does, he assured them of his compassion. He wants his brothers to know he loves them. He wants his brothers to know they have nothing to be afraid of him. He says, come near, come here. So first thing he does, he clears the room, he gets everybody out. And it's just them. And he calls them in close to himself. He drew them all close to him. He's not standing across the room. Now remember before Joseph didn't even sit at the table with them because the Egyptians hated the Hebrews, right? And Joseph to carry on the the facade of him being a an Egyptian, he stays over with the Egyptians. So he's not s he's not sitting with them When they're engaging each other, when they're conversing and encountering each other, Joseph is very distant. He's got all the Egyptian garb on. He's got all these uh uh entourage around him, and he's very distant. Now he says, Everybody get out. He goes, Come here, fellas. What are they gonna do? So he gets them up there and he wants them, he wants to assure them that he loves them, he cares about them. Apparently, now this is a good lesson, I think, where we can take a lesson. Apparently, the Egyptians, now get this. Apparently, all Joseph's servants, all the Egyptian authorities, everybody that knew Joseph and worked with Joseph, apparently not one of them knew anything about what Joseph's brothers had done to him. I can't find anywhere where Joseph is running his mouth about his brothers or running down his brothers to the Egyptian people. I can't find anywhere, not Potiphar, not Potiphar's wife, not the guys in prison. The only thing closest to it, he says, I'm here unjustly, but I think he was referring to Prophet's wife and making a false accusation about him. He never said a word to anybody about how badly his brothers treated him. Now you take your average Christian that has social media And their brothers do to them, or family does to them, anything even remotely close to what Joseph's brothers did to him. What do you think your average Christian is doing on social media? Everybody's going to know what my family did to me. I'll tell you right now. Not Joseph. He didn't say a word about it. He refused to speak evil of his brothers, even when they treat him bad. I tell you, we got to be careful. We We can get very easily get in a habit of just letting everybody know how terrible everybody else is to me. And there's no need for that. You know what that's called? It's called airing your dirty laundry. I just want everybody to know I got cut off on my way to church today, some idiot. So what? What is that? What are you helping? What's changing? I can't find anywhere Joseph is complaining to anybody about his brother's treatment of him. I don't find him discussing it with anybody. I don't think they knew anything about what his brothers had done. I could be wrong, maybe we'll get to heaven, but I can't find it I tell you, social media is terrible on that. First thing we do is get on there and say how rude that cashier was, or how terrible that waitress was, or Or here's a this one's even a little more subtle. Now I don't think we have problem with this real major anyway in our church, but uh I've seen it in times over the years where I ha preacher, I have a prayer request. Okay? Pray for so and so. Alright, what am I praying for? Well, they said and did this, and I just want us to pray that God will kill 'em or no. Uh I just want to pray. Thank God I tell you, sometimes prayer requests are Christianized gossip. Am I right or wrong? Come on now. We've been around long enough. We've seen it And so Joseph assures them that he cares about him. He clears the room. There is no reason in the world for these Egyptians to be in here and hear this discussion that's going on in the family. And some things just need to be kept between themselves. What did Jesus teach us in Hebrews? That if somebody offends you or somebody sins against you, what was the very first step in reconciliation? The very first step was get on social media and tell everybody what they did wrong to you, right or wrong. Wrong. If somebody did something to you, you clear the room, and it's just you and the one that had the issue, right or wrong? I've always said this has been my approach to ministry with problems and situations, conflicts in the ministry. Don't involve anybody that doesn't have to be involved. Keep it within the only the necessary people that have to be involved. And then Jesus said, if that one-on-one, if that doesn't work, then take someone with you. If that doesn't work it out, then maybe you need to bring it to the church So that's Joseph is following Jesus' pattern thousands of years before Jesus gave it. And he's talking to them one-on-one. He wants to assure them that he Loves them and uh have his compassion for them, and nobody else needs to be involved in this. Joseph's loved his brothers enough To love them even when they treated him like he was an enemy. Joseph loved his brothers enough to bless them Even when they cursed him. Joseph loved his brothers enough to do good to them even when they hated him. Does that sound familiar at all? Bless those that curse you. Do good to those who are your enemies. Love them. Anybody ever hear anything like that before? Yeah, Jesus on the Sermon on the Mount. He said, if you're my disciple, if you want to be a disciple, this is how disciples act and respond to people who are hateful to you. You love them that hate you. You bless them that curse you. You pray for them that revile you. Do you think Joseph prayed for his brothers? Yeah, I'm sure he did. Joseph is doing, Joseph is treating his brothers exactly the way Jesus says you and I, his disciples, are to treat people who are unkind and mistreat us. I think we could just use a good dose of discipleship again. And so he loves them. He clears the room out. This is a private matter. He wants them to know that regardless of what they did to him, he loves them. Regardless of how they cursed him and hated him, he loves them. He wants to bless them. So, number one, he assured them of his compassion. He did that by, first of all, clearing the room. Then, second of all, he did that, verse number four, by clarifying again who he was. Look at verse four. And Joseph said unto his brethren, Come near to me, I pray you. They came near. And he said, Now remember, they're probably standing across the room. So he says, get over here, fellas, get over here, come here Notice what he says. They came here and he said, repeats what he said previously, I am Joseph. But this time when he says that First time he said it, uh he said unto them, verse 3, I am Joseph, doth my father live. Now this time he he he he adds to that statement. He says, I am Joseph, your what? Your brother. I'm the one you sold to Egypt. Why would he say that? Why would he add in there, I'm your brother? He's reminding them we're family. I'm your brother. We're not enemies. There's no vengeance here. I love you. You're my brother. I'm your brother. We're family. So one, he clears the room. Number two, he clarifies who he is. I'm your brother. We're family. And then he calms their fears. Now this I find interesting. Look at verse 5. Now he's giving them advice. Now Joseph gave a lot of people advice, and his vice was really good. He advised Pharaoh. And notice what he says they should not do. He says, I am Joseph, your brother whom you sold into Egypt. Now therefore, this is his concern of his heart for him. He's worried that they're going to do something. Or they're going to think a certain way. Notice what he says. Now therefore, be not, he says, I'm Joseph, your brother whom he sold me to do. Now therefore, be not grieved nor angry with yourselves. Don't be sad. Don't be upset with yourselves. Don't get mad at yourselves, guys. Now I find it interesting what he doesn't say. This is what I got out of this. He doesn't say, I'm Joseph, your brother, who you sold into Egypt. Don't be afraid of me. Don't worry that I'm going to get vengeance on you. Don't worry what I'm going to do to you. He doesn't even reference anything that they should be concerned about what Joseph does. He says, listen, don't be grieved with yourselves, don't be upset with yourselves, don't get mad at yourself for what you did to me. I don't think it even entered Joseph's mind That they might be afraid of something Joseph would do to them. Never entered his mind. Why? Because he had no intention of doing anything to them. He had no intention of vengeance on them. It never entered his mind that they would even think that way. He thought that they would be mad at themselves. Oh, we shouldn't have done that. Oh, man. How could we do this to Joseph? Why would we have done that? That's what his concern is You know what the brothers' concern was? He's going to kill us. Remember much later when Jacob died? And they came to Joseph and they lied. And they said, uh, Joseph, Daddy told us. To tell you before he died. My question is, why didn't Daddy just tell Joseph? Daddy told us before he died to tell you, to make you promise that you wouldn't kill us Or do anything to us for what we did to you. So that's what's in the brothers' minds. He's going to kill us. We're dead meat. He's going to make us build pyramids But that didn't even enter Joseph's mind that they would even think that way. You know why? Because Joseph would not have thought that way. Joseph, I'm convinced Joseph is unconsciously imposing his mindset onto them. If Joseph, I'm convinced Joseph, perhaps if he would have said, he said, well, if I was in their shoes, man, I'd really be upset with myself that I did that to my brother. I'd be mad at myself and man would make me sad that I actually did that to my brother. So that's the way Joseph is thinking. He's not thinking that I'm going to hurt them. You follow what I'm saying What a way to live. No animosity in my heart and mind. No vengeance in my heart and mind. No bitterness in my heart and mind. In fact, I don't even anticipate that on the hearts and minds of others. You know what that is? That's called innocence. That's purity of mind and heart. He doesn't even think about that they would think that way. Why? Because Joseph doesn't think that way. No vengeance on Potiphar, Potiphar's wife. You don't find it at all. Closest thing he says, hey, I'm here unjustly. We don't have one record of Joseph bad-mouthing Potiphar or Potiphar's wife. We don't find one reference of Joseph bad-mouthing his brothers. How many people here, if somebody treated you the way Potipers like treated Joseph, you would have a heart, you would be tempted to badmouth her. Yeah. Not Joseph. I don't think it ever entered Joseph's mind that they would be afraid of him or that they would be concerned that he would Take vengeance on them. His concern was that they would be upset with themselves because what they did with him. And so he calms their fears. He says, listen, don't be upset, guys. I'm not mad at you. I'm not out to get you. Don't be mad at yourselves. I'm not mad at you. Don't get mad at yourselves. I'm not grieved with what you did. Don't you be grieved with what you did He calms their fears. Do you agree with me? This world would be a different place if just Christians would would function that way. Man. What our churches would be like, what our homes would be like, what our communities and cities would be like If we think that way, it's just Sermon on the Mound type thinking and living. And then last of all, and with this, we're talking about his assurance of them. He assures them of his compassion for them. And he goes to great lengths. And then he also assures them that God is in control. God is in control. Look at verse number five. Be not grieved nor angry with yourselves that ye sold me hither, for God did send me before you to preserve life. Come down to verse 7. God sent me before you to preserve you a prosterity in the earth and to save your lives by a great deliverance. Look at verse 8. So it was not so now it was not you that sent me thither, but God. Come down to verse nine. Go up to my father, say to him, Thus saith Joseph Thus saith thy son Joseph, God hath made me Lord of all the earth. He said, listen, you didn't do nothing. God did all this. God is in control. God is calling the shots. God works all things out for good to them that love him and trust him. Joseph, I'm convinced, Joseph could endure all the injustices because he knew that God was in control. Joseph could remain faithful because he knew that God had a plan. God had given Joseph some information early on in his life. That things were going to play out a certain way. And God was in control. And I'm telling you, when God says something's going to play out a certain way, you mark it down, it's going to play out a certain way. And I'm convinced that Joseph was convinced that whatever's happening to me, God is in control. He has a plan. I'm going to stay faithful to him. He's given me some information. That's the basis of my behavior and my attitude, my actions, and God's going to work this out. And he says, hey fellas, listen, whatever you did or didn't do, I'm here to tell you, God's really the one that was doing it the whole time. Now here's the application. Here's what's for you and I. God has given you and I some information. Amen or not. He's given us a book that is full of information about himself and about his plan and about what he's going to do And I've read the end of the book, and I have a spoiler alert. God wins God is in control. Whatever this world may do to us, and whatever people may do to us, and however they may mistreat us, and whatever injustices we go through We can be convinced that God is still on the throne and that all things work together for good, that them that are of God who are called according to the purpose, and that we can be being confident this very thing that he which hath begun a good work in us will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. And we can stay faithful and we can stay pleasant and we can stay positive and we can be a blessing. Even when we go through junk. Amen or not? Joseph recognized the hand of God and all his injustice and all his afflictions What Joseph is, and we're going to see this even more so as we get to the end of Genesis and finish up our study on the life of Joseph at the very end, Joseph is a historical living example. of Romans 8. 28. We see it. We look at the life of Joseph and we see what Romans 8. 28 says. What does Romans 8. 28 say? Say it with me. All things work together for good to them that love God. Who was called according to his purpose. And Joseph saw that. He believed that. He saw it working in his life. And he reassures his brothers: listen, it's okay, God's in control. It's okay, God's in control. Be honest with you, maybe that's part of the responsibility of parents with their kids. Assure them God's in control. I think I see that part of my responsibility as pastor. I get up here and preach Sunday mornings, whenever. Hey folks, church, God's in control. Just trust them, stay faithful, stay at it. Yeah, but look what the w look what happened in look what's happening in the world. Yeah, but God's in control. Stay faithful This thing comes together. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to take this experience in these Joseph and his brothers and help us to find encouragement and comfort and assurance from this. I pray, Lord, we could be a testimony of this whole world that God's people are not the same as the people of the world. That we respond differently. We're salt, we're not part of the world. We're not better, but we're not part. And help us to love where there's hatred. Help us to bless where there's cursing. Help us to do good when bad is happening. And help us to learn from Joseph. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I need God to help me get that a Joseph attitude in my heart and mind. Any like that? I need that Joseph worldview, that Joseph perspective. God bless you. If the truth were known, probably all of us could use a good dose of that. I wonder how many, maybe there's some say, preacher, I'm going through it. And it's just personal, it's private, but preacher, I'm struggling. You say, I'm going to hold on to the truth, the biblical truth, that God is in control. And I'll trust him, I'll do what he says, I'll follow his instructions. I'm just going to trust him that he's in control. Any like that, preacher, I need God to help me. Sure, sure. We all go through those times. So we look to the Word of God. We get that information we give Him. We hold on to it We trust God. Father, bless the invitation, I ask in Jesus' name, Amen