To the book of James. James chapter number two to get us started. And uh I believe we're all uh familiar no doubt with uh story of Joseph and it's not just the story, it's actual biographical account of um much of the life of Joseph and all Joseph all he went through and how God used him and how the thing I'm getting from Joseph, and I think this is the emphasis in scripture, is how God used all the injustice and all the the uh affliction that he went through to accomplish God's will. And Joseph was able to see that at least later in his life. It's very clear he saw what God was doing. And then uh uh and uh now uh the where we're at in his in his life, in our study of his life, his father's passed away, Jacob's passed away. The brothers have come and they in a very roundabout way, if you remember, asked Joseph, pretty much told him, Daddy said, Don't take vengeance on us. And the great thing about this is, and this is why I parked here for a little bit, a couple weeks, is Joseph forgave his brothers. And he makes this profound statement. He says, Am I in the place of God? And the obvious answer to that question is what No, he wasn't. He was not in the position where he had the authority or the right to withhold forgiveness from his brothers. And so I've taken that opportunity, we're at that point in his life, I've taken that opportunity to stop and just spend some time, and it's not comprehensive, but spend some time on the Bible teaching about forgiveness And as we're studying this, it's just becoming clearer in my mind how important forgiveness is in the life of the Christian. And what a key factor that is in whether I'm successful in my Christian life or maybe I'm not what I ought to be as a Christian Very much dependent on how here here, I hope you get this. It's very much dependent. The kind of Christian, the quality of Christian life I have, and whether I'm pleasing the Lord or not, is very much dependent on how I respond to other people doing things wrong to me. Now that goes both ways, right? We'd say and do things that hurt others We get wrapped up when people saying, well, they sinned against me. We've got to remember we sin against others also. But this matter of forgiveness. So if you would, look there at James And I want to just use this as a starting point here. Let me see, James chapter number two, and notice with me verse number 10. James chapter 2, verse 10. Notice it says, For whosoever shall keep the whole law and yet offend in one point, he is guilty of all. I think you'll see why I'm referencing that here to start off. So let's have a word of prayer. Father in heaven, I thank you for the opportunity we have to study your word. And Lord, we just want to say right off the start here tonight, we thank you for forgiving us and your great, complete, thorough forgiveness of our sins against you. And I ask now that you would take, I trust this final study in forgiveness in this series that you would teach us to forgive. I pray your Holy Spirit would enable us as Christians to forgive. And all that comes along with that. So fill me with your spirit, is my prayer. Help me to teach and preach this tonight. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. If you remember, we started out, we introduced this thought on forgiveness, pointing out that faith is necessary if I'm going to have biblical forgiveness. I've got to begin with faith in God. And we got that from Joseph's statement to his brothers when he said, you meant it for evil, but God meant it for what? For good. And he acknowledges the fact that they did evil. He's not just brushing off what they did. He he acknowledges you meant it for evil. But he was able to by faith see beyond their actions and see that God was working. God was allowed this and God had a plan And though you and I are not going to be number two rulers in Egypt, and we're not going to save the world from famine, but nevertheless, God has just as much of a plan for your life and my life as I believe God had for Joseph. Not the same, obviously, but he does have a plan for us. And every event that comes in our life and every statement that somebody makes to me and every uh every way that I may be treated or every injustice I have to deal with I face, I need to be able by faith look beyond that and say, all right, God allowed this God allowed this to happen. He could have intervened and kept it from happening, but he didn't. And so God allowed it. So by faith, I'm going to trust that God can bring some good out of this. And that helps me to forgive. If I can see, all right, God allowed this, and I don't know what God's doing exactly, but he allowed this, he's working some good, so that helps me to forgive. You follow my thinking, and so we talked about that And so there has to be faith, I think, in God, in God's uh God's uh sovereignty there, I guess you would say. Then we noted the foundation of forgiveness. Does anybody remember What we said the foundation of my forgiveness for another is what? God's forgiveness for me. Be kind once another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God, for Christ's sake, hath forgiven you. So the basis, the foundation. Remember we looked there in Matthew 18. What a powerful Parable st illustration the Lord gave that guy was so in debt to the king. And the king freely forgave him everything. No payment back, no no uh no punishment all just Uh uh just uh uh ate the debt, forgave the guy, then he turned around and did what? He choked the guy that owed him a couple bucks. And he's rebuked for that. And the Lord's teaching, the basis of my forgiveness for another person that's done me wrong, is the fact that God has forgiven me. And so now what I want to look at tonight, two thoughts. First one I want to look at is the fortitude of forgiveness. So we have the faith of forgiveness, the foundation of forgiveness And now the fortitude of forgiveness. Somebody help me out tonight. Is everybody awake out there? Everybody doing all right? Okay. What is fortitude? We say that guy has real fortitude. She's got fortitude. What are we talking about? Strength, endurance, moral character would be a factor in it. They have fortitude Here's my definition. I looked up numerous definitions. I kind of put them together into my own. Fortitude, the strength of heart and soul to do something that is difficult. If I got fortitude, that means I have strength in my heart and soul to do something, even though it's very, very difficult, may not be popular. It may be a struggle, but I do write, even if and when it's difficult, another version of that, to remain determined regardless of hardships. And so with the idea of forgiveness, forgiveness, forgiveness is not always easy. Can I get a witness? Anybody know? Sometimes, sometimes, and maybe I ought to say often, forgiveness is something very, very difficult to do Depending on what the situation is, depending on what the offense was. And so the fortitude to of forgiveness, sometimes it just takes Strength of heart and soul and determination, I am going to forgive, even though this is the hardest thing I've ever done in my life I'm going to forgive. It's the right thing to do. God has forgiven me. God allowed this to come into my life. And I'm going to forgive, even though I don't feel like it Even though it would be very, very difficult, I'm going to do it. I'm going to do it. Fortitude of forgiveness. There's a lot of areas of the Christian life that require fortitude. Right? Whoever told you the Christian life would be easy, that one of two things is true. Either they were lying or they're ignorant. Because we live in a fallen world, we're going against the grain, we've got a sinful flesh, we've got a world opposed to us, and we've got a devil opposed to us, we have a threefold enemy. The Christian life is not easy Now the Lord said we can come and take his yoke upon us and he'll help us, but it's a it's a conflict. It requires strength, it requires determination. uh to live for God. And so strength and determination to do right, regardless of how difficult it might be. Forgiveness requires fortitude. It's not I'm being a little repetitious here, but it's not always easy to forgive. I'll tell you what is easy. The easy thing to do is to not forgive. Right? The easy thing to do is to get bittered. That doesn't take any strength. Doesn't take any character. Doesn't take any moral discipline to withhold forgiveness from somebody who did me wrong. That comes natural It doesn't take any spiritual strength. It doesn't take any strength of heart and soul or character to be bitter and angry at somebody. Good night. That comes naturally. In fact, Jesus said in Mark and Matthew He said, out of the heart proceeds bitterness and anger and wrath. All these effects of unforgiveness. He said, they come naturally from the heart. And so the hard thing to do sometimes is to forgive. The easy thing to do is say, I'm never going to forgive them for that. I'm going to be bitter. And it just happens. Just let it happen. You say, how do I get bitter, Pastor? Just let it go, natural. Just let the natural course of things take place. Um it's easy to withhold forgiveness. It's easy to be bitter, uh to be angry and bitter. That doesn't take any character. But I tell you what, somebody hurts you, somebody says or does something that hurts you. And you say, you know, the Lord's being awfully forgiving to me. And God allowed this. And so I'm going to reach deep down in my soul. I'm going to make the decision that I'm going to forgive this person, biblically, forgive them. That takes some strength. That takes some character. Now the interesting thing is the world completely reverses this. The world presents an angry, bitter person as their straw. A lot of the modern music, at least in my era, 70s A lot of the rock and all that was very angry. They're against the world. We're not going to take it anymore. You know, that type of of communication and Boy, they're strong. They're they're angry and in the modern rap music a lot of anger and a lot of uh in the movies a lot of the angry person is the strong one and the one that they're not getting away with it, go ahead, make my day, right? Macho strong. I tell you, that's not macho, that's weakness. To let that anger To be controlled. Anybody can do that. It doesn't take any character. It doesn't take any spirituality. It doesn't take any moral discipline. To be angry and bitter, but the world presents the world, I say this so often and it is so obvious, the world has perfected the ability to take that which is wrong and make it seem right And make that which is right and make it seem so wrong. And by application of what we're talking about here, the world is very good at taking that which is really weakness and making it look like strength. And that which is straight, they make it look like weakness. I tell you, uh it takes more it takes more character and and uh fortitude to forgive than it is to be unforgiving And the world's idea is, oh, they oh you forgave him, what a sissy. Ah, you gave in, you let him get away with that? No, God takes care of that. By the way, nobody's getting away with nothing. Right? It's just I'm not in the place of God. That's God's job. That's God's revenge is mine, saith the Lord. And so the world presents it. Oh, you're a weakling. You let them get away with doing wrong to you. Ain't nobody gonna treat me like that and get away with it. Uh, weakling What the Bible says. So the world presents anger and bitterness as strength. And another thought about forgiveness and uh is uh forgiveness is not an emotion Forgiveness is a conscious decision that I made. Sometimes I think we get the idea, well, you know, uh forgiveness has to be have some feeling or You know, it's some emotion comes, I really don't control it. No, no, no. Forgiveness is a lot like love. We say we use the term, oh, we fell in love. Oh, it just came over me. That may be infatuation. You know, a lot of times what the world presents as love is nothing more than lust. But you study the Bible very, very carefully, particularly 1 Corinthians 13. Love is a conscious decision I make To treat somebody, to have an attitude towards somebody, uh, regardless of their behavior, regardless of what it is. I make a decision to that. If we treated people lovely when we just when we feel like it uh that would be bad, right? And the same thing is true with forgiveness. I wait until I feel like forgiving. I just don't feel like forgiving them. Well your feelings have nothing to do with it It's a conscious decision I make. I'm going to forgive this person. And I'm going to forgive them a lot like love. Forgiveness and love are both verbs It's an action taking place, a decision being made. It's something on being proactive, not just waiting till the stars align and waiting till the feeling is right. And the atmosphere is right, oh right, then I'll forgive them. No, no, no. It's a conscious decision I make. And that takes strength. That takes fortitude. To do that. And so the fortitude of forgiveness. Sometimes we think of forgiveness as being, oh, it's just gentle and soft, such a meek person. And by the way, meekness is not weakness. Well, he's just a meek person. You picture some anemic little guy. He's so meek. No, no, no. Meekness is strength under control. In other words, I could get angry. I could be bitter. I could, but I'm not. I'm going to exercise some strength. I'm going to exercise some discipline. I'm going to do what God did for me, and I'm going to forgive. I'm going to forgive. And so there's nothing weak or gentle or soft about it. In reality, uh forgiveness requires strength, as I've been saying. Sometimes it requires courage. to be forgiven. And let me put it this way, and we and uh sometimes this is why some folks have a hard time forgiving, is because if I forgive them They're going to what? Take advantage of it. They're just going to do it again. And I'm here to tell you, there is a risk involved in forgiveness. I am making myself vulnerable. By forgiving, I'm making myself vulnerable. There's a very real possibility they may hurt me again. That's a very real possibility they may do wrong to me again. But nevertheless, God let me ask this. How many people here? I won't tell anybody, I promise. This confidentiality. How many people here ever sinned against God and God forgave you since you've been saved? Anybody anybody? Ah, majority. How many people here you did it once, God forgave you, and lo and behold, at some point you went and did it again Did God forgive you the second time? Did God take a chance in forgiving us the first time that we might do it again? There are no chances with God. He knew we would And yet he forgave us again and again and again and again and again. There is a risk that comes with forgiveness for you and I It takes courage sometimes to forgive and know that I might get hurt pretty bad again. But I'm going to put that in God's hands and let God deal with that. I'm going to be forgiven. And so it takes strength. There's a risk involved with it. It can be awfully hard. It can be awfully hard to forgive something I can't forget. Right? It's just there. It's just there. I was talking to somebody just recently. They said, you know, it's years ago. And yet it still comes back to my mind. Comes back to my mind. It's hard to forgive something we can't forget And here's the thing, uh as finite human beings, it it's hard to forget some things, right? The things I want to remember, I forget And the things I don't want to remember, I can't forget. And so sometimes it takes real strength to be able to forgive, even though I can't forget it And not let that be a factor. So forgiveness. I put down three reasons, and I've kind of touched on some of these, why it's Why we have a hard time forgiving, why it requires so much strength to forgive someone. I put this one down. Sometimes I think it's because we have the wrong concept of sin. Oh, James 2. 10 is what we read here. And now this is what I'm getting at. For whosoever shall keep the whole law, yet offend in what One point is guilty of one law. No. It's not what it says. Guilty of what? You know what this verse is suggesting to us? You know what this verse is telling us? That all sin is equally condemned by God. Right? All sins. Every now and then I'll hear a preacher and I disagree with them, and I'm not going to fuss with anybody, but they'll make something like a statement: all sins are not equal. Ah, I disagree with that to an extent. Let me explain myself. All sins are equally condemned by God. But not all sins have equal consequences. Take your Bible, if you would, go with me to Matthew. And chapter 5, Sermon on the Mount. If I get to all this, we're going to jump around here a little bit. Matthew chapter 5, Jesus is preaching a sermon on the mountain. He's talking to disciples. That's important to keep in mind. He's not talking to unsaved people. And in verse 21 of Matthew chapter 5, he makes a statement that we have to think through a little bit, I believe. Verse 21, ye have heard that it hath been said of old time. So he's addressing religious rumors. Stuff people have said. You have heard of then said old time, thou shalt not kill, and whosoever shall kill and shall be in the danger of judgment. But I say unto you, now he's not altering that statement, he's explaining it. Look at verse 22. But I say unto you, that whosoever is angry with his brother without cause shall be in danger of the judgment. Then he expands on that. Whosoever shall say to his brother Rakah shall be in danger of counsel. Whosoever say thou fool shall be in danger of hellfire. Man alive. He says, what he's saying here is, listen, if you kill somebody, you're in danger of judgment for killing them. How many people understand that? Yeah. And again, I'm putting my own words. I'm paraphrasing here quite a bit. I'm taking some liberty. I understand that. But he basically goes on and says: even though you might not kill them, literally But if you want to kill him in your heart, you're just as guilty as the one that killed him. You're just as condemned as the one that killed him. Right? You actually kill someone, you're guilty. You want to kill them in your heart, you're guilty. Well you could be more Yeah, I think so. Something where it would be justified, where scripture would justify it. For instance, self-defense. that type of thing. But it's not killing them out of animosity or hatred for them, that type of thing. And so but the point I'm trying to make is he m he's he doesn't deny, yeah, if you kill someone you're under judgment. You're you're facing You know, God condemns that. But he says he equally condemns if you want to do it in your heart, even though you don't actually do it. So they're both equally condemned. But here's my point. Do they both have the same consequences? No. If I literally kill someone, they lose their life. Right? And the law for society given in Leviticus back in the Old Testament is you take a life, you give a life capital punishment. I would far rather, here's here's let me put it this way, I would far rather somebody want to kill me in their heart than actually kill me Right? Now they're both equally condemned by God, but they have two different consequences. There's not the same consequence. So I need to have a right concept of sin. Well we tend to here here's uh the point I'm trying to make under this thought. If somebody sins against me, they say or do something that hurts me, offends me in some way, they do wrong, they do me wrong. But it doesn't really affect me very much. You know, it's just okay. They took you know, they stole two bucks out of my wallet or something. It's like, all right, all right, I'm sorry, all right, I'll forgive you. Two bucks If they drain all my retirement, all my savings, all my investments, and they take everything I have from me, would you agree with me? That's a little harder to forgive than the two bucks out of my wallet Right. But I need to understand sin is sin is sin. And I have to be able to forgive. Here's what we do. We tend to not forgive the stuff that hurts us, the sins that really hurt us, and the sins that are not so hurtful. Oh, then we can forgive easy. We need to get to the point. If we're going to biblically forgive, we got to forgive across the board. Now they don't all have the same consequences. We're going to talk about that in a little bit And then dealing with the consequences. But I've got to forgive. Would you agree with me? What the brothers did to Joseph was horrendous. And he forgave them just as much as if they had stolen two bucks out of his little shepherd sack, two pence out of his little shepherd bag. He forgave them. It wasn't the degree of harm done to him that determined whether he forgives them or not. It's simply the fact they sinned and he forgave them. God's forgiveness for you and I is not based on the severity of our sin. It's based on His mercy and grace in forgiving us. Right? Now it doesn't all have the same consequences, but there's equal forgiveness there. And so sometimes we struggle with that. It's hard to forgive someone Because we m we rate sins. Oh, uh we'll have these sins over here on the chart, and oh, they're not so bad. They're just that's a sin. It's wrong, but it's not that bad over here These are really, really, really, really, really, really bad. And so what we do, probably uh subconsciously We have a threshold that we get to that if it's across that point, then no longer forgiveness. I'll forgive up to this point, but not beyond that. Well, you can't find anywhere in Scripture that that's how God forgives us. He forgives it all. He forgives it all. And so the deeper a sin hurts me, the more difficult it is to forgive. But I need to understand I forgive sin. I forgive. The second reason I put down that it's hard to uh forgive someone is sometimes we have a wrong concept of forgiveness. And that's what I'm trying to deal with what the Bible teaches about forgiveness in this little mini-series within our life of Joseph, the wrong concept of forgiveness. Here's what sometimes we get the idea that forgiveness means all consequences of sin are removed. Alright, if I forgive them, therefore there are no consequences going to be of their actions, what they did. There's no consequences if I really forgive them. Reality is, forgiveness does not remove all the consequences of a person's actions. Um a wrong concept. We say, well if I forgive uh for instance and I'm getting way ahead of myself, but for instance somebody Let's say we have a per a family and some some fella murders their child. Bad? Very bad. Unthinkably bad. And the person is arrested, found guilty, sent to prison. And the mother and father are Christians, they love the Lord. And they do something that humanly is impossible. And they come and say, We forgive you We extend to you forgiveness for what you've done. Question, does that mean he's automatically out of prison? No. The consequences, because some people I think, and I'm trying to use an extreme illustration here, but sometimes I think we think that, well, if I forgive them, then there's no consequences to their actions And that is not biblical forgiveness. If I let's say, God forbid, but let's say next week I backslide. Let's say we have big wild game dinner Saturday. Man, God bless us. See people say big day Sunday. And the next week I get smuggled. Oh God did all this and I backslide. Um and I go and I go down to the long branch saloon and get drunk. How many people would be very disappointed if your pastor did that? Me too. And at the bar, I'm drunk as could be, and I get in a fight with a guy, and he punches me in the eye so hard I lose my eyeball. He punches me, I lose my sight, I have to wear a patch. And uh I come to God and I God Say go and I get right and I repent of my sin, I get right. By the way, I wouldn't be pastor anymore if that happened, right But I make things right and I come to God and say, God, and God forgives me. Would I automatically get my eye back? If God forgives me. No, the consequences would still be there, even though God has forgiven me. I'm telling you, I still deal with consequences of actions I took as a teenage boy every single day of my life. Because of sins I commit. God has completely forgiven me. I don't have a problem with that. I know God's forgiven me. But he doesn't take all the consequences away. You follow? And so we have to have a correct concept Of what forgiveness is. Romans 6. 23, the wages of sin against God is what? Death. That's separation from God. And the wages against me, if somebody sins against me, now I'm being very self-centered here, but if if I sin against God, the wages of my sin is death, separation from God for all eternity. If God doesn't forgive me, I'm separated from God for all eternity. Somebody sins against me, the wages of their sin against me is the death of our relationship, is the death of my enjoyment of each other, the death of our fellowship with each other. And so I forgive them, and that forgiveness, here's what I'm trying to get at: that forgiveness, in forgiving them, I'm extending kindness, I'm extending compassion. I'm extending patience, and I'm seeking to restore that relationship, that fellowship that was broken by their sin against me. However That doesn't necessarily take away all the consequences. I got a newspaper clipping here. This is from 2019. And a father This guy uh killed a child and I kind of got ahead there. And he killed a child and he went to prison. The family was uh was a Christian family, I think it was out in Illinois somewhere And they went to the fellow in prison, they said, we forgive you. And they actually established a bit of a relationship with the cure of their child. But he's still in prison. The consequences are still there. And so that broken And that animosity that was between them, that forgiveness, at least from them to this to the the the guilty one, that animosity Forgiveness removed that animosity, but it did not remove the consequences. I hope I'm not muddying this up a little bit. Let me illustrate this one. I've done this before when we preached on this over the years. Let's just suppose, and we don't, so don't no rumors, alright? Let's just suppose we have somebody that handles the money at the church here. Now we don't, we never have a problem, we don't now, so again, no rumors. It's just illustration. And they embezzle some money from the church. Good or uh would you agree? Bad. That would be sinning against the body of Christ here, Mountain Lake. Let's suppose they do that. And we get together and it gets found out and it gets confronted. And we as a church say, you know, we'll forgive you. We'll forgive you. You're part of the church. Our relationship, we're not gonna break what you're you're part of the church. Um let's say That we we said, all right, we're forgiven. We'll put you back in that position. And account money, and lo and behold, they take some more money. And uh and so we say, alright, we'll forgive you. We have a relationship, you're part of the church, we're forgiven, we'll keep that. Would you agree with me? It'd be pretty foolish to put them back in that position again. Why? Because there's consequences. The trust has been broken. Now, we still have fellowship. We want to keep maintain that relationship. We're not going to destroy that. We want to keep that as much as we can. Forgiveness makes that possible. But it doesn't mean you have to put them back in that position. If somebody slaps you on the face one time, we're supposed to forgive them They slap me on the face second time. Forgive me. Third time, fourth time, fifth time. After a while, you can make justification for stop standing so where they can keep slapping you Right? Doesn't mean I'm unforgiving. It's just I'm not going to put it in position where that happens anymore. I hope I'm making sense. I hope I'm not mudding this But sometimes we misunderstand. Well, if I forgive them, then my son's murderer will be left out of jail. No, that's not necessarily the case. So sometimes it's hard to forgive if we have a wrong concept of sin, if we have a wrong concept of forgiveness. I put this one down. If we've allowed bitterness to take root, go with me to Hebrews. I told you we're going to jump around here a bit. Hebrews chapter number twelve. Hebrews twelve is a fantastic chapter Hebrews twelve and look with me at verse number fifteen. Hebrews twelve fifteen Notice what it says. Looking diligently. Well, let's back up to verse 14. Follow peace with all men. And holiness without which no man can see the Lord. Would you agree with me? If I'm going to be at peace with anybody, I've got to be able to forgive. Because you're not getting through here without somebody, everybody sinning against you somehow, some way, one way or another. So there's forgiveness implied in that statement. So look at verse 15. Looking diligently lest Any man fail of the grace of God, look at this, lest any root of bitterness springing up Trouble you. The root of bitterness. Somebody does me wrong, and I don't deal with it immediately, and I don't apply biblical forgiveness And I allow unforgiveness there. That unforgiveness will take root in bitterness. And here's the thing about a root. A root always is in place before there's any sprout. Right or wrong. That roots there before there's any visible evidence of it. I went for a walk last evening and I walked down here, there's a swampland. Down here, before you get to the nursing home, I was walking up through there, and lo and behold, it was a glorious sight. I saw little wild cabbage sprouts Sticking up. How many people find that glorious truth? Wonderful. Spring is coming. But I tell you, the root of those little sprouts was down under that ground long before I ever saw the sprout And I can harbor unforgiveness in my heart. And if I'm not careful, if I don't deal with that, that's going to start taking root as bitterness. And it can be there a while Without anybody even knowing it. And we as Christians are pretty good at putting on a show, right or wrong. We're pretty good at putting on a front, putting on a face. But yet we can harbor bitterness in our heart And we don't nobody sees it. But here's the thing. That root continually takes root. And it gets deeper and deeper and deeper. You know what I found out? The longer a root is in the ground, the harder it is to get it out Right? When um now uh if we have dandelions, um back years ago when they had dandelions in the yard, my grandparents they just ate them. Right? They would make salad and put uh bacon juice on it, bacon fat, and pour it on it and eat it. Anybody here ever eat dandelion salad? Yeah My grandfather when they sold the farm this is why I never get my sermons done, but my grandfather, when they sold the farm, they found six bottles of dandelion wine down in the basement, been there from like the 1920s or sometime. Man, it was great. But uh no, I'm kidding. Uh I didn't touch I didn't know anything. But anyway My ma nowadays we just spray it and it they wield up within a day. Anybody ever spray dana lines in the yard? Yeah, and it just kills them. Back when I was young, my mom had this little device. It was like a screwdriver, except it had a little hook on there with uh two little uh prongs there. Anyone and that thing was about eight Ten inches long. And she'd say, Alright, Danny, get out there and dig those dandelions up. So I'd spent a whole afternoon on my knees digging those things up. And the farther that root was down the harder they were to get out. And she would always say, don't just break it off. It's going to come right back. You got to get down and get the root out. And I think sometimes it's hard to forgive people because we've allowed that unforgiveness to take root in our heart, and there's bitterness there, and to root that out. I'll be honest with you, I think it takes the grace of help of God sometimes to get that out of there and to be able to forgive someone. So the fortitude of forgiveness, it's not always easy But it is right, and a weak a weak anemic Christian is going to find it very, very difficult to forgive. I've got to be strong in the Lord. I've got to have God's help. I've got to have some moral courage and and fortitude to be able to say, no, I'm not going to allow bitterness in my heart. No, I am not going to allow uh unforgiveness, harbor that in my heart and life. I am going to forgive as God has forgiven me. And that takes strength of character. Right? Now I want to end with this because I want to move on and finish up this. But last, the last, very, very quickly, the freedom of forgiveness. Oh, by the way I think the most d let me back up just make one more statement and then I'll quickly end up with the I'll end with this. This last point. Um I think the most difficult act of forgiveness is recorded for us in Luke chapter 23. Now, for sake of time, we won't turn there. But in Luke 23, we have the Luke's inspired account of the crucifixion of Jesus Christ Would you agree with me? Jesus was sinned against when they condemned him, beat him, and nailed him to the cross, right or wrong? He was innocent. They murdered an innocent man. Of course, again, God was behind all that. Scott had a plan. But hanging on that cross, he made a statement, I think he expressed Perhaps the most difficult act of forgiveness recorded anywhere in Scripture. He looked at the men that had just beaten his face unrecognized, pulled the beard as a crown of thorns Blasphemed him, reviled him, mocked him, and beat him to a pulp. And he looks down. And by the way, no repentance on their part. No remorse on their part. And he looks down and he says, What, Father, forgive them. For they know not what they do. Wow. You say, well that's Jesus. I'm not Jesus. Right. It's hard. But we have the Holy Spirit of God. And God can help us forgive, even the most grievous sins. Now, the freedom of forgiveness, the faith, the foundation, the fortitude, I'll end with this, the freedom. John R. Rice said this By God's grace, a Christian can so forgive that every memory brings not bitterness, but a sweet sense of peace without any anger and without any bitterness. John R. Rice said, it is possible for a Christian to forgive to such an extent That even when I remember the remorse, it doesn't bring back bitterness and hatred. It brings peace to my heart. I put three three ways where forgiveness frees us up. Number one, it gives us emotional freedom I don't have to deal with that trauma of rehashing what they did for uh against me over and over and over and over. And all the remorse that comes with it, all the bitterness that comes with it, I can forgive, give that to God. And even when I remembered, I can still have emotional peace there. Number two, I put this down. Spiritual freedom. And again, we I wish we had time. We don't have time to go. I was planning on going to all these verses. We don't Psalm 66, 18. If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will what? Not hear me. If I have unforgiveness in my heart and God commands me forgive, we pointed that out, and I refuse to forgive someone My Bible says God won't hear me. Matthew, or Mark chapter 11, verse 25 says just about the same thing. If we want our prayers answered, we better forgive. Because God's not going to answer our prayers. I wonder how many our families are suffering because a daddy or a mommy or somebody won't forgive someone. And God doesn't hear our prayers and God doesn't do a work in our in my life. I wonder how many people are hurting spiritually. And uh because they won't forgive and they don't have that blessing, that contact, interaction with God like they can have if they'll forgive. Uh Matthew chapter six, verse fourteen and fifteen. Fellowship uh unhindered. When I forgive, my fellowship with God is unhindered. Unhindered I like this statement. My forgiveness of another has more to do with my relationship with God than it does with my relationship to that person. When I forgive someone, the effect is more this way than this way. And then thirdly, last of all, there's physical freedom there I read several studies. I got looking this up. How does unforgiveness affect me physically? How does bitterness in my heart affect me physically? You would be amazed. Do your own study sometime. Unforgiveness, anger, and resentment has a profound effect upon our physical well-being. I have a list here. I found an article that lists how unforgiveness can have significant negative effects on your physical health, and it lists six different areas. Increased blood pressure and heart disease risk. Arthritis and joint pain. Worsening arthritis and joint pain. Poor sugar control and diabetes. Weakened immune system, sleep problems, fatigue, digestive issues. And they explain. They give a bit of explanation under all that. Forgiveness. Now let me be very very careful. Just because someone has sugar problems doesn't mean they're bitter. I know how some of y'all think. Just because they got arthritis doesn't mean they're harboring unforgiveness to somebody. But the idea is this Unforgiveness and bitterness, that root of bitterness, affects us physically. It affects us. And God wants to bless us. Joseph It's interesting, and we're going to pick this up next week and pick it back to Joseph. But it's interesting. Joseph enjoyed his life because he forgave his brothers. We don't see any, we don't see any sense of frustration or anger on the part of Joseph anywhere. You read it and uh the impression is he's got peace of mind. He's got peace of heart. And we don't read anything about him and his brothers, we don't read any more animosity or anything from that point till the end of his life. We're given very little record. I'm telling you, if there was stuff going on, probably it would we would have known that. And it's just peace. It's just quiet. Why? Because they didn't sin against them? No, they did sin against them. But Joseph forgave them. And it was peace in the family. And the relationship was restored. There was peace in his heart and life, the freedom of forgiveness. I hope this little mini-series was helpful. I know it challenged me And it's something we all have to deal with, because all of us are going to sin against people, and all of us are going to be sinned against. And we've got to get this down. Amen? Father, I ask you to bless now, and I hope this was helpful I pray, dear Lord, that we would be a forgiving people, a forgiving church, our homes, our relationships And Lord, help us to uh never forget, never forget how merciful and forgiving you are to us. With heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, preacher, these are some areas I need to work on. And I don't know what the specifics are, but you'd say, preacher, pray with me, that God will help me apply some of these things we looked at. Any like that, by the off the lifted hand. Probably the truth we're known. We all have to deal with this. There's no doubt Father bless now and help us in Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, Isaac