Number thirty seven. And uh we're working our way through here. The the m the overall message was um Joseph's betrayal by his brothers. And we started there in verse twelve. We're working our way down through verse 30. And if you'll remember, we uh looked at Jacob's mission for Joseph. And um he sent Joseph out to find his brothers. Brother went out, brothers went out And um uh were taking care of the sheep. They were about sixty miles away over near Shechem. We talked about that, and then they wandered off from there over to Dotham. And um and so j Uh Jacob sent Joseph, go find his brothers, just check on him. And uh I think there's several reasons. One, it was kind of a dangerous area if you remember we said that, and secondary This was a huge investment. They had his sheep. That's where his money was. That was his business. And so um That's not wrong for him to want to check on that. He's just being responsible. So he sends Joseph out to check on him. Then if you remember, the Jo uh his brothers saw him coming And they've got a bad attitude. They hate him. We talked about that. And they say see him coming and they come up with this conspiracy to kill him. They're going to kill their brother. And um and so uh we looked at that and then Reuben, he showed some compassion, he intervenes. Let's not kill him, we'll just throw him in this pit here And uh and um and so they did that, and uh Joseph ends up in the pit. So when we finished this, was it last week I think when we ended this, Joseph was in the pit And that's where we left them. So let's pick up there in verse number 25. The Bible says, and they, that's his brothers, they sat down to eat bread. And they lifted up their eyes and looked, and behold, a company of Ishmaelites came from Gilead with their camels. bearing spicery and balm and myrrh, going to carry it down to Egypt. And Judah, now remember Reuben's the one that intervened. Now Judah speaks up And Judah said unto his brethren, What profit is it if we slay our brother and conceal his blood? Now just an aside, we'll look a little bit, but um, I'm wondering if Judah isn't having second thoughts here about killing and his brother. Reuben's against it. And I wonder if uh Judah here isn't thinking, well, listen, maybe we can don't have to be that drastic. What profit is it if we slay our brother and conceal his blood? Come, let us sell him to the Ishmaelites And let not our hand be upon him, for he is our brother and our flesh. That's where I get the idea he's kind of softening up a little bit. And his brethren were content. Then they're passed by Midianite merchantmen. They drew and lifted up Joseph out of the pit and sold Joseph to the Ishmaelites for twenty pieces of silver, and they brought Joseph to Egypt. And Reuben returned unto the pit. We don't know where he was during all this. And behold, Joseph was not in the pit, and he rent his clothes. Now returned unto his brethren and said, The child is not, and I, whither shall I go? So what we're looking at tonight are these merchant men of Midian. Let's pray, and we'll pick up here where we left off. Father. I'm very blessed now, our study of your word. We thank you for preserving for us this account of Joseph and his life and how you used him. uh in the in the nation of Israel. So I pray we'd learn from it. Holy Spirit, please teach us lessons from this passage. Lord, I yield myself, my will to you and my body. I pray you'd fill me and That you would be the speakers, what I always want. I want to pray that you would speak through me to our hearts and teach us and challenge and challenge us, encourage, and direct us. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. We remember two characteristics of Joseph's family. Jacob's family, him and Jacob and Leah and Rachel, and then the two other women involved there. And then all the kids, the boys. Two characteristics of this family. Number one, we noted there's a lot of deception going on. And if we go back and study Jacob's life, it's right from the get-go. He was lying to his daddy before when he was still living at home. And then that carried over into his marriage, his uncle's deceiving him, he gets involved there, and uh and the boys are deceiving. So deception was characteristic of Jacob's life and uh his family and uh deception, lying, hiding things from each other, sneaking around, and um you would you agree with me that's never a good thing in a family. Lying and sneaking and hiding, that is not good for relationships. But nevertheless, it was rampant in Jacob's family, in his home The other characteristic we noted was there was hatred. Rachel hated Leah. She was hated. Jacob hated Leah, at least initially. The brothers hated Joseph. Jacob had falling out with his uh uh his brother. He had fallen out with his uncle. And so it's car there's hatred is is rampant through this family. Would you agree with me? Hatred in a home is a bad thing. We don't want that. But nevertheless, here it is. Now, those two, and I'm getting somewhere with this, but those two, deception and hatred, go hand in hand. If you would, I want us to just jump back, and again, I'm taking a bit of a rabbit trail here, but come back with me to Proverbs. I have two verses in Proverbs, two passages in Proverbs I want us to take note of, both in the same chapter, chapter 26, Proverbs chapter 26. And I want to begin in verse number 24. Deception and hatred. Proverbs 26, and look with me if you would at verse number 24. Alright, give you a chance to find it there, Proverbs. It's funny how we end up in Proverbs so often, isn't it? Proverbs such a practical book. And much of the history of the Bible, the history that's recorded in the Bible is illustrating principles that are given in Proverbs And New Testament also. But look at verse 24, chapter 26 of Proverbs, verse 24. He that what hateth dissembleth with his lips And layeth up deceit within him. Now that word dissembleth is kind of a uh it has the idea of deceiving or covering up, hiding. But notice what he says. He that hateth does two things. One, he hides things. However, sneaky dissembleth, and he he layeth up deceit within him. Hatred and deceit go hand in hand. Come down to verse 28. He says it a little clearer here, a little more distinct here. A lying tongue, now look at this, a lying tongue hateth those that are afflicted by it. And a flattering mouth worketh through it. If I'm lying to somebody, that means I do not love that person. Somebody is lying to another person. It says here, a lying tongue hateth those that are affected by it. A Christian, as a child of God, if we're walking with God, we ought to, two things ought to characterize us, our homes, and our us. Number one, it ought to be honesty. Amen? Christian ought to be honest. Everywhere, all the time. And number two, we ought to be loving. You ought to be compassionate. And what I'm getting at, Joseph is coming out of a home that is diametrically opposed The opposite of everything God intends for a home. Now I'm belaboring that point. We've brought this out just about every time we've looked at him, but it is so prominent in his family to an extreme And so we have these two here. Now let's look at this these merchants of Midian. The first thing I want us to notice back in Genesis 37 here, first thing I want us to notice is the callousness of his brothers. Now we touched on this a little bit at the end of our last lesson. I want to pick it up here in verse 25, and this just catches my attention. It says, uh, now they're going to kill Joseph. Reuben intervenes, no, no, no, just throw him in the pit right now. So the idea is eventually they're going to kill him. They just threw him in the pit right now. And so Joseph is in the pit. He's all distressed. I mean, Joseph is hollering, no doubt, crying, begging them. And look what they do, verse 25. And they sat down to eat. I see a callousness there, don't you? I mean, her brothers languishing in this pit that we described last time. They're fixing to kill them, and I see absolutely no Conscience on the part of the brothers whatsoever. Now, Judah a little bit later, we'll see here, he kind of softens up a little. But at this point Oh, what I'll throw him in the pity screaming and hollering, yeah, we're gonna kill you. I'm hungry. What's to eat? And they sit down. Um looks to me a normal person they would be bothered by this. A conscience would be there. Are you with me? You see what I'm thinking? And there's a cowlousness here. Any of you working folk, do you ever get a cowlois on your hands? You know, what happens when you get calluses? Your skin gets hard, and what else? It gets very, very hard, it builds up, and there's another characteristic of a callus It's rough, but there's something else there. It's insensitive. You get a good big cowus And um uh I don't have a whole lot of calluses as pastor. I've got some working in the garden and stuff. But um man back when You know, work the farm and stuff. You get a big callus, you could take a needle and just stick it in the callus and walk around. You won't even feel it. Anyone know what I'm talking about? They can tickle themselves? Really? A guitar player can tickle themselves. And they think it's someone else tickling them. I'll work that in my notes here somehow So Taous on my hand it's it's hard and it's insensitive. I tell you, it's good to have it's good for a man, particularly I guess there's nothing wrong with a woman, uh, to have calluses on his hand, right? That's a hard-working man there, says calluses But we get a heart that is calloused that's not good. Our heart gets hard, gets insensitive. Um Joseph's brothers, as I said, appear to have no conscience whatsoever. Their heart is cold, it's hard, it's calloused. Their plan that and that tells me that um when they sat down to eat, that tells me that their plan to murder Joseph was probably not just the an impulsive act. Oh there he is, oh I've got real mad, we'll kill him. Usually if uh if it's uh if it's an act of passion, uh uh uh a heat of the moment, impassioned decision Usually that passion settles down pretty quick and then you start second guessing. Follow what I'm saying. Then you feel bad. Then you get all mad and blow up and ah we're gonna kill him. Then after it settles down, it feels bad. But they don't show that They don't they don't display that characteristic. And this tells me, and we brought this out before a little bit, but this was not just an impulsive act This was a settled decision rooted in a very cold, hard heart of these guys, filled with hatred Notice also, all right, so Joseph's in the pit, he's languishing. We noted uh in the New Testament reference that it says they sat down to eat. What a how cold can you be But then there's something else. Come down to verse 28. Now we're jumping ahead, and these merchants are coming by. And notice it says verse 28, then they're passed by the Midianites, the merchantmen. We'll talk about them here in a bit. And they drew and lifted up Joseph out of the pit. And sold Joseph to the Ishmaelites. Now, for some reason, God includes here how much Money they got from the Ishmaelite merchantmen uh and the Midianites, how much money they got for Joseph. What'd they get for Joseph? They sold them to him, what'd they get for Joseph? Twenty pieces of silver And I thought, well, why did God include that? Why is that a factor, how much they got out of them? I got looking it up and got some history books and did a little research there and Lo and behold, the average price for a, I mean, just an average slave, not an extra muscle, strong, gifted, talented, you know, educated slave. They'd be worth much more But the average price for a slave at this time was about 30 pieces of silver. Of course, that reminds you of Jesus and Judas. Joseph was sold below the price of an average slave. The 20 pieces of silver, according to a couple resources I came across, they suggested that 20 pieces of silver was the price for a handicapped slave. A slave who was very limited on what he'd be able to do for his master. A slave that had some sort of handicap and would be of not a whole lot of use. And so his brother's attitude, their value of Joseph at this point, was nothing more than just an old, handicapped, basically useless slave. And they sold them to these guys. That means each one of the brothers walked away with two pieces of silver for their brother. They lost their integrity. They became murderers, so to speak, kidnappers for two pieces of silver. Now this is interesting, and I'm jumping way ahead now These merchantmen buy Joseph. Now he's a young man. He's 17 years old, 18, somewhere in that range. We know he's at least 17. This might have been a year or so later. We don't know. He's 17, between 17 and 20 years old. Pretty strong guy. He's just height 60 miles for his brothers. He's intelligent. We know that from what we pick up from him later on. He's apparently a good-looking guy. Potiphar's wife thought so. And so why in the world these I imagine I'm using my imagination here, but I see these Ishmaelites and these Midianites there have their merchandise there Traveling to go to Egypt to sell their spicery and all the stuff they got, and they say, hey, we'll sell you this guy for 20 pieces of silver. Now these guys are merchants They know what slaves are worth. And they say, sure. And they buy them up Now, I'm jumping ahead here a little bit, but I'm trying to get a picture of how cold these brothers are They get the merchants get down to Egypt, they take Joseph onto the slave block there, wherever the auctions were, where however they sold the slaves. be a place they'd auction them off or sell them off somehow. Who buys Joseph? Potiphar. What is Potiphar's position? He's a big shot in the government. He's upper level. And he sees Joseph. He's no dummy. He's not bringing some handicapped limited fella into his household to be one of his servants, one of his slaves. I'm telling you, this guy is going for the best of the best. What do you think they sold Joseph for to Potiphar? I don't know, we're not told. But I guarantee you this, they didn't sell him for 20 pieces of silver. They didn't sell them for 25 pieces of silver. They didn't sell them for 30 pieces of silver. I guarantee you, now I'm just saying, I'm positive, they got top dollar. For Joseph's. Those Midianite merchants made a killing off of Joseph. I guarantee it. They uh what's how do they say it today? I don't know all this modern lingo. They made bank. Is that is that what they say, Ed, do you know? I think it sounds good. See I try to stay up on all this cool stuff. They made out like a bandit. They made out like a bandit. And I just but and so I'm just thinking his brothers could care less. They just wanted rid of them. And so I see the callousness of Joseph's brothers here. And I'm I'm belaboring the point because we spent some time on this on a previous message, but this tonight I got thinking In tonight's message I got thinking, how did this happen? How does a person get a callous heart? How does a person get a cold, hard heart? How do how does that come about? Well, we know that unbelievers, unsaved unbelievers, will often have a hard heart. They'll refuse Christ as Savior. Would you agree with me? If somebody hears of and understands what Jesus Christ did for them And what is available to them through the gospel of Jesus Christ, and to say, no, I don't want that. Would you agree with me? That'd have to be a pretty hard heart To reject that. Now it might be some blindness on their part, and there's a lot of issues. I did it for months before I got saved. I said no. I knew I need to be saved. I said no. Finally broke down. But um uh but unbelievers can have a hard heart. Uh Psalms, and we won't take time to turn there. Psalms 14 and verse 1 And Psalms 53 verse 1 says that a fool has said in his heart, there is no God. So that tells me, a fool says, no, there is no God, he's saying it in his heart. That tells me that atheism is the result of a heart condition. Not the reasoning of the head, it's because of the hardness of the heart. I'm convinced a person says there is no God I'm convinced it's not because of evidence they see around them, it's because of the hardness of their heart they say no God. There's no way in the world you can look at the design and the and the intricate design of our creation, life can only come from life. Every effect has a cause And then to say, oh no, no God made this. That is not reasoning in the head, that's hardness of the heart. And then you come up with all these theories that try and justify my hard heart and saying there is no God. There was a guy up in I was preaching up for Steve a couple black one of the last times I was up there and we went out uh one afternoon we just went knocking on doors there through the town and had a bunch of apartments knocked a door a guy came to the door And uh it was me and Steve was down a little ways, and I gave him the literature. I said, I want to invite you out. I'm preaching here at uh Galilean Baptist Church. Love for you to come on out. He says, and man, he laid into me, there ain't no God. And I mean, he just laid into me. And I said, how can he says, he says, how do you, he says, you don't have any proof that there's a God And I said, my friend, there's proof all around us. I said, look over that little bird in the tree. I said, that that thing, the eyes in themselves are so unbelievably intricate and design and technological achievement. I said, there's no way in the world that just happened. And I try and we we went back and forth a little bit and I used what to me is the clearest argument in the world. Um they'll ha they'll find these um Uh uh what are the things where the cave the outwest the Indians drew pictures on the cave walls? What do they call that? Hydro Hieroglyphics is Egypt, but there's paintings there like of you know buffaloes and the Indians throwing graffiti. Yeah, it's ancient graffiti And the thing is, I said, listen, it's out there. I've been out to uh Mesa Verde in southwest Colorado. I've seen it with my own eyes, these drawings. I said, every person, sane person in the world sees those drawings, and they say, somebody intelligent drew those drawings on the wall. They couldn't have just happened. I mean nobody says they just happened over Money. They said somebody drew that. It's obvious design there. You can see the stick figures and the and the buffaloes and the antelopes and they're stabbing them and they're cooking them and they have all these drawings. I said, but then you turn around and the actual buffalo, you say, oh well that just came from nothing. I said, that buffalo is ten billion times more intricate in design than a little scratching on the wall, and you say that has to be intelligence that this here just happened by itself. I said, I don't buy it. And so my point is this unsafe people Often have a hard heart, and I'm saying that folks that say there is no God, it's not them from logical reasoning, intelligent reasoning, it's from a hard heart that refuses to acknowledge the obvious. So that's my rant for tonight. So I'm saying people can have a hard heart. The other thought is this Saved people can have a hard heart. Believers can have a hard heart. Members of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church can develop a hard heart. If you would, take your Bibles, turn with me to Mark chapter number six. Now keep your place here. I don't think we're going to get all through my message tonight, but come with me to Mark chapter number six. And uh Jesus is speaking to the disciples here. I think in six they are he was uh out on the ship. And the wind's blowing everything. And uh they're scared to death. And finally, um verse number fifty, they when they oh uh uh He's walking on the water out to him is the context. Here, verse fifty, they also saw him. They were troubled. Immediately he talked with them and said unto them Saith unto them, Be of good cheer, it is I be not afraid. And he went with them to ship. Now look what he says to him, verse 52. This is Jesus talking to his disciples. They have forsaken all To follow him. They are believers. They believe in him. They've dedicated their lives to him. And look what he says in verse 52. For they considered not the miracle of the loaves. Look at this. For their heart was what? Hardened? These are disciples' hearts got hardened. Come over to chapter number eight and verse number seventeen. And uh here Jesus is warning them about the Leaven of the Pharisees, the false teaching, false doctrine of the Pharisees. And look at verse 17. And when Jesus knew it, he saith unto them, Why reason ye because ye have no bread? Perceive ye not yet, neither understand. Look at this. Have ye your heart yet hardened? Your heart is still hard? Now this is some time later, and he comes back, you guys, your heart's still hard. That tells me that a believer can have a hard heart. That tells me that a member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church can have a hard heart. That tells me that a pastor of a church, if a disciple can have a hard heart, a pastor of a church can have a hard heart. You follow me? So my question is this, his brothers obviously are callous, hard, cold hearts. They can sit down and eat. They're brothers languishing. They sell them for nothing. And then I get studying in my Bible about hard hearts, callous hearts, and I find out, lo and behold, a disciple can have a hard heart. And so my concern immediately becomes I don't want to get a hard heart. I don't want to be a cold, hard-hearted, callous Christian. I want to have a tender heart like God desires for us to have. And so, how does someone get a hard heart? How does that happen? Well, I put a few thoughts down real quickly. How can the heart of a child of God become cold and calloused? Oh, by the way, Joseph's brothers were the people of God. They're not Philistines. They're not worshiping Molech. They're God's people. In fact, they became the fathers of the tribes of Israel. To this day, the tribes of Israel are named after these guys that were killing, going to kill their brother. So they can get a hard heart, and a disciple can get a hard heart. That means that's very possible for me and you. And I don't want that to happen. And so, how does it happen? I put a few thoughts down. I'm sure there's a lot we could add to this. But I put this down. Number one, when we begin to focus on ourselves. When it becomes all about me, when my world begins to revolve around me, the problem with that is nobody else's world revolves around me. And so if my world is revolving around me and this person's world is revolving around them, and we come in close proximity, what's going to happen? There's going to be conflict And my focus becomes on myself. Pride. It's all about me. It's what I want, when I want it, where I want it, the way I want it. It has to be according to my demands. And when we get that way and we start focusing on ourselves, And pride takes over our heart, and selfishness takes over our heart. And self-centeredness and all we can see and everything is valued by whether it pleases me or not. If it pleases me, then it's of great value. If it doesn't please me, then it's of zero value. That's where his brothers were at. And when we start to focus on ourselves, we are our heart begins to harden. I want my way, regardless of what the cost is or what the consequences are. I'm getting my way. Brother, that's ingredients of a hardening heart. That's callous. That's the beginning of a callous heart. Taking without giving. It's all me. It's all mine. It's what I get out of it. I put this down. When self climbs on the throne of my heart, when self Climbs up and seats itself on the throne of my heart, my heart begins to crystallize and become cold and hard. Our hearts were not designed for us to be in the throne. Our hearts were designed for the King of Kings to be on the throne of our hearts. And when self is on the throne, when I'm the one, that heart hit starts getting hard. Starts getting hard. That's what the brothers' problem was. Number two, I put this down. Focus on self. Number two, lack of faith in God. God had revealed to Joseph and through Joseph to his family just a glimmer of what God's plan was for them. It wasn't just Joseph. They were involved in this. And they didn't like the role that God had for them in his plan. And rather than trusting God and and coming and saying, and Joseph says, Hey, I got this dream, and it was obviously from God, and and the she's bowed down, your she's bowed down to mine Rather than saying, wow, God has a plan. We're going to trust him. That he knows what he's doing. I don't like the idea, I wish everybody's bowing down to me, but if that's not my role, I'm going to trust God. And they didn't do that. They refused to trust God. God had revealed to them just a glimmer, and it wasn't all clear yet, but God had a plan, and they didn't like their part in God's plan They refused to trust God. And their heart became hard. Their heart became calloused. I tell you, when you and I Refuse to trust God. When we have a lack of faith in God, you say, Well, God's not doing it the way I think it should be done. Although that is not faith. I d I just don't see why God doesn't do it this way. I can't see why I can't be this and I can't do that When we get in that position, we're not trusting God, we're leaning on our own understanding, and a heart will begin to get hard. We've got to learn, listen, we have got to get to the place where we can trust God. Period. Jesus laid out a perfect example for us in the Garden of Gethsemane when he said this: nevertheless, not my will, but what? Thy will be done. That was total faith in God. Humanly speaking, Jesus said, let this cup pass from me. That was the man, Jesus, speaking. And he said, Nevertheless, God, I'm going to totally trust you. If you say no, I'm going to totally trust you. Not my will, thy will. I tell you, when we get to that point in our Christian life where I can trust God, Regardless, total faith in God. Not my will, Lord, your will. I trust you completely. You do what you think is best. Tell you when we get there, we're in a good position. We're in a good position. So number one, um uh focus on myself. I get all caught up in what I want, way I want, where where I want it, when I want it. I get where I'm not trusting God anymore. I'm demanding it be my way. And then I put number three down. What produces a cloused heart is failure to walk with God. A failure to walk with God. I got studying these boys, these brothers, and I can't find one place in the Bible where they built an altar to God. I went back, I looked, Noah built an altar to God. That altar was his personal walk with God. That was his interaction, his relationship, that's where he put his sacrifice on, that's where God would speak to him. Noah had an altar, built an altar. Abraham built altars. Abraham had a slew of them everywhere he went. Abraham built an altar. I tell you, Abraham, he wasn't perfect, but he had a personal walk with God. God considered him his friend. It's interesting thing about Abraham, these boys' grandfather. The interesting thing about Abraham, he never built a house. He never built no permanent buildings. But he did build altars everywhere he went. He left behind a trail of altars, wherever Abraham was. Not a trail or trail or uh trail of mansions and and uh houses and homes and businesses. No, a trail of altars. Abraham walked with God. I found where Jacob built altars. That's all being the most popular one. But I can't find anywhere where not one of these boys built an altar to God. Now, if they did, we don't know about it. If they did, they sure didn't act like they had a personal walk with God. And what I'm trying to say is this when I neglect my daily personal walk with God, when that becomes a low priority in my life as a believer I tell you, I'm allowing my heart to be in a position where it can start getting hard and cold. Um They had no personal walk with God. And you and I, a disciple, can have a hard heart. One of the fathers of it, the fathers of it, the tribes of Israel can have a hard heart. When I neglect my daily Bible and I know I hound this and I'm going to do it. till I'm as long as I have any sense about me. I neglect that daily time in God's Word where God can speak to me and God speaks to my heart and gives me his his word and it strengthens my faith and I get instructions and I he get warnings from him. For that day, if I start neglecting that daily Bible time, I tell you My heart's in danger of getting cold and hard. If I neglect that daily prayer, making contact with God, pouring my heart out to God, telling God the things I need, and telling what I'm grateful for. And asking them for direction and wisdom and help. And that's low priority in my life. I tell you, I'm in danger of having a hard heart. And let me bring it back to church attendance. Now I know I'm preaching the choir tonight, but sometimes the choir needs to be preached to. Church attendance, faithful. Now I know you know sickness comes up and things come up and we can't always be there. But to deliberately just neglect it And to make it a low price well, if there's nothing else going on uh if there's nothing else going on, maybe we'll go out to church. If the weather ain't bad, you know, if the weather's bad I can't go hunting or fishing or shopping or whatever. I don't know what ladies do and But um shopping. If it's a low priority, a Bible and prayer and church is a low priority, I'm in danger of getting a hard, calloused heart. So these boys Man alive. They throw their youngest brother in a pit. Their younger brother in a pit They're willing to let them die there. If he don't die down there, we're going to kill them. Hey, I'm hungry. Let's get some cheeseburgers. All right, I'll fire the grill up. They sit down there eating. And then they say, hey, here's some man. Tell you what, let's not kill them. We'll sell them. Two pieces of silver. Man, a lot I don't know what you could buy with two pieces silver, probably a bubblegum, maybe. I don't know what they could get with it, not much. So they had cold hard hearts. Now come back. I've got a little time. Maybe I can squeeze the rest of this in. Come back to chapter 37 of Genesis. First of all, we notice the callousness of these fellows. And now this company of Ishmaelites comes by. Verse 25 again there, chapter 37. Look at the last part. They're sitting there eating bread Verse 25, they lift up their eyes and look, and behold, out of nowhere, a company of Ishmaelites came from Gilead with their camels. And they're hauling all this stuff, spicery and balm and myrrh, and they're going to carry it down to Egypt. So I got looking up. And by the way, come down to verse 28. There they're called Ishmaelites Down in verse 28 it says, then they're passed by Midianite merchants. So you got Ishmaelites and Midianites. Obviously, they're traveling together. So I got looking up, who are these birds anyway? Well, the Ishmaelites are descendants of Ishmael. One of Abraham's kids that are outside the promises. The Midianites are descendants of Abraham also. Not from Sarah, but uh one of his other women. So the Ishmaelites and the Midianites were distant relatives of these guys. What are they doing? Traveling to Egypt with all these goods? Well, they had a working partnership together. Now these were two families, they had all gone separate way, reproduced, and had huge, they were uh almost the nations in themselves, they were peoples. And the Ishmaelites were known for their ability to handle camels. They were very good with camels. The Midianites were merchant men. They'd buy and sell stuff. So apparently, and a lot of the Jewish historians say that these two formed a partnership. And the Ishmaelites would drive the camels. They were like the truck drivers. And the Midianites were the merchantmen. They'd buy and sell and they'd invest here and get this. And so they worked together. The Ishmaelites are all right, we'll haul it down there with our camels, and you do your business. So that's that's what you got set up here. I thought that was interesting. These guys are working together. Uh they're in a partnership And they are traveling, this gets interesting, I don't, but they're traveling a well-established corridor. They would travel. There was this corridor, if you will, this route that was well used, well established, and it went from Asia Down to Egypt and North Africa. And they would take goods from Egypt and they would have these huge caravans. I mean, large. With all kinds of goods. He lists some of them there, spices and clothing and different things. They would pack them up. They'd buy them there in Asia. The Midianites would. They'd pack them up on these huge caravans. And they would haul it down this corridor, down to Egypt, was a big business place, and then across North Africa. And on this corridor, this gets a little interesting, they would build stations periodically along this corridor. I mean, it's thousands of miles. And they would build stations every so such distance. They'd have a station they'd stop. And they could, whatever, rest or whatever. And along those routes, this is what I thought was interesting, along those routes, they would either dig wells or they would dig pits. And in those pits they became like earthen cisterns. Now a cistern is not one of the brethren Brethren and sister, it was a huge hole they dug and they lined it, and they would keep water underground, it would stay cool, they could cover it up. What did Joseph's brothers throw him in? One of these pits. And so to me this got interesting for whatever it's worth. They were setting up on this corridor that these merchants would travel. Not, I don't know they did it deliberately. Maybe it was because of the pits were there, there was water there, maybe there was a station there that You know, they did some businesses, whatever, but they were not just out in the middle of a wilderness and some caravan just happens to be coming by out in the middle of the wilderness. What are you guys doing out here? Welln't that way at all? It was a well-traveled corridor. This was a normal, normal occurrence. These These caravans going across there. And they threw Joseph in one of their water pits. And so they had these stations built, these wells were dug, and by the way, these fellows were very well armed. They're carrying, probably in our dollar, I didn't compare it, but in our economy, millions of dollars worth of merchandise. And they're traveling thousands of miles. And I'm telling you, they were well armed. They were prepared to defend themselves against thieves and highwaymen and whatever might want to attack them So this is quite an entourage coming down here. This isn't just, you know, you have the little pictures for the kids, and there's like two camels and a little uh uh one of those little red wagons you play when you're a kid. Uh Little thing with some stuff stacked. It wasn't like that at all. This is a huge business investment transporting down there. And they sell Joseph to them. And so we have these company of Ishmaelites. And then we'll get back to our story here, verse 29 and 30, and I'll just touch on it. But you have the concern of Reuben. Reuben's off somewhere when they sell Joseph to these merchantmen. He comes back. And Joseph is gone. Joseph, or Reuben, is pretty much the only one who displays any kind of concern at all for Joseph. He's the only one that shows any kind of conscience. Ruben is outnumbered. Eleven to one, ten to one. And I found this. People that are going to do right, we need to understand this. If we're going to do what's right, we're going to be outnumbered in this old world every single time. We are not independent fundamental Baptists that believe the Bible and want to live according to the Bible. We are not the majority of people in this world. We never have been, we never will be. Reuben, to his credit, spoke up alone against the majority. We talked about speaking up last week. And so he's the only one that shows any concern. And then I end with this. I notice the control of God. Again, God's in control here. I think the tenderness of Reuben was God touched his heart to intervene before the boys would kill Joseph. Tenderness of heart. I think we need to ask God to give us a tender heart, don't you? God help me have a tender heart Help me be willing to speak up in a compassionate in a right way, wisely, but have a tender heart for people that have a need. I think God did that. And I know That the timing of these this caravan was of God. Did you notice? They didn't show up before Joseph was there. If they'd have come through there before Joseph showed up, Joseph would be a dead man. They came by after Joseph showed up. They didn't go by too early. But they came by before the boys killed Joseph. I mean the timing was perfect. And I there's no doubt in my mind that God had that all laid down. God stirred their hearts to get up and say, hey, we're going to make a trip, we're investing, months and months before, maybe year before. These merchantmen started their plans and stuff making their purchases and putting it organized there and they started traveling down and God had all that together so that it would be perfectly time When Joseph was there before the brothers killed him. I mean months, maybe a year in advance, God had that thing gone. Do you ever think about this? Do you ever uh I don't know if it ever happened to you, but do you ever pray for something Maybe you're asking God for some money or something. I need some money, Lord, get it, and it shows up in the mail. I mean that's happened to me a number of times, but something happens. But you think about it, for that to show up when it did, somebody days and weeks before had to start that process in motion for it to get to me when it does. That's God. Before I even ask for it, he's already working, he's already planning. I see God all over the timing of this They show up there after Joseph chose up. If they'd come a day or two before, they'd have missed it. Joseph would have been killed. They come before Joseph's killed. You know, it's often difficult or impossible to understand God's dealings. Can I get a witness? Do you ever ask yourself this? Now be honest. Do you ever ask yourself this? Why in the world would God let that happen? Yeah, we probably all asked that. Why? David did over and over in the Psalms, God, why? Job said, why, God? Why are you putting me through this? Jesus on the cross, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? We ask that. Now I think our motive for asking it is a factor If I'm asking God, why are you doing this for the purpose of judging whether God is doing right or not, then that's bad. If I'm asking God why why is he doing this, just simply I want to make some sense of it? I'd like for, you know, just to be able to understand It's hard to understand often God's dealings. Sometimes it's impossible. But here's what we have to remember. And Joseph is in this pit languishing. We don't have any record of him saying, God, why are you letting this happen to me? I thought I was had these dreams. Now we don't have any record of him saying that, but knowing human Seems like it would have gone through his mind. Here's the thing we have to keep in mind. God knows the end from the beginning. We don't. We don't know how it's all going to end up. We don't know how it all turns out. There are so many factors that we are not privy to. That God is. And there's no answer sometimes to the question why, not here in this time frame. But later on, Joseph understood. And what I'm trying to suggest to you, whether it's in this life or the next, someday, I believe, we'll understand. God knows the end from the beginning. Deuteronomy, I think, is the reference there. Deuteronomy 46. 10. God knows the end from the beginning. And so it comes back to a matter of faith. God, I don't understand. I don't know what the reasoning is. I can't figure out why in the world you'd let this happen to me. But God, I trust you. I trust you. And I'm telling you, this whole book tells me that one day it'll make sense. One day, God meant it for good. God meant it for good. It's interesting, in Acts, Stephen is being stoned. Well, before he's stoned, he's preaching to the Pharisees. And I mean, he's laying into him. And he references Joseph. And he makes this statement. And God was with him. And that word with, I got looking it up, has this idea. God was partnering with Joseph. In other words, God's going through all this right with him, making sure everything's falling in place. And that he ends up right exactly where he's supposed to be. God was with him. It's faith. God, I don't understand why in the world you told me these dreams. I don't know why this happened to me. I'm in a pit. They're gonna kill me I don't understand, but God was with them. God was partnering as God's going to see them through. I don't know what you're going through. We all have the issues. I don't know anybody right now that's in a pit waiting to be killed. But sometimes we feel that way. And I want to say to you, just trust God. Just trust God. Stay in your Bible. Pray. Read your Bible. Walk with God. Be faithful. Just trust Him. He's with us. He's with us. Amen? Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us learn from Joseph's in the pit and these merchants. And help us, Lord, when we don't understand to trust. And Lord, help us when we're afraid to remember that you're with us. You'll never leave us nor forsake us. So help us, Lord, in Jesus' name. Are the heads bowed up?