I want to begin reading in verse 32. The background, of course, Joseph betrayed by brothers, sold in Egypt as a slave. Potiphar purchases him like an item You buy at an estate sale, he buys Joseph. Joseph does him well and uh and becomes very uh uh successful, very prosperous, Potiphar does under Joseph's service His wife falsely accused him of assault, thrown in prison, he's in there. Two fellows show up from Pharaoh's um administration, Pharaoh's household I guess you could say, a butler and a Baker, and uh they have dreams. Joseph interprets their dream. Both of his interpretations come true exactly as he said. One is executed The butler's restored back, but the butler forgets about Joseph. And then Pharaoh has these dreams we looked at, I think, last week. And then the butler says, Oh, yikes, wait a minute, I forgot. And he tells Pharaoh about Joseph, and Joseph is brought up out of the prison, and now he's in the presence of Pharaoh. And um He interprets his dreams to him. Now we want to pick up. That's where we're picking up, verse 32. He just told him what these dreams are. And what they mean. Seven years of plenty, seven years of famine. Look at verse 32. And for that the dream was doubled unto Pharaoh twice. It is because the thing is established by God, and God will shortly bring it to pass. Now, therefore, let Pharaoh look out a man discreet and wise and set him over the land of Egypt. Let Pharaoh do this, and let him appoint officers over the land, and take up the fifth part of the land of Egypt in the seven plenteous years. And let them gather all the food of those good years that come, and lay up corn under the hand of Pharaoh, and let them keep food in the cities. And that food shall be for store to the land, that food shall be for store to the land against the seven years of famine, which shall be in the land of Egypt, that the land perish not through the famine. Verse 37, and the thing was good in the eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes of all his servants. And Pharaoh said unto his servants, Can we find such a one as this is A man in whom the Spirit of God is. Do you notice that Pharaoh's now talking about God? I think that's interesting. And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, For as much as God hath showed thee all this, there is none so discreet and wise as thou art. He's using Joseph's words. And he said, You need a leader back there in verse 33. Pick out a discreet and wise man. He goes, You're discreet and wise, as thou art. Thou shalt be over my house And according unto thy word shall all my people be ruled. Only in the throne will I be greater than thou. Wow. Isn't that something? And so let's pray together, and we're going to look here. Joseph's rise to power. Father, I ask you to bless our study of this segment of Joseph's life, very significant. Lord, I believe there's some truths here and some principles that will help us as a church and as individuals. And I pray your Holy Spirit would teach us those truths and those principles. And so, Father, I want to be out of the way. I don't want my understanding or my thinking to interfere with your truth And so I yield my will to you, Father, and present my body anew, my brain and my mouth and my body just as a channel for you to speak through me, Lord, and teach us. And help us to have open hearts and minds, that our faith in you would be stronger and our understanding of the Christian life would be clearer. So please fill me with your Spirit. It is my prayer in Jesus' name. Amen. I know I'm starting to sound like a broken record here a little bit. How many people remember what records are? Yeah, I've got an old crowd here. I'm starting to sound like a broken record. But there's few people in Scripture that I can find that are as faithful to God as Joseph was. There's others that were very faithful, there's no doubt. I'm not saying there aren't any others as faithful, but very few. And regardless of what his circumstances were, and regardless of what treatment he received from others, Joseph remained faithful. And I respect that tremendously. I find very few men or women in Scripture as patient as Joseph was. Now we talk about the patience of Job, and of course he was certainly very patient, but um Joseph was patient. And we pointed this out, and I'm probably keep doing it here for a little while, but I don't sense, I don't see any anger On Joseph's part for his betrayal of his brothers, I don't see any anger on bitterness towards his slavery or his false accusations or being forgotten How many folks, if half the things that happened to Joseph happened to you, you'd really be irritated. Anybody? Yeah. It'd be like, good night, come on But we don't pick up any of that from Joseph. At least it's not recorded in Scripture, no bitterness. What I see is just a quiet, patient attitude. Trying to be a blessing to others, regardless of what his circumstances are, regardless of how they treated him, he's trying to be a blessing to them. What a patient man Regardless of what he was going through, it appears to me he sought to be a help and a blessing to others. And I tell you, that's a challenge for you and I. We have a tendency, I say we, I was pretty sure uh we. Uh maybe I should say me. But don't we sometimes aren't we don't we tend to be when we're being mistreated and we're unpleasant circumstances, we have a tendency to get selfish We look at all our problems and all me, and somebody says, Oh yeah, you think you got it, bad. Look at me. But I don't see any of that on Joseph's part, regardless of what he's going through. He sees someone else that has a need, somebody else that he can be a blessing to, someone else that he can be a help to. And I find him doing that. What a tremendous man. He's trying to be a help and blessing. There's very few people in Scripture I find that live the level of integrity that Joseph did. Regardless of treatment or circumstances, he did what was right. He worked hard. He told the truth. Uh so we we we sometimes will, if we don't say it, we think this, nobody's treating me that way and getting away with it. Huh? Oh yeah, you do that to me, I'm gonna do it back to you. You're gonna get what you're giving. I don't see any of that on Joseph's part. And uh he did right. Everyone else doing wrong, he did right Everyone else not doing what they should, he's working hard. Lies all around him, hatred all around him. He's telling the truth. He's being kind. He's being a blessing. Now here's, I said all that to say this. This is what I think makes all that even more significant, is he did not know how this was all going to end up Now he had those dreams. Remember the dreams way back? The sheaves bowing down to him and all of that. And I'm sure he considered there was some significance to that. But I don't know that they're in his mind until later on when his brothers show up, then he remembers the dreams he had So I'm thinking at this point in time, he's not doing right and working hard and being nice so that he can be number two in Egypt. He has no idea that's going to happen. As far as he knows, when he's done interpreting these dreams for Pharaoh, he's heading right back down to the prison. As far as he knows, there's no reason to think that this is a particular turning point in his life. He's just trusting God. He's doing right. And I put it this way, trusting God and doing right was his only policy. Remember, it was that Abraham Lincoln said honesty is the best policy? I think it was Abraham Lincoln said that. I would modify that. Honesty was Joseph's only policy. There is no other policy besides honesty and doing right integrity. I put a few things on, by way of introduction, then I want to break this down. I've got three, I broke that what I just read here. I broke it down to three Thoughts, three points. But I want to give a few lessons by way of introduction. And maybe I want to encourage you to maybe jot these down. I think these might be helpful. to us, maybe in the fly beef of your Bible or somewhere. But I put three lessons down. I put this down. Number one, put no confidence in man. Do not put confidence in man. Think about Joseph up to this point. Every single person in his life has failed him. His brothers, right? Potiphar, well, Potiphar's wife, and then Potiphar, knowing we believe that he was innocent, threw him in prison The butler, he forgot all about them. If Joseph had put his confidence in man, he'd have been discouraged, depressed, and bitter a long time ago. So, number one, might want to jot this down. Put no confidence in man. Number two, I wrote this down. Keep our focus on the faithfulness of God. Keep our focus on the faithfulness of God. Here's where we mess up. As we get so focused on the failures of men, the failures of people around us That we get our eyes off the faithfulness of God. And I want to remind us tonight, God has never failed us And don't let anybody ever convince you that he has. Joseph speaks highly of God. Joseph speaks positively of his God. And so don't put confidence in man. If he had done that, his life would have been a mess, no doubt. Stay focused on the faithfulness of God. And number three, I put this one down. Learn to wait on God. Learn to wait on God. I don't think Joseph knew what was how this was going to play out here with Pharaoh. Not at this point, anyway. He didn't know what those dreams, what they really meant as far as his how how they would play out, what they meant for him. But he just waited on God. He just waited on God. I just see patience all through here, just waiting. God's timing. God's timing. And so, what a tremendous man Joseph is. And I know I keep saying that. Now, here I want us to notice three things. We're going to look at two of them. The third one we'll pick up in another message. But the first thing I want to notice in our passage is Joseph's assurance to Pharaoh. Joseph's assurance to Pharaoh. Look at verse 32. And we talked about the double dream part from verse 32, and that meant it's sure to happen. But this is what I want us to notice. It says, he's speaking to Pharaoh. He's told him what his dream he's interpreted the dreams, he's told him what they mean. And then he says this to Pharaoh. He says, for that the dream was doubled under Pharaoh twice, it is because the thing is what Established by God. God will shortly bring this to pass. Joseph is assuring Pharaoh, listen, what I just told you is going to uh that is what I just explained to you is gonna happen. Seven years plenty, seven years uh famine. Listen. You need to understand, Pharaoh. This is for real. This is going to happen. This is legit. He's trying to assure Pharaoh that what the interpretation is is correct and it will take place. He needs to take this seriously. He cannot ignore it. He cannot blow it off. He cannot dismiss it. And I sense a seriousness on the part of Joseph here. I sense a urgency on the part of Joseph in pressing on Pharaoh that he needs to take this very, very seriously. Notice he uses the term established. It is because the thing is established. The word established means this, to be confirmed. Fixed in place, one definition said this, surely determined. And Joseph's using these words very deliberately. And I sense Pharaoh is picking up this assurance from Joseph that this is going to take place. He says there at the end, he says, God will surely bring it to pass. He repeats himself and uses other words. He restates it, but he's repeating the truth. Joseph was absolutely convinced that what God said was so. And let me just stop and throw this out. You know, when we're telling others about the Lord, maybe it's a personal witnessing, maybe it's teaching a class, maybe it's just talking about the Lord to others, whatever Whenever we're giving biblical truth, whatever the circumstance may be, whatever the setting may be, when we're given biblical truth, we must give it with assurance. We must press upon people that what God says is so. This world needs to know that what God says is so. Pharaoh needed to understand that. That this wasn't a game, this wasn't a little story. There's going to be seven years of famine, life and death. And when we tell people about the Lord and we warn people about hell, we need to make sure we need to do so with assurance and confidence and urge them to say: listen, this is for real. I think sometimes we just, and and I understand, but sometimes we tell Bible stories as if they're just fairy tales. I always try and emphasize the fact, listen, these aren't stories, these are historical accounts. And when Jesus talks about future judgment and some of these things that uh await us in prophecy. We need to have assurance and confidence. Listen, if God says this is going to happen, it's going to happen. And I pick up that sense on Joseph here, this sense of assurance, this confidence, this urging. For Pharaoh to take this seriously. And so this urgency he has, this assurance or confidence he has, I think it produces a great boldness. He's telling, he's telling, what he's telling Pharaoh is not 100% good news. I mean, he's standing before Pharaoh saying, listen, this is the way it's going to be. Very boldly, very confidently. And I found this interesting. As I was studying this out, I noticed something. When Joseph interpreted the dreams for the butler and the baker, that was on his turf. so to speak. They were in prison. Joseph had been here a long time in prison already. This was his turf. He had established himself. He was very, very successful there. God prospered his work there in the prison of all places. And these two guys come from Pharaoh's court, Pharaoh's household or whatever. They come down, they're thrown down in here. They're coming on Joseph's turf, and when he interprets their dreams, he interprets them very confidently. He just tells them, point blank, hey, this is what your dreams are. Your head's going to be chopped off. You're going to go on back up there. Just very boldly. But I sense that same demeanor in Pharaoh's court before the most powerful man in the world, arguably the most powerful man in the world. And Joseph, I don't see any difference in his demeanor. I don't see any difference in his interaction with Pharaoh than it was with uh the butler and the baker. You follow what I'm trying to say He was not intimidated by the position that this man held. He was not intimidated by the power, humanly speaking, that this man held. He's very bold in declaring what those dreams meant, what the truth was, what the future held. And I see no difference. I don't see him pandering. I don't see him, you know, timid in any way, shape, or form, just very matter-of-fact, very bold. Hey, here's what it is. He tells the butler and baker, this is what your dreams mean. He tells Pharaoh, this is what your dreams mean. I don't see any difference in his demeanor. Boldness, boldness. Someone has said that boldness is confidence that what I have to say or do is true and right and just in the sight of God. Now let me say that again. Confidence is knowing that what I have to say, what Joseph had to say, or what may I have to maybe what I have to do, it's true and it's right and it's just in the sight of God. Joseph knew that what he was saying to Pharaoh was true. It was God's revelation. And that gave him tremendous boldness. Listen, when you and I are sharing the gospel, when you and I are talking to people of the Lord, whether it's from behind a pulpit like I do weekly, or it's out in the streets, like we try to get out and talk to people on your job at lunch, whatever it may be. We need to know when we're given the gospel, it's not our message, it's not our church's message, it is God's message. And we need to speak it in that way. If we're apologetic and we're soft soaping it and and we're trying to tickle ears or whatever with it, well, you know. No, no, no. We need to give it compassionately, but very confidently. All through the book of Acts you find boldness, boldness, boldness. The book of Acts was probably the church at its boldest point in throughout church history. But you know what they kept praying and asking God for? Boldness. Man alive. They're facing torture and imprisonment and martyrdom fearlessly, apparently, but then they go back, Lord, give us boldness, God give us boldness I appreciate Joseph's. He's unintimidated by human power and human position, man's titles and man's position. I think his reverence and fear was God, not man. And he had tremendous boldness here. Whether Regardless of the audience, we need to give God's word with boldness, whether it's before a governor or it's in the ghetto. We only give God's word with boldness. We've had different politicians and different people that in society and government, whatnot. or are of some significance. We've had them come through our church over the years. And I'll tell you, I sin I'll tell you sincerely, I have never one time changed my message because of somebody sitting in the pew When I get up Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday nights, I'm convinced this is what God has me to preach, regardless of who's in the pew. And that's the way it ought to be. That's the way we ought to be when we're talking with folks. That's the way Joseph was. I read about a preacher, Hugh Latimer. I don't know if you've ever heard of him. He was from uh several hundred years ago over in England. He's a powerful preacher, fearless. And he was preaching there in London, I guess, and King Henry VIII. was in the audience. I think he came there to wherever the palace was or whatever, and he's preaching, great crowd, King Henry VIII was in the audience. I don't know what he preached on. I couldn't find out. I tried to figure out what he was preaching on. Whatever he preached on, it was the Bible. He was preaching the Bible, but I don't know what passage or what the topic was But whatever it was he was preaching from the Bible, it offended King Henry VIII. How many people would be a little nervous if you offended King Henry VIII? Might be a little concerned there. He got a message the day after. King Henry VIII sent a message to him. He says, I want you to come back next week. And preach for me again, but this time you're going to apologize for what you said that was so offensive to me. Next week, Hugh Latimer came back to preach. And um, big crowd now, because word's out. King's offended. Hugh Latimer is going to apologize for preaching the word of God and offending the king. And Hugh Latimer got up. Now I can't quote it verbatim what he says. But he said something to this effect. He says, I understand as I stand here that I am addressing great royalty. I understand that I am addressing very powerful people this morning. He said, but I also understand That I am preaching the Word of God, the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, and I must be faithful to my God. And they said he went on and preached the exact same message he preached the Sunday before, only with more fire than he did the week before. That's what Joseph had. This boldness, this confidence in preaching, and communicating to Pharaoh. What God had said. So his assurance, the first thing is Joseph's assurance to Pharaoh. This is established by God. God will shortly bring this to pass Produced great boldness. I put this down. It also produced great bluntness. Bluntness. I thought I came up with a new word, but I looked it up and lo and behold, it's actually a word Bluntness. It means very plain and to the point. And like I said, Joseph did not soft soap his words. He just told him exactly what it is. He didn't embellish anything. He didn't water down anything. He simply told Pharaoh exactly what God's message was. Proverbs 1426 says this, in the fear of the Lord is strong confidence. The fear of the Lord is strong confidence. I think our churches and ministries could use a good dose of the fear of the Lord again. I hear preachers sometimes and these YouTube guys and all these stuff and man they just water things down and they just soft soap everything. I tell you what we need. We need to lose the fear of man and reinfuse the fear of God again in our ministries. Joseph's fear and reverence and confidence in God overruled any fear of man, overruled any fear of Pharaoh And so his assurance. Then I notice in verse 33 down through verse 36, Joseph's advice to Pharaoh. His assurance, this is for real, Pharaoh, you need to take this seriously. It's going to happen. You mark it down. And then he goes right in and he gives this advice. Listen to the advice he gives. Verse 32 ends, and God will surely bring it to pass. Now almost without taking a breath, without missing a beat, he goes right in to something Pharaoh did not ask for. Pharaoh wanted the dreams to be what? Interpretive. What do they mean? You can interpret dreams. Joseph said, nope, I can't. God can. Here's what it means. That's all Pharaoh asked for. But Joseph, when he gives the interpretation, he understands the seriousness of the matter, and without giving Pharaoh a time to interrupt or say a word, he gives his advice. Would you agree? That could be a little risky right there. Notice what he says. Now, therefore. He's telling Pharaoh what to do. Let Pharaoh look out a man, discreet and wise, and set him over the land of Egypt. He didn't wait for Pharaoh to ask for advice. Again, very risky. He's giving advice without being asked for it. He's telling him what to do And again, I keep saying this, but I believe Joseph understood the gravity of the situation. And maybe he was concerned that Pharaoh was just going to blow this off. Not take it seriously. I think Joseph understood how urgent this was shortly come to pass. If we're going to do something, we're going to have to do it right away. We're going to have to put this in place right away. And so he goes into his advice. And in verse 33, his first advice is this: you need to have, you need a quality leader. You need somebody to oversee this thing that is of quality, not just any Joe Blow He says, now therefore, let Pharaoh look out amen. I think it's interesting. He didn't say a committee. Committees I I was reading, I forget somebody, I was just reading not long ago. They were saying, this was back, who was the first man to fly across the Atlantic? Was it Lindenberg? Was he the one? Whoever it was, somebody threw flew across the Atlantic And uh they came in a newspaper or somewhere and they came in and so-and-so flew across the Atlantic all by himself. He flew over all by himself, all the way across the Atlantic, and they were all excited And uh the and uh the fellow they were talking to just wasn't real impressed. They said, do you understand? He goes, yeah, I understand. One man could do that. He says, now if a committee had flown across the Atlantic, that'd be an amazing thing, because they'd never make it And so committees. Somebody said a camel is a horse put together by a committee. So Joseph says, get you a man. You don't need twenty-five people. Just get one person. Get a man. And he says he needs to be quality. Therefore, let Pharaoh look out a man. And he uses the term discreet. That word means to possess discernment. It means someone, you need someone that has an understanding of the situation, someone understands how to address. Seven years of plenty, seven years of famine. You need someone that understands this and how to address that. Someone you can trust. The word discreet has the idea of possessing sound judgment. You know, does it seem to anybody like common sense is a missing ingredient and a lot going on in the world? Joseph's saying, you need someone that has some common sense, that understands how serious this is, what it is, and then how to address it. And then he says, discreet, and you need someone wise. The word wise here has the idea of skillful use. Now get this: skillful use of information and resources. Alright, they're able to, they they've absorbed the information, they got all the information, what's going on, they understand what our resources are, what our options are. They're able to do that skillfully and make this thing successful. Dr. Robertson always said, everything rises and falls on leadership. And Joseph is telling him, listen, you need leadership. You need a man. But I think he goes a step farther. And I put this down. Dr. Robertson said everything rises and falls on leadership. And I would add this: leadership rises and falls on trust. If you have a leader you don't trust, you're going to have a, would you agree with me? It's hard to follow a leader you don't trust. There has to leadership must establish trust. I get a chance on occasion to talk to young preachers or they're taking a church or something, and I uh when Brother Steve Matthews went up and And Brother Chip and others, I tried to drill in them. One of the first things you've got to do when you become pastor of that church, you need to earn the trust of the people. Don't come in and demand it. They don't owe you their trust. You need to earn that trust. So they will follow you. If they don't trust you, they won't follow you. And that means you've got to be honest. You've got to be open, you've got to communicate financially in every way. And that's, I think that's what Joseph is telling Pharaoh in so many works. You need somebody that's competent And that you trust them. A person can be very competent but not trustworthy. There is going to be a problem I don't know what the figures are, I'm just throwing out numbers here, but I would imagine in our currency of this day. They're talking about billions, maybe trillions of dollars worth of grain and food, seven years of plenty, and then handling that. This is huge endeavor. And he says you need someone that's competent and somebody that's trustworthy. So his advice is number one, he says, get your quality leader. Number two, look at verse 34, the first part. He says, Let Pharaoh do this. Alright, get you a man, discreet and wise, set him over this. 34. Let Pharaoh do this, and let him appoint officers over the land So not only do they need quality leadership, but he needs a qualified support. In other words, one man can't do it all. Joseph says, listen, you get your man, but he can't do it all. You need a support team. You need uh teamwork here. One person cannot do it all. Success is never a one-man show. Never is. Ab Thomas, dear friend, and he's influenced our church in a great way. He spoke here before. He was youth director down at Highland Park when I was down there And uh he always said this. In fact, I think he has a book by this title, Teamwork Makes the Dream Work In other words, you have this dream, you have something you want to get done, you have something you need to accomplish, you need a team to accomplish that. Are you with me? And so Joseph is telling Pharaoh, saying, uh, uh, listen, you one man can't do everything, so you've got to put people in place. You need to have an organization. Uh pastors sometimes get a lot of praise when the church of the people do a lot of the work. Oh boy, he's a great pastor. Well, actually a lot of times it's a great church. That's doing the work. Pastor can't do everything. And so I think God has put together here at Mount Lake a great church. And man, all these ministries and different things that God is doing. It's a team, it's a support group. Uh and and uh in World War II I was reading uh I finished I was reading about uh I uh Eisenhower's uh leadership in World War II. And when um And when uh uh we invaded Normandy, and then the days following, as we're working our way, the Allies are working our way across France, they ran into an obstacle apparently they did not anticipate So I understood uh I s the book I was reading. They did not anticipate the hedgerows. How many people ever Remember hearing about the hedgerows in France as they worked their way. What they had, in France they had fields, and hundreds of years they would put these uh rocks and whatnot around the edge of the fields and they would grow up with shrubs and everything that were very, very thick and they were uh uh uh they were um uh uh uh elevated And so you would come to a field, you'd have to work your way through this hedge row, and the Germans would be on the other side, and they're just mowing them down when they're coming through the hedgerow, and they had no training on that. They did not anticipate that And they had all these directives coming from the top brass down what these grunts on the ground should be doing. And it wasn't working. We were getting slaughtered. And it slowed everything down And then the leadership said, you know, let's let the fellas down in the hedgerows, let them figure out the best way to deal with this. And the soldiers down on the ground, boots on the ground, they came up with ingenious ways. They put things on the front of the tanks, these uh spear-type things that could plow through that And when they let the the when they let the team do it, the support, so to speak, do it, they figured it out. And sometimes the best people in the success of an organization or a ministry Isn't necessarily the guy up here. Sometimes it's the folks down here figuring out what needs to be done. Are you with me? You follow what I'm trying to say? Sometimes the Sunday school teachers know best how to handle discipline in the classroom than the pastor that's not up in that classroom doing it. And so that's Joseph's advice to Pharaoh. Get you a good man to oversee us, knows what he's doing, understands, knows what the plan is, what needs to be done, then give him a team of people that can carry that out and do that. And so one, he says, quality, I don't know about you, this is good advice. In a ministry, in a business, in a in a endeavor such as this And then he tells number three, verse 34, the last part of verse 34 through verse 36, he gives them a plan of action. It says verse 34, the last part. He says, and take up the fifth part of the land of Egypt in the seven plenteous years. And let them gather all the food of those good years that come, and lay up corn under the hand of Pharaoh, and let them keep food in the cities. So he's saying, listen, you need places where you can store this, where it's not going to spoil. You need some type of greeneries. You're going to have to do some construction here But when that seven years of plenty is, take up five percent and store it, keep it, oversee it. Take up 5%. This is, I find, interesting, and this goes against my grain a little bit, but I think he's correct. He doesn't say, let the people store up their grain for themselves, so that they have some in the seven years of famine. Do you notice that? He's saying so many words. He's saying the government needs to take this up. and store it for the people. How many people that initially goes against your grain? Yeah, I don't like the government doing anything for me except fighting the enemies and paving our roads. But can you see where maybe people wouldn't take this seriously? And people say, yeah, right. Oh, seven years. Man, look at this. And seven tell me tell me I'm wrong. People get a big paycheck, average person they go out and blow it Buy a new four wheeler, get new of this, do that, I get a coach purse, I'm gonna get another one. I need five new pairs of shoes. I don't know. I think Joseph knew the people might not take this seriously, and they'd live high on the hog for seven years, and then when the famine came, they'd be hurting. There'd be devastation. So he says, Pharaoh, listen, you need to do this. Force it by by edict. Take this. And as much as I s like I said, as much as that goes against the grain, that was Joseph's advice. It's like Joseph knew instinctively what to do. I mean he just found out 15 minutes ago what the dreams were. It's not like he went back and said, oh, you know what, let me think on this. I'll come up with something for you. He didn't. Bear told him the dreams. He goes, all right, here's what they mean. Blah-buh-buh-buh-buh. God, it's this is for real, Joe Pharaoh. You need to understand this is for real. Here's what you need to do. Boom, boom, boom. It's like he came instinctively. It's not didn't get a bunch of guys together, let's get our heads together. What are we going to do? He just knew. I don't think Joseph was seeking a position for himself. Like I said at the beginning, I don't think he anticipated him getting any position out of this. I think he fully anticipated go back to prison. He just did what he thought was best. He told him what he thought was best for Pharaoh and for the nation. As a result of that, we'll notice later that Pharaoh advances him to the number two man in the whole country. We'll look at that another time. But Joseph, what amazing man. Now there's one other thing I just want to throw out here, and I picked this up years ago, and I don't I am not a money guy. I am not Dave Ramsey or anybody like that. But I noticed something here that might be helpful. Let me just throw this out to you. This hasn't been my approach for years. Sometimes, for whatever reason, God blesses us with a bit of prosperity Maybe a little extra money comes in. Something comes in we didn't anticipate. Are you with me? I'm not asking it to happen to you, but I'm saying you know what I'm talking about For whatever reason, you get an unexpected bonus, or you get some extra work, or there's overtime. And for whatever reason, God blesses you with some plenty for a period of time. I've always felt That God does that for a reason. I've always felt God knows tomorrow, and he knows the next week, and he knows the next month, and he knows the next year. And I've always wondered when God does something special, a special gift or extra work or whatever comes in I've always thought rather than just living, going out to eat every day and buying everything, I want all that, I always thought, I wonder, maybe If God isn't doing that because he knows down the road there's going to be a need or something. There's going to be something going on. Are you with me? You follow what I'm saying? And I think it's just a bit of wisdom When God bless us financially or materially in some way, think for a minute and say there's a reason God gave this. And and I don't believe it's just to go out and live high on the world, high on the hog. I think there's a purpose down the road. Remember, uh, and I don't have the reference, just came to mind. There was a lady in the Old Testament, I think it was Elisha. And her husband had died and they spent all their money on the doctor bills and she had great debt. Anybody remember that? And he said, go get you some and she had just had a little bit of oil, remember? And he says, go get you a bunch of vases and um, was it vases? Pots. Get you a bunch of pots and bring them in here And he starts filling those pots miraculously, and they're all full till they run out of pots. Anybody remember the story? And here's interesting. I wish I'd have thought of this before, I'd give you the reference. But he makes an interesting statement to her. He said, sell the oil, and then he points out, and pay the debt Now my thinking is why did he have to tell her to pay the debt? Maybe there was a danger of her taking all that money for the oil and going out and buying coach purses. And not paying the debt. You follow what I'm saying? I think faith promised sometimes God gives us some money maybe to help with missions and we take it, we go spend it on something, then we come and say, Oh, I don't got my faith promise money. Maybe God was given that ahead of time because he knew there was going to be a you follow what I'm saying I call it, ask my wife, she'll tell you, I call it the Joseph principle. So you get a little extra blessing, you get a little something unexpected, a little something come in. Think about it. Maybe God's doing something For seven years down the road. You follow? Follow? Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless us. Help us to learn from this. Help us to have faith in you. God, we pray that you would just, like Joseph, teach us to wait on you and be a blessing, and just let you lead and direct in our lives. Help us not to get bitter when we're treated unjustly Help us, Lord, to seek ways to help others and lift them and strengthen their faith. And help us to be very confident as we witness in this old sinful world. I don't know how God may have used this message tonight, but I wonder if there's some say, Preacher, God spoke to my heart. God challenged me in some ways. And you say, Preacher, pray for me that God did speak to my heart. Anybody like that at all? God did speak to my heart. God bless you. Hands around. Well let's act on that. God touched our heart or dealt with us about something. Let's act on that. Let's follow Him, agree with Him, and let His will be done in our lives. Father blessed now, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.