Genesis 37. I want to begin reading in verse number 5, and I'm going to read down through verse 11. Of course, we're studying the life of Joseph And we're just in the early stages of the biblical record of Joseph's life. Verse number five, we're picking up here. We already had noticed his introduction to him. He's the firstborn of who? Whose firstborn child? Hmm? Rachel. Rachel. Of course he's got eleven older brothers, but they are all from Leah and the concubines and all the those other gals. But Joseph is Rachel's firstborn. And I find this interesting. I don't want to re-preach last week's message, but I find it interesting that I believe one of the reasons Jacob made such a to-do about Joseph as he considered him his firstborn, legitimate firstborn child, because Rachel is who Jacob wanted to marry. And he ended up with Leah, you know that story. And then these two other gals get in on the mix, but Rachel was the one that Jacob wanted and Joseph is Rachel's firstborn. Thus, uh, I think that was a big part of his uh favoritism. So let's look at verse five. So we're picking up here, of course he gave him the coat And all that entail we looked at last week. Look at verse 5 now. And Joseph dreamed a dream. And he told it his brethren, and they hated him yet the more. And he said unto them, hear I pray you this dream which I have dreamed. And behold, we were binding sheaves in the field. And lo, my sheaf arose, and also stood upright. And behold, your sheaves stood round about and made obedience to my sheaf And then verse 8, and his brethren said unto him, Shalt thou indeed reign over us? Or shalt thou indeed have dominion over us? And they hated him yet the more for his dreams and for his words. Now, verse 5, they hated him yet the more for the coat. Now he has this dream. And they hate him even yet the more And he dreamed yet another dream. And told it his brethren, and said, Behold, I've dreamed a dream more. And behold, the sun and the moon and the eleven stars made obeisance to me. And he told it to his father and to his brethren. And his father rebuked him and said unto him, What is this dream that thou hast dreamed? Shall I and thy mother and thy brethren indeed come to bow down ourselves to thee to the earth? And his brethren envied him, but his father observed the saying. I want to talk about Joseph's dreams here. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless our study here of Joseph now as we look at this passage, these dreams you gave him, and uh the effect they had upon his family and on his life. And so I pray that you would teach us, help us to, Lord, I pray your Holy Spirit would Take from this some principles and some truths that can help us live by faith and serve you and be effective Christians, effective witness. I ask again for this message that you would fill me once again with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will and present my body anew. And Lord, please be our preacher tonight and speak to us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. As I said, uh Joseph was the firstborn of Rachel. I just went through this. He was the favorite of Jacob. And he was fiercely hated by his brothers because of the favoritism his father showed him. That coat didn't help things at all when he was wearing that. And so, in fact, if you notice there in verse number four, I believe it is says they can't even speak peaceably to him. I mean they are so out of sorts with Joseph, they can't even say a nice word to them. And um they're in bad shape. Now we have Joseph the dreamer. And um if you think about it, dreams played a big part in Joseph's life In fact, just about every turning point in Joseph's life, it involved somebody's dream. Here in this case, Joseph dreaming this dream, and it and I'm getting a little ahead of myself here, but it provokes his brothers to attempt to murder, try and kill them. They end up selling them off. But it was that dream that pushed them over the edge and caused them to sell him to these slave traders. Then down, if you remember, down in Egypt He's in the prison as a result of Potiphar's wife's false accusations. And these two fellows show up, the um uh the um butcher and the baker, but I don't think there was a candlestick maker involved in that. I think it was just the butcher and baker But they had a dream. And if you remember, as a result of that dream, that uh uh was able to bring Joseph before Pharaoh, because they forgot about the dream. The one fellow uh uh Joseph interpreted their dream and he ends up in front of Pharaoh. Pharaoh has a dream And that's what catapults Joseph into number two position in the most powerful nation of the world at the time. And so dreams, Joseph the Dreamer, and uh here is his dream. Um I anybody here dream at night when you go to bed? Anybody here dream anybody here dream a lot? When you go to bed, you dream a lot. Anybody here never ever dream? Or if you do, you don't remember it. I never dream I mean very rarely do I have a dream. Now they say everybody dreams, you just don't remember them. I hardly ever dream. My wife is a dreaming maniac. I mean she dreams the second she falls asleep every single night all night long she's dreaming about something and it's not just she wakes up in the morning and says I had this dream. I mean they are contact sport dreams She is uh uh some of her dreams are funny. It's been a little while ago, but it's happened a number of times over the year. And by the way, I got permission from her before I'm telling these But um uh early in our marriage she would dream and there was one time she was just cracked up in her dreams. She's just laughing away I'm wake up and she's up there, ah, she's just going on. So I woke her up. I said, What's going on? Oh, I had this funny dream. And uh early on she would um talk in her sleep. Anybody here talk in their sleep And she would talk in her sleep, and uh I'd wake her up, and after a while, um finally I got an idea. And so she'd be talking awake, so I would engage her in conversation while she's asleep That was fun. I just asked her the most ridiculous questions and she would in her sleep it would somehow incorporate it into her dream and she would answer it and go and then all of a sudden she'd wake up and realize what I was doing and without opening her eyes or anything she'd just all of a sudden go, shut up. I had more w fun with my wife's dreams Uh some of them are just weird. Some of her genes are just weird. And she has some violent dreams. I mean seriously, where And I I've got permission. I've been wanting to tell people this for years. But uh I I she said it was okay. Uh one time she was dreaming, I don't know what it was, but I woke up and she had my hand And she had my finger. She had one hand on my wrist, the other hand had my finger and was bending it back. I'm in excruciating. It's about to snap. And I woke up and grabbed her arm and said, stop, woke her up. It's like, man Another time, woke up in the middle of the night, she's gouging my eye out. She's digging her nails into my eyes. I could tell you a lot of others. Dreams. Joseph had dreams Um right here he has two. They're not funny, they're not weird, and they're not violent But they really did disturb his family deeply. They had a profound effect on his not just his brothers, but his father also. These dreams that Joseph had. Now, I got a couple thoughts. Let me give you the first one right off. My first thought is this. I want us to consider the source of Joseph's dreams. The source Dreams can be caused by a number of things. You know, we can we jokingly say, well, you know, maybe eat too much pizza or tacos with hot sauce before you went to bed and have dreams. I think that's a that's a legitimate cause of dreams. Sometimes our minds just racing. Did you ever have something heavy on your mind you're going through and then you dream about it, some distortion of what you're taking And I think it's just our minds still in high gear. I don't, Joseph's dream was not because of something he ate, and I don't believe it's because of something going through his mind. These dreams were given to him by God. These were God-inspired dreams. God-given dreams. Now, throughout the Bible, we find on occasion God does give dreams. To people, it gives visions to people, dreams and visions. Throughout Scripture we see it. A vision is what I call a waking dream. It's something you see just like a dream, except you're awake. And uh so throughout scripture we find different people, Abraham. Dreamed and had visions. Jacob, Joseph's father, did. Of course the butcher and baker and the and Pharaoh, Moses. Others throughout Scripture. Not as much in the New Testament, a little bit of visions there, but not a lot. And God, throughout Scripture, would communicate sometimes his plans for Israel or for that particular person. He would communicate to them his plans through a dream Abraham, he gave the covenants to Abraham of what his plans were. To Jacob, he gave uh that God would uh uh bless him and give him the land. And uh all through here, he God would sometimes reveal his plans. either for his people or for that individual person, through a dream or through a vision. Sometimes he would convey promises through a dream or through a vision, and uh and uh assure that person that uh they were okay and God was going to do this or that. He'd he'd communicate a promise through that dream. Sometimes he would give prophecies through the tree through the dreams And so throughout Scripture, Joseph having, what I'm guessing is this, Joseph having this dream was not unique. In the Old Testament and even in the New Testament, though, as I said, wasn't as common in the New Testament Now, I think it's very important to understand. We're talking about dreams and visions. And you hear about this today in some circles in Christianity. I think it's very important to understand that in our time, in the church age, with the close of the penning of the New Testament. With the complete Word of God, that makes dreams and visions from God unnecessary now. We have the Word of God. God has given to me all his promises that he has for me in his written word. God has told me all the prophecies that are the few uh that His purposes for us are all penned right here in the Word of God. Thus it makes God using dreams and visions as a means of revelation, a means of communication no longer necessary. In fact, God uses his word today in the same way he used dreams and visions back before the Bible was completed. Are you with me? You follow me? And so dreams and visions are unnecessary for God to speak to us. Somebody says, well, I wish God would speak to me a dream or a vision. You don't need a dream or vision. He's spoken to us in his word. We have it here. We have his instructions given very clearly in the Bible. We have his promises given to us very clearly in the Bible, his warnings. Direction in life. Now, can God use a dream to maybe get our attention I think so. I think sometimes, God, there may we may have a dream, and no, it's not a revelation by God, but it can be something make us think. Maybe God could use a dream at night or something to, like I said, make us think about something. Somebody comes to mind. And oh, I need to pray for that person or whatever. But I what I am saying, uh, and I I'll allow for that. I think there's uh that that could be God could use something like that But what I'm emphatically saying is God no longer gives revelation or information or future or further revelation through dreams and visions. We looked at this, I think, when it was just recently. We looked at Revelation. I think it was Sunday school. We looked at last chapter of Revelation. He says And he gives a strong warning on those who add to the Word of God or take away from the Word of God. And so when someone says, Oh, God gave me this dream and I have this prophetic word About what's going to happen. I reject that. I believe the Bible is complete. The prophecies that God has for us to have are complete And if you'll pay attention, a lot of times when people are saying they got these dreams, prophetic dreams that God's given them, a lot of times Those prophecies never come true. And Deuteronomy tells us if someone says they're prophesying name of the Lord and they have one prophecy that does not come true, then they are not of God So you've got to be 100%. Only God's 100%. And He's given us His word here. And so you have to be very, very careful. It's so subjective I had a fellow, and I mentioned this numerous times over the years, but this is a long time ago. A fellow called me up, didn't attend our church. I knew him He called me up. He said, something's bothering me. Can I talk to you, preacher? I said, sure, come on in. We were in my office. And he said I was taking a nap. It was Saturday afternoon or something. He said I was taking a nap and I had a dream And he said, I dreamt that I was calling out to the Lord to help me in some situation. And he said, in my dream the clouds opened, and the Lord Jesus Christ was coming down. He has his arms outstretched. And he says, as soon as I reached up for Jesus to get him to help me, the clouds came together and the Lord refused me and left. He goes, what is God trying to tell me? I said, well, what makes you think that dream was from God? He goes, well, what else would it be? So we went to Matthew, and where the Lord said, He that cometh to me, I will in no wise cast out. And I showed him other scripture. I said, listen, if we're sincerely coming to the Lord, the Lord's not going to refuse us. The Lord's not going to say no. Your dream, the Lord's saying no to you, he's refusing you, he's withdrawing himself from you when you're calling out to him in need. I said, now either your dream is correct or the Bible's correct. They can't both be correct because they're contradictory. I said, which do you think is God telling you what the Bible says or what your dream said? He said, Well, it would be the Bible, it's God's word, so what the Bible said. He says, Where do you think that dream came from? I said, it could be any number of sources. I said, but I know it didn't come from God because it contradicts God's word. Are you with me? Listen, anything that contradicts God's word is not of God. Period. And so it's so subjective. God has given to us a complete word of God. You say, but I want God to speak to me. Oh, good. Open your Bible and read it. Right? I want God to show me what He has for me. Open your Bible It's the Word of God. He's given it to us. So in Old Testament times, before the scriptures were completed, a little bit in the New Testament, not a lot, some. Revelation is a vision that John had. And there's a little bit there in in the New Testament. But once the new uh scriptures were completed, God no longer communicates through these visions and dreams. He communicates through his written word. And by the way, even in the Bible, even in the Bible, these messages from God in the forms of dreams were very, very rare. Very rare. I mean you think of the hundreds of thousand probably millions of people who are referenced in some form or another in the Bible, you know, the entire Church of God in the book of Acts All these churches, people again say the nation of Israel, all these people that are referenced in the Bible to some extent, there's only a handful that ever had visions or dreams. Just a few And so I said all that to say this. We have to be very, very careful that we don't look outside Scripture for revelation from God, for messages from God, or for information from God. The Bible is the Word of God. And these subjective things that come across our path, we have to be very, very careful about that. And so, and even in the Bible, it was primarily prophets. And apostles that would have been communicated to this way. So the source of Joseph's dreams here, I said all that. Get back to our context. The source was God. God was revealing to Joseph in the form of a dream. He's giving him information. So, number one, the source of the Joseph's dream was God. Number two, the certainty of Joseph's dream. Now, if you would, look in verse number 7. He says, For behold, this is his dream. He's telling his brothers, for behold, we were binding sheaves in the field. And lo, my sheaf arose and also stood upon upright. Now sheaf is a bunch of wheat or whatever. It's bundled together. He has this sheaf. It stood up in his dreams. They're out harvesting wheat. His sheep that he put together stood up. His brothers are all out there, they're harvesting the wheat and tying it in sheaves. And look what he says. And behold, your sheaves stood round about and made obedience to my sheep. So there's one dream. Joseph's chief stands up, all the others bow down to it. Now look at verse 9. And he dreamed yet another dream, two dreams. This one, of course, is the stars, the moon. And sun and moon and eleven stars. And they bow down to Joseph. They submit themselves to Joseph. So you have two dreams, slightly different, but the same message in each dream. Joseph is bowed down to by his brothers Shives and by the sun and moon, which represent his father and mother, and the stars, which are his brothers. So the question in my mind is why did God give him two drinks? Why not just one? God often will repeat A dream in this case, or a statement, he will repeat it to emphasize the certainty of what's being communicated. the importance of it. If you would, keep your place here because we're going to look at some more of these verses. But come over to chapter number 41 of Genesis. And we're jumping ahead here to Pharaoh's dream. And he had two dreams also, one with the cows, the kine, and then the other with the ears of corn. We'll look into those in a little more detail when we get there. But he has two dreams, not exactly the same, but very identical, and the same message. And Joseph tells us why God gave Pharaoh two drinks. Look in verse number 32. And this is a tremendous insight throughout Scripture, I think. And for that the dream was doubled unto Pharaoh twice. Now, this is Joseph talking to Pharaoh. He says, this is why you had this dream twice. You had a double dream. It is because the thing is what? Established by God And God will bring, will shortly bring it to pass. Joseph said, you know why you got two dreams, two very similar, almost identical? You know why you got two? Because God wants you to know that this thing is for certain. And it is for sure. In fact, that word established there has this idea to put firmly in place, to secure, to settle, and be determined. Joseph saying to Pharaoh, he says, you dream this dream twice because what God says in this dream is absolutely, positively going to happen. You mark it down. Listen, if God says he's going to do something one time, we can be sure he's going to do it, right? You ever say to your kids, I'm not telling you again. Anybody ever say that? Anybody have that said to you? If God only has to say it one time, that ought to settle it. All right, yes, sir. Yes, Lord. God says it two times. You mark it down. You mark it down. It's absolutely going to happen. It'll happen one time. But he says it twice. He's making sure we know Did you ever read in the Gospels where Jesus would make this type of statement, he would say something like this, verily, verily, I say unto you. Why did he say verily twice? Is he stuttering? No, Jesus didn't stutter. He's emphasized the fact: verily, verily I say unto you, he that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me hath everlasting life. And he uses that verily twice, following this principle, to assure whoever's listening, whoever is addressing that this is absolutely true. You can bank on it. You can rest your eternal destiny on it. So Joseph has two dreams. God gives him the same message twice in two uh in two two different trees. So whatever these dreams meant Joseph knew one thing for certain. They were going to be fulfilled. Whatever those sheaves bowing down to his his brother she's bowing down to his sheaths. Whatever that meant, whatever was implied by that, we'll see here whether Joseph fully comprehended or not. But one thing Joseph knew this is going to happen. Whatever this is implying, whatever this is symbolizing and representing, it's going to happen. Same thing with the sun and moon and the stars bowed down. He knew it was going to happen. And I've got a sneaking suspicion his brothers and his daddy knew also that this was of God and this was going to take place. I think that's part of what set them off. So the certainty of it, the source was God. God gave them these dreams. Number two, the certainty, it was going to happen, it gave it to him twice. Then number three, I want us to consider the significance of this drain. Now this is where we start looking at them. Come back, if you would, there, to chapter 37. Look at verse number 7 Pay close attention to the dream. Let's look at it. Let's see what's in this dream. For behold, we were binding sheaves in the field. And lo, my sheaf arose and also stood upright. And behold, your sheaves stood round about and made obeisance to my sheaf. Now the word obedience is a word that refers to an act of submission. The brothers' sheaves were submitting themselves to Joseph. It means, the literal thing means to lie prostrate on your face before. It's an act of reverence. It's an act of tremendous reverence And really, it implies total submission. So he has this dream, he sees sheaves, his sheep stands up, brothers come around, and they bow down prostrate, his sheep. Bow down prostrate in submission and reverence to Joseph's sheep. Huh. Come down to verse 9. Look at this second one he has. I drained the drain more. And behold, the sun and the moon and the eleven stars made obeisance, bowed down in reverent submission to me. True. Now here's, I got looking at this, and here's first thing I noticed is there are no instructions given to Joseph. In other words, he's not being instructed to do anything. There's not something for him to follow or for him to carry out. It's just information being given to him. It's just this event. Events are portrayed in his mind in this dream. These two events are portrayed. But he's not told to go do this or Move here or change this or confront this person. There's no instructions given And I noticed a lot of others, and I've heard them myself, and I don't want to be critical, but you hear preachers preach on this and they'll say, well, you've got to follow your dreams. And you need a dream, and you gotta have a dream and pursue that dream. There wasn't anything to pursue here There was nothing to follow. God wasn't telling them to go down to Egypt. He wasn't telling them to do anything. There was nothing for Joseph to pursue here. It's just a scene. Sheaves bowing down, the sun and moon and stars bowing down. I mean, it's amazing, disturbing. And the other thing I noticed here, he's not told how these this is all going to transpire. He's not told when this is going to happen. He's not told where and he's not told why. So he's not given a lot of information. All he has is the scene, this little bit of information, the scene taking place. Now, some have suggested, and I don't know, it could be. I mean, it's interesting that the sheaves have to do with earth and agriculture and harvesting. The sun, moon, and stars would be the principalities above. Some have suggested that the first dream of Sheaves was referencing Joseph's role in Egypt when he would gather up the corn for seven years and stockpile the corn and then make that available. It could be. It's not, you know, that's Maybe a little stretch. And the other is including his father and his mother in the stars, that would suggest, they say that suggests maybe uh authority he has over man, even his father and mother he has authority over implying authority. But again, we're not not said that. We're we're assuming that, maybe reading into that. Here's what I think, for whether you're interested, here's what I think. I think Joseph doesn't know how this plays out. I don't think he has any idea what role he plays or what he does to have this happen. In fact, he's not told anything what to do. I think what is happening is God is giving Joseph what I'm calling a preemptive assurance That God's in control, and when it's all said and done, it's going to be amazing. Follow what I'm saying? Because Joseph is going to end up being initially attempted murder by his brothers And then put in a pit, and then sold as a slave, and then falsely accused of rape, and then thrown in prison unjustly and slang and uh languishing there for years Forgotten completely by everybody. His dad thinks he's dead. His mother thinks he's dead. His brothers have no idea. They could care less what happened to him. The butcher and the baker, they forgot all about them. Potiphar's wife hates them. Potiphar probably hates them. You talk about a loaf And I think God gave him these two dreams, and when Joseph's laying in that pit, now this is speculation on my part, Joseph's down in that pit, not knowing if he's going to be alive tomorrow this time or not. The back of his mind is God gave me a double dream that someday amazing things are going to happen. And I think it's gonna be okay. You follow what am I saying? And these slave trades come by and his brothers pull him out and he's thinking, What are you guys doing? What are you doing? No, no, no, no, guys, come on, no, no, no, no, no. And he's sold to these violent Barbarian slave traders. And now he's being drugged behind them. I don't know where he's going, I don't know what how he's going to end up. And the back of his mind is God gave me those dreams. God implied to me doubly That he's in control. And that he's got a plan. He's going somewhere with this. You follow my thinking? And then the false accusation, and then years in the prison. I think sometimes God gives us promises. We'll be reading our Bible. By the way, that's why it's so vitally important We spend time every day in the Word of God. And sometimes God will give us a verse or a promise. And at the moment we don't see the significance of it. And at the moment it's, oh yeah, that's a wonderful promise. Boy, that's great. But then down the road a little ways, some things start to happen. And God brings that verse or that promise back to mind. And we say, oh. Now it means something to me. Can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Especially early in our Christian life, sometimes, and by the way, I think that's why it's important to memorize verses Get them in our heads, because something it may not mean anything to us right now. But down the road, I think God gives us preemptive assurance for that when we need it, it's in place. It's there and ready. Now that's that's my thinking, my analysis of these dreams So a lot of promises in God's Word don't seem significant at the time, but until we need them. And when we need them. Anybody here ever you read a passage A hundred times, never really thought much of it. Yeah, that's great. Then then you read it through and you're going through something, and then all of a sudden it just reaches out of the page and grabs you. Anyone know what I'm talking about? It's been there all the time. I wonder when Joseph, and I'm way ahead of myself, but I wonder when Joseph's standing there in Egypt and he sees his brothers, he recognizes them. And they come down and they bow down and say, Sir, we need food. I wonder if his mind doesn't go back to those sheaves bowing down. Huh? Joseph, Jacob shows up finally, he comes down, and he bows down to his son. I wonder if Joseph's mind doesn't go back to that sun and those stars bowing down to him. Preemptive assurance. God knows what He's doing. God has a plan. He's going somewhere. And I think He's saying to Joseph, Joseph, whatever you go through, you just trust me. You just trust me. Now how much Joseph understood of all this, I'm not sure. I don't know how much he understood the significance of this, but I know one thing, his brothers understood the significance of it His daddy understood the significance of it and they reacted. Um number one the source of this dream these dreams was God. Number two, the certainty of the dreams was confirmed in that there was two of them. The significance of it is that God has a plan and a purpose for Joseph. He's going to see him through. And then the consequences Look at verse number eight, if you would. And his brethren said to him, Shalt thou indeed reign over us, or shalt thou indeed have dominion over us? They knew exactly what that dream was saying. They know when or how or where or why And by the way, here's something else to notice. Joseph wasn't telling them, hey, you're going to bow down. He's telling them, I just had this dream. He's just conveying to them what his dream was. He's not saying anything about it. And they said, Shalt thou indeed? And look at the end of verse 8. And they hated him yet the more. They already hate him. They can't even talk nice to him. Now they hate him even more. I think these dreams pushed his brothers over the line. I think these dreams are what provoked them, pushed them over the line, and they said, we're going to kill them. No more. No more. We can't tolerate them and we're going to kill them. Come over to verse number 19. Look what they say. This is when they're out with the sheep and Jacob sent Joseph out. Remember, go find your brothers And he's approaching them, and he sees them afar off. Verse number verse 18. And when they saw him afar off, even before he came near unto them, they saw him come, and they conspired together to slay him Now notice how they refer to him. And they said one to another, Behold this what? Dreamer cometh. Man, those dreams. They pushed, that's put what pushed them over the edge. Come down there. Verse 20, come now therefore, let us slay them and cast them into some pit. We'll just leave them like you shot an old groundhog, throw them in a hole. And we'll say some evil beast has swallowed devoured him, and we'll see what become what will become of his what? What was it bothering him? His dreams. This whole idea that we're going to bow down to him? Are you crazy? We'll kill him before we do that. So the consequence of the dream was total rejection by his brothers. I mean absolute you can't reject somebody more than killing them, right? And throwing them in a pit and then lying about them. Then he got then it also provoked his father's rebuke. Look at verse number 10 back there. And he told it to his father and to his brethren. And his father rebuked them. That word rebuke means to it means to um uh uh correct sharply The idea behind it, I looked how it was used. I mean, Jacob got mad. Who do you think you are, son? He rebuked him. Though Joseph was Jacob's favorite son, this was more than Jacob could swallow. This is ridiculous. He rebuked them. But if you come down to verse 11, there's an interesting statement at the end of verse 11, and there I put it Jacob's reasoning, the brother's total rejection, his father's rebuke, and then you have Jacob's reasoning. Look down, verse 11, and his brothers envied him. But his father observed the saying. Huh, what do you think that means? His father observed the saying. What's Jacob doing? Yeah, this is in the back of his mind. Jacob hears this and his initial reaction is, shut up, son, this is ridiculous. Don't be talking like that. What do you mean? Your mother and I are going to bow down to you. But something lodges in the back of his mind. And I this is the way I imagine it in my mind. And they kind of disperse and everybody, Jacob goes back in the tent and he sits down, he's thinking, what is God going to do with my son? What plans does God have for my son? Now he doesn't say that, he doesn't verbalize that. He observes it. That word observe means to keep in close It means to in engulf or embrace and hold closely. So he's keeping it in his heart. I wonder, and we're not told, and we'll look at it when we get way down the road, but I wonder when Jacob came down and saw Joseph high and lifted up, so to speak. And in such a position of authority. And I wonder when Jacob came down and he bowed down before Joseph, I wonder if these thoughts didn't come back to his mind. Ah God had this the whole time. All these years I thought he was dead and God was working and God was fulfilling his will. And I just wonder, and this is total leathermanism here, but I wonder when Jacob bowed down, if there weren't tears dropping off his cheeks. My son. What has God done? That's something. He observed these things. He held them in. God had a plan. God had a purpose. It looked like chaos. It looked like there's no hope. But God is a master at taking hopeless situations and bringing tremendous good out of them. He's a master at that. All through scripture we see it. Now I want to come back and this is a question that I've struggled with every time I've read it, I've gone back and forth. Here's my question. Was Joseph bragging when he got up in the morning and said, wow, that was something. Brothers, guess what? You're going to bow down to me. Was he bragging about this? Was he coming in and being boastful? Ah, possibly. He's the young one. They've been giving him a hard time. They can't even say something nice to him. And he's thinking, I want to make sure they know exactly what I just dream. It's possible. I doubt it seriously. And if you look at how he communicates it, what he says here, he really doesn't say much about the dream. I kind of picture it this way, they're sitting at the table together and says, You won't believe this dream I had last night And he tells it to them and they're like in shock. And then I had another one. You ever have a dream and you get up in the morning you want to tell somebody, man, you won't believe what I just dream. Anybody? So weirdest things, aliens landed in the ocean. They had a submarine. You know, I had a dream like that one time. But um Uh yeah that one wasn't from God. But uh I think he's I think he's just telling 'em Whether he was bragging or not, oh, by the way, what is it that upset them? It wasn't the fact that he was telling them he had a dream. It was the message of the dream itself that set them off. That's what got them. So I kind of doubt that he was actually, he couldn't have been bragging. I kind of doubt it because that's not what got him. It was what that message, what that dream's message was that really ticked him off Could Joseph have been a little bit more diplomatic? Yeah, probably. Could he been a little more meek about it? You know, he could have, maybe. But nevertheless, if Joseph, if Joseph would not have told them this dream They would not have been pushed over the edge to try and kill him, throwing him in a pit, which would not have made it possible for uh, was it Reuben, uh tried to rescue him. And sells him to the the slave traders, the Egyptian slave traders, that wouldn't have happened if he hadn't told him the dream. And if that wouldn't have happened, then he wouldn't have been Potiphar's um head of the household, office manager, house manager. And if he wasn't Potiphar's house manager, he wouldn't have been falsely accused of rape. And if he wouldn't have been falsely accused of rape, he wouldn't have been in the prison And if he wouldn't have been in the prison, he wouldn't have interpreted the dreams for the butcher and a baker. And if he wouldn't have interpreted their dreams, Joseph would have never known that he could interpret dreams or the c uh Pharaoh would have never known that he could interpret dreams. which he would have never gotten before Pharaoh, and he would have never been number two in the kingdom, and millions and millions of people would have died from famine. So should he have told them or not? I think it's part of God's plan. That was a necessary part. For all of that to take place. You say, well, God could have done it another way. Yes, he could have, but he didn't. And so could Joseph have been a little more diplomatic? Possibly. Possibly There's no instructions given to Joseph in this street. Just information. He's not told what to do with that information. He's not told to pursue a certain path to accomplish what these dreams say are going to happen. He's given no responsibility whatsoever in these dreams. He's just given information. So what was Joseph's responsibility in all of this? He does have a responsibility. Joseph's responsibility is to trust the Lord and to maintain his integrity. Because it was Joseph doing right in all these this whole scenario that brought him to Pharaoh's Attention, yeah, brought him to Pharaoh's position. Joseph's integrity. Um He what if he would have line laid down? What if he would have gone to bed with Potiphar's wife? He'd have forfeited everything. If he'd have compromised his integrity at any point through here. So God didn't say, all right, Joseph, you go here and do that and say this and go over here and stay away from that. God just said, all right, here's the scenario. This is it. Joseph, you just trust me and you do right, you do right, you do right. Here's what I want to leave us. This is what I got out of this. We ought to do right whether we know what God's doing or not. We ought to do right whether our circumstances make any sense or not. We ought to tell the truth. We ought to maintain our integrity. We ought to do right. And when we do right, then God can lead us and direct us. There are Proverbs, we don't have time, there are Proverbs you go to where it says the righteousness of the upright directeth their path. Doing right is what leads me and keeps me in the will of God. Joseph's responsibility was to do right, maintain his integrity, and trust God will see him through And God will use him and will honor him. I don't know what's happening in our world. I want revival. I want America to be restored back to a sense of morality. A little spiritual awareness, a little bit of godliness. I want that as much as anybody. But whether that ever happens or not, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church ought to do right. I want revival in our church, but whether ever God ever sends revival, the revival I long for, whether God ever sends that or not, we still ought to do right. Whether people around us stick with us or they abandon us, whether people love us or hate us, we still ought to do right. Because God has a plan and God has a purpose and he knows what he's doing. And that's what I take away from it. Just do right. Just do right. God knows what he's doing. Let's pray. Father in heaven, pray we can learn from Joseph's dreams. I pray that in our day and age, as we look into your word and we find these promises, these assurances And help us trust you, Lord, and just uphold our integrity, regardless of what's happening around us. And Lord, we believe with all our heart that you'll honor that You know, you lead us and direct us and guide us. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many people would say, preacher, I need to make my integrity a higher priority of my life? Doing right needs to be a higher priority in my life. What God says is right. Anything like that by other than hand, sure. Good night. That's a lifelong battle right there. Joseph got a hold of that. And we can get a hold of that. And God can use us. Father, I ask you to bless now our invitation in Jesus' name. Let's