Genesis chapter 37, if you would, come to the very last verse, verse number 36. We're studying the life of Joseph, and we're just getting started off here. And uh remember, you remember his dad sent him out, check on the boys. The boys hated him. They can't even talk decent to him. They can't even say anything nice to him. And uh so they rough them up, throw them in a pit, they're gonna kill them. Reuben talks them out of it, and then they have this caravan come by going down to Egypt selling goods, a big uh trade route there and so they sell him for uh next to nothing to these caravans as a slave Well the caravan is arriving in Egypt. That's where we're picking up. This caravan with Joseph, and now I don't know how they're transporting him if he's free just to You know, walk along with them. I don't know if he's chained somehow or somehow on some sort of fetter to keep him from running. If he's in some sort of cage. We don't know how they transported him But nevertheless, it was a long trip, and now they finally arrived. And look at verse 36. And the Midianites sold him, Joseph, into Egypt unto Potiphar. An officer of Pharaoh, Pharaoh's, and captain of the guard. So he shows up, some sort of auction block or some sort of auctioning here, and some they sell him. Come over to chapter 39, skip chapter 38, that's dealing with Judah and some of his shenanigans Well, we're studying the life of Joseph, so we're going to come over to verse chapter 39. Look at verse number 1 and 2. It picks up where verse 36 left off there. And Joseph was brought down to Egypt, and Potiphar, and it repeats what it said there back in the other verse, an officer of Pharaoh, captain of the guard, an Egyptian. bought him out of the hands of the Ishmaelites, which had brought him down thither. And the Lord was with Joseph, and he was a prosperous man. And he was in the house of his master, the Egyptian. So I want to look at Joseph here and Potiphar. And tonight I want to look at, I'm going to do a little different. And I hope you appreciate this. I hope you enjoy this. Get something out of it. But I want to look at this fellow Potiphar a little bit tonight. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to teach us. Father, thank you for the privilege of being in the house of God. Thank you for what you've done for us in providing salvation when you died on that cross, was buried, rose again. Forgiveness of sins, a new life, a home in heaven, escape hell. Lord, you've been awfully good to us. And so now we want you to teach us. We want you to speak to our hearts, instruct us, and challenge us, Lord, in our faith to grow. And teach us about your word. So Lord, I yield myself to you. Present my body anew. I pray you'd fill me with your Spirit, and it would be your Spirit speaking through me. And that we would benefit from tonight's study, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. How many people ever heard the statement? How many people ever heard this statement? Power corrupts. Anybody ever hear that? Anybody ever say that? Yeah, we do. We talk about politicians, power corrupts. I don't believe that's the case. I don't believe power corrupts. I believe power reveals corruption. Because there have been many, throughout history, there have been many men and women. Men and women of integrity and godliness that attained to positions of power and yet never And yet retain their integrity. You can think throughout, I think of Daniel. He was the second most powerful man in the country. A Babylon, a wicked country, and yet it never corrupted him. And you look at some of the kings throughout the history of particularly Judah And tremendous men of character. There were some women, judges in the Old Testament, tremendous women of character and integrity and godliness. And yet they were very, very powerful. They had tremendous authority We look in our own the history of our country. Now there's a lot of corruption in our government now. I won't deny that, but I'm saying throughout history There have been some senators and representatives, even some presidents of tremendous characters, tremendous integrity. And so I take issue with the statement that power corrupts I think power reveals corruption that's already there. I think power, authority, getting a position of power, a position, authority Enables the corruption of a flawed, a corrupt character, lack of integrity. It reveals that, enables that to come out I think corrupt people, and of course we're all corrupt to an extent, of course we're all sinners, but I mean people who are corrupt in their character, people who are are are lacking in in in In godliness, ungodly people. I think those kind of people seek power. I think that mentality pursues authority. And so it's not surprising that many times in positions of authority, positions of power, there is corruption. Not because that position corrupts. But because a corrupt person pursued that, or they got that position and because of the authority they had, it brought out their lack of integrity, it brought out their lack of character. You follow what I'm saying And so it's possible, what I'm trying to say is this, it's possible for a person to be have tremendous authority and have tremendous power over man. And yet still be a godly man or woman, still be a godly position uh person. So power reveals corruption is what I'm trying to say Servanthood, the opposite of what we think of authority and power, you have the servant. I think servanthood reveals character. I think when a person is treated unjustly, it reveals their character, what they are. Anybody can be pleasant when they're a king. Right? But you find someone that's a slave. You find someone that's been treated unjustly. You find somebody that's been mistreated severely. And you find and you see a pleasant demeanor on that person, then that tells me that's someone that has some character. They're not allowing what I'm trying to say is this, they're they're not allowing their in their injustice to make them unjust They're not allowing their mistreatment to cause them to mistreat people. And if you can find someone that can be a servant, you find someone can be treated unjustly. And yet they still retain their integrity, they still live a godly life, they do right, even when mistreated That says something about that person. Are you with me? You follow my thinking? Anyone can be pleasant when they're a king, but watch how someone acts when they're treated unjustly. And that tells you what kind of person they are. Do they retaliate? Do they become unjust themselves? Joseph has become a slave. He's become a servant. He's been purchased to become another man's possession. And yet, as we study his life, we find that even treated so unjustly and yet treat and put in such a humiliating Position, yet he retains his integrity. He retains his character, godly character. I tell you, I've always thought highly of Joseph. I've always admired his testimony in Scripture But as I'm studying his life, my respect for Joseph is just being notched up every passage I study of him. And so he's not a king at this point, he's a servant He's a slave. He's been purchased. And yet he still retains his integrity. Now, I want us to notice first of all, and this is we're only going to get to the the my first major thought tonight, but I want us to notice the fact that Joseph becomes the possession of Potiphar. How many people here recoil at the thought of somebody else owning you? Yeah, we're Americans. We recoil at the fact that I'm somebody else's possession. Look with me if you would notice here, and these are pretty obvious statements, but verse 36. Chapter 37, it says the Midianites sold him into Egypt. They sold him like you would sell a couch, or you would sell a horse or a pig. They sold it. When you sell something, there's a transaction being made. One possession for another. Potiphar possessed a certain amount of money. We're not told what what they sold them for. I am confident those Midianites made a killing off of Joseph. Because they bought him for twenty pieces of silver. Remember, we talked about that before. That was the price you would pay for a handicapped, wore-out, useless slave. And so they're selling, I mean he's a 17, 18-year-old boy at this point, and uh they're selling him top dollar to one of the highest men in the government of Egypt So they're getting big bucks. But Potiphar had money. They had Joseph. They made it exchange. Money for Joseph. So they sold him. Look in verse 1 of chapter 39. It says, And uh uh Joseph was bought brought down to Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh, a captain of the guard, uh, an Egyptian, bought him out of the hands of of the Ishmaelites. They bought him. That means to take ex take possession of in exchange for something of value. So Joseph is being treated at this point like a piece of furniture, like a four-wheeler. Buy him. Yeah, see him, that boy there? Boy, he looks like he'd be a good worker. I'll take him. I'll buy him. That's his position. Joseph is no longer a free man. He can't come and go as he pleases. He can't get up and go to bed when he wants to. He can't make any decisions on what he's going to do with his life. He can't decide who he's going to marry or what occupation he's going to do or whether he's going to college or not. He is completely under the control of Potifer. He's in the possession of Potiphar. His life is now dictated by Potiphar. And we're going to talk about that a little bit later. Here's what I want to look at tonight. Who in the world is this guy named Potiphar? What is he like? Who is this guy that's controlling, that owns Joseph What do we know about Potiphar? Well, we're not told very much. First thing I want us to look at and try and figure out tonight what kind of person he was. What kind of person was? We're told very little. In fact, there's hardly any places in scripture he's mentioned by name, these few right here. And then after this event, he's off the scene. We never hear from about Potiphar again. So we're told extremely little, but what the little bit we are told tells us a little bit who what this guy was like. How many people ever read through this passage in your Bible reading and you're never really paying attention, Potiphar, whatever, just read on. Anybody here like that? Yeah, I have. Well I stopped and got looking at him. I thought, well, what kind of guy is he? Is he hateful? Does he have a sense of humor? Is he a a nerd? Is he a does he work? What kind of guy is this guy? Well, I picked up a few things. Number one, he's Egyptian. How many people think that's brilliant deduction on my part? You know how I know he was Egyptian? It tells us right there in verse number one, captain of the guard, an Egyptian. How many people are impressed with your pastor's Bible study abilities? He's an Egyptian. Alright. So far so good. I got looking up his name, Potiphar. Sometimes you can tell a little bit about a person by their name, particularly in the Bible. My parents named me Dennis. I don't know why. I looked up the meaning of my name. It comes from the Greek name Dionysius. It's actually in the book of Acts. There's a fellow Dionysius that gets saved I looked up Dionysius. That's the Greek form of the English name Dennis. Looked up Dionysius. It means drunkards on the side of a mountain. So I'm not sure what my mom was thinking. Potiphar, I got looking up his name. I found out. Lo and behold. It's an Egyptian name, of course. It means dedicated to the sun god. The Egyptians worshiped the sun. And they had a god of the sun, and that god's name was Ra, R. A. Ra. So, whoever Potiphar's parents were, they were obviously worshipers of this false god, this god of the Egyptians' imagination The sun god Ra, and they had apparently dedicated this man when he was an infant, dedicated him to the worship Of the sun god Ra. And so I got looking up. What would that mean? If he was a worshiper of Ra, what would his home be like? Joseph comes in that first day, maybe he's in shackles. I don't know. And he comes in, he's introduced into the house and They're showing him around his quarters, maybe outside on the perimeters or whatever, and they're showing him his responsibilities. What would a house be like? What would the home of a person who worshiped Ra be like? Well, I did a little digging. There's not a lot of information on it, but I found out that in each home where they worshiped Ra, they would have a little altar someplace in that home Years ago, we were in Chinatown when I was with some friends back in Bible college, actually. We were in ch went to Chinatown, spent about a week up there just sightseeing, eating out and stuff And in just about every one of the and it's just like you're in China. Has anybody here ever been in Chinatown up in New York? It's just like you're in China. I mean everything's in Chinese and it's just like you're there And every little store we would go in, somewhere in that store on one of the shelves or in a corner, they had a little shrine, and uh a lot of it was Buddhist. And they would have the altar and they would worship. That was very much what it was like Potiphar's home would have been. There would have been an altar in the home to the sun god Ra. So here's Joseph, a worshiper of the true and living God, Jehovah, and one of the commandments is thou shalt not thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image Not to worship idols, of course they weren't given that at this point, but they understood that. And so he comes in and he is in an environment that is absolutely contrary to everything he knows is true. He's in the environment where they are worshiping a pagan, very satanistic, false god. And that's the home he's living in. They worship Ra. They would have a little altar in the home for Ra. And the way I understand is I did some research, they would offer daily prayers at this altar to the sun god They would worship in the morning as the sun broke the horizon at sunrise. That was sort of a call for them to come to their altar And they would literally pray, like you and I do to the Lord God, they would pray to the sun. And then when the sun would set, as it crossed the horizon setting, then they would do the same thing. They worship the sun. This is the home that Joseph is now in. They would offer up offerings on a daily basis to this little idol they had in their home. Sometimes they would bring a little bowl of water and uh put it there for the God and just let it just set there. Of course they'd have to throw it out and put another one there Um, kind of like you do for the cat. You put a little bowl of water there. No connection there, although they did worship cats in Egypt. I knew they were messed up They would bring little crystals. Sometimes they would bake some bread. When they had a meal, they'd break a little bread and put it at the altar. Some fruit. Sometimes they would sing songs or quote poetry to their sun god at the altar, part of their worship of their God. They would pray to Ra, as I said. So, Potiphar, we don't know a whole lot about him, but just going by his name, the fact that his name means dedicated to the sun god. tells us that this most likely was the environment of his home that Joseph is now in. So the person what kind of person was he? Well, he was apparently pretty religious in a false religion. He was an Egyptian. I came to this conclusion. I think he was fairly open-minded. He shows respect and trust to Joseph. Now think with me a little bit. He brings Joseph, this foreigner, who is very, very different than him. He looks different, he talks different, he worships different, his values, his priorities, the principles he lives by are very different than Potiphar's And yet he brings them into his home, albeit a slave, but nevertheless, he brings them into his home. Look at verse number two. And the Lord was with Joseph, and he was a prosperous man, and he was in the house of his master, the Egyptian. So it implies here that he was living in the house with them. Now how many people here you would be a little cautious about bringing a total stranger from another country that has a complete different value system than you Complete different god he worships in you and bring them in and have them live in your house. How many people might be a little uneasy with that? I would But Potiphar brings him in. And he's in his house, it says. He took note of his faith and how it affected Joseph. Look there again at verse number three. And his master, Joseph's master, Potiphar, saw that the Lord was with him. He's paying attention. He's looking at this guy and he says, man, this guy has something we don't have. He has the presence of God in his life. And that the Lord had made all that he did to prosper in his hand. He saw how his faith in Jehovah The true God, he saw how that was affecting his work ethic, how he handled his money and what he did with it, and his honesty, his integrity. He noticed Joseph's faith in Jehovah and how it affected his life. Can I stop there and just make this statement? This old world notices when a Christian's living for God like they should. They notice that. They see it. By the way, they notice when a Christian is not living for God like they should Anybody ever had this say say anybody ever had somebody say something like this to you? I thought Christians didn't do that Well, whatever the case is, Joseph had a genuine faith in God, and we're going to deal with this in depth later. And Potiphar noticed it. And I don't see any indication here where he harassed Joseph because of his faith. I don't see any indication here that he badgered or mocked Joseph's faith in the true and living God. In fact, I've got a sneaking suspicion, and I know I'm probably reading way too much into this, but I've got a sneaking suspicion Potiphar, somewhere down inside his heart, would like to have had what Joseph had. He saw the presence of God in his life. There was something different about this young man In his values, how he spoke, how he acted, his attitude, his countenance. God was with him. God was with him. So he's a little bit open-minded. Here's a worshiper of Ra, a false pagan god. Joseph shows up. He's from a foreign land. He's Jewish. He's long way off. He shows up here. He's got different things. But yet he takes them into his house. He notices these things about him. And then he eventually trusted Joseph Again, verse number four. And Joseph found grace in his sight and served him. And he, Potiphar, made him, Joseph, overseer over his whole house. Over his house and all that he had, he put into his hand. Wow. I don't know how much time went by here, but the implication is it wasn't a long time. It was pretty quick that Potiphar realized, hey, I can trust this boy. Now think about this. This is a 17-year-old boy, a thousand miles from home, knows nobody, scared out of his mind, no doubt. And yet he gets in here and he puts himself to it and he's working and he's honest and he's trustworthy and Potiphar trusts him. And at some point he says, Joseph, the whole place, you run this whole show. You are the office manager, you are the property manager, you are the house manager, you are the financial manager, you're everything manager. He puts him in charge of everything except two things. One is, of course, his wife. We'll talk about that here in a bit. But there was something else That Potiphar would not let Joseph decide for him. I thought that was interesting. Come down to verse number six. It says, and he left all that he had in Joseph's hand, and he knew not aught that he had. I mean, he didn't even know how much money he had. Joseph took care of all that. He trusted him exclusively. And he knew not that aught that he had save the bread that he did eat. Joseph, you can run Joseph, you can spend the money however you think it needs to be spent. You invest it the way it needs to be invested. You make sure the bills are paid. I just turn it all over to you. All the income goes right over to you. You handle it all. You manage the house. You manage the cattle. You manage everything going out here. But you ain't telling me what to eat I think Potiphar was a picky eater. And he wasn't going to let anybody tell him what he was going to eat and what he wasn't going to eat. He was going to eat blueberry cheesecake at night if he wanted to And it didn't matter what Joseph said. And I think it's interesting that God includes that, that he put everything into anything except the bread that he ate. Potiphar, I think, was a picky eater. So we're trying to figure out this guy, Potiphar. What do we know about him Well, a lot of people, would you agree with me? A lot of people are unkind to other people simply because they're different. Right or wrong You see that in schools. Some of y'all teach in schools. My wife substitutes helps a little bit in schools some. And you see kids, if someone comes in that's a little bit different, these kids can be brutal, right or wrong. Man, they can tear them up. Treat them so mean. When I was in high school, actually, there was a girl, her name was Alexis. And um just kind of a plain looking girl, a little different, just in her appearance, very, very quiet. I mean to tell you, I was on say dope head And I was appalled at the way those kids, this was in a quote quote-unquote Christian school, it was a religious school, the way those kids treated that poor girl. So hateful to her for no other reason than she was a little different. By the way, years later They had a high graduation reunion, and here this gal has been very, very successful in the business world, raised kids, homeschooled her kids. and was doing very, very well, had a wonderful family, wonderful husband, and she made something of her life. But the fact and by the way, it's not just kids. Adults can be awfully mean to people who are different. Someone comes into the neighborhood that's a little different, and brother, we get talking. But I don't see anywhere that Potiphar did that to Joseph. And Joseph was very different. A lot of times people are mean to someone because they're a little different. A lot of times people are untrusting of someone simply because they're a little bit different. They have a different nationality. They have a different color skin They have a different uh uh they're just different in many ways. And so we don't trust them because they're different. And yet here you have Joe, here you have Potter for a trusting group. He has a different nationality, he has a totally different background, he has a different relation, but he trusts them with everything he has. And so I think. Potiphar was fairly open-minded. Now here's something else that came up in our study of Potiphar, and I don't know if you find this interesting or not, I do. Potiphar was most likely a eunuch. Most everywhere I could find studying Jewish historians, everything I could find in doing research on Potiphar, overwhelming majority said he was most likely a eunuch. It was kind of the custom of the pharaohs when people were in high level positions, they were required force to become eunuchs. Now, if you're familiar with what a eunuch is, a eunuch is many times they were forcibly castrated Sometimes they would voluntarily of their own will, the Bible mentions folks of their own will become eunuchs But they are incapable, either because of their own will or it's forced on them, or some are born this way, they are incapable of physical intimacy. And they say that Potiphar was probably, the overwhelming majority of Jewish historians say he was probably, most likely, a eunuch. Perhaps it was part of his devotion to the Ra God. One of the folks I was reading about this, they said the pharaohs would require this of many of their top level men simply because so they wouldn't be distracted and they couldn't be uh maybe a a woman would uh seduce them into doing something compromise information or whatever, like spies do sometimes. And so whatever the case was, this fellow that bought Joseph was most likely a eunuch. Now that raises this question in my mind. What's a eunuch doing with a wife? And he b how many people thought that when I said that? Why in the world would he have a wife if he's a eunuch Well, apparently that wasn't uncommon for a person in his position. In fact, sometimes they would have several wives. Now I don't know I don't I could not find a reasoning behind that, but That apparently was the case. Now, this is what I thought. If this is true about Potiphar, that he is a eunuch, and he's got at least one wife. Maybe that explains Potiphar's wife's behavior. Anybody with me? I did not say it justifies her behavior. I did not say it excuses her behavior. But I'm just wondering, does that maybe explain a little bit? I don't know. And I don't know the answer to that, but I thought it was interesting, and I thought I would tell you that So, number one, the person. What kind of person was this guy? Well, it's kind of interesting. You get looking and doing a little study, and he's unique in a lot of ways. Next, I want us to consider the position he held. Notice, if you would, back there in verse 36, it says, And the Midianites sold him into Egypt unto Potiphar. An officer of Pharaoh's. And then verse 1 of 39 says the same thing. And brought him down to Egypt in Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh. So, as an officer of Pharaoh, he apparently was a very high-ranking person in the government of Egypt. He held a high-ranking position. As an officer of Pharaoh, who no doubt interacted with Pharaoh and was very familiar with the inner workings of the Egyptian government. And he no doubt understood the protocol of how things are done in the Egyptian government and what you do and what you do not do. And the process you go through to accomplish whatever you need accomplished, he would have been very, very familiar with that. Now, I wonder if anybody knows where I'm going with this. He trusted Joseph tremendously. In fact, he handed his whole household, all his business and everything, over to Joseph. Do you not think it's likely That Joseph would have accompanied him in Pharaoh's government and would have been involved, perhaps, to some extent to his interactings with the other government agencies, considering the trust that Potiphar had in him? Why would that be significant Hello. Anybody who think what several years down the road Joseph is going to come from a prison cell into number two man of Egypt You go from a prison cell to Egypt, there's a whole lot of protocol goes on in the government. There's a whole lot of do's and don'ts. There's a whole lot of right ways and wrong ways to do stuff in the government In fact, in the in those days, you do something wrong at that level, your head's coming off like that. I believe God had Potiphar, a high-ranking government official, by Joseph Earn his trust, develop his trust to the extent that he is being introduced to the protocol and operations of the Egyptian government so that down the road one day when he's thrust into that position he already is familiar with how the thing works. Anyone see my thinking? Everybody? Everybody frozen out there? Snow? Yeah. I thought, man alive, when I got looking at this, ah Now I'm starting to see. Remember we said God had a plan for Joseph's life, and every plan has a process. And God is in the process now exposing Joseph to the information he needs and the experience he needs to carry out God's plan down the road. What God is, let me back up. Do you think Joseph had any clue at this point what God was doing? No. But God was working. God was working. A servant in Potiphar's house. As a servant in Potiphar's house, Joseph no doubt observed the protocol of the Egyptian government and was very, very useful. Would have been very very useful later on. Another thing I thought If my uh imagination here is correct, if I'm even close to being correct, and if Potiphar trusts Joseph at this level, It's not difficult to think that he's bringing Joseph in. Other government leaders are meeting Joseph. They're getting to know him. When they're doing transaction with Potiphar, they're going through Joseph. Is it possible that Pharaoh himself Was introduced to Joseph at this point. Or at least knew about Joseph and Potiphar bragging on this unbelievable serpent I bought. And bragging to the government and bragging to Pharaoh himself, maybe, and maybe Pharaoh, years later, when Joseph comes up, maybe he's, I remember this fellow. I remember Potiphar talking. Now we're not told that in Scripture, but it seems awfully strange that Pharaoh would take a fella out of prison and put him number two in his government without knowing anything about him. You follow my thinking? I think God was doing that period of time with Potiphar, God was preparing Joseph and preparing Pharaoh. For Joseph be able to step in that position. I don't know a ruler in the world would take somebody who knows nothing about them and make them the most second powerful person in the entire government. I think Pharaoh had some this is the period of time where he's being introduced in the gnome. And um you say, preacher, I think you're completely wrong. I could be, but I think this is a very real s possible scenario So number one, he's uh uh the person he was. Number two, the position he held, officer and pharaoh, but we're told something else. Look in verse 39. And the Mini Knights sold him to Egypt under Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh's, and captain of the guard. He held two positions. Verse 1 of 39. Captain of the guard, and officer of Pharaoh, and Captain of the Guard. Twice we're told he's a captain of the guard. What in the world is the captain of the guard? Well, I got digging up, looking again, I like to look to see what Jewish historians say and what how the Jews viewed this throughout the history, throughout the centuries And nearly all of them agree he was most likely the head of Pharaoh's personal bodyguards. He was most likely in charge of Pharaoh's security. He would have been head of what we would call the Secret Service. Again, putting him close proximity to Pharaoh, giving opportunity for Joseph to meet and interact with key people that will be significant later on And so he's head of the bodyguard, head of the security. Others suggested that not only that, it would have included possibly the head of the prisons Does that sound something maybe significant with Joseph? Potiphar's head of the prisons. Um In fact, a whole slew of old Jewish commentators said that he would have, they said that that phrase, captain of the guard, uh in the Hebrew, in the Egyptian, where it's translated out of the Egyptian, it would have been Captain of the slaughter the the slaughterhouse. The slaughterers. I thought, well, what is he working? A meat packing plant or something? I don't know. And they said, no, no, no. I asked them, and they said, no, Dennis. No, I asked myself when I studied. And they said, uh, and I got looking, and what it was is probably he was chief executioner. He's the guy that chopped their heads off or drowned them or shot them or whatever they did. He's the guy. Would you agree with me? Brutal. I wouldn't want that job. He's a chief executioner. He is head over it. So he's he's head of the security, the the Secret Service, Egyptian Secret Service. He's over the prisons, perhaps. He's most likely the top executioner. If Pharaoh said, off with that guy's head, Potiphar's the one, shh, gets it done. Tough guy. Now here's where it gets a little interesting. I don't know. I I was fired up studying this. Here's where it gets interesting. And I'm jumping way ahead. We're going to look at this later. But Potiphar's wife comes on to Joseph. All right? We know that, right? We'll look at that. Joseph says, Job said no I ain't doing this. And he fled, right? Remember the story? Left his jacket. And um Potiphar comes home from executing somebody or whatever he was doing. He comes home and Miss Potiphar, his wife, is there, what's the matter, sweetheart? Oh, that boy you brought in here, that Joseph, he tried to assault me and I screamed and he ran out and I grabbed his coat and I have his coat here and he tried raping me. And the Bible says, we'll look at this later in a little more detail, but he Bible says that Potiphar was very angry, filled with wrath. But it's interesting. Now I don't know about you. If I'm head if I'm head executioner And some guy's trying to assault my wife, I'm going to carry out my occupation on that guy. He's done. I don't care. And I think he had that authority to do that. I really do. But he doesn't Why doesn't Potiphar kill Joseph? I'm sure there's others who have been executed for less than that. Why doesn't he off with his head? Why doesn't he pull his fingernails out and torture him and chop him up in pieces? He doesn't. He puts them in prison. Anybody want to take a guess? Huh? I think Potifer didn't believe his wife. I think Potiphar said, I know Joseph, and I know that woman. And I don't believe what she's saying about him is true. Now he had to stay face because she said it publicly. Remember the other servants were there So if he didn't respond to what she said, he'd be publicly calling his wife a liar, and I don't think he was willing to do that. And so he instead of executing them, which would seem would be the natural thing to do, he does it And he puts them in prison, and God's plan is being carried out We see it every step of the way. God putting him in the right place at the right time. Joseph has no clue. What God is doing. But God nevertheless is doing it. You and I have the privilege of looking back and saying, oh yeah, I see it, I see it, I see it. Joseph didn't have that privilege. And our last observation about Potiphar, and then we're going to leave him behind and move on. We'll mention him a little bit in the future, not much. But I noticed his prosperity. Potiphar was a very, very wealthy man. And for whatever it's worth, and whatever the significance may be, I'm not sure. But I got an idea that Joseph's standard of living as a slave to Potiphar was higher Than his father's and brother's standard of living intense back in Canaan They wanted to kill him. They wanted to sell him as a slave, get rid of him. And he ends up Living pretty n pretty decent standard of living under one of the wealthiest men in the country of Egypt, top government level And here Joseph enjoys the whole house and everything. Isn't that something? I'm telling you, God has a way of doing things that this whole world could never figure out. Never figure out. Now it's going to change, no doubt, and it's going to get ugly again. But God knew what Joseph needed at that time, at that point, to prepare him for something down the road, how he's going to use them in phenomenal ways. Here's what I want to leave with us and try and make some practical application. God uses, God often, and I've seen this, and many of you are no doubt, but God will often use unexpected and unpleasant circumstances To develop our faith and to prepare us for future service. We look back in our life, a lot of us would have said, I would have never dreamed. It would have happened this way. Anybody here ever pray for God to do something, then in your mind you imagine how God's going to do it Anybody here? You got a bill, you have something that needs to be done, you pray, you're trying to think, all right, what rich uncle do I have that God's gonna bump off? You know And I found that God never does it the way I think He's going to do it. And almost every time when I don't understand what in the world are you doing, God? What in the world Later on, I look back and I say, oh, God was preparing. God was doing this. Are you with me? Everybody with me? So what I'm trying to say is this: we can trust God. You say, I don't know what's going on. Trust God and just do right. Just keep doing right. Somebody treats you unjustly, don't become unjust yourself. Somebody's unkind to you, don't become unkind yourself. Maintain your integrity, maintain your faith in God, keep doing right, and you watch and see what God doesn't do. When you come out the other end. Father, please help us learn from these lessons, from Potiphar of all people. And yet you use them in a profound way in Joseph's life. And maybe some of us have some potiphers in our life. Some disappointments and some confusion. We don't understand. But God, we trust you. And we believe that you have a plan and purpose for every one of our lives. So help us, Lord, to do right And to have faith and let you do what you need to do in our lives. I wonder if our heads bowed, I suppose how many would say, preacher, I need to just learn to trust God. I get worked up, I get anxious, and I end up Being short or whatever, fretting. You'd say, Preacher, pray for me. I learned to just trust God when I go through that. God bless you, hands all around. Sure. God's doing something in your life. I'm telling you Doesn't make sense. Seems so wrong. I'm here to tell you, you'll trust them. Just do right. God will bring you through, and you'll come out a better person for it. God will use you. Father, bless our invitation, I ask you in Jesus' name