James chapter 1 and verse number 2. Notice would you read that with me? Everybody got it there ready? All together. My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. Then verse three goes on saying, Knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience, let patience have her perfect work, that ye may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. I want to um uh In the next couple weeks through the summer, I want to preach a little series on the Bible and joy, what the Bible teaches about joy. And this morning we're going to speak on a entitled this, Having Joy in the Midst of Trials. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we come to you this morning, and we're thankful for the Word of God. And uh I ask now that you would just please bless, fill me with your spirit, I pray, Lord, and I pray that uh I would not distract in any way from what you want to speak the hearts about. And uh I yield my will to you, I present my body anew, that you would be the preacher. And stir us. Help us, Lord, as believers, to rejoice when we fall into diverse temptations, to follow the instruction here. We need your Holy Spirit to help us with that. Lord, I pray that any might be tuned in, that might be unsaved. I pray that today would be the day of salvation. Oh Lord, how important that is And so please do a work. And I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Like I said, I want to do a little series on joy, a little summer series on joy. And today, joy in the midst of trials. Now we're looking at the book of James. Let me give you a little background on the book of James. Anyone want to guess who the penman was of the book of James? Yes, very good. You guys are geniuses, I'll tell you. Yes, James is the penman of the book of book of James. Of course, God being the author, I always want to point that out. James is part of the Word of God, and of course God is the author of the Bible. There was actually four James mentioned in the Bible. of different uh four different James mentioned in the Bible. The James that penned this book, that God used to record this book for us, was actually the half-brother of the Lord Jesus Christ. You say, what do you mean he was the half-brother of the Lord Jesus Christ? What we mean by that is this: James and Jesus had the same mother. Which was who? Mary, of course. Mother Jesus and Mother James. By the way, Jesus had a number of brothers and he had some sisters. The Catholic Church is wrong when they say that Mary never gave birth to any others, only Jesus. They're wrong. She had a number of kids. So the half-brother, they had the same mother, but they had different fathers Who would have been the father of James? Joseph, of course, the husband of Mary, who was the father of the Lord Jesus. God Almighty, the Holy Spirit of God, placed in the womb of Mary, the little body of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so he was born. But more importantly than that, he was conceived of a virgin. And that's where the miracle is, really. And so James is the half-brother of the Lord Jesus Christ, same mother, different fathers. And um uh but it's interesting, if you look at verse number one there, I thought this was interesting. How many people here, if you were the if you were the brother or sister of Jesus, that would be something to uh claim to fame. Anybody here agree with me? Man, if Jesus is my brother, half-brother, I'd be telling everybody, yeah, it's my half-brother. Yeah, Jesus, the Son of God, it's my half-brother. But look, look at verse 1. He doesn't say a word about that at all. He doesn't mention anywhere the fact that he has this physical relationship with Jesus Christ. In fact, what does he say in verse 1? He's a what? Servant. Servant. James, a servant of the Lord Jesus Christ. He doesn't say anything about being his brother. Boy, what a, what a, that tells us a lot about the spiritual maturity of James. I'm just a servant. No special claim to him, by the way, you and I are just as related to Jesus Christ through faith as James was through the birth from his mother. And so he's the half-brother of the Lord Jesus Christ. He's a very godly man, very godly. He was very zealous for the gospel. He was a leader in the early church. And uh a very humble man, as I said, he refers to himself as a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ. Uh the book of James, I'll give you a little background, there's a little Bible institute type stuff here But the book of James would be considered a general epistle. Now, an epistle is not the wife of an apostle. Alright, just declare the air there's. An epistle is what? Somebody talk to me. Is a what? It's simply a letter. This was a letter that James wrote. And this would be considered a general epistle. In the New Testament You had the Pauline epistles. Pauline was not the wife of Paul either. These are letters or epistles written by Paul and to a number of churches. But we call this a general epistle because it's not addressed to any particular person. Can you think of any books in the Bible that were addressed to a particular individual? Timothy, what else? Titus, uh Paul's writing to these fellows. Uh by Leman, yes. Um and so you have uh this and then you had other epistles, letters that were written primarily by Paul to specific churches For instance, what would be some churches that Paul wrote address an individual particular church? Church at Corinth Church at Galatia. Church at Ephesus. And so you have ones like that. Church at Philippi. And so you have those. But this would be a general epistle. And this is what that means Paul wasn't, or James wasn't writing to any particular individual. You notice there in the first verse, he's not writing to any particular individual, and he's not writing to a particular church. So this is a general epistle. It's a general letter, and the idea was this: it was written to the churches just generally. And what they would do is they would get this letter from James, of course, written under the inspiration of God. And this church here would read it and they'd maybe make copies of it, so they would have their copy. Then they would pass it on to another church. It'd be something like Uh you know, if we had a letter epistle written to us, we'd read it. I'd get the secretaries, type it up, we want a copy of this, and uh and then we would take that and we'd send it over to uh Uh we'd send up to Brother Burkholder in Frostburg and they would get it and they'd read it and copy it, and then they would send it over to Brother Clink there in Corriganville, and they'd copy it, and they would and so they would send it around. So that's what the book of James was It was a general epistle just passed around from church to church. Another interesting thing about the background of this book, it's believed to be one of the earliest New Testament books written. Probably about the same time as Galatia, but one of the first books that were penned in the New Testament. Others came along a little bit later. If you look at verse 1 there, it's written to believing Jews. James, servant of God and the Lord Jesus Christ to the twelve tribes. Those are the Jews, the nation of Israel, which are scattered abroad. So he's writing to these Jews, particularly That have trusted Jesus Christ as their personal Messiah. They've been born again through faith in Christ. But notice what else he says about this, and this is where it's going to come home to our message here a little bit So to the twelve tribes which are what? Scattered abroad. Now talk to me now when I ask you. They're what? They're scattered abroad. What in the world does he mean by that? They're scattered abroad. Ah. They've been run out of their homes. They've been run out of their towns. They've been run out of their communities. And they are literally fleeing for their lives Why? What did they do? Are these some sort of criminals? Are these some sort of hateful people? No. One reason and one reason alone. Their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. And the preaching of the gospel. And the people and the towns, in many cases, their families turned against them. You're going to notice in the New Testament Quite a few books of the Bible are written to Christians or to churches who face severe persecution. And when we say persecution, we mean intense Life threatening. Many of these dear folks had family members gave their lives for no other reasons than their followers of Jesus Christ They lost their jobs. Many of them were beaten, scourged, catanine-tails, thrown in prison, some beheaded, for no other reason. Than because their faith of the Lord Jesus Christ and following the Lord Jesus Christ. We think, we Christians here in America, we think we got it rough sometimes, don't we? Oh, we've got to do this. Oh, we can't do that. Now, listen, there's no doubt our society is turning against Christianity, turning against Christ. There's no doubt about that. We see it. But I'm telling you, we're not experiencing anything even close to what these dear people were. Oh, preacher, it was terrible this week. I got gave a guy a track and he cussed me out. You know how these people. Would have gladly given up their persecution just to be cussed out by somebody. Oh, preacher, they slam the door in my face. They make fun of me. They call me names at church at work because I'm a Christian. Uh yeah, I know it's not pleasant, but I'm telling you it's nothing like what these dear people were going through I think there's people around the world. I think there is some persecution going on around the world where people are giving their lives But here in America, we've got it pretty good. We've got it pretty good. So James, half-brother of the Lord Jesus Christ, just written to the churches at large, just in general, to believers. He's addressing believers here under intense persecution. And the book of James, one of my favorites, is a very, very practical book. I refer to the book of James as a nuts and bolts. book of the Bible. It talks about practical Christian living. He just goes through, if you read through there, he just talks about practical stuff, how to live the Christian life. It kind of corresponds to the book of Proverbs in the Old Testament. Proverbs is very practical. And the book of James is very, very practical. Um and so what I'm trying to say is this I highly recommend the book of James. Uh I think uh it'd be good to read that. Uh if you have never I'm tempted to ask you, I I won't ask you But if you've never read through the book of James, I want to encourage you, maybe this afternoon, sit out in the front porch somewhere, get under an umbrella, get you some lemonade, and get the Bible out and read through the book of James. It's a tremendous book. It would help us. And read it over and over and over. And so I want to come here, if you would. Notice verse 2, 3, and 4. He says, my brethren. He's talking to Christians. The only people in the Bible, for the few exceptions, that are referred to as brethren, are Christians, believers My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations, knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh what? Patience, but let patience have her perfect work, that ye may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing I think it's interesting right off the bat, God says to these persecuted Christians, I mean they are hurting. They have there's empty seats at the dinner table of family members who gave their life because of believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. They are hurting, perhaps scared. suffering, intense persecution. And it's interesting to me that right off the bat he tells these believers that they can have joy in the midst of their trials I mean, before he addresses anything else, he says, hey, you're persecuted, you're scattered abroad, listen, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. Count it all joy. And uh I think he's setting the pattern for the rest of the book. First things first Get this thing, if you can get a hold of this, if you are able to re have joy in the midst of heartaches and difficulties and disappointments and pain If you can have joy in the midst of that, oh boy, then God will teach you patience. And boy, that patience, you'll grow up to be a strong, mature Christian. Right off the bat, he starts with that. He's telling us this. Hey, listen. He's telling us this. It's possible to have joy even in the most difficult of times. Even in the worst storms of life, you and I can have genuine, heaven-sent, godly joy Counted all joy. So how do we do that? How do I have joy even in the midst when things are falling apart from My heart is broken and I'm fearful. How do I have joy in the midst of that? I want to give you a few things. Jot these down. I want to encourage you to jot these down. I think they'll be helpful. Number one If I'm going to be able to rejoice in trials, have joy in the midst of trials, number one, I must understand that trials are assured. I'll explain what I mean by that. Trials are assured. If I'm going to be able to rejoice, you say, preacher, you don't know how badly my heart is broken. I know, I don't, but I know this: God says we can have joy even when our heart is broken. And if I'm going to do that, I must understand that trials are assured. Look at verse 1 with me, if you would. And I want us to notice what it does not say to begin with. My brethren, count it all joy. Now I underlined in red that next word. What is it? When. Now here's what it doesn't say. Count it all joy if you fall into diverse temptations. He doesn't, if he would have said if, well, I might or might not. But if he says when you fall into diversations, what does that tell us? They're going to happen. Assure. Trials are assured. Trials are a part of the of the Christian life. He says, when you fall into diverse temptations, not if. Now let me stop and address that word temptations there You say, well, count it all joy and fall into diverse temptations. The word temptation has three different applications in the New Testament. In fact, throughout the Bible, it would be used three different ways. One way the word temptation is used is what we normally think of: if somebody is tempted to do evil Means you're enticed to do evil. He he talks about that over, look with me if you would at verse number 14, chapter 1. James chapter 1, look at verse 14. But every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lusts, and what? And then he goes on and talks about that. One use of the word temptation in the Bible is an enticement to do evil. I'm tempted to do something that is not right. I'm tempted to do something that God says I should not do. I'm tempted to say something that God says I should not say. I'm tempted to Not do something that God says I should do So one form, one meaning of the word temptation in the Bible is an enticement to do evil. But it's used some other ways also. Sometimes God uses the word tempted to talk about testing somebody. He wants to test somebody's faith For instance, in Genesis chapter 22, the Bible says that God tempted Abraham. You say, what in the world? James says God doesn't tempt anybody to sin. God never tempteth anybody. He's not tempted, he neither tempteth he any man. Well, it doesn't mean that God was enticing Abraham to do evil. God wasn't enticing or tempting Abraham to sin. God was testing him. God was going to put him through a test. And try his faith and prove to Abraham the strength or the weakness of his faith. And so sometimes God will, quote unquote, tempt us. He'll put us through a test. Maybe give us a need. Maybe put us in a situation where we've got to learn to trust God. And he tests us, he proves us, not for him to figure anything out, but so that we can see where we're at in our faith, in the strength or weakness of our faith So sometimes the word temp means to entice to do evil. Come on. Sometimes it's God just testing us And then other times the word temptation, like it's used here, means this, to go through a difficult time, to go through some sort of trial or heartache or difficulty. And actually, those definitions overlap a little bit. Sometimes when God allows us to be tempted to do evil, it's testing us how strong is my faith, how strong is my commitment. Storms test us and prove us. And God sometimes tests our faith. So the word temptation here does not mean, my brethren, count at all joy when you fall into divers enticements to evil. It's not what he's saying. Other places we're told that if we're enticed, if we're tempted to sin, we shouldn't endure it, we should flee it. Flee youthful lust. Run away. Hey, hey, if you're in a situation that you're tempted to do something wrong, the best response is get away from that, get out of that situation Can I offer a little suggestion? You're watching TV, flipping around, some show comes on, you know it's wrong, you know you shouldn't watch it, and there's that old nature says, boy, you know, uh, just a little bit, nobody's around And uh can I give you advice? Best way to deal with that, don't just sit there and leave it on and say, I'm not going to look, I'm not going to look, I'm not. No, no, no. Best thing to do would be what? Turn the stupid thing off. And if you're not able to do that, throw it out in the trash. Just get rid of the thing And so he says, when, not if you fall into temptation, these trials, these difficulties, heartaches, persecution Setbacks, storms, however you want to describe it. He says, uh there you be assured, they're going to come. They're going to come. Trials are inescapable for the Christian. You might as well mark it down, you might as well expect it, storms and difficulties are going to come If somebody ever says, sometimes you hear these guys say this, well, come to Jesus and leave all your troubles behind. That guy's either dishonest or ignorant. Because coming to Jesus does not shelter us from storms. Does not shelter us from heartache and difficulty and temptations and trials. Listen to Job chapter 5 and verse 7. Yet a man is born unto trouble. As the sparks fly upward. Job said, and he ought to know, Job said, listen, you're born into trouble. You're born into it. Uh in fact, when I was born, the first thing the doctor did was slap me. It's like, what did I do? And uh I mean that just kind of sets the tone for life, huh? Out of nowhere. What? And it's been that way for 60 years now. Job said, man is born into trouble. I mean, you're just born right into the midst of it. Uh and then he says this, as the sparks fly upward. I like fire, and um I have a fire pit on my back deck. Uh Tom said to me the other day, he says, I was pulling out and I saw smoke coming up out of your church house. I thought your house was on fire. I said, no, it's just a five foot flames coming out of my fire pit in the back deck And uh I was sitting the other night, beautiful last night on, but the other night, it was just a beautiful night. I had the fire going there, I was reading, had a little light reading, and um stars, it was just beautiful out, and I was watching the fire, and you know what I noticed? One spark goes up right after another. This one other one, then another one, that one goes out and another one come up. Then that one goes out and another one come up And Job says, man's born under trouble as the sparks fly upward. I think this is what he was saying, just one right after another. Anyone here ever say this? Good night, it's one thing after another. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Got this issue, you deal with that. Wham! Another one comes up Listen, whoever said that having faith in Christ puts all your troubles behind, they don't know their Bible very well Job said, man's born into trouble, like sparks fly upward. Listen to Jesus in John chapter 16, verse 33. This is Jesus speaking. He said, speaking to his disciples. In the world, ye shall have tribulation. Not might have. Oh, some of y'all might go through some. No. He says, all y'all. Every one of you, you're going to have tribulation. Mark it down. Just know it's a fact. You're going to have to deal with tribulation. You're going to have to deal with issues and struggles and trials and storms and disappointment and heartache There's going to be tears. There's going to be sorrow. We live in a world of tribulation. Listen to what Paul said in Acts 14, verse 22. He said, We must through much tribulation Enter the king into the kingdom of God. Paul said, listen, till we get to heaven, till we get to heaven, we're going to have to go through a lot of tribulation. If you're here in James, turn over, if you would, to 1 Peter. Just the next book over. Go towards the back there. Get James, then get to 1 Peter. And look with me at chapter 4. And I want to begin reading in verse twelve. 1 Peter 4. 12. Beloved. Alright, he's writing to his Christians. And by the way, Peter's written to uh folks that are in intense persecution. He said, beloved, think it not strange concerning the what? Fire trial. Not just trial, but fiery trial. Man, this hurts. It hurts bad. Which is to try you, as though some strange thing happened unto you. He's saying this. He says, listen, when the trial comes, when the hurt comes, the pain, don't think this is some strange abnormal, abnormality of life. He says, don't think it's some strange things. What's he saying? He's saying you need to understand. Life is made up of difficulty. Life is made up of trials. Life is made up of heartaches. How many folks here have been around a little while? You say, preacher, I know exactly what you're talking about. Anybody here? Yeah. Yeah. Been through some heartaches, been through some fiery trials He says, don't think that's strange. Don't think that's some abnormality. In fact, he goes on. He says, look at verse 13, but rejoice. Inasmuch as ye are partakers of Christ's suffering, that when his glory shall be revealed, ye may be glad with exceeding joy Then he goes down. If you're reproached for the name of Christ, be happy. Praise the Lord for that. And so my first thought is this: if I'm going to be able to have joy in the midst of trials I need to understand that trials are a natural part of life. They're assured they're going to happen. Because I think here's the problem. We get thinking, and we've had it pretty good here in the United States, but we get thinking that somehow it's not fair if my heart is broken. Somehow I'm being mistreated. Somehow this is uh uh somehow uh this is not the way things should be or or uh that. As long as the believer is convinced that the Christian life is sheltered from heartache and trial and difficulty, I'll never be able to be joyful in it. As long as I somehow think I'm sheltered from that, I'll never be able to have joy We'll think we're getting ripped off. This is a problem I have with a lot of these TV preachers, and even ones that aren't on TV that preach this Prosperity, gospel, health and wealth. Boy, if you have enough faith, no trials, no difficulties, everything's wonderful. Here's the problem with that. They're convincing people that when the trials inevitably do come, somehow they're being ripped off Somehow God's not treating me right. Somehow there's a breakdown somewhere. No, no, no. If I'm going to be able to have joy in the midst of trials, I need to understand. Listen, they happen to everybody It is part of life through much tribulation. We enter the kingdom of God. And when I understand that, I get that settled. This is the way things are. This is the way it is. then I can begin to have joy even in the midst of that. Write this second thought down here. Number two, I put this down. Understand that trials are assorted First of all, they're assured they're going to happen. It's part of life. Number two, they're assorted. And I get that from James chapter 1, verse 2, where he says this My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into, what's the next word? Diverse temptations. That word diverse means this: various types and colors. Just a real various kinds. Here's the thing, not everybody goes through the same trials. Not everybody faces the same storms. It's various. The trials and difficulties that Mark goes through might not necessarily be the same ones I go through. And the ones that Dorothy has to deal with aren't necessarily the same ones I have to deal with. I look out there, I see all these guys have hair all over your head. What a trial that must be in difficulty. I don't have to deal with that at all That's not a problem for me whatsoever. I don't have to buy shampoo or combs or anything like that. And uh difficulty. I just need a washcloth and I'm good to go I'm joking, obviously, but the fact of the matter is everybody has different types of trials and heartaches. Do you ever see somebody going through a storm and you say, man, I don't know how they do it Anybody ever say that? Oh, how in the world? Man, my heart aches for them. You know, their storm is different than mine. Sometimes you and I go through storms, and other people say, God bless them. And so God allows storms. By the way, God knows which storms will help Andy grow in his faith, might be different than the storms that would help me grow in my faith. The storms that Linda faces might be different than the storms that Jackie would face. Because God, in his wisdom, knows what we need to develop us. And so he says, diverse temptations. But it also means this: not everybody goes through the same trials, but it also has this idea: not all of our trials are the same. Sometimes I go through this storm and then another one that's totally different. I never thought I'd have anybody here ever deal with some difficulty? You never dreamed in your life you'd have to face something like that. Anyone? Sure. I never expected. I never thought this would happen. I've been through this and that. And so diverse. Trials and difficulties do not necessarily mean God's upset with us. God sends different people, different storms. We need to be very, very careful about this. And I ran into this early on in the pastorate. I ran into this. Somebody has a wreck or they get sick and they're in the hospital. I had a fellow come to me one time, somebody's in the hospital, and he came to me and says, I know why they're in the hospital I said, why? He says they're living in sin. They've got some sin there somewhere, and God's dealing with it. I said, you don't know that any more than I know that. It might not have anything to do with their sin. Now, does sometimes sin bring storms? Yeah. Sometimes some people get in a mess simply because they make stupid decisions. Uh you uh sleep with the dogs, don't be surprised you wake up with fleas. I like that saying. It has nothing to do with the message, but I've been wanting to say that all week But sometimes we bring difficulty and heartache into our lives because of stupid things we do, sinful things we do. Amen or not. Yeah. Sometimes we have difficulties and trials and storms and and uh because of things other people do. Somebody else does some simple effects us And you know what? Sometimes, sometimes, God, in his wisdom and his love for us, says, I need to put Dennis through this storm so that he can learn and grow and develop his faith. And learn to be patient so that he can mature. And so just because there's a storm, they say, oh, God must I had a lady tell me years ago, oh, God must be mad at me because all these terrible things happening to you. I said, no, it's the exact opposite. God loves you. God, whom he loveth, he chasteneth. And so again, just because I'm going through storms and difficulties doesn't mean that God is upset with me or displeased for me. It might, it's usually, almost always, part of my training and development as a believer. And even when I sin or do something and it brings negative consequences, brings difficulties in my life, that's part of me learning. Don't do that You ever ever uh anybody here ever touch a hot stove and uh burn your hand? Well what's the best thing to learn from that? Don't touch the hot stove. Now go ahead You know, and so God sometimes we do something sinful or stupid or and God lets us get burnt and we learn, all right, I'm not going to do that anymore. And so number one, understand trials are assured. They're going to come into life. They cannot be avoided. In the world, ye shall have tribulation. Number two, they come in diverse tribulations. uh all diverse ways, colors, shapes, and sizes. Number three, write jot this down if you would. If I'm gonna be able to have joy in the midst of trials, they're assured, they're assorted, number three, I must adjust. my attitude towards my trials. Now this is where the rubber hits the road. This is where I have a say in whether I have joy in the midst of trials or not. I have no say on whether I'm going to have trials or not. They're going to happen. I can't stop it. I have no say in that. I can't do anything about it. I have no say in what type of trials are going to hit me. Cancer, financial setback, whatever. I have no say in that. They're all diverse types. But I do have a say. I do have a choice. In the attitude that I have dealing with my trials. And look here, look what he says here, verse 2. My brethren, that next word is the key word in this verse. My brethren, what? Count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. Count. That's a key word. It's a financial term. It means this, to evaluate. It means this, to look at something, evaluate it, and come to a conclusion about it. And here's the conclusion he says that we should have in the midst of our trials. You count it. You look at that trial, you evaluate it, and you come to this conclusion that I'm going to count it all joy. I'm going to count it all joy. That implies a decision that needs to be made on my part That implies that I have a decision to make about my attitude in dealing with this trial. Now what do we mean by attitude? An attitude is the way I think about things, the way I see something. Any of you moms ever say to your kids, you got a bad attitude. You better change that attitude. Anybody ever hear that? Now I never s mom never said it to me, my sister, she said it all the time to them. My attitude is the way I think about something, the way I see it. I got a bad attitude, means I'm looking at it the wrong way. I'm thinking about it in a bad way. And God says to you and I as believers, brethren, same people, you can't avoid trials. They're going to happen. They're going to become in all shapes and sizes. One thing you can do, you can decide that you're going to have a specific type attitude about that trial. You can have joy in the midst of trials. Listen, if the only way you and I are going to be joyful is by not having any trials, mark it down, we're never going to be joyful. If the only way you and I are ever going to be joyful is if there are only certain kinds of trials I deal with, we're never going to be joyful because they're going to come in all shapes and sizes. And God says, right at the start of this book, written to intensely persecuted believers, he says, right up front, he says, you count it all joy. You just settle your attitude. You decide how you're going to see this, how you're going to evaluate this, and how you're going to respond to it. When a person trusts Jesus Christ as Savior, God changes the way we see things. God changes what our values are. If you would, keep your place here. We've got one more thing we're going to look here in James, but come over with me, if you would, the book of Philippians. A few pages towards the front of your Bible, Philippians, and chapter number three. If you study the life of Paul, you find out when he got saved, God changed his values dramatically and instantly. Philippians chapter three, come down to verse number seven Notice what he says. But what things were gained to me, those I what? Counted loss for Christ. Because all these things that all these were wonderful for me, oh, this was good for me, oh, this is exactly the way I want it. He goes, ah, I got saved. Suddenly all this stuff that was about me, about me, about me, my pleasure, my happiness, my this, all of a sudden, that uh I counted that but loss For Christ. Look at verse 8. Yea, doubtless, and I what? Count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things. Talk about trials and difficulties. And look at this. And do count them but dumb that I may win Christ. What's Paul saying? Paul's saying this, my pleasure, my joy, my will, my way, what I want. That's not a high value anymore. The highest value is Christ, and that he be developed in me. I be conformed to the image of Christ. When we value pleasure more than spiritual maturity, we're never going to be able to joy in a trial because trials are necessary. For my spiritual maturity. Did you follow what I was trying to say there? Say, oh, the most important thing in me is that I not have any difficulties, that I not have any heartache, that I not have any disappointments. Well, if that's your attitude, then you're never going to be able to be joyful in the midst of the trial. But if my joy, if I just decide, you know, God allowed this in my life, God allowed this to happen, He loves me And he determined that this is necessary for me to grow in my faith or to establish patience and patience uh uh uh d develop maturity in my Christian life, and praise God, I'm gonna joy, count it joy. That doesn't mean now don't misunderstand. He's not saying we have to like the trial. Oh, praise the Lord, my car was totaled. Well, in my truck case, that would be a wonderful blessing. But um he's not saying that I have to rejoy in the heartache and the difficulty, the disappointment. But I count it this experience that God is allowing me to experience this, I count that joy because He's using it to help me grow in my faith. I've found that almost without exception, the people that are strongest in their faith and the happiest in their faith are often, if not always Folks that have been through intensely difficult times, been through storms. I haven't mentioned her lately. I do I have often over the years A dear lady I met when I was in college down in Chattanooga, we had a bus route to the inner city projects. I mean gangs, prostitution, drugs. It was everything you imagine. And we'd run in there every Saturday. We'd go in and knock on doors. We had bus routes. We'd pick up Sundays. And uh I learned early on, the best thing to do when you go in there is carry a big black King James Bible Because that way they knew you were a preacher and not some kind of FBI or something. You don't get shot. So I bought the biggest, blackest Bible I could find. I carried that thing all around down there with me There was one dear lady, we knocked on the door, and I introduced myself, and uh she said, Come on in. She was probably 80, upper 80s at that point, Anna Nixon Tate. She was born in Alabama. Back, boy, back you talk about segregation and racism and prejudice. And she was right in the middle of all it. She picked cotton as a kid, she told me. She told her story. She had four husbands that she'd married and died, widowed four times, and she'd tell heartaches, just a frail little dear thing. I got every Saturday, I couldn't wait to get to Mrs. Tate's house. And she'd invite us in and she loved the Lord and it was just She'd quote scripture. She'd say, Brother Danny, uh she called me Danny. Uh Brother Danny, uh get your Bible, turn to Psalm 69, see if I have this right. And she couldn't see past the end of her nose. And she'd quote that verse, that chapter verbatim. And at first when I came and said, well, let me pray with you and Ms. Tate before we go. And she'd say, okay, and I prayed. And after a while I learned I wasn't the spiritually mature one in this living room. She was the one. I changed it. I said, I I got where before I left, I'd say, Ms. Tate, you pray for me. I'm telling you, she would pray. Presence that God was there. She's been with the Lord for years. She has to be. I tell you, that dear woman, you talk about heartaches and difficulty, she didn't have nothing Just a little government apartment there. And I love the Lord. I found I found that those who are the strongest in their faith in the mature in their faith are almost without exception those that went through the most difficult trials. You find somebody just had it easy and cake the whole time and every every need met and every desire fulfilled, I found that they're usually very, very immature in their faith, very weak in their faith James says right up the bar, you guys are going through it. You're scattered abroad, you're persecuted intensely. Listen, right off the bat, you count it all joy. And you fall into divers temptation. You just decide this is what my attitude's going to be. I put this down. I like this quote. Salvation alters my evaluator. That word count means to evaluate the value of something. When I got saved, my evaluator got changed. Things that were so important and I I valued so highly before I got saved, suddenly they're not very important at all. The things that I didn't think were important after I got saved, oh well suddenly they became very important. Does anybody know what I'm can I get a witness out there? Anybody know what I'm talking about? God changes our evaluator. I decide that there is value in this trial because of what it will provide. Oh, this is sad, this is disappointing, this breaks my heart, this hurts. But I need to decide, wait a minute, I'm going to count this joy because I know it'll produce patience on the other side And I need to let patience have its perfect work that I may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing, fully mature in my faith. There's an interesting statement in Hebrews chapter 12 and verse 2. The Bible says this about the Lord Jesus Christ. That for the joy that was set before him, he endured the cross. Anyone ever hear that verse? Jesus Christ, for the joy that was set before him, endured the cross. Doesn't say he was joyful about the cross. No, he endured it. The Bible says in strong cryings, he cried out to God, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but thy will be done. And he endured that cross for the joy that was set before him. I don't have to rejoice in the trial, but I can count it all joy because of what it will accomplish in my life. So number one, I understand that trials are assured. They're coming. Mark it down. If you think they're not, you're never going to be able to be joy in trials. Number two, they come in all shapes and sizes. They're assorted. Number three, I've got to adjust my attitude. I must decide that what God is going to do through this trial is more important Then any pleasure I'm missing out in this trial. And number four, here's my last one real quickly. I must understand there must be anticipation in my trials. Come back to James here, chapter 1. Look at verse 2 again, one last time. My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. Now look at verse 3. What's the first two words? Knowing this. That word knowing this, that phrase knowing this means this. Being assured of. Being confident of Now, what is it I can be so sure of if I count it all joy when I fall into this diverse temptation? That the trying of my faith worketh what? You know what patience is? Patience is tough. You know what patience is? It is one of the greatest virtues in the Christian life. You show me a patient Christian, and I'll show you a mature Christian in their faith. You show me an impatient Christian that's mad, I want it now, and here in my way, I want it. I'll show you a very immature. How many people here raise kids when your kids were very small, they were very impatient Our boys were middle of the night, they'd wake up screaming, they'd want a bottle and screaming and yelling, and uh I'd say, uh, just be patient. That worked. So when that didn't work, then I'd say, Kathy, it's your turn. One of the characteristics of a very immature child is impatience. And patient. You show me a Christian that is patient, able to wait on God. And count it joy. That person or in the Bible is perfect and entire, wanting nothing. In other words, they are mature, they are grown up. Knowing this, I can anticipate that this trial, if I will count it joy and have the right attitude It will produce patience in my life, and patience produces maturity. Look at verse 4. But let patience have her perfect work. That ye may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. Now that doesn't mean sinless, but it does mean this. Grown up. Grown up If we have the right attitude, our trials will work for us, not against us. Our most difficult times in life can be the most beneficial times in our lives. If we will follow God's instruction, we'll just do what God says here. You say, preacher, it's hard. Yeah. Show me anything in the Christian life that isn't hard. Say, preacher, I know, we just got to decide. I am going to count this. It hurts deeply. I'm disappointed. This is not the way I dreamed. I'm going to make a conscious decision, but I'm going to count it joy in all of this. I'm going to let God do his perfect work in my life. Got to decide. Hey, you know what the alternative? What's the alternative to that? The alternative to that is getting bitter. Getting angry and allowing that child to destroy me. That's not why God sends them. That's not why God allows them to us to get bitter and angry and ruined. They're designed to strengthen our faith and develop our maturity and develop our patience. But the key word is count at all joy. Some time ago I went out to spend time with my two sons. It had been six years, I believe, we figured it out. It had been six years when the three of us had been together, Sam, Dan, and myself. Some time ago, I had the opportunity to go out and spend a day with the two boys, the three of us together, just us three together. That's an 18-hour drive out there. Now that's a long way. I had to get up early. You know how bad I hate to get up early. That was a trial, difficulties, diverse temptation, and drive all day long. I mean, all day long You know what? Driving out there, that 18 hours traffic, weather, tired, money I was the happiest dad in the world. You know why? I was going to see my boys. I was going to see my, I could count that drive all joy. Knowing this, at the trying of that, I was going to get to see my boys. Then I had to turn around, spend one day, turn around, drive 18 hours back. You know I was doing the whole way? I went griping and complaining about the traffic. It was pouring rain coming through Charleston, pouring rain at night, one in the morning. I was just saying, thank you, Lord, I got to see my boys. Got to be with them. That's what God is saying, I think. Going through a trial, you're going through a heartache, you hate it, you don't want to do this, you want to choose that. Man, what it produces. What God can do in my life through this if I'll just trust Him and have the right attitude. Joy in the midst of trials, it's up to you. It's up to me. The other alternatives get bitter and angry and be crushed. Or I can trust God and Father's instructions. Father, I pray you'd help us, Lord, to make the right decisions. I pray, Father, you'd help us. To do exactly what your word says here, to count it all joy. Then Lord, we trust you to do what you need to do in our lives. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher? I'm not being persecuted like these dear believers were. Goodness. You'd say, preacher, I've got some trials, I've got some heartaches, I've got some disappointments, I've got some sorrow. You'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me establish the right attitude to count this. It's all joy. Is there any like that? I need God to help me have that attitude. God bless you. Hands all around. It's up to us. We can't stop the trials. We can't avoid them. We can't decide which ones. I can decide how I respond to it. I just need a side. And sometimes we need God to help us do that. Any others? Any others, preach or pray? God will help me establish right attitude. Is there some here this morning say, preacher, I'm not saved? I don't think you can do this apart from the presence of the Holy Spirit in your life. I don't think you can do this apart from having the Lord Jesus your Savior. Is there any, maybe online or here in the service, say, preacher, I've never been saved. I need God to come in my life, be my Savior. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I need Christ as Savior. Now here's one other, and then we'll give the invitation. I wonder how many know somebody that's really struggling, where they're hurting. Maybe you can see bitterness creeping up in their heart. They really need a Christian witness. They really need to see somebody that knows the Lord and knows the joy of the Lord even in tribulation. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me that I can be a help to them. I can be an encouragement. I can be a light. Help them count it all joy. Is there anyone like this, preacher? I know someone. They're struggling. They're hurting. I want to be that one. Encourage them and help them. God bless you, hands all around you. Father, I pray you'd bless our invitation now. We need you, we need your help in this. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen