We are looking at the apostle Judas, not Judas Iscariot. And uh what do you got there, George? Study guides, yes. Anyone need a stick? Okay. All right, we we got about eight or ten. Um Lord will I'm gonna finish it up here this morning. So what I want to do is begin and start at the beginning of the study guide and we'll just work our way down through and you can start you can fill them out that way if you're missing any blanks there or Uh whatever. Right to your left there, Tom. Ladies there, Ms. Smith needs one. And anybody else? Like I said, we just have a handful left here. And um Lord will and we'll finish this up here in a bit. If you turn to John chapter 14, as I said, we're looking at Judas, not Iscariot, but Judas the faithful Apostle, and we're really told almost nothing about him. He's referenced in the lists of disciples a couple three times And in the book of Acts, just a name and a list of names. But we get to John chapter 14. Here he makes a statement that's recorded in Scripture. The Lord has just told the disciples That he's going to be leaving them. He's going away permanently. Of course, he's talking about his ascension to the right hand of the Father. And he says to them, I'm going to leave you, I'm going, and they're not understanding what he's talking about. They just You know, they just don't comprehend it at this point. And he says, I'm going to send another comforter with you that'll be with you. We sang about it, opened the service this morning. And Judas Is processing this in his mind, and he makes this statement down there in verse number 22. Now this is all we have about Judas, as I said, other than a name and a list. So we want to try and glean something from this. Notice he says, Judas saith unto him, not Iscariot Lord, how is it that thou wilt manifest thyself unto us and not unto the world? And the Lord had told him, I'm going away, I'm going to manifest myself to you, but the world won't see me. In other words, they're going to have a personal relationship with the Lord, even though he's not physically there with them. That's going to go on. World's not going to see Lord. He's going to be at the right hand, Father. As far as the world's concerned, he's off the scene. But you're going to maintain, you're going to have a ongoing uh relationship with me. And Judas is thinking this through and he says, well how's that going to play out? How's that work? Now this is what we're pulling from this little statement here. That Judas intended to stay faithful to the Lord even when these events took place that he didn't understand. He had no intention, regardless of what the Lord was going to do, he had no intention of walking away uh from the Lord or being unfaithful. Now they all struggled when he was crucified. That threw them all a curveball And uh they all forsook him there for a period of time. But Judas had no intention. So therefore we get the conclusion, we come to this, we call him the steadfast apostle. And so let's pray, and we're going to come down through this. Let's try and finish this up this morning. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you bless our study of Judas. Lord, we're grateful for men and women like him who are steadfast, faithful. And I ask you to help us stir our hearts. That we would be faithful Christians, that we would be steadfast in our walk with you and in our relationship with you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, let's just go through here and try and get all your blanks filled. We've looked at nine. According to my count, nine of the twelve apostles so far, this is number ten. We'll have two more to go after this. The Bible tells us quite a bit about some disciples And uh not so much about others. And we've looked at that and considered that. I just want to give everybody a chance to get all your blanks filled in here. Besides the listings of the apostles As I mentioned a moment ago, only one thing is said concerning Judas here. But it gives us some insight about him. Alright? Am I going a good pace? Get everything filled up? Alright. Can I go faster? Oh sure. Who was this Judas? Alright, let's try and figure out who he was. We're told he was the brother of James. That's made very clear. Judas had the same name as the other apostle, Judas Iscariot. He was called by various different names. Matthew refers to him as Lebaius or Thaddeus. In the Gospel of Mark, he's referred to simply as Thaddeus. In Luke and the book of Acts, in the list given of the disciples, he's simply referred to as Judas. I'm a little ahead of where I'm I'm way ahead of where I'm at on here. Alright. Um Uh Matthew and Mark have not used his real name and we think they're trying to uh salvage his reputation there kind of distinguish him from Judas Iscariot. Uh he's always noted as different from Judas Iscariot. The name Judas means means praise as you already know that because you've been looking at it for a while. What's the outstanding quality about this guy? And this is what we've been highlighting through this whole study of him. This is the one thing we glean out, and that is the fact that he was a very steadfast apostle. See, that's where I was going. Sometimes it gives you more than one thing at a time. The word steadfast means constant, firm, or unwavering. To be loyal and faithful. It's the idea behind it. Also has the idea of being constant, just unchanging in place, to endure, be firmly established, not to quit. And that's the impression we get of Judas here, the Apostle Judas. Letter B. He never did plan on quitting, is our impression of him. Alright, everybody's keeping up. Here we have a whole list of them. Jesus explained to the disciples that he was going to return to the Heavenly Father. Judas had been faithful to the Lord up to this point, going all the way through. We uh don't hear about him. Here's something interesting to think about. Sometimes those that don't get all the attention, sometimes they're the ones most faithful They're just in their place, quietly, going about, doing what the Lord instructs them to, and that's kind of the way Judas was. He asks them, how's this going to be uh how's it how we work this out, Lord? You're gonna be gone, yet you're gonna show yourself to us Uh I want to be faithful to the Lord. How's that all plan out? And uh this indicates that he intended to be steadfast to the Lord. Jesus encouraged them to be steadfast, and this is important. The Lord points out that to be faithful to God, there's something else needs to be in place. And that is this. We need to be in love with the Lord. When we're in love with the Lord Jesus Christ, we're not going to have a problem being faithful to the Lord Jesus Christ. When we're in love with God, it's not going to be a problem to be steadfast and be in my place, be where I need to be, doing what God expects me to do. And that's true in any relationship. Um in a marriage relationship, if you love your spouse, it's not going to be a problem to be faithful to the spouse. If I love my children, it's not going to be a problem to be faithful to my children in the sense of taking care of them and meeting their needs and vice versa, parent uh child to the parent. And so the Lord points out through John chapter 14 He says loving the Lord. You have number two faithfulness in the Word of God as a prerequisite to steadfastness. And the Holy Spirit would help us. The Lord references the Holy Spirit a number of times down through there. We believe, we don't know for sure, the Bible doesn't tell us, but tradition and kind of history tells us, that Judas died as a martyr, that he gave his life preaching the gospel. uh probably in Persia. I was reading different um records of his life a little bit and uh some say that he would preach in Libya and various parts of the Middle East there that he had traveled around. So he was Everything that we know about him tells us he was faithful unto death to the Lord. Alright, that's where we ended, correct? Alright, let's pick up some new ground here. Now what's the application for you and I? I can say very emphatically, God wants his people to be steadfast. God wants us to be faithful to the Lord. In fact, I suggest to you the best quality of a Christian Is faithfulness. Nowhere in the Bible are we told to be talented. God does not tell us to be talented He tells us to take the talents that he gives us and use them for his glory, use them to advance the gospel, but he doesn't command us to be Talented. He doesn't expect of us to be talented. If we are, it's a gift of God. As I said, we use that to the uh we're not, praise the Lord for this. He doesn't command us to be better looking than others. And some of you can say, Praise the Lord for that. And um we won't mention any names. But uh it doesn't command us to be better looking than others. Not everybody can be as good looking as this, you know. I mean But thank God for that. But we can be faithful to God Maybe not as talented as others. God didn't, for whatever reason, and his wisdom, his sovereignty give me the talents he gives someone else. For whatever reason, God is sovereignty, he didn't give me the uh looks and the features that he gave someone else. But I can be faithful to the Lord. I can be steadfast. I can be in my place. 1 Corinthians chapter 4 and verse 2. Anyone know have 1 Corinthians 4-2 memorized? That's a good verse to memorize. Anybody know what that says? I'll help you. It is required in stewards that a man be what? Found faithful. One thing, uh here's an interesting thought, and this is a rabbit trail you could chase, but God refers to Christians as stewards. What is a steward? Steward is someone that ta is given the responsibility to care for another person's possessions And so basically what the Bible teaches is that you and I, we're not our own, and nothing we own is really ours. It's all the Lord's. He's entrusted us to us to use it as he directs us to. And he says, as a steward, there's one thing I expect from you as a steward, and that is this to be faithful. Suppose you were going to go on a mission trip for a year or two years. You're going to go on a short, uh, uh a long, short-term mission trip. You're going to be going for a year or two and you hire someone to come and take care of your house and take care of your garden, your yard and the and uh the house, the m the plant and all that And you give them a list of things you expect them to fulfill and expect them to do while they're caring for your possessions. One thing you would expect from them would be what? Faithfulness You expect them to be there doing what you've instructed them to do. And that is what God says he expects from us as Christians. He wants us to be faithful in our place, doing the responsibilities he's uh given us to do, and uh and uh and that's what he looks for us. There's a couple of great quotes About faithfulness. Dr. Lee Robertson had a profound effect on me, was my pastor for a number of years. He said this: you may not be much, but you can be faithful. I thank God for that He used to say things to this effect. These are little statements that I heard him say over and over. He'd say this: I need to be in my place. I need to be in my place. He'd preach Sundays a month. He'd promote Sunday morning, he'd promote Sunday night and Wednesday night services. Sunday night he promotes Wednesday and the following Sunday. He'd say this. He'd say, people, be in your place Be in your place. Be in your place. You know what he's saying? Be faithful. Be steadfast. He would make this statement off him. He says, I can carry out my responsibilities. I can carry out my responsibilities. God's given me a job too, I can do that. And you say and be faithful. That was a huge emphasis in Highland Park Baptist Church and the ministry of Dr. Robertson was to be faithful. Be faithful. Be in your place. Carry out your responsibilities. And of course this ties right in with me and say, trust God. Trust God. Be in your place. Do your job. Trust God. And what a great, what a great challenge. You know, so much can be done. When we simply are in our place, doing our job, trusting God. What an impact we can have on this world. And so um Uh statements, Dr. Robinson. Dr. Bob Jones Sr. Anybody recognize that name? Great evangelist of the early 1900s. He said this, the best ability is dependability The best ability is dependability. It doesn't matter how gifted a person is, if they're not dependable, they're not of little benefit. I mean they can be the greatest whatever in the world. But if you can't depend on them Then you don't know, then you can't accomplish much. Take your Bible. I thought there's a great illustration here in the Old Testament. When you turn to Genesis, chapter 49. Genesis forty-nine, it's a little statement made about Reuben And Jacob is blessing his boys. He's towards the end of his life. And he goes down through his boys. He brings them through one by one, and he's blessing them, as they did back in that day. And he makes a little concise statement about each of the boys, about what they were like, their character. And he kind of summarizes it. He says this, and then he gives them the blessing. And you come down to verse number three And uh his oldest son comes in, Reuben, and look what he says about Reuben. Now think about what we're our subject, being faithful, being steadfast, not necessarily talented Look at verse 3. Reuben, this is Jacob talking to him. He's going to bless him. Reuben, thou art my firstborn, my might. The beginning of my strength, the excellency of dignity, and the excellency of power. Question: positive statement or negative? Man alive, yeah, it's positive. It's outstanding. He is making some statements. Man, how many of us would love to hear our father say something like that about us? Reuben was gifted. Reuben was smart. Reuben was talented. And look at verse four. Unstable as water, thou shalt not excel. Wow What a statement. Jacob sees in his son great talent, great ability, great intellect. He's excellent in all these ways, but he was not dependable. He was unstable as water, here, there, up, down, in, out, off, on. And he says, you're not going to succeed. Doesn't matter how gifted you are, doesn't matter how intelligent you are, doesn't matter how uh smart you are. You're not going to succeed if you're not faithful. If you're not faithful. And so it is required of stewards that a man be found faithful. And you go on, James chapter 1, verse 8. The double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. And again, the Bible emphasizes the importance of stability, of faithfulness, of steadfastness, just being there, plugging away, plugging away, plugging away. And uh we can, hey, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we may we're definitely not the best, the biggest, or the brightest of any uh church uh of anything. But I can tell you this, we can be in our place doing what God's commanded us to do. And we can just keep on going in this community and keep on sharing the gospel and keep on sharing the gospel and keep on sharing the gospel. And we can just keep on teaching the Bible. teaching the Bible and teaching the Bible and trying to live right and trying to live right and I tell you that's what God is looking for. Faithfulness. Faithfulness And so the best ability is dependability. Jesus wants every Christian to be steadfast. Did I skip a section? Oh no, right there. We are warned not to lose our steadfastness. Now I'm running out of time. I've got to go down through this. Don't lose our steadfastness. 2 Peter 3. 17. Uh let me here's a few things, just lists that we can be steadfast. Number one, uh number letter C be steadfast against Satan. Just keep resisting them. Be so what is it? Oops. First Peter 5. 8. As a uh as a roar be sober, be vigilant, because as a roaring lion, um Your adversary is a roaring lion walking about seeking him and made uh devour. Tell you what, I'll tell you who Satan gets, people that aren't in their place. Tell you that lion, you got you got a trip going through the jungle and that lion's stalking them. You know which one he gets? One that falls out of range. When it's not in their place. You see that with that herd of elk and the wolves. We'll try and get cut someone out and get them away. That's what we got to be steadfast. Need to be steadfast in our service. We talk about that uh here, just in our place, doing uh what God's called us to do. I like this little quote I come across. We ought to serve God with our whole life, and let's not stop short of that goal I just want to serve God with my whole life. I won't come short of that. We need to be steadfast in our doctrine. Acts chapter 2. They just stuck to the truth of God's word, steadfast in our doctrine, steadfast in our fellowship. I'll tell you something. I need the fellowship of my brothers and sisters in Christ. I read my Bible every day. I pray. I try to be faithful to church. I have to be, I'm the pastor. But uh I try to do all those things, but I'm telling you The fellowship with my brothers and sisters in Christ, there's nothing this world has to offer that can replace that. I need that And just rubbing shoulders with people like-minded that believe what I believe, that love the God I love. And uh that's important. Uh fast in our fellowship. Our prayers. We'll talk a lot about that, just staying steadfast in our prayers. All right, let me give you the conclusion and we'll end. You may not have the leadership abilities of Peter. Or the spirit and characteristics of James and John, but every one of us can be like Judas here and be steadfast to the Lord. Leadership abilities of Peter, the spirit and character of James and John, but we can be like Judas. I would like for it to be said. You ever think about, I wonder what folks will say about me at my funeral. Anybody ever it's kind of vain, isn't it? But um I'm just gonna kind of hang around a while and see what y'all say So be a cease a movement or a shadow or something, let's preach your you know what I would like in my mind, I'd like to have said Brother Leatherman was faithful I'd like that to be said about me. He's faithful. I don't care. They can brag on my good looks if they want, but I want to say about faithful. And we give you the last one and we'll quit. Let's determine to live for our God every day until the end. Amen? Isn't that good? Father, bless us, Lord. Help us, Holy Spirit. We ask you to help us to be faithful to our Lord and our Savior in Jesus' name. Amen.