Six, or I'm sorry, chapter seven, verse number one. We are looking at the Sermon on the Mount. Today is Brian and Sandy's 48th wedding anniversary. And Brian left her. That's terrible. Now, I hope not. Those two you never know. No. I'm sure you didn't. But congratulations, very happy for you. We've got our thirtieth coming up in February. So we're excited, but it's we've not attained to the forty-eighth yet. What did the here we go? What did the baby corn say to the mama corn? Where is pop corn? That is terrible. That was one of the worst I think I've ever said. Alright, Matthew chapter seven. Everybody alright? Everybody got your heaters fired up and ready? It's gonna get cold, they say. No more nice guy weather. Verse 1, Matthew chapter 7. Judge not that you be not judged. For with what judgment you judge Ye shall be judged, and with what measure ye meet, it shall be measured to you again. And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but considerst not the beam that is in thine own eye? Or if thou shalt, or how wilt thou say to thy brother, let me pull the moat out of thine eye, and behold, a beam is in thine own eye. Now, hypocrite, first cast out the beam out of thine own eye, and then shalt thou see clearly to cast out the mote out of thy brother's eye Looking at the verse there, we started this section here, and um we're gonna look at verse number one again. We looked at this several weeks ago. We had the revival and then Thanksgiving, and so we haven't been at this for a little bit If you remember studying the Sermon on the Mount, and if you'll remember, this is the longest sermon recorded in Scripture. It's what I always say, the greatest sermon ever preached, by the greatest preacher it ever preached, Lord Jesus Christ. And he starts out with addressing the attitudes that a disciple has. He says, if you claim to be my disciple, he's talking to saved people He says, and these things will be true. And he says, these are the attitudes you ought to have. And you remember he went through about ten or twelve beatitudes as we know. And our attitude and our perspective on different things. And then from there he went and he talked about our role in the world. He says we are the light of the world, we're salt of the earth, and as a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, we're to have an influence in this world And a significant influence, even though we might be small in number, it's a little little light, a little candle can light a whole room up. A little bit of salt affects an entire dish. And so he says the word to be to have an influence. And he talks about what genuine righteousness is. If you remember, he said the Pharisees considered themselves righteous and all theirs was was external. As long as they put on a show, as long as they look good, as long as outward keeping this list of do's and don'ts and you're righteous now, righteous in the heart. And he got into chapter six and um and uh he addressed the issue of hypocrisy. And about, again, just putting on a show and uh when we pray or when we give alms, when we fast. So he addressed hypocrisy. Then the last part of chapter six, he addressed materialism About what we're working for and what we're worrying about. Don't lay up so for yourself treasures on earth. Lay up treasures in heaven where you can't lose it. You can take it with you And then he says, uh don't worry about food and clothing, uh all these things unsaved people worry about, but as a saved person, a child of God, a disciple, we ought not to ever worry about these things. If we seek first his kingdom, his righteousness. We have his word that he'll all these things will be added unto us and he'll take care of us. Now we're in the last third part of his sermon, chapter seven, and uh this kind of uh uh is a new um uh uh subject kind of area he's addressing and I kind of boiled this down if you remember chapter seven I'm trying to get the gist the overall uh idea of what the Lord is preaching about. I come up with two. I don't know that they're real clearly seen, but I think they're implied here. One is this that as a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, I am always in the presence of God We are continually in God's presence. And I'll see we'll I think we'll see that picked up as we go through the last part of his sermon here. And uh we have to keep that in mind. And the other idea here is Is that as a disciple of Christ, we're just passing through this world. Like the old song says, this world is not my home. I'm just a passing through. My treasures are laid up. Somewhere beyond the blue. And the idea here in this last section, chapter 7, is, hey, this world's not your home, you're not living here, don't put down roots, because one day we're going to stand before God. We're going to have to give an account of ourselves. I believe those two thoughts, if we would keep them in the forefront of our mind, it would have a powerful, powerful impact upon our Christian life and our testimony of this old simple world. One is this, I am always in the presence of God. Day and night uh light and dark, crowd or by myself, I'm always in the presence of God. I cannot escape that. The other thought is I'm gonna have to give an account to myself I'm going to have to answer the Lord. And so that's uh what brings us to this. So we noted here in verse number one, Jesus makes this statement Judge not that you be not judged. And we looked at the first two words, judge not. What does he mean by that? Well, by the way, let me back up. I've broken this down, verses one through five. I've broken it down into three thoughts This will help us. We're still going to deal with the first thought. We're not going to get to the second one, third one yet. But the first one is this, she gives the precept What do we mean by precepts? Somebody talk to me. When we say the Lord gave us a precept, what are we talking about that? Somebody help me. A principle to live by, a truth that we ought to that ought to guide our lives, a precept. Book of uh Psalms 119, it'll talk about the precepts of the Lord. Victoria An idea? Exactly, very good. A precept is a is a thought or a principle or an idea that's right and wrong. So the Lord says here's something That you need to incorporate into your life. This is something you need to do or not do, and it is judge not. I think that is the world and worldly Christians' favorite verse. Don't judge me. Judge not. The unfortunate thing is 99% of the time they're taking it completely out of context. Now we talked about this at length before, so I just I just want to touch on it. But when the Lord says that we should not judge, judge not Is he saying that we should not make a decision as to whether something is right or wrong? No, obviously not. In fact, you just go a couple verses later, and he's telling us to make judgment So what does he mean when he says judge not? We know what he's not saying. He is not saying do not use discernment in your life He's not saying that because we have to do that. We're told other places that we need to judge as to whether somebody what a guy's preaching is truth or not Whether it's false doctrine he tells us in Romans that a mortgage caused divisions and preach the doctrine contrary to what you've been taught, not in my words But uh he's saying you need a judge. You need to be able to make discernment, decide, is that false doctrine or true doctrine? And the way we determine that is how? How do we discern if something's true doctrine or false doctrine It lines up with the Word of God. Lines of the Word of God is true. Not the contrary of the Word of God is false. So There's various areas there where he says that we uh have to use judgment. So what is he talking about here? If you remember, w uh I I like to go back to the meaning of a word, the most simplistic meaning. The the you boil that word judge down into its most basic meaning, it simply means this, to divide something In other words, you take something that is good and something that is bad, and you make a decision, this is good, this is bad So I'm making judgment. So what is he talking about here? By the way, we also pointed this out. Judgment is both positive and negative. I've never had I've had people say to me, I say, you know, that's probably not the best thing to do, that's not the right thing to do, and they'll say something like, uh, don't judge me. You know, uh don't judge me about that. But I've said a lot of times to people, hey you did a good job. Hey, you look nobody ever said when I judge them positive, nobody ever said, don't judge me. You know. Nobody ever says that. Boy, you're a blessing to me. Don't judge me. No, they don't say that. So that tells you right there their motives are a little skew. But uh so there's a positive and negative uh aspect of this judgment. So what is he saying here? He is saying we should not bring, without re-preaching the whole thing, he's saying this we should not bring personal condemnation on people. I need to discern whether whether a person is doing right or wrong, but I have to be very, very careful about not bringing condemnation down on them. I do not have the authority to condemn somebody else. For several reasons. One, I don't meet the requirements. I'm not perfect myself. In fact, he says later on, by what measure you meet, it shall be measured to you. So if I'm going to condemn somebody because they did wrong, I'm condemning myself. Because I do wrong also in maybe different areas. And so he's he we know here what he's saying is do not bring personal condemnation. Even Jesus himself, he showed up, he said, I didn't bring I didn't come to condemn the world That the world through me might be saved. What do you mean Jesus Christ could condemn us? He doesn't have to. The law already condemns us. We're condemned by the law. We've broken the law. So what he's talking about here is this idea of bringing personal judgment, personal condemnation down on people. The only person that is qualified to do that is somebody who has kept the law perfectly. And if I haven't, then I'm not qualified to personally condemn someone. Now this is what I want to do tonight. That's the idea. Judge not that you be not judged. Now I got thinking, how does that play itself out? How do we judge people in the way that Jesus is telling us as disciples We ought not to judge people. How do we do that? How do we find ourselves doing that? I think we need to know what how it how it is practiced so that I can keep myself from practicing it. So let me give you a few thoughts from the Bible. And if you have the back side of your prayer list there, you might want to jot these down. These were helpful to me, and so um maybe they would be helpful to you Number one, this is how judging others in a way that Jesus condemns is practiced. And if we understand that then we can avoid it. So here, jot this down if you would. We're judging others in this forbidden way. When we give our opinion or make a judgment on a person Or a subject that has nothing to do with us. Let me restate that. You can write it however you want. There's no test on this. Here's my thought. I'm judging in a way that Jesus tells me not to when I give my opinion or I make a judgment on a person or even a subject that has nothing to do with me. Here's an issue, something going on between a couple of other people. It has nothing to do with me. I'm not involved in it at all. And I step in and I start giving my judgment and giving my opinion about it. It has nothing to do with me You say, where do you find that in Scripture? I am so glad you asked that, because I was ready for it. Turn with me, would the Proverbs Chapter 29. By the way, have you noticed how many times we ended up in Proverbs studying the Sermon on the Mount? Seems like we keep coming back here. Proverbs chapter 29. And I believe Solomon here, of course, under the inspiration of God, addresses this subject of judging others and making a judgment in particular on a person or a situation that really has nothing to do with me whatsoever. Proverbs 29, are you there? Look at verse number 11 with me. Proverbs 29 verse number 11 And by the way, it's amazing in Proverbs how many times wisdom and foolishness relate to our mouth and our words. Notice what he says here, verse 11. A fool uttereth all his might. But a wise man keepeth it in till afterwards. Now let's look at this. He says, A fool uttereth all his mind. That word uttereth is an interesting word. It's used several times in the book of Proverbs. It has this idea to pour out abundantly. It has the idea of to pour out very easily. It has the idea got this big bucket of water and it's just it is dump a bunch out, it just comes pouring out. Alright? Do you ever know anybody that in this definition utters, uttered a lot? I mean, you know, they just whatever. They just say it and it just pours out and uh it just keeps coming. Maybe a more other term is, man, just running their mouth. Anybody know what I'm talking about that? It's just a fool uttereth Uh then he says this, it's interesting, a fool uttereth what? All his mind. Now that phrase, all his mind, his mind, that phrase there has this idea, others his opinion, what he thinks about that. Or you could, in the context of our subject tonight, judging not A fool uttereth all his mind. A fool just pours out, opens his mouth, and just comes running right out, his opinion about a situation, about a circumstance, an issue, a matter Or you could say not just his opinion, but his judgment about that. This is my judgment. This is what I think. This is my opinion It all falls under the same category. And so he's saying here, a fool just pours out to everybody what he thinks about anything and everything. He just pours out his judgment about stuff, has nothing whatsoever to do with him, with his life, or anything whatsoever. It's just he heard about it and something and he just is ready to go He puts on Twitter and Facebook everything he thinks about, whatever that issue or situation is. Alright Y'all are quiet tonight. Well, you're not uttering anything. That's good, I guess. But our flesh loves to do that. For some reason, now you're all looking at me like you're real pious. I don't know what you're talking about. I think we're all guilty of this to some degree. Our flesh loves to let everybody know what our judgment is about something. Can I get a witness or not? And maybe we don't tell this person, but we'll find somebody and I'll tell her everything I think about what they're doing and nothing to do with me. But I sure want somebody to know what my judgment is, what my opinion is, what my mind is about that. And the flesh loves that. Why do you think our sinful nature relishes that so much? I'm going somewhere with this because you're going to see this theme throughout it. Ah that's what it all boils down to, and I'm getting way ahead of myself. I wanted to say this to the end, but i it comes out here. All of this has to come down with making myself look good. It has all to do with self-righteousness. Question, who in the New Testament Jesus dealt with does that remind you of? Self-righteous making themselves look good. Pharisees. That's been a theme through this whole thing. If you want to boil this sermon down, he's saying, if you're my disciple, don't be like the Pharisees. And he gives us all this list. And that's who I immediately thought of. I mean they're they're cut they're going around they're just giving their opinion about everything. They're making judgment on everything Jesus did, whether it had anything to do with them or not He heals the guy on the Sabbath. They start running their mount. His disciples rub some corn together, meal together on the Sabbath. Has nothing to do with N. So that's between them and God. Oh, they can start running their mouth. I mean just everything. And so we have to be very, very careful. The Lord says, judge not, don't utter all your mind on issues that have nothing to do with you. And have no relationship to you whatsoever. Our flesh loves to do this because if I can if I can judge others and other situations to be uh less than perfect, then boy, it sure makes me look like I'm better than that. Let me give you the second area that displays itself out in. Number two, I put this down When we give our opinion or make judgment on a person a person or a subject before we know all the facts Give our opinion or make judgment on a person or an issue before we know all the facts. I'm sure all of us could testify to sometime somebody gave their opinion about something we were doing and they had no clue what they were talking about. Can I get a witness? They said something about someone else that I knew in a situation and they had no clue what they were talking about. It's been several months ago. I got a phone call from another preacher and um He said uh and I was involved with a couple preachers and different things, a little situation, and um he said, did so-and-so say this to you? You say preachers aren't like that He called me up from another state. I mean a long way away. He says, hey brother, hey, how's it going? And I'm thinking, why is he calling me? And uh we're talking a little bit. He goes, hey, you uh talk to so-and-so? And I'm thinking, how does he know I talk to so and so? He said, did he say this to you? And uh I said, no, that is completely wrong. He didn't say anything like that to me. It was a very nice conversation, very cordial conversation. I am Mr. Nice Guy to everybody. No, it was nice. There was nothing. He goes, well somebody said and he went off and I thought when we were done hanging up I thought that had nothing to do with the guy he's talking about and how in the world did they come to that conclusion? They have no clue, and these are my exact words what they're talking about. We've all dealt with that, huh? Wait a minute. I wonder how many times we've done that. I've come to a conclusion about somebody, or I made a judgment about somebody, or I made a, uh gave my opinion about an issue or a matter or a subject. Later on I found out I had no clue what I was talking about. And basically made a fool out of myself. Now look back at Proverbs 29. Look at verse 11. He's not finished. He says, A fool uttereth all his mind, just gives his opinion, it just runs out. But look at he contrasts that and he says, but a wise man, on the other hand, what does what? Uh-huh. He keepeth it in. Then he adds that last two words till afterward. Alright? So what's he talking about here? That phrase, keep it in, has this idea. This is fascinating. When I was studying this, I thought this fits in exactly what the Lord's talking about. The phrase, keepeth it in, has this idea, restrains himself. In fact, in the context of the verse, it has this idea, he restrains his mind He restrains his opinion. He restrains his judgment. In other words, he says, I am not going to form an opinion. Yet. I am not gonna make judgment on this yet I am not going to come have an attitude about this yet. In other words, he does exactly what Jesus said we are not to do. He follows Jesus' instructions exactly, a wise man. Judges not. But there's a last phrase on there, and what are the last two words? Till afterward. Now what does that mean? A wise man doesn't utter all his mind, doesn't pour out his judgment, his opinion, just pour it out. He doesn't do that He restrains it. He keepeth it in until afterwards. Well, there's two thoughts on that phrase till afterward. And they both apply. One is he keeps in his judgment and restrains making judgment or opinion or an attitude about it until afterward, one thought is this, until it's appropriate He doesn't make a judgment, he doesn't give his opinion about it until it's appropriate for him to give his opinion about it. Now let me ask you this question When would it be appropriate for me to give my opinion or make a judgment about a person or an issue? When would that be appropriate? After it's over, after the facts. Do you think there'd ever be a situation where even after it's all said and done, it would not be appropriate for me to give my opinion or make judgment about it? Sure. Ah I want to suggest to you the appropriate time is if somebody comes and asks me, particularly if it doesn't relate to me. If it doesn't relate to me, Curtis Hudson put it this way. Unsolicited advice is criticism. So if somebody's got an issue going on, they've got a circumstance, or maybe it's something going on between the people. Has nothing to do with me. Has no relation to me. It doesn't affect me one way or another. It doesn't mean a, I don't know what this phrase means. It doesn't mean a hill of beams to me. Now, if I had a hill of beans, I'd package them and sell them and that would be valuable. That's a West Virginia term, all right. So that doesn't mean a ho who beans to me, what happens. But one of them comes to me and says, Pastor Leatherman or Ms. Leatherman or Ms. or Mrs. Whoever or whatever. Maybe it's in school, the young people. do with you. And they come and say, man, you know what this happened. I don't know how to deal with it. What do you think? Now if they asked me, now that may be a little more appropriate. I want to suggest to you I still even have to use a little wisdom and discernment to decide whether I really want to get involved in this or not I've had people try calling me and say, what do you think about this? I'm not getting involved in that. I'm not going to give my opinion. I'm not going to give my judgment. Sorry, I'm not going to do that. It wouldn't be appropriate for me to do that. So The wise man restrains his judgment, restrains judging until afterward, until it is appropriate time, until I'm asked for it, perhaps But there's another aspect to this phrase, until afterward, till afterward, has this, and somebody mentioned this one here a little bit ago, until all the facts are known. It is always inappropriate wrong to make an opinion, form an opinion, or make a judgment if I don't know all the facts I can't do that. In fact, that's one of the reasons I believe God tells us not to judge, is because we are very limited on our ability to understand facts. Here's the thing about God: He always knows all the facts. So he can make perfect judgment because he is perfect. He knows all the facts. But I don't. And so let's suppose it's an issue that does. relate to me. It does affect me to some effect. As soon as I find out, as soon as I'm affected about it, if I'm a wise, if I'm a foolish man, I immediately start pouring out my judgment. Ah, they did this, they did that, they should do that to me. Start running, start putting it on the computer. That's a foolish man. The wise man restrains himself, restrains his judgment, restrains his opinion Until, even if it affects him, especially if it affects him, until he's makes sure he has all the facts. So I know exactly what happened. It might have been an accident. It might not be what I think it is. It could be something they might have been trying to help me. Anybody here ever make judgment on something you found out you were completely wrong about it? First impressions are important, but a lot of sometimes they're wrong. And we form an opinion, we make judgment about somebody, and we don't have all the facts. So one way that we judge in ways the Lord tells us not to is if we make an opinion about something that has nothing to do with me Another way is if we come up form an opinion or make judgment on something, and I really don't know all what the story is And I need to hold it until afterwards, until maybe somebody asks me, or especially make sure I have all the facts. Let me give you a third way we do this. Write this one down. When our judgment is based upon a personality rather than a principle That's when the Lord says, judge not. Well, how would I judge in a way that's inappropriate? When I make my judgment, my judgment is based upon a personality rather than a principle. In other words, just because I don't like a person, just because we our personalities don't mesh, doesn't mean everything they do is wrong. Alright? I don't like this person. Thus, no matter what they do, I judge it as bad. I have a couple preacher friends that I personally can't get along with. Our personalities clash. And uh, you know, they just I get around them, they just grate me. Anybody? Y'all are shocked that that would be true. But it is true. And my flesh wants to respond by saying everything they do is bad and terrible. It's all wrong. But the spiritual side of me that's been around for a little while, and I know the Bible a little bit, and I look at their ministries, and I say, you know, God's hand is on them. And God is using them in great ways. And even though our personalities, we just, for whatever reason, you know, we just clash, nevertheless, not everything they do is bad. God's using them. There's some good things there. And we have to be very, very careful that we don't just write someone off because we don't maybe personally appreciate the person themselves When in reality there may be some things that are good. I can't just judge everything as bad simply because I don't get along with that person. Now, let me give you scripture for that. 1 Corinthians. Anybody want to guess what chapter in 1 Corinthians? You probab not chapter five, not chapter eleven, chapter thirteen What do we know about First Corinthians thirteen? Love. This is all you need. Right? Chapter 13 is the great chapter on charity, love. And he makes an interesting statement. If you come down to verse 4. I blocked off in my Bible, I blocked off verses 4, 5, 6, and 7. I think that's one little subject. I put in the margin of my Bible, unconditional. If you look at the statements there about charity, about love, every one of them are unconditional, unconditional, unconditional. But look with me, if you would, at verse number five. I want the last phrase, but I want to read the whole verse. Charity doth not behave itself unseemly. Seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, doesn't easily bring a reaction, but look at this. Thinketh what? No evil. Thinketh no evil I put this down, and I heard a preacher in New Zealand, this last time I was down, another preacher was preaching, he made this statement, it was tremendous. He said this: true love, genuine biblical, godlike love disassociates the person from their behavior He put it this way, true love disassociates the sin from the sinner. Now what phrase does that make you think of? We've all heard the phrase. Disassociating the sin from the sinner. Anybody think of a phrase that goes along with that? Uh-huh. Hate the sin, but love the sinner. And I think that's a little bit what the Lord is talking about when he says, judge not. Listen, what they did might not be wrong, but we don't personally condemn them. And what did Jesus tell us that we're supposed to do to our enemies? Supposed to love our enemies. Does that mean I love everything they do? What if my enemy's spreading lies about me? And I said, well, I gotta love him, so you know, oh that's wonderful. Keep lying. No, that's not what he's saying What I need to do is I disassociate what they're doing from what they are personally. Wow, that's fancy. Write this down. The loved one has no factor in the equation in the equation of the loved one She writes my sermons for me, so what she's saying I think is basically this regardless of what they do, I still love that person. And I think that fits into what the Lord is saying here is that I don't base my judgment on their personality. I don't like that. Nothing they do is wrong You the reverse side of that is, well I like that person so nothing they do uh uh I I don't like that person so nothing they do is right Oh, everything they do is terrible because I don't like them. But there's a reverse of that is I like that person so nothing they do is wrong. They can do no wrong. And that's bad. That's dangerous. People get so enamored by a preacher or a uh evangelist or something, they begin to worship him, and it's like this guy can do no wrong. And even if he does wrong, well it's uh you know it's okay for him to do that And that's crazy. And so we must not make our judgment based upon their personality. Jesus instructed us to love our enemies. Doesn't mean I approve of their actions or their behavior, but I do not base my judgment simply on the fact of who that person is. Does that make sense? Let me give you one more real quick. I got a couple minutes. I got a clock staring me right in the face Number four, right jot this down. The Lord said, judge not. Alright? How do we do that? And what is he forbidden? Here's one another aspect, I think. When I refuse to give a person the benefit of the doubt, I refuse to give a person the benefit of the doubt. They say or do something or I hear something about them. And if we're judging the way Jesus is forbidding, or the way the Pharisees did, if we hear something bad about somebody, or we see something, we immediately assume the worst. Boy that there's a little money discrepancy here and this. Oh, obviously he stole it. Well, I don't know the facts. I don't have all the details yet. It may have, it's possible, but how about we give them the benefit of the doubt until something is substantive that that's actually the case? Give people the benefit of the doubt. It is really a refusal to extend mercy to anybody. In fact, remember one of the Beatitudes, blessed are the Merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. You know what that sounds like? For what measure ye meet, it shall be measured unto you. Yeah, and our conclusions are tendency to be negative every time. Well obviously they're terrible. Obviously, that's obviously this is that. And we refuse to give a person the benefit of the doubt. Turn with me if you would, and let me give you some scripture for this. Luke chapter 9. The disciples were had a tendency to do this, like the Pharisees did. Luke 9 is where you're going, but what did the Pharisees immediately assume every time that Jesus was eating with sinners? He was a sinner. And they assumed that he approved of their sin. He was okay with their sin. He wasn't. But they immediately did not give him the benefit of the doubt. They immediately made this judgment. They refused to extend mercy. And rather than saying, Well, you know, let's wait and see how it plays out. Let's wait and see what he does. Let's give him the benefit of the doubt. I mean, good night, he's here on the blind. He's healing the sick and the lame, and let's give them the benefit of the doubt. But they did. Luke chapter 9, the disciples were guilty of this. Verse 51 And it came to pass when the time was come that he should be received up, he steadfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem. Now, how how do you picture that? What's happening? He is locked in. It is time for his crucifixion. No more distractions. No more side trails. I'm going to Jerusalem. So his face is set. He's going Everybody looked at him, man, he's going to Jerusalem. They could tell. Alright, look, now he goes on. And he sent message before his face. And they went, now look at this, and entered into a village of the Samaritans to make ready for them. What do we know about Samaritans? What did they think about the Jews? Yep. And the Jews hated them. You talk about prejudice. You talk about racial riots. Good grief. If a Jewish policeman shot a Samaritan, they'd be rioting in the streets, or vice versa. I mean this was intense. And Jesus, he's going to Jerusalem. The Samaritans hated Jerusalem. And he's going to spend the night in Samarit, in one of the village cities of Samaritan. Samaritans, village of the Samaritans. Lo and behold, surprise, surprise, verse 53. And they did not what? Ah, imagine that. Samaritans didn't receive a Jew. Because his face was as though he would go to Jerusalem. And when his disciples, James and John, saw this, look at this, they said, Lord Wilt thou that we command what? Fire come down from heaven and consume them? Lord, we've got to burn them up. They won't let you come in. Would you agree they were not giving the Samaritans the benefit of the doubt? They were, would you agree with me, they were making judgment I mean they were sentenced, they were the judge and jury. That was absolutely they they don't receive us fires coming down. Now the Lord practiced his own preaching. And consume them even as Elias did. By the way, when I was studying this, I thought, you know, that'd be pretty cool to be able to do that every now and then. And I often thought in Revelation the two uh prophets they breathed out fire and it consumed their enemies. Remember that? I often thought, Lord, just once. Uh please, just one time. But look what the Lord does. Verse 55. But he turned and what? Rebuked them. And he said, Ye know not what spirit ye are of. I think what he's saying there is you don't even know your own attitude. You're doing like the foolish man. You're uttering All your mind, you're pouring judgment out on these people. You don't know the fact. You don't think about the fact that there's been animosity for hundreds and hundreds of years between these two people. They don't understand who I am. They don't understand what's happening. Remember Jesus at the woman at the well? She was a Samaritan. And he put all that aside. He gave her the benefit of doubt. Here's a woman that needs a savior. She's not a Samaritan. She's not a Jew. She's a sinner that needs a Savior. And she's there giving him a hard time. The disciples show up. What are you doing talking to the Samaritan? And the Lord's like, you guys need to give this gal the benefit of the doubt. She needs Christ. There's a whole lot of factors here you don't know about. There's a whole lot of history here that needs to be just put aside. So what's he saying? Saying don't judge them. Don't you judge them. Judge not. Now, can we discern what's right and wrong? Absolutely. We must. Can we make discernment as to whether something's true or false? Absolutely. When it comes to personally bringing judgment on somebody, that's where we need to back off. And this is my closing statement on this, is this. All of this has to do with self-righteousness. As exactly what all this is. I making judgment on you. And that is nothing more than exalting myself. As nothing more than exalting myself. Judge not. Now, next is he's going to give us why. How many of you agree with me? The Lord doesn't have to tell us why we should do this, that, and the other. Anybody agree with me? No, he doesn't have to tell us why, just say don't do it. But the Lord He's very gracious. And he says, Here's why. And he says, Judge not that ye what? Then he gives a second reason for with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged. So he says, number one, you're setting yourself up to be judged yourself, and number two, you're setting the standard for your own judgment. We'll look at that next time. Let's pray. Father in heaven, pray you'd help us. Be very, very careful about this. We're all guilty Our sinful nature jumps on other people's faults and failures, and if we're not careful, we are quick to make judgment. So I pray you'd help me. It's an individual Christian, a disciple. I pray he'd help all of us, from the teens all the way up through us senior citizens. And we would be wise. We would be very gracious, be merciful and slow and patient. And follow your instructions. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how we would say, preacher, this is something I need the Lord to help me with. Now, if the truth were known, probably every one of us would say, yes, I need the Lord to help me with this But how we say tonight, preacher, pray with me. We'll pray together. God will give us victory. And we'll be able to follow the Lord's instructions here. Anybody like that? Anybody like that? Sure. God bless you. Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us. If you'd like, Kathy's going to play the invitation. You'd like to find a place at the altar. And uh maybe there's a situation in your mind right now where we jump the gun a little bit. Maybe we need to bring that to the Lord. Maybe somebody we need to go talk to and straighten it out and uh just get that right. But she's gonna play the piano and maybe we'd like to find a place the altar. So let's stand together our head bowed. Father, bless us and uh help us in this matter, Lord, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. While she plays. Anybody at all? Like to find