We're at a new chapter on the Sermon on the Mount. And I want to read the first five verses. I'll tell you right now we're only getting to the first one verse. the first verse, but I want to read the five because that is one context. Keeping it here in the context. Matthew 7 verse 1. Judge not that you be not judged. How many people ever heard that quoted or used? For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged. And with what measure ye meet, it shall be measured to you again. And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, and considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye? Or how wilt thou say to thy brother, Let me pull out the mote out of thine eye, and behold a beam that is in thine own eye Thou hypocrite, first cast the beam out of thine own eye, and then shalt thou see clearly to cast out the moat of thy brother's eye. Judge not be not judged. The Lord's going to talk here about judging and being judged. Let's pray. Father, again we ask your blessing as we look into your word and pray you'd teach us, Father, we want to be good disciples. And uh we want to uh implement into our lives. We want to have implemented into our lives what you teach us here and this and the rest of the sermon. So we need your Holy Spirit to do that. So please, Lord, please fill me and speak through me tonight. Lord, my body is yours, my mind. I pray you just use me in the next few moments to be the channel through which you speak to our hearts and minds. Change our lives and help us. We do pray for revival. in our church and our homes, our nation. In Jesus' name. Amen. Sermon on the Mound. We're at the last chapter on the Sermon on the Mound. It's actually A lot of times the divisions, chapter divisions and verse divisions in the Bible, a lot of times I I don't think they got it right several places. Now we understand that the verse numbers and the chapter numbers, that's man did that. That it's not in part of the inspired word of God. Back in I think it was seven hundred A. D. , somewhere around there, a French fella Um it's interesting, it's another subject, but he was riding through Europe on a horse, and while he was traveling, he broke the whole Bible down into chapters and verses, and that's what stuck. And that's what happened. So a lot of places, I don't think the chapter divisions are very accurate. It would have been better a little different. However, in the Sermon on the Mail, my opinion is The guy nailed it here. I think he got the three main divisions of the sermon uh pretty well with chapter five, chapter six, and chapter seven. So here we're at this new one. But the sermon on the mound I believe the more I'm studying this, this is becoming, at least in my mind, one of the most heart-searching sermons that perhaps has ever been preached. And you pay attention to what he's saying, and as we're working through here, uh man, he's cutting through the facade that we have a tendency to put up as Christians, and we all do that He talked about there that hypocrisy, you know, so people see we have a tendency, put that beside. This sermon cuts right through that and just absolutely deals with us with our heart And what we are truly are on the inner man. And that's the whole thing, is addressing that. And by the way, that's what God's concerned about, not what we look to be, but what we really are And so it's a very very convicting and um he deals with our heart, he deals with our spiritual condition. There are so many teens down there, it is unbelievable. They have absolutely taken over the basement. So pray for them. This is Brother Grant's last night with them in there wound up. So if they start coming up the doors, you know. So anyway, this is a powerful, powerful message and uh very, very convicting If you pay attention and you think about what he's saying, you let the Lord have his way, it's very convicting, it's very challenging. I thought it was interesting. Look at chapter 8, verse 1. Look how the people responded to this message. As I'm going through here, I thought, man, this is really so much. Look how the people responded in chapter 8, verse 1. Notice what it says. And when he was come down from the mount, he's done preaching Great multitudes what? Followed them. Now when I first thought, I wonder how everybody I wonder how they responded at the initial preaching of this. And I looked there and I was kind of in my mind, you know, everybody got mad and left You know, but that's not it. I mean he's he's preaching here. And everybody responded, it connected With the child of God. You know, if a person if if a person knows Jesus Christ as Savior and the Word of God is being preached in the power of the Holy Spirit, it connects, doesn't it? It connects. Lee Bowman preached in the middle message. We had uh brother Uh Ramus, he was really good. Bleep Bowman preached the middle and I mean to tell you he scunned those kids alive And I mean it was straight Bible. And he just couldn't. I'm sitting back. It was good stuff. He was it what he said was exactly right, exactly what needed to be said. But I thought, yeah, this is rough And you know, when he gave the invitation, that altar was packed. Kids got saved, kids were crying, making decisions And when he went in the back, when we took a we dismissed for lunch, I think, after he preached or a break, he was mobbed. Those kids were all around talking to him different things. Isn't that something? The Lord preached this message, strong, strong message, dealing with hypocrisy, worldliness, materialism. And the people respond and they said, that's what we need. I think it kind of ties in with what we're preaching on Sunday nights. Under the sun, emptiness in our hearts and lives, nothing in this world can fill it. Here Christ filled a Mennonite He spoke to the soul, and people responded. So uh what a great message this is. Um uh The overall theme, now we're at chapter 7 here. It's the the the third section of a three-section sermon. This is the last portion of this message. And there's kind of, I tried to get, alright, what's the overall theme of this last portion? The middle portion. was um hypocrisy and materialism. That was pretty obvious. That's what he was dealing with. What's he dealing with here? What is the what's the theme? This is what I came up with I think the theme is, as a disciple, we are going to have to give an account to God. He's kind of getting their focus. Listen, we're going to have to answer to God. Now he doesn't Every passage doesn't necessarily directly say that, but the overall message here is, listen, we're going to have to give an account of ourselves to God. And um It's important for us to understand that the most important thing in life is not what people think about us. The most important thing in life is what does God think about me? It's not so much my standing with people, although we ought to be gracious and you know we are concerned about our testimony. Don't be belligerent. But that's not the important thing. The important thing is what's God's assessment of me? I think in this last chapter here, I'm trying to I was trying to just summarize the chapter and then we'll dive into it I think there's two truths come out in chapter 7. One is this, and both of these are very important we keep in the forefront of our mind. One is this, we are constantly in the presence of God. I am constantly in the presence of God. And I put it this way, I'm constantly in the presence and awareness of God. At all times, I am in the presence and the awareness of God. Right now, as we're sitting here, we are in the presence and we are in the awareness of God. He he he we're constantly in that condition, in that state. Um we like that when we go through trials, right? Oh yea though I walk through valley shall have the Lord's with me. Oh praise the Lord. Um you know we like this It's good and praise the Lord for it. Here's the problem. We forget it. We remember that when we're in trials, but we forget about it when we face temptation. Well wait a minute, I'm in the presence of God. God's here, He's aware of this. And I think I think that one truth would help us a lot in our Christian life, keep us out of trouble and would encourage us. So one thing comes through here is that we're constantly in the presence awareness of God. And this is a second thing I pick up from this chapter is this. Our life here on earth is just a journey that ends at the throne of God. Keep that in mind. Here's the thing. A lot of times, and I'm saying we in general, a lot of times we live as if this is all there is. And the Lord, I think, is trying to remind his disciples, wait a minute, we're just passing through here. Don't settle in. Don't get caught up in materialism. Don't get worried about what people think. You're just going through. This journey ends up at the throne of God, standing before God. You say, Oh preacher, I'm saved. I don't have to face the judgment of God. Uh, there's something called the judgment seat of Christ. And even as a Christian, I have to give an account how I live my life. Heaven or hell, we understand that. But um so he's making some uh strong truths here, important things that I believe it would do us good to keep these two thoughts in the forefront of our mind. I am in the constantly in the presence awareness of God, and I'm just passing through, and I'm going to end up before God at the throne and give an account of how I live my Christian life Um, I think that's the one thing that distinguishes a sincere child of God. They're where I'm in the presence of God and I understand this world's not my home, I I'm I'm I'm heading to the throne, heading there. I think most of our troubles Are a result of us forgetting I'm in the presence of God and forgetting I'm just passing through, I'm going to heaven And we let the w cares of the world and the deceitfulness of the world weigh us down and hinder us, and we forget. I'm just passing through. So that's that's my assessment of what this last section here, chapter 7, he's dealing with. And so with that in mind, we come to verse 1. And he addresses this matter of judging other people. Anybody ever have to, ever anybody here ever find yourself in a situation where some people are judging other people? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Let's look at this. I broke these five verses down into three thoughts. We're only going to get the first one tonight, verse one, but let me give it to you now, and we'll work on these in the next coming months. I see in verse number one, I see our Lord's precept. He gives a precept here. Judge not that you be not judged. Then I see in verse two, uh, he takes it to the next step and he tells us why. He gives us the purpose. For that. I think I touched on I mentioned earlier in a previous passage, but I think it's very gracious of the Lord to explain to us sometimes why he tells us to do the things he tells us to do. He wouldn't have to do that. He could have just said, judge not, you be not judged. And moved on. But he says, ah. And then he takes verse two, he says, For because what judgment you judge, ye shall be judged. What measure you mean, you measured unto you. So he's explaining a little bit why he gives us that precept And then verse 4 and 5, I see here he gives us a picture of what he needs to help us understand what he's telling us to do and why. He's telling us to do that. So that's the three thoughts there. I want to look at the first one, the precept. Judge not First two words, judge not. How many people ever heard someone say this? Don't judge me. I was upstairs Sunday morning before Sunday school and running around. We had our prayer meeting down there with the teachers and I was coming up the steps and a bunch of the teen uh a couple of the teen girls were coming down the steps and they all had donuts and I always give them a hard time eating donuts. I said those are for the adults and you know I don't care. They're fine. We've got tons But um so I was just kind of giving them a hard time. I said, donuts! And the girl said, uh the one girl said, Don't judge me because she's eating a donut. Uh Here's group involvement. When the world says, don't judge me, what do they mean by that? What are they saying? Somebody give me your opinion. What are they saying? Leave me alone? Yeah, that would be don't judge me, leave me alone. What else? Tom, you hear it. You're no better than me so you can't judge me. Alright. That's good. Anything else? What do you think? Cindy? Okay. Almost like you're not the boss of me. That type of thinking. Yeah, they'll say, well, you know, don't judge me. I think this is what uh and those are are the case, uh no doubt. Here's what's my thought And when someone says, don't judge me, what they're saying, I believe, is you have to accept and approve of what I'm doing. Don't judge me. You have to accept and approve what I'm doing. Don't judge me on that. And so that's the world's mentality. Now, is the Lord suggesting here that we have to accept and approve anything and everything that people do. Can I make no judgment? Alright, here's somebody that's uh Living in blant sin. They're you know, they're uh uh lying. Maybe it's at work and a guy's lying through his teeth and you say, Hey, that's not the truth. Don't judge me Do I have to accept and approve the fact that he's lying? Is that what the Lord's suggesting? No. Well let's what's the word judge mean? I mean he's pretty blunt here, judge not Uh what's the word judge mean? Well the j word judge has various shades of meaning and has different applications I thought this was interesting in its most basic definition. The word judge means to separate parts For instance, this is good and this is bad. I'm separating the two. I'm assigning value to different things. I'm making judgment. So the most the most simplistic definition of the word is to separate into parts. Particularly it has the idea of condemning something. To condemn something, maybe to condemn a certain action. I condemn that action. Or could be applied where condemning a person. Condemning this person or condemning that action that's separating this is good, that's bad. This is okay, that's not okay. And so judgment, when we talk about judging something, it actually has two aspects to it. If you think think along these lines of separating, it actually has two aspects. There's a negative aspect of judgment that's bad. That's wrong. That's wicked. That's evil. So that's a negative aspect of judgment. But it also has a positive side. That's good. That's nice. That's pleasant. That's acceptable. So let's come back to the world statement. Don't judge me! They don't mean, don't make a judgment in my life. What they mean is you have to approve and accept things I'm doing that you think are wrong. Nobody ever says if you walk up to uh somebody and says, Well, you look nice today, they don't ever say, Don't judge me. Right? Well that was really nice what you did for her. Don't judge me. No, they want you to judge you positively, right? We want that positive judgment and so what we don't like is the negative aspect to me. They never you say you know you never walk up to somebody and say, Helen, you know you are Such a blessing to me, and Helen looks me in the eye and says, Don't judge me. But I am making judgment, right? I'm judging that she's a blessing. I'm making that determination as opposed to other behavior that would not be a blessing. Probably an element of conviction there behind all of that, I would say. You tell someone, oh, you did a great job. You know, Brother Grant preached it. Don't judge me You know, nobody, nobody doesn't want the, nobody rejects the positive aspect of judgment. We just don't want the negative aspect of judgment. And so there's another definition to the word judgment, though. And it has this idea, discernment. Discernment. Every time a parent, especially if they have young children, they go and they're going to decide what they're going to feed their child. They make a judgment. I want to feed my child healthy food. I'm discerning what is good for my child to eat, what is healthy for my child to eat. So we make a judgment that we're not going to give them chocolate chip cookie dough ice cream for breakfast. Although I would, but um So we're using discernment. Right. The word judgment has an aspect to it of being able to sense you can't Yeah, the condemnation aspect of that would be sentencing someone to that there. So uh the Use discernment. Now I want to suggest to you, and I you're going to it's very obvious, and you probably already agree with me on this, but the Lord is not suggesting that we do not use discernment. Not even remotely. In fact, we're going to look at a bunch of verses. I hope you have your Bible handy. We're going to go through a slew of them here real quick. The Bible tells us several times that we are to judge Now we already use discernment. Let's look at a few of those. One is right here, the next verse, after he makes this statement. Verse 1, he says, Judge not that you be not judged, for with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged, what measure you meet, you shall be measured unto you. Uh how thy brother, let me thine eye and beam out of thine eye, you hypocrite. First pull the beam out of thine own eye, then thou shalt clearly uh see clearly the jud to cast out the moat out of thy brother's eye. Now look at verse six. Give not that which is holy unto the dogs, neither cast your s or your pearls before swine, lest they tremble under your feet and turn again and rend you. I would suggest to you that verse 6 requires judgment. I've got to be able to discern what is holy and what is not holy. I've got to be able to judge What would be a swine type situation and what would not be? What I can cast put my pearls before and what I cannot. The very next statement he makes requires discernment. So when he says here, judge not, he can't be suggesting that we not use discernment. Let's look at verse 15 of the same chapter. Beware of what? False prophets, which come into you in sheep's clothing, and inward they appear ravening wolves. Ye shall Know them by their fruits. You shall be able to make judgment. You shall be able to discern by their fruits. It's going to help you discern, judge whether it's a false prophet or not. And so right there, a little bit later in the same message, he requires an element of judgment. Come over to John chapter 7. We'll go through these quickly. But he touches on some things that we are to judge that I think sometimes we don't think about. John chapter 7 This is coming from the same lips that said, judge not that you be not judged. John chapter 7 and verse 24. Judge not according to the appearance. Ah, see that? We're not supposed to judge. Finish the sentence. But what? Judge righteous judgment. He's not telling us don't use discernment, don't distinguish between something that is right and wrong. Just make sure when you do make judgment between right and wrong, you're doing righteous judgment. It's according to scriptures, it's according to truth. And so here he says that uh we shouldn't judge according to appearance, just well it looks, it sure looks that way Well, before you come to conclusion, you better find out the facts, what it really is. Because it could be something different than what it looks. Come over to Romans chapter 16. Now we'll get into some specifics The last chapter of Romans, some things that we are told that we are to judge I want to go through these pretty quick and then I want to touch on what I believe he's saying there back there in chapter 7 of Matthew. But notice 16, Romans 16, and verse number 17. He's talking to the church. He says, now I beseech you, brethren. What's the next two words? Mark them Which cause divisions and offenses contrary to the doctrine which he had learned. And what? Avoid them. Two things we're told to do. I'm to mark the person that is teaching doctrine that is contrary to the Word of God. So would you agree with me? Requires some discernment. It requires some judgment. I've got to be able to determine. Is that guy preaching the Word of God? Or is he preaching something else? I've got to make a judgment. This is a good verse to use to apply on TV preachers Huh? Mark uh you know, Martin, is that guy preaching the word of God or not? The truth or not? Uh I had a fellow Uh years ago, years ago, I was doing a funeral and I got talking to a fella and he told mentioned another church in town. A big one that's across The three tracks. And um but anyway he said they were having a revival meeting. And uh he says, I went the first night, I ain't going back there. There's not a guy in our church with another fellow And uh I said, why? What's the deal? He says, Yeah he said the first night the preacher got up and says, You all leave your Bibles home this week, you won't need 'em. I've got a message from God. I've got a word of knowledge from God. He goes, I'm not going back. If he ain't preaching out of the Bible, I don't want nothing to do with it. You know what he was doing? He's making judgment. He thought that's not scriptural. That's not right. So we mark them, and then what's the second part say? Avoid them. And so we identify the false teaching and we separate ourselves. We don't keep watching that yard bird on TV And don't keep going to that place, exposing ourselves to it. So there's judgment. Galatians chapter 1, just a few Books back here. We're working our way through real quickly. Galatians chapter 1 and verse number 8. Notice what Paul says. But though we or an angel from heaven preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed. As we said before, so say I now again, if any man preach any other gospel unto you than that which ye have than that ye have received, let him be accursed. Do you agree? That passage that Admonition requires judgment. Sure, I gotta know if he's preaching, I've got to decide is this scripture or not. Come over to Titus. And I just pulled a few of these out. There's all through the New Testament, really, Old Testament also. Titus chapter 3 and verse number 10. Uh I heard a guy years ago said that, well, as long as they're preaching Jesus, I'm okay with them Well, I've got to decide, is that a scriptural Jesus they're preaching? Is it the truth about Jesus they're preaching? Look at verse 10, Titus 3. A man that is a heretic, after the first and second admonition, reject. Mark and avoid. Same thing as Romans 16. Knowing that he that is such is subverted and sinneth, being condemned of himself. And so we requires discernment, requires judgment if he's teaching heresy. One more. Let me give you one more. And 2 John 1. Way back. Second John is right after first John And it's only one chapter. So verse 10. Now this we have to use this uh occasionally around here. If there come any unto you and bring not this doctrine, receive him not into your house, neither bid him godspeed. For he that biddeth in God's speed is partaker of his evil deeds. In other words, if somebody comes to your house and knocks on your door And they wouldn't talk to you and engage you in a conversation about their God or their scriptures if it doesn't line up with the Word of God. What's he say there? Don't bid them godspeed, but don't what? Don't even let them in your house He said, preacher, that's not nice. Well we've got to use discernment. We've got to use judgment. I'm not saying be unkind. The Bible never suggests we be unkind to people But I just what I do is I tell them right up front they come to the door and uh if you know if I get that opportunity uh I'll say something to them, something like this, listen, I can't invite you in, my Bible forbids that You're teaching a false doctrine. I can't invite you in. And uh that usually starts conversation a little bit So these are just a few I pulled out. Clearly, making good judgment using discernment is important. In fact, it's necessary. If I'm going to be a successful, healthy, growing Christian, I've got to use discernment. I've got to make judgment just like physically the decisions we make, what we eat or what we don't eat or what we do or don't do These are all judgments we're making. So let's come back here. What does he mean then? If he says, judge not that you be not judged, and then we have all these other passages that say straight up, judge. What's he talking about? Well let's come back here and look at it. Matthew chapter 7. And we'll expand on this in the coming messages. But look, he says, judge not that ye be not judged. I believe the aspect of judgment he's talking about here is the condemnation aspect, particularly the personal condemnation. And when we get into the picture, the purpose in the picture, verse 2 and 5, and 6, 3, 4, 5, and 6, he brings this out. But he's talking about personally condemning the person. Let me illustrate with scripture. Come over to John chapter 8. Here is a classic example, I believe, where the Lord uses discernment. He makes judgment But without condemnation. John eight. Uh let's see, where's John at? And look with me at verse 11. This is a woman taken in adultery. We're all familiar with this. He without sin cast the first stone. What is he talking about? Did he rebuke them for them judging adultery as wrong? Or did he rebuke them for condemning this woman? Look what he says. No man, Kidas Rowsain among you, let him catch the first stone. Condemn her to death. Go ahead. Of course they don't. They all walk away. Jesus lift himself, said, Woman, where are your accusers? Where are thine accusers? Hath no man condemned thee? She said, No man, Lord. Jesus said to her, Neither to I what? Condemn thee. But then he adds on, go and sin no more. By saying go and sin no more, he's judging her behavior as something bad. He's making judgment. What you did was sin. Don't do that anymore. But he's not condemning her. Why would he not condemn her? In fact, come back uh well in come back to chapter three here of John. Why wouldn't he condemn her? She committed adultery. Why wouldn't he condemn her? So I don't condemn you. Is he saying that what she did was okay? No. Don't sin no more. He's making judgment. Look at ch look at John 3 verse 17. For God sent not his son into the world to what? Condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. Now look, here's the answer, I believe. He that Not condemned, the condemnation is removed. But he that believeth not is condemned already. Because I cannot believe in the name of the only begotten Son of God. I don't have to condemn Derek. The law already does that. I have no authority. I don't have the authority of the law. Derek can't condemn me. I'm already condemned under the law. Right? I'm already this woman was condemned. The law condemned her. The Lord says you don't need to condemn her. Now you can make judgment. What did she do? Was it right or wrong? Was it sin? Sure, he made that judgment. That's sin. Don't do that anymore But as far as condemnation, she's already condemned. And if she puts her faith and trust in Jesus Christ, that condemnation is what? Removed. If any man be in Christ, or what's it say? Romans, there is now therefore no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus So, and we're going to see this, I'm getting way ahead of myself, but we're going to see this. I am not in a position where I have the authority to condemn another, and neither do I even have the correct perspective. Did you catch that? He had the he was condemning the guy that had the moat in his eye, but he had a beam. And he says, if you'll remove that beam, then you will see clearly Then you'll have the right perspective to be able to deal with the other guy. See what I'm saying? Our own sin blinds us to the ability to accurately make the I don't have the authority and I don't have the ability. To make judgment on others because my own sin condemns me. And so In Luke 18, we won't take time. But there you remember the classic. I come back to this often in preaching. But there you have the classic. You have the Pharisee that lifts up his eyes to heaven and he says, Lord, I'm glad. That I'm not a sinner like these others, like this extortion, and he goes down this list of stuff. I don't do all this stuff like this guy does. He was condemning him, and the fact is he failed to realize in doing that he was condemning himself. If I'm going to condemn Derek for sin, then I'm condemning myself also, because I'm a sinner also I'm in the same boat. And so when the Lord says, judge not, that you be not judged, he is not saying don't use discernment. We can and should say that sodomy is sin. It's an abomination to God. Say, well, you're going to hell because you're a sodomite. Well, he's going to hell because he's a sinner, and I'm a sinner too. Unless he gets in Christ, we unless we get in Christ, we're all going to hell. Right? And so we can't judge the sin I can make discernment. That is wrong. That is wicked. That is dangerous. That is bad. But as far as the individual, I don't have the responsibility academic, I have the responsibility pointing them to Christ. Am I making sense? And I think as you get down to it, he says, what j what measure All right, if you if you say they're going to if that person, you're condemning that person to hell because they did X, you're going to hell also because you did something just as bad as X You did Y or Z. And so he says, Don't if you're gonna make that here's the thing, God is the only one that has the ability, that is in a position that he can make perfect judgment because he He meets the perfect standard. And you and I don't have that ability. I hope I'm making sense here tonight. I put it this way. Only God is in a position to condemn someone or judge them, as the Lord's using it here a person personally because God's the only one that can legitimately hold a person to a perfect standard. Here's what we do. We do We hold peep others to a higher standard than we hold ourselves. If our own sin would bother us as much as what somebody else's sin does, we'd be we'd have revival. God's the only one that can hold people to a perfect standard legitimately. And so he's the only one that can make that judgment. Amen? And so the precept is this. Should we be able to discern between rotten rot? Yeah, if some guy's coming in here telling you you've got to be baptized to be saved, we ought to make judgment and say that's not right, that's not true, we're not going to let 'em preach that here. Right? But uh as far as condemning, that's God's job. That's God's job. We point him to Christ, we point him to the law, we point him to Scripture. That's our job. All right, let's pray. Father, I hope uh I I uh did right by your passage tonight. I pray that you would challenge us To use discernment in our own personal lives, in our ministry here. Help me, Lord, as pastor, the great responsibility I have to lead with discernment and judgment But Lord, I pray you'd help us to be gracious in condemning and understanding that outside of Christ we're all condemned. And so help us be soul winners, Lord. Help us to point people to the Lord Jesus. And it's his name I pray. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many say, preacher, uh pray with me that God will help me use discernment in my Christian life? Be wise in what's right and wrong. Shall not allow in my life. But then also be very gracious to others in pointing them to Christ. Any like that? My hands raised. That's That's what I want. Father, in our hearts, and Lord, these pews tonight are altars here. And we just put ourselves on the altar. We ask you to change us, change our thinking. our attitudes, our approach, our perspective on others, that we could see them as you do and get that beam out of our eyes. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.