And I'll begin reading right from the top of the chapter. Psalm 106, verse number one Praise ye the Lord, O give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy endureth forever. Who can utter the mighty acts of the Lord? Who can show forth all his praise? Blessed are they that keep judgment, and he that doeth righteousness at all times. Remember me, O Lord, with thy favor that thou bearest unto thy people. O visit me with thy salvation, that I may see the good of thy chosen, that I may rejoice in the gladness of thy nation That I may glory with thine inheritance. Now, this is a long chapter, 48 verses of it If you continued reading from verse 6 onward to the end of the chapter, it's pretty much a rehearsal of a lot of the history of Israel. Israel had her ups and had her downs. What you gotta do is read the Old Testament to see that. Times when they had good leaders, they did well. They had bad leaders, they didn't do well. And uh so they had their ups and downs, and a lot of that is uh rehearsed here in this chapter. But in the portion that I've read, verses one and two is basically uh three or four statements rejoicing in the Lord, rejoicing in the God who is Israel's God, and making ado about that, just as you and I make do a do about him And we should always give our voice of praise and testimony, just as Pastor did a few minutes ago, about the work of the ministry here. We ought to rejoice and give praise and honor to the Lord. Now, verse four and five is a prayer in which the psalmist is asking that the Lord would visit uh him with favor and and let him see the good that the Lord has uh promised to his people. Now right in the midst of this piece that I read, verse three, and I read it again Where it says, Blessed are they that keep judgment and he that doeth righteousness at all times I think you've probably noticed and are probably well aware that we live in a time of, well, what I'll call a spiritual meltdown. And moral dysfunction. A lot of that, uh, I mean, right here in our country, we don't have to go abroad for that. It's here uh in wholesale fashion. Uh political correctness has taken hold uh in so many places, and all of our social mores have been broken down. We've gone through in the last 10, 12, 15 years a cultural revolution Uh here in our nation, where that so many things have changed. Even in the religious arena, we've had what I call shift and drift uh people have been shifting their their uh values. They've uh decided that uh you know uh uh church like uh church used to be is old hat and so uh after all the rock concerts do well so They've decided to bring that to the church house, and that's what they're doing. And I call it shift and drift because it's shifting away from the solid things and drifting off into uncharted waters. Now, uh that Really should not should not ever happen with any of us. Not at church, not at our with our family. It just should not happen. You see, how how can it happen? It happens because sometimes people, even in leadership, are not anchored. They do not have their moorings. uh solidly anchored as they as they should be. But here in this verse we have what I call a twin formula for blessing After all, the first word in the verse is blessed. So it sounds reasonable to me to suggest that a blessing might be in store. And what he says is that he that keepeth judgment and he that doeth righteousness at all times Now, the word judgment here is not talking about the judgments of God. It's not talking about that at all. The word judgment here is the same usage that I would have if I were to say to you. Uh let's see, how shall I put this? If I were to say to you, um uh how how do you feel about the coming winter? Uh what what is your judgment upon the cr uh how how do you feel about the climate of Garrett County. Or if I were to say to you, uh man, we had a tremendous day here, uh, you know, and now we we gave away some things and we had some special events and we have special speakers. Uh what what what's your judgment on what we did? How how do you value and how do you How do you feel about what we did? This usage of judgment here is it's about opinion. It's about how you value things, what you feel in regard to it. So he says, Blessed are they that keep judgment. And he that doeth righteousness at all time. Or, in other words, when he talks about keeping judgment, he's talking about being principled. He's talking about your value system. And then doing righteousness at all times, that's the practices that come out of your judgments. You know, if I make a judgment on something, you say, oh, you're going to be judging? Absolutely. We do it all the time. Uh last uh well two weeks ago now, I was up in Michigan. And uh I had a I flew to Detroit and had a uh well over 300 mile run up to the Upper Peninsula by car And I stopped at a fast food place, went in, and it was only a couple of people in line, and I waited, and I waited. I determined it was the slowest fast food in America Now, fortunately, everybody that was in line, everybody that had their order already in, were waiting, everybody was very nice. There was nobody showed out in the place. I mean I didn't know any of them, but I was pleased and proud about that But I waited, I mean I was about 20 minutes in a fast food place getting what I ordered. So slowest fast food, I think, in America. You say now How do you really feel about it? Well, I I'm just telling you what my judgment is on the situation. Now, sometimes people do not have a proper Judgment about things. They do not have a proper principled view of things. And consequently, their practices go adrift. Simply because they are not anchored in convictions. Some people never do get their principles in place. Consequently, their practices are awful. All you've got to do is turn the news on Turn the news on you'll have people. Politicians, uh political pundits, commentators They'll be on the camera one day saying one thing, say exactly the opposite the next day, and vow and declare they're telling you the truth both times. You say, how can they do that? They're unprincipled people. They do not have their anchors down. So you can never predict what their practices will be. Now, there are other people who practice correctly. But they have no clue as to the principle that they're practicing. I mean they're doing right, they just don't know why they're you say, well, how do they do right? They're listening to Brother Leatherman, they're listening to their parents Parents say a certain, okay, Dad, you said that, mom, you said that, so they go do it. Pastor, you said that, so they go do it. Now, if if they don't ever get any further than that, and and if they I mean I'm glad for that. But there should be a time when some maturity kicks in, and we still do right, even if the pastor's on vacation. Even if the parents are not at hand. You say, well, I'm all alone out here, and I don't have Pastor, and I don't have my parents. To tell me now, what am I going to do? Get your roots down, get your principles down, get your values in place. And then the blessing will come to you that will always come whenever we get our convictions set right. You say, well, how do how do I get my principle? The principles have to be taught. They have to be taught. I don't mean to insult you, so I'm gonna I'm gonna tell you my d do you realize uh Betty and I have two children who are grown now, have their own families, and we have We have six grandchildren. Uh four of the girls are college age grown and the two boys are about to be there. And uh you know what? With our two children and all six of our grandchildren When they were born, they were as dumb as a box of rocks. They were totally ignorant when they were born. They didn't know anything. They had everything to learn when they were firstborn. So Betty and I began to teach our kids, and we've tried to help with the grands as well. And I think I've probably told you before, I have people ask me, how long does it take to raise your kids? And I always tell them about 40 years You know? Now, but kids have to be taught. Christians have to be taught. We all have to learn. Somebody gets saved. They don't know they're not supposed to cuss and smoke and well maybe they do. I don't know. But a lot of them don't seem to know that they're drinking and smoking and chewing and cussing and uh carousing and all that stuff. And so what do we do? And we we teach them. We invite some crazy guy to come in on a Sunday night and uh open the Bible and and and tell them about it. Amen. That's what we do And we do so teaching them the principles so when they get out down the road here somewhere on Tuesday afternoon, they'll know how to perform. Now, principles are foundational. The Bible says if the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do if the foundations are not in place? You remember the Sermon on the Mount, right at the end of it, Jesus gave an illustration. In fact, two illustrations. One about a man who built his house on the sand. Another guy who built his house on the rock. Now I call those two guys, and the name's not given, so I gave them names. I call them Sandy and Rocky. Sandy built his house on the sand. Storms came, zip, it was gone. But old Rocky, he built his house on solid rock, and the storms came, but his house stood. Because he had founded it properly. Now, you know, the the Bible the Bible gives us a lot of principles. So you're talking about principles. What what what what is it you're talking about? I'm so glad you asked. And just to give you some samples, and there are literally hundreds and hundreds of such things in the Bible. But here's some examples Like in Matthew chapter 7, there's a verse that says, Therefore, all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them. Now that's the verse we call the golden rule. And it's in the Bible. That's not something somebody just made up. It's in the Bible. God said that I'm to do to you what uh I would like for you to do to me, and vice versa. You know, um I um You know, I've got my hair combed, I've got it sprayed and set in concrete. I would not want you to come up and run your hands through it and muss it up. In fact, if you do, uh now you say, well, y you you wouldn't like that. No, I wouldn't like that, and consequently I'm not going to come my shirts up Just a little simple thing, but no. No. Doing unto others as we would have others to do unto us, it's a viable principle. By the way Uh you go to uh Taco Bell or Dairy Queen or uh uh Denny's they get your order wrong. How do you handle it? You cloud up and rain with thunder and lightning? Well, let's let's flip the thing and suppose you were the one waiting on the table. You got something wrong. Yesterday, Pastor, I flew from Nashville to Baltimore, had my car rental all set up And I'm I'm on the uh frequent flyer list with a couple of those companies and this particular one. I walked up to the counter and I said to the young lady about twenty eight, twenty nine years old behind the counter. I said to her I said uh uh I I said told her who it was and and she looked right at me and she said, We don't have any cars I said, well I ha I thought maybe she meant if I was trying to just walk in and get one. I said, no, no, no. I said, I have a reservation. She said we still don't have any cars. And I said, so what what are we doing? And she said, well, she said, it uh it's going to be at least 20 minutes and might even be an hour Turned out it was about a half hour before they got me a car. But you know, now I mean I was thinking about the fact I'm I'm gonna preach this tomorrow, I mean on Sunday. No, I I just I just said to her, I said, I said, you you don't have any cars at all? She said, we don't have any cars in the place right now at all, but we got some coming. They'll be here in a little bit. Pastor, is that water still there? Yeah. And uh I told her, I said, well you know what? I said I bet some people get mad whenever you have issues like this. But I said, I tell you what, I said I may get mad, but I'm not gonna do it until the end of the next week. How's that? She looked at me kind of stunned at first. I said, I'm serious. I said, I I said, I promise you, if I get mad it won't be till next Friday And I finally did. They told me to go out there. In fact, this little tin can I'm driving wasn't exactly what I ordered. But when the girl out there at the parking lot was going to show me which car to get in, she said, uh she said, You sure you want that? I said, look, I said, has it got more than two wheels? You know? You say, well what's the deal here? I'm just trying to be nice to them like I'd want them to be nice to me. They couldn't help it because their cars had run out And uh, you know, I stood there for 30 minutes and uh paced the floor a little bit, but uh but I, you know, I I just remembered I'm going to do toward them what I would hope they would do toward my granddaughters and grandsons if they were working at this counter. It's a viable principle. Here's another one that's likened to it Ephesians chapter 4 says, Be ye kind, one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. You know, somewhere in the Sunday school, we teach the little kids in the three-year age, back in four years old, we teach them, be ye kind. And then we get grown, and what do we do if we don't do it But the Bible, it's a Bible principle. I mean, some of us, I mean, you go out at work and you be nice all week long. Because if you don't be nice, you might lose your job. And then you come home at night, walk in the door, and turn into an absolute grump But it's still in the Bible, even when you're at home. In fact, if there's any place where you're going to practice this one, I'm going to recommend you do it at home. I mean uh I mean I mean there's nobody at our house but me and Betty, but I'm telling you, I mean uh I I just I just don't think this being uh crabby with each other's I I don't think there's any way to go I mean, I like having meals on the table. I might miss a meal or two if I got crappy. Bible says, be a kind. It's a Bible principle. Here's another one. Colossians chapter 3 says, Whatsoever you do, do it heartily as to the Lord, and not unto men. Heartily. Can I brag on you a little bit? I saw a bunch of heart this morning. I saw some tonight. I couldn't help but think, Pastor, when everybody was running around over the building here shaking hands a while ago. First year or two I was here. We didn't we didn't have enough folks to even crowd the aisles, you know. Back twenty-three, twenty-four years ago. I see you getting into things. I mean these kids come up here. I'm where I could look between the kids and see you. I mean there wasn't a person in the building wasn't smiling ear to ear when those children were up here What's the deal? Heart, heart, heart, heart. That's what it is. Heart. I saw the kids playing out here under those little tents. Somebody's putting their heart into it. Folks up here in the choir to sing. I was teasing them. I walked up in the morning and evening. I said, You're gonna do good? You're gonna sing good? Now you're gonna sing good, aren't you? I just picking on them. Singing with heart, doing what we do as unto the Lord. It's in the Bible. You know, I I've wondered how it is. Uh Brother Williams, those of us that have had the privilege to, I told him earlier today, I said, I said, oh after all these years, I still get excited every time they hang a microphone around my neck. Because I've listened I don't know how a guy I don't know how you can read the Bible. I don't know how that you can read what's in this book and given the opportunity to get up and talk to people that I can't imagine How we cannot be excited, how we cannot be stirred up, how we cannot show some energy. I mean, I don't have written in my notes here, you know, get loud here, or show energy here. I know I don't have that Man, when you get your heart into it, there's just something that stirs in you And this verse, Bible principle, says, put your heart into it as unto the Lord. Here's another one. James chapter 4. It says, Therefore, to him that knoweth to do good, And doeth it not, to him it is sin. Now, we know Ten Commandments in the Bible. It tells us: don't lie, don't cheat, don't adulterate, don't covet, etc. We've got it right here on the plaque. We know it tells us don't do some stuff. But this verse says, if you know to do good stuff. And don't do it, that too is a sin. I was writing a little bit before church tonight. on a little piece that'll be in the sword. There's an idea I picked up somewhere and I and I'm on I mean we've got the election coming up. So I'm I'm gonna I I'm writing a little piece uh called casting your vote. Now I'm not talking about going to the polls, but I'm going to suggest in that piece we ought to cast our vote about Sunday night. You know, if I sit home and watch baseball or football or Mumopeg Convention or something like that, if I sit home and do stuff like that on Sunday night, I'm voting for the church to close. Now, unless I'm sick or infirmed or in some way unable to get here, I mean I'm casting my vote. You know, if I don't tithe, I'm I'm voting for the church to go bankrupt. And so you say, well, well, well, what's the deal here? The Bible tells me that I'm to go to church. The Bible tells me that I'm to tithe. So if I don't do that, what am I doing? Oh, I've sinned. So, you know to do good, you don't do it. The Bible says, the Bible says, did I say the Bible says, or it does say, that that would be sin? Here's another one. Philippians 4. Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are Lovely whatsoever things are of good report, if there be any virtue, if there be any praise Think on these things. Just think on them. You realize that the things you think on are the things you actually do? This passage talks about what's true and honest and just and pure and lovely and of good report and virtuous and praiseworthy. And it says, put your thinker to work on those things. You say, well, what's that got to do with my Tuesday schedule? Fact is, what you do on Tuesday, I mean, your doer will never do anything your thinker hadn't thought of. It won't do it. What your thinker thinks of, your doer will do every time. And so he's just saying, figure out what's true, think on it. What's honest, think on it, what's just, think on it, what's pure, think on that. Now, we have a lot of principles, a lot of blessed principles laid out in the Bible for us. So that we can just say, hey, this is who I am, this is where I'm going, this is what I'm about. And when we figure out what the Bible principles are, and by the way, the book of Proverbs has got a bunch of them. That's not just a bunch of little clever sayings. Those are Bible principles. Ten Commandments, Bible principles, Sermon on the Mount, Bible principles, the epistles, lots of Bible principles. We get those Bible principles nailed down and the shift and the drift will stop. It'll not happen because we're anchored. We're anchored. And thus we can count on doing what we ought to do because we've got a value system that is solid. People once in a while who'll ask, well, what's your worldview? And what they're saying is, you know, what's your basic foundational principles of your life? And those basic foundational principles, I mean, I read the Bible, it makes me positive about some things, then I'm not giving up for anybody. I mean, you're going to have people try to get you to sell out. You're going to have people try to get you to go places and do things that nobody ever ought to do. They pass booze around on the airplanes? I'm I mean I'm not even gonna say no, thank you. I'm just gonna say no. I want to get a few licks in against booze. I mean I might might forget to do it tomorrow night. I'm gonna do it tonight. You know So man, you're you're really you really get torqued about that. Yeah, I do get torqued about it. I've buried a good number of people over the years that should not have died. They've drank themselves to death. I've buried a good number of people who've died because somebody who was drunk hit them in a car or or hit them in the streets and killed them And so, yes, I'm amazed at how many Christians now are saying, oh, the Bible just addresses drunkenness. It doesn't say you shouldn't drink. And I'm saying to myself, what Bible are they reading? No wonder they want those broken down Bibles. No wonder they want those Bibles that have been tinkered with. Give me one that lays it out plain and simple. And then we won't be messing around with that stuff. And I read this passage that talks about Bible principle, and our principles ought to be right, and when we get our principles right, our practices will be upright. So how in the world do we do that? Well look, I'm absolutely positive. There's no God like God the Creator. No, no God like him. There's no Savior like His Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm positive about that. I'm positive. There's no book like the Bible. No book like the Bible. Nothing to compare with it. You know, we uh we publish books at the Sword of the Lord. I noticed Justin reviewing some things the other day. The first five years I was at the sword, we published 86 books. And uh some of them come up for review and and every single time we'll have notes before we reprint them. Somebody found a typo or we saw something that wasn't as clear as it should have been and we'll we'll go and and we'll improve on it or attempt to, you know. You don't have to do that with the Bible. No book, no book like the Bible, I I'm I'm positive there's no salvation like what the Lord provides Nothing to compare with it. A lot of folks decide to reform. A lot of folks polish things up. A lot of folks say, I'm just going to do good. I'm going to do all the good that I can do. It doesn't change them. It doesn't make a new creature out of them. No salvation like what the Lord provides. I'm positive there's no promise the Lord's made that he will not keep I mean, I just look through the Bible and I find all these precious things that help me. Helps me and Betty. Helps us with our extended family. Helps us with the operation and the ministry of the sword of the Lord. Helps us in our dealings with people. Helps us when we go out on the streets and meet people, go to the shopping centers and go to the eating places. It helps us in all of that To do what? To be who we ought to be, to be the Christian we ought to be, to be the servant of God we should be, to be the ambassador, to be the witness and the testimony that we ought to be I walked into a business place the other day. Lady was going to wait on me, and she looked at me and she said, You're a preacher, aren't you? I'd never laid eyes on her, and she said in the midst of the conversation, she never laid eyes on me. And I said, Well, does it show that much? She said, it does. I said, Well, good. I wasn't trying to hide it anyway. I'm glad for that. Now, folks, listen. Principles, and if I counted upright, Brother Webers, I heard you say 1962 was the starting point here. If I've counted upright, that's about 58 years somewhere in that neighborhood Roughly. Well this would be sixty years. No. Fifty-six, fifty-six. Math's not my best set anyway, but um It's a long time. Long time. Principles in place. Principles in place. There's going to be people try to talk you out of it. There's going to be pressures come There'll be people somebody somebody will get mad and storm out of here. Oh, we're going to go to one of those easy places. But we don't make it hard. Sometimes there'll be things come along the way. There'll be severe winds blow through town, and some of them will hit the parking lot here, some of them will hit the front door of the church And when those hill winds blow, every one of us, we'll every one will have to decide what are we going to do? And I'm telling you, folks, getting yourself anchored in the things that we're talking about here. Getting yourself anchored in Bible principles. Somebody else is ugly and unkind, you and I don't have to go there I have people throw rocks at me all of the time. You know, my standard response: zero. Now, if they want to if they want to talk to me one-on-one, fine, but they do all this public stuff, get on the uh the web and uh on the uh social media and all that stuff and throw rocks, they can have at it. I'm not I'm not getting I'm not you say but what they said was totalized I know it's totalized but I I am not going to be tet for tat I'm just not gonna do it. You know a lot of folks live by the philosophy. Tit for tat, butter for fat, you kill my dog, I'll kill your cat. That's the way a lot of folks live. A lot of Christians behave like that. Why they did me dirty! You don't have to get out in the dirt with them. You say, well, why why why hey hey listen, the Bible tells us they may do dirty to you, but you can just remember to do to them the way you wish they would do to you. Remember, it's in the Bible. We looked at it. And see, everything hinges upon us learning Bible principles and just living by it. That helps us every step of the way. Our children were growing and becoming teenagers, and Once in a while they'd say, Well, Daddy, you know, some of the families in the church are doing thus and so. And I'd say, yeah, you're probably right, or sometimes I knew, and I'd say, yeah, you're right. But we're not gonna do that. And we didn't we didn't do it because Daddy was the pastor We didn't do it because daddy was a preacher. It didn't do it because daddy wanted to keep his image off. None of that. You can ask my grown kids. They'll tell you they've never heard that one time. And I'll tell you what they did here. They heard the Bible teaches us how to live. And if everybody in the church heads down the wrong trail, we're not going to go with them. We're not gonna do it. We're gonna do our dead level best. It doesn't mean I was a perfect dad and Betty was not a perfect mom. Doesn't mean we were perfect parents. We weren't. But we sure were trying to do what we believed was in this book. And by the way, it served us real well. Real well. Real well. And it'll serve you well as well. I know most of you know it. If you've got any doubt at all, I'm trying to encourage you tonight to just put your anchors down deep in God's blessed principles. And then go out, whether you're ordering something at Taco Bell or going to a school to work or a business place to work tomorrow, whatever it is you do. Just determine. I'm living by the principles in the book. Because the Bible says they that keep judgment will be blessed. And he that doeth righteousness, doing the right thing when? At all times That's where the blessing comes. I may miss out on some things along the way, but I sure don't want to miss out on the blessing of God. I want to have his blessing. And if I get that, oh well, whatever else I missed, I don't think I'll really miss it. Let's stand up together and we'll pray. I'm convinced our families are to be valued Our church is to be valued. Our country is of value. And I'm convinced that you and I need to not only be men and women of principle. But we need to stand for those principles. We don't need to be giving in, caving in, cowering in fear. We need to be holding the Lord's banner. High. In our world, in our time. The Lord can use his principles now like he did through the years. Help us with our families. Help us to raise good kids. Help us to have a strong church. Dear Lord, I pray you'll do some work in this place during these next days. Strengthen, I pray. The hand of the ministry for the days ahead. Whatever battles come, we want to be solid enough that we'll be able to handle them. And I pray that you will help Brother Letheman and his people and strengthen them, I pray, for the journey that is ahead. We'll thank you for what you do. And we ask you to hear our prayer tonight in Jesus' precious name. Amen. There may be somebody in this room tonight, you sat here this morning, you know you needed to be saved, you didn't respond. Well, tonight you're going to have the opportunity to do it. Maybe somebody wants to come and join tonight. You're saved already, you've been baptized, or you're willing to be. If you do need to be saved, listen, Jesus died on the cross, rose from the grave, paid the debt that all of us owe, the sin debt Made it possible for us to be saved at his expense. And if you'll trust him, he'll save you. Others of us may want to find our way to the altar and just pray. Pray for our families. Pray for our country. Pray for the church. And get ourselves solidly anchored in, like we need to be. The music begins, the altars are open. Father, help us, I pray, in Jesus' mighty name. Amen.