Matthew chapter seven, we're preaching our way through The Sermon on the Mound, greatest sermon ever preached by the greatest preacher that ever preached. Kind of got hung up here on the first few verses of chapter seven. I'm going to try and finish up this section and kind of bring it to a close here. Verse number one, we've been saying is probably the world's favorite verse. It's kind of surpassing John 3. 16 anymore in its popularity. Matthew chapter seven verse one. Judge not that you be not judged. Okay, the world loves that first phrase, judge not. But the Lord goes on then and explains, judge not that ye be not judged, for with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged. And with what measure ye meet, it shall be measured to you again. And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye? But considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye Or how wilt thou say to thy brother, let me pull the moat out of thine eye? Behold, a beam is in thine own eye. Thou hypocrite First cast the be cast out the beam out of thine own eye, and then shalt thou see clearly to cast out the moat out of thy brother's eye. Judge and judging. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now as we look at this passage again. Lord, I don't want to belabor the point. I pray you'd help us to glean from this, the what you're teaching us and how it applies to our lives. I pray that you'd help us to follow your admonition here. that uh we would be good disciples and we would be the Christians you saved us to be. So please bless now. Feel me, I plead with you, Lord, with your Holy Spirit, and pray that you would be the teacher and you would speak through me And help us, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. The Lord's going through here again, just a reminder: this message is not, the Lord's not preaching to unsaved. This is not an evangelistic message. This is a message to folks who have trusted Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. These are folks who have recognized the fact that we're all sinners and individually we're sinners before God. We've broken his law. And because of that sin, we're under God's judgment. And the consequences of that, if we die in that condition, we're separated from God for all eternity in hell. And that's a tragic reality that people who die in their sins end up in hell. But God loved us so much. At Christmas season, we recognize this. God gave his son Jesus and lived a perfect life in our place, fulfilled the law for us, met God's standards for acceptance in our place for us, and then died for our sins. And when we trust him as our personal Savior by faith, put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ, he considers us to be as righteous as Jesus Christ. That's put to our account. All our sins forgiven. And we're accepted by God and we can know we're going to heaven when we die. So he's not talking to lost people. It's an evangelistic message. He's talking to folks who have already done that, accepted Christ as their Savior. And basically, I believe if you want to sum this whole sermon up, he's saying this. If you claim to be my disciple, if you claim to be someone who wants to be a follower of Jesus Christ, who is uh going to live by the principles of Scripture, then um then these things will be true in your life. Let me encourage folks put our phones up and not texting and all of that. Let's give our attention to the Word of God here And so that's what he's going through. And he gets to this point here, and he makes this statement that we should not judge. As a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, I am not to judge My brothers and sisters, he says very plainly, judge not. Now we already pointed out at great length the fact that he's not saying we should not use discernment. We need to be able to judge between right and wrong, what is true and what is false, and um what is uh uh uh what and we need to be able to judge between what is good and what is best And so we need discernment. So he's not saying don't exercise discernment. He's not saying don't make a judgment on whether something is correct or not, right or wrong. What he's talking about, as we pointed out, he's saying, don't condemn others. Don't put yourself up as the judge of other people, whether they're condemned or not. There's only one being in existence that's qualified to do that. That's the Lord Jesus Christ. That's God Almighty. And He is the judge, and we will stand before Him as we already noticed. We will give an account of ourselves So the precept he gives here is the word I use to point out verse number one. The precept is that we're not to judge. We're not to bring condemnation on others. And then he goes on, as we noted, and he points out, he doesn't have to do this, but he points out the purpose for making this statement He could have just said, don't judge people, don't go around condemning everybody. Um and just left it at that and we'd be Yes, sir. You're God. We're not. We'll do what you say. But he take he goes on and explains and he gives the purpose. And he gives two primary purposes. We looked at one last week. He says there in verse number two for with what judgment He says, judge not, and then he goes on and explains that ye be not judged. And one of the reasons we should not judge others is when we do, we set ourselves up for judgment. And it's an undeniable fact that every one of us are going to have to stand before God and give an account of ourselves to the God of creation. The unsaved will at the end of the millennial reign are going to stand before God. Sentence is going to be declared, cast in the lake of fire. As a believer, we still face judgment, the judgment seat of Christ. And at that judgment, we give an account of ourselves, how we lived our lives as Christians. Whether we live by faith, trust to the Lord, follow his instructions or not. And that's primarily rewarding those who do live for God and do honor him and serve him out of love with right motives. So he says, when I bring judgment on others, are you listening, folks? Don't pass notes. When I am Judging other people, by doing that, I'm bringing judgment on myself. And we put it this way: God judges us for judging others. And so he says, don't judge others, so you be not judged. So when I judge other people, I set myself up for judgment. But he gives a second reason here, and we didn't get to this last week. Look here in verse number two. For with what judgment ye judge, ye what? Shall be judged. Then he expounds on that in case they missed it He says, with what measure ye meet, it'll be measured to you again. What is he saying? When I go around and start judging other people and condemning other people, I'm setting myself up for the same standard of judgment I'm putting on them. What I jud the way I judge them is how I'm going to be judged. Well the measurement I use for them is how I'm going to be measured by Let's look at some of these words here. He says, For with what judgment ye judge? That word judgment there has this idea, and it's used differently through Scripture. The word he's using here has this idea to bring condemnation on, to bring damnation on somebody. And so I come along and I say, all right, you're living that way, you're doing this. You are damned. You are under the condemnation of God. You are not worthy of whatever And I'm holding them up to that standard. God says, all right, if you're going to do that, then you're going to be held by the same standard. That condemnation. And then he uses the term measurement. He used the term and with what measure ye meet. The word measure there is simply what you would think would be a unit of measurement, an instrument of measurement. And so if I'm going to measure somebody with a with a foot roller, I cannot expect that I'm going to be measured with a yardstick. I'm going to be measured by the same measurement I hold others to. It's a little story I like to use occasionally in illustrations, and a little boy came, a dad came home from work, a little boy was there, just a little uh little guy and he said um he said daddy I measured myself today I'm six foot tall And the daddy says, Oh, that's cute, son. Yeah, you're barely four foot. And uh he goes, No, really, I'm six foot. And the boy just insisted he's six foot tall. He says, son, you're not six foot tall. He said, I'll prove it. And he went out and he had gotten a little stick and he had marked the little marks on it, and according to his little stick, he was six foot tall. And his daddy said, well, that's not an accurate measurement. Here is the actual foot, and he measured him and he was barely four foot tall. And that's what we do a lot of times. We'll hold others to a different measurement than what we want to judge ourselves by We'll measure others by a different uh standard than what we hold ourselves by. So the standard I use to judge others Is the standard God's going to use to judge me. Our whole interaction with other people. I think what the Lord is telling us here. Is our our whole interaction with other people ought to be characterized by grace, ought to be characterized by mercy How many people here want God to be very gracious to you when he judges you? I do. Good heavens. How many people want God to be very, very merciful? When we stand before Him, I want God to be merciful. You know, I find myself praying more and more all the time, God, be merciful to me. God, show mercy to me. And he said, listen, if you want that mercy, if you want me to judge you with mercy and with grace, then you need to make sure you judge others with what mercy and grace. Because the standard you use that you hold others to is the very standard that I'm going to hold you to And very sobering. In fact, he touched on this earlier in the Beatitudes. He says, Blessed are the merciful, for they shall find what? Mercy. And he's touching on that same idea. Listen, you be merciful to others and you'll find mercy yourself. Now again, it's important to understand he's not talking about salvation here We're not saved by not judging others. Well, I'll go to heaven because I held others to the same standard I hold myself. No, that's not what he's talking about. We're only saved by trusting Christ. But he says, as a believer, as a disciple, you're going to follow me, we need to be very, very careful on what we expect and demand from others, because God says, I will expect and demand that same thing from you. God holds us accountable for our attitudes and our actions towards others. I was reading an article and it's unrelated, actually I was reading a book and it's unrelated to the subject here But the fellow made this statement about an issue. He says, I'm not the judge. In fact, I'm not even the jury. I thought, well that's true. I am not the judge of my brother. I am not even the jury of my brother. God is the judge. And so he says, judge not that ye be not judged. Listen, you can avoid some of God's judgment on yourself by not condemning others. And you if you are going to do that, then uh you and I are going to be held by our same standard that we hold others to. I tell you that right there would solve a lot of our problems, wouldn't it? If we would that would solve a lot of our interaction in our homes, our marriages, in our with our friends, on the workplace. If we would simply hold ourselves to the same judgment we hold others to, the same standard and uh expectations we have on others. So he gives a precept, judge not. And then he gives the purpose that you be not judged. Then the other purpose is same same standard you hold others to, same measurement you measure others by. You're going to be measured yourself. And then he gives the third point here I have is the picture of what he's trying to say. And I see verse 3, 4, and 5 as an illustration that he gives here. Let's read it again. He says, and why beholdest thou? Now he's explaining what he's the point he's trying to get across here. Why beholdest thou the moat that is in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye. Or how wilt thou say to thy brother, Let me pull the moat out of thine eye, and behold, a beam is in thine own eye Thou hypocrite, first cast out the beam out of thine own eye, then thou shalt see clearly to cast out the mote out of thy brother's eye. Now, obviously, this is an illustration. Nobody can physically walk around with a beam in their eye. And so he's trying to picture uh what the precept he's trying to get across here. Now the first thing that that stands out to me when I read this little illustration the Lord's given. Now picture him. He's on the side of a mountain There's thousands of people out here, they've all accepted him as their savior, they've all are seeking to follow him, be his disciples And he gives this illustration, and the first thing that stands out to me is this, is his sarcasm. Did anybody pick that up in there? He's being sarcastic here. Nobody walks around with a beam in their eye. Notice, by the way For those that were in the adult Sunday school class a little time ago, we noted the same technique that Paul used. Remember in 1 Corinthians 4? He goes, Oh, you guys are so wise, and I'm just a fool And you guys are so great and I'm so weak. And he was being sarcastic because they were being so critical of him. I see the same thing here with the Lord. The Lord's being sarcastic. Oh, you're walking around with a beam in your eye And we need to be, I want to reiterate this, we need to be very, very careful in our sarcasm. I tend to be a little sarcastic myself, and so we have to be very, very careful in that Using sarcasm. But the Lord's using it here. Look what he says. And I've already touched on this a little bit. But he says there in verse number three, he says, Beholdest the moat that is in thy brother's eye. I got looking up that word moat. And probably most of us have been around church at all much and heard much teaching and preaching understand. But the word moat there is referencing a very, very tiny speck. In fact, it's uh outside of Scripture, it's used in reference to a splinter or a little piece of um You know what chaff is when they separate the wheat and the little chaff that's around the wheat and the crush and it and it floats away? Sometimes it will refer to like a little piece like that will be referred to as a moat In other words, it is a very, very small item. Very, very s little speck. And so he says, why beholdest thou the moat, this little tiny speck in your brother's eye? And then he says this, and uh be and considerest not the what? Beam that is in thine own eye. And I thought this was interesting. I got looking up that word and how it's used different ways and and some of the meaning, it is actually referencing a load-bearing beam. In other words, like in the house, you have between your load-bearing walls, you have this beam that carries the weight of the house on it Uh in this context, it would probably be referenced to a log. I mean a huge log. If you've ever been out to Stuart Paul Harvey's house and underneath Uh first time we went out there, Paul said, Let me show you around. Anybody ever go out and visit Paul Harvey and he shows you around shows you everything. And uh he took us downstairs and the big old beams down there. And um how many years old are they, Stu? Over a hundred years old, these massive beams still have the bark on them under holding that house up for all these years. That is what the Lord's referencing when he says you don't consider the beam in your own eye Can you imagine if I walked in here with one of those huge logs, you know? He's being sarcastic. And he's trying to get their attention. And uh and then he look at this, he says, and why beholdest thou? That word behold. uh had this idea to focus my full attention on something, to look intently at When you go through the Gospels, a lot of times when the Lord's going to make a very important statement, He'll say something like this, Behold. What's he saying? Give me your attention. Focus your attention up here. Behold, I'm going to say something important. I'm going to say something that needs your full attention. Needs your full focus here. He says, why beholdest thou the moat that is in the brother's eye? This is what he's saying. He says, why are you going over and you got all your attention, you got all your focus on this little spot That's in your brother's eye. I mean, you're just obsessed with it. You're consumed with it. It has your whole attention. He's being sarcastic here a little bit. And then he says, consider us not The beam and an own eye. The word consider us there has this idea. I'm not even aware of it. I don't even give any thought. I'm even paying attention to it. And then he makes, then he sums up what he's saying here. He says, thou hypocrite. He's using sarcasm to bring out the strength and the importance of what he's saying To have that mentality that I am so consumed, I'm so obsessed with this fault that is in my brother's life. And I fail to see this massive, massive fault in my own life. And all I can see, I don't even think about my own spiritual condition, I don't even think about my own failures. All I can see is the shortcoming and the failure and the fault that's in my brother's eye. I'm telling you, humanity is eat up with that kind of thinking. Our homes, our schools, our workplaces, our churches are filled with that. Young and old. We can see so clearly what that other person is doing wrong, and yet we give so little thought or concern that what we're doing wrong. A hypocrite is one of the strongest rebukes that the Lord Jesus uses in Scripture. Thou hypocrite! I mean, he's laying it on. He says, you claim to be my disciple. You put on this show that you are a follower of Jesus Christ. You've forsaken all, you've taken up your cross, you've denied yourself, and you claim to be a follower of me, but you're so obsessed with that which is wrong in your wife's uh life or in your husband's life or your parents or your kids You co-worker, your church member, you're so focused on that, you don't even see where you are. You're just, your claim to be my disciple is phony. You claim to be a disciple of Christ is not legitimate. It's hypocrisy. He's being strong on us here. He's rebuking us sharply for this. It is possible to become so obsessed with another person's fault that I'm blinded to my own faults. I'm blinded by my own faults. And that makes it impossible for me to help that other person. It makes it impossible for me to be of any benefit to that person. Was there a moat in their eye? Yeah, there's a legitimate fault there. Nobody's denying that. But I can't do, I'm being a hypocrite if all I can see is that, and I'm not willing to even consider What's true in my own life? So he's using sarcasm in a very sharp cutting way here to emphasize the fact that that is pure hypocrisy on our part as disciples. So the picture he gives here is is very pointed. There's sarcasm here, but I notice something else in these three verses. I notice the insight that our Lord gives. Notice verse number four. Why be uh verse four, or how wilt thou say to thy brother, let me what? Pull out. So he's wanting to correct this. This is wrong. There's a moat in his eye. I'm going to get that thing out of there. But let uh why behold uh how wilt thou say to thy brother, let me pull the moat out of thine eye, and behold, a beam is in thine eye, in thine own eye, verse 5, thou hypocrite, first what? Cast out. I got looking at that. I found out they're both the same word. What I am wanting to do to my brother in correcting him, he says, you need to first do to yourself. You need to uh uh the word cast out and pull out, same word, has the idea of extracting it, removing it from the from the the equation, getting it out. It's not an issue That, whatever I expect from my brother, get this statement. Whatever I expect from my brother, I must be sure is true in my own life First. Whatever issue may be going on in his eyes, I need to make sure my eyes are cleared first. He says, in fact, he says, thou hypocrite, and I circled the word first in verse number five. My own get this. My own spiritual condition is key to my ability to help my brother or sister. If I am not right with God, and we're going to point this out here, if I'm not right with God, I cannot help my brother get right with God. If my eyes are not clear, I cannot help my brother's eyes get clear. So he's using sarcasm here, very sharp. Now hypocrite. This is ridiculous Illustration is ridiculous. A beam? Seriously? And he goes, that's exactly what you're doing. It's ridiculous. Don't do that. The insight is Whatever, before I can do anything of any benefit to my brother, I need to address myself. My own spiritual condition is the key. Then last of all, I want us to notice this is the substance of the Lord's illustration The sarcasm, it's a ridiculous situ scenario. The insight, I've got to get my own act cleaned up. What's the old saying? You've got to clean your own kitchen first. Is that how it goes? Something like that Anybody ever hear that before? No. That's a old saying. Everybody knew that. Um But anyway, then number three, the substance of it. Look at verse 5. And this is what caught my attention coming through here. Kind of, I think this is the point he's getting to. Remember, what's the precept here? What's he saying? What's the whole precept he's through here? What? Don't judge. Judge not. This is all expounding on that statement Now he's carrying that out here. Notice he says, thou hypocrite, first cast the beam out of thine own eye, then This is what he's getting to. Then shalt thou see clearly to cast out the moat out of thy brother's eye. The word see clearly has this idea, to have a clear understanding of. I got this big old beam in my eye. I don't know how to get a moat out of my brother's eye if I got a beam in mind. I don't see clear, I don't have a clear understanding how to even do What I'm what's being addressed here. I think what he's saying is they really weren't concerned about helping the brother get straightened out. All they wanted to do was point out their fault. All that what was what was the whole what was the whole Pharisees' motives, hypocrites' motives for pointing out other people's faults? And they then look good. When they brought that woman taken in adultery to the Lord Jesus Christ, they weren't concerned for that woman. They weren't concerned about doing what is best or even doing what is right. All they were concerned was making Jesus look bad. Because they were right and he was wrong in their own eyes. And they want everybody to see how right they were and how wrong he was. And we have to be very, very careful. I'm afraid a lot of our quote-unquote judgment of others isn't because we're so concerned about them and we're so worried about getting that mode out. Our judgment is we just want to look good. We just want to make sure we look better than they do. And it's all rooted in flesh and pride. So he's saying here, listen, when you get the beam out of your own eye, then you can see How to get the moat out of someone else's eye. Would you agree with me? Suppose Derek had a little moat in his eye, a little spec. Would you agree to get that thing out of there is a delicate process Right? Very, very sensitive. You're not when you're messing with the eye. You have to be very very careful. Somebody was telling me recently, they have a procedure now. It was Ron Moreland, I believe, our missionary to Central Asia. He was in for a few days. We spent a day or so together. They put, I figured it was his eye, I think, they put a stint in a blood vessel in his eye. How in the world do you do that? I'll tell you one thing, you don't just go in there slinging instruments around. That doctor didn't come in with a beam in his eye and say, oh yeah, I'll do this. That is incredibly sensitive. That is incredibly delicate. And I want to suggest to you: when somebody else has a fault in their life, And I'm going to take it upon myself to help them correct that fault. It is very, very delicate. It's very, very sensitive. A lot of people get hurt. When we start throwing around judgments and throwing around accusations and start approaching them and saying, well, I'll help you fix this. If we're not careful, if we're not very, very sensitive about that. We can hurt a lot of people. And so removing a moat from someone's eye is a very delicate process, a very sensitive process And I believe when I get to the point where I'm able to remove the beam from my own eye I figure out how to do that and I get that beam out of my own eye. Maybe I learn from that process how to help my brother get the moat out of his eye. Because if I don't know how to get a beam out of my own, I certainly don't know how to get a moat out of somebody else's eye. And I want to suggest to you the process of me getting right with God will help me help others get right with God. You follow what I'm saying? He says, then. That word then, I believe, is a key word. If you'll do this, if you'll take care of this, then you will be able. Thou shalt see clearly. to remove the mote out of thy brother's eye. Removing a bean from my own eye gives me understanding and sympathy to help my brother. How many folks here you're saved, you know it? Say amen. How many folks here ever came under conviction? Something in your life wasn't right, and God brought tremendous conviction in your life. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I'm talking about since we've been saved. Maybe we get out of whack or we get a bad attitude or we get involved in something we know it's not right and we go to a revival meeting or we read in our Bible or we listen to radio station uh 887 or something And man, all of a sudden we get convicted and we realize, and what we thought, what we uh before, we thought, ah, this isn't that bad. But then the Lord brought conviction and we realized this is terrible. Anybody know what I'm talking about? This is not right. This is how in the world did I let this happen? How in the world did I let this into my life? How did I get this beam in my eye? And we come under tremendous conviction, and we're humbled by that, and we humble ourselves before God, and we get that beam out, and that helps me to be a little more sympathetic. To that person that got that has the mote in their eye. You follow what I'm trying to say? Man, I know what it means to be under conviction. I know what it means to f to be wrong And I need to help them, and I want to be very, very sensitive and very tender. We are never instructed to ignore the sin in someone else's eye in someone else's life. I'm not supposed to do that if, just for sake of illustration, if Derek has a moat in his eye, I'm not supposed to ignore that I'm not just supposed to say, oh, that's his problem. Too bad for him. I got this own beam I got to deal with. I don't know. I have an obligation to try and help him get that mode out, but I have to first Deal with mine, right? Nowhere is he suggesting I don't help my brother. In fact, we're told in Leviticus chapter 19, I'll just give this reference. If you would turn with me to Proverbs, Let's look there. I want to show you one verse there, and then we're going to go to another verse. In Leviticus 19, he tells the Israelites that they are to rebuke their brother. under certain circumstances and not to ignore their sin. Notice Proverbs chapter 27. Two verses here. And by the way, that's part of a preacher's job, preaching the Word of God is to rebuke, exhort with all long suffering. Proverbs, what did I say, 27, look at verse 5. Open what? Rebuke is better than secret love. Faithful are the wounds of a friend, but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful. What's he saying there? He's saying, listen, I'm not helping my friend by just saying, Oh, everything's fine, everything's good, don't worry about it. Just saying, well, he's got Got a moat in his eye, but that's his problem. I'll just uh you know, just look at everything else. I'm not looking at the moat. He's not saying that. He says, no, uh the wounds of a friend, come and say, Man, there's something here, there's something in your eye. Let me help you get this. That's better than just an enemy that says, ah, good, good for you, keep it. And so nowhere are we told that we are not to address faults or issues in my brother or sister's life. I am to do that. If I'm their friend, if I love them, I want to I'm gonna address that. But come with me if you would to Galatians chapter 6. And this is such an important verse in dealing with other people. And I believe it ties in with what the Lord's saying here. The mote in my brother's eye is not to be ignored. I don't condemn them, but I am to help them help correct them. Galatians chapter 6 and verse number 1. If this isn't underscored in your Bible, it really needs to be. And this applies in our homes, our workplaces, anywhere we interact with people, particularly among Christians. We need to be aware of this. Galatians 6. 1. Is everybody there? Look what it says. Galatians chapter 6. Everybody find it. Look what it says. Brethren, who's he talking to? Save people. Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fall, would you agree with me? If a man has a moat in his eye, Right? That would fit. If a man be overtaken in a fault, look at this. Ye which are what? Spiritual, condemn such a one. No? What Restore. Would you agree with me? Get the moat out. Alright? Remove the moat. Cast it out of his eye. Then he goes on, he says, restore such a one, but he sends this caution in the spirit of what? Meekness, considering thyself. Lest thou also be tempted. I want to suggest to you, the Lord is not saying we should. Well, he is saying we should not condemn others. He's not saying we shouldn't use discernment. And he's not saying we should ignore the faults in other people, but he is saying this. We need to correct, help them correct those faults in the right way. Removing the beam from our own eye first. And that's what I see here in Galatians chapter six I see, here's removing the beam, Galatians 6. 1. Removing the beam, first of all, is making sure I'm spiritual Making sure what does it mean to be spiritual? Somebody talk to me now. You all are just led by the Holy Spirit. Excellent. Well any other aspects of it All right, you definitely have to be saved, absolutely. I'm dwelt by the Holy Spirit. Brian said led by the Spirit. I was thinking filled with the Holy Spirit, which would fall in the same category. God is leading me. God is directing me. There's nothing between me and my Savior. I'm the Spirit of God. I'm not grieving the Lord. I'm not hindering Him as best as I can. I've got things right with the Lord. God's leading me. Ye which are spiritual, restore such a one. But here's another aspect of removing the moat. In the spirit of what? Meekness. What's the opposite of meekness? Pride. I'm not coming into this very proud, self-righteous It's not my flesh coming in here. I'm coming into this situation very, very meek, very, very humble The Lord's directed me. I'm filled with the Spirit. The Spirit of God has helped me. I'm coming very, very humble, very, very meek. Then look what else he says. Considering thyself. Sounds like what the Lord Jesus says. You're not considering the being. I got to stop and say, wait a minute, I need to look in the mirror. I need to get alone with the Lord. Lord, I need your direction on this. God, they're struggling. It's hurting them, obviously. There's a moat in their eye. Lord, I need to get the beans out of my eye. I need humble. I need you to spare. I need you to show me. I need to consider myself. I look in the mirror very, very carefully And then he says, Lest thou also be tempted. And I need to understand. Now get this. I am no better than that person. That mote could be in my eye just as easily as it's in theirs. I need to consider myself. So removing the beam, I'm suggesting you is this. I'm just right with the Lord. I'm humble I understand that if I was in their shoes, I could very, very easily be in the same situation, do the same thing. And I'm coming very, very humbly. Ye which are spiritual, restore such a one. My object in dealing with another person's fault is never to condemn them The wall does that. It's always to restore them, always to help them get back to where they need to be. 2 Samuel chapter 12. I wanted to turn there, but we won't take the time. It's an amazing story. Well, we got a couple minutes. Come back there real quick. I'm going to end with this. Come back to 2 Samuel chapter 12, Old Testament. We know the story here. David's messed up, and he's messed up bad. But rather than confessing it, rather than humbling himself and confessing and repenting of his sin, he tried to cover it. He that covereth his sin shall not prosper, the Bible says. David has a mote in his eye, to put it lightly. He's committed adultery with Bathsheba and he's killed her husband He's covered that up for almost a year now. This moat has been in his eye. Nathan comes along. Nathan does not have a beam in his own eye. He's gotten things right. He's right with the Lord. He's following the direction of the Holy Spirit. He's a prophet of God. God is directing him to do this. No doubt Nathan is completely right with God. Look at verse number 1 of 2 Samuel 12. And the Lord sent Nathan, all right, the beams out of his eye. He's spiritual, he's approaching David. And he came unto him and said unto him, There were two men in one city, one rich and the other poor. The rich man had exceeding many flocks and herds. And the poor man had nothing save one little ewamb, which he brought, which he bought and nourished up It grew up together with him and with his children. Look at this. It did eat of his own meat and drank of his own cup, and lay in his bosom, and was unto him as a daughter. This is a little sheep. This sheep is what to this poor man It's his pet. Man, he's sitting at the table with him. He's sleeping in the bed. It'll be it'll be a a cold day when a sheep sleeps in my bed, I'll tell you that right now. But this guy loved this little lamb. And it was like his daughter to him. Alright, look what happens. Verse 4. And there was a traveler. Unto the rich man, and he spared a take of his own flock and of his own herd to dress for the wayfaring man that was come unto him, but took the poor man's land. And dressed it. He killed it. Cleaned the thing out, gutted it, quartered it out, and cooked it for the man that was come to him. Now Let's look at beans and moats. How does Dave respond? What's the next couple words in the next verse say? His anger. Is Dave spiritual? Dave, I call him Dave. Is he spiritual? No. He is judging, judging, judging. And David has a being. In his own eye. Now what did this rich guy do? What he did, was it wrong? Sure. But David has killed people. He killed Uriah. David's committed adultery. It's one thing to steal a guy's sheep and cook it and eat it. It's another thing to steal a man's wife and then kill him. And David's all worked up over the sheep. When he's got this beam in his own eye. And God says, Jesus is saying, don't be that way. Don't be that way. Make sure our own eyes are clear first. Make sure that we're right with God And the whole purpose of all of this the Lord is saying, verse 5, he says there in Matthew 7, to restore, to restore, to bring back, never to condemn, never to damn. That's the wall does that. My job is to help my brother, my sister, get back in fellowship, get back to where they ought to be. But to do that, I've got to deal with my own self. Does that make sense So a very important lesson here, and it's so important with people interacting. I'm telling you, anytime you got people interacting, there's going to be judgment There's going to be people who are going to be evaluating and have opinions about this, and we're going to condemn and we're going to judge, and that's nothing but our old sinful flesh. And we gotta mortify the deeds of the flesh, humble ourselves before God, and let God lead us and direct us. All right, let's pray. Father in heaven. I asked you would help all of us in this situation. We all have a sinful nature. We all have a tendency to be this way to some degree or another. And I pray that you would use your word and search our hearts and help us to look in that mirror of your word every day and be very, very careful about the beams and moats and things in our own lives. And uh so we can be a blessing and a help and a restorer of other people who are struggling. I wonder with our head bound, eyes closed, how we would say, pray, sir. I really need to stop and let the Lord examine my own life. I need to put some attention on my own walk with God and uh quit being so worried about others. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me uh uh address my own spiritual condition. Anything like that by the uplifted hand, sure. I believe any Christian would want that to be true. Now, Father, you know our hearts and you know where we're at, and I pray you would bless and help us. And I ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. And we don't have the piano to do the invitation. So I hope that all of us will take this to heart and um and really consider uh our walk with God and give our attention If you don't if you're here and you don't know for sure your sins of