And we're gonna look at the first five or six verses here. Let me get hooked up. We're happy with our sound system so far. Things are working good in the back. And um I several folks said they noticed a clear difference in the sound. And so uh Uh we're hoping that continues to work out. A few little bugs were working out still. You know what I learned tonight? Brian Schofield taught me some a biblical truth tonight that I never realized before in my life. I mean this is amazing. Uh he told me what the name of one of the shepherds was. Anybody know what the name of the shepherd? I never saw it. I've read it probably a hundred times. I never saw the shepherd's name. It says that the shepherds went with haste down to see the child. So haste was obviously the leader of the shepherds. And so they went down there. I'm telling you, the depth of his Bible knowledge is phenomenal. And so uh that's exciting. Alright, Matthew chapter seven, verses one through five. Uh I think this is I said this before, I think verse number one is uh I'm not on Dave, I don't think. Oh, when you turn it on, that's when it works. Okay. I said before, verse number one, I think, of Matthew chapter seven is the world's and carnal Christians' favorite verse in all the Bible. Look what it says. Judge not that ye be not judged. And uh you hear that a lot anymore. And then he goes on. This is the Lord speaking. He says, Judge not that ye be not judged, for with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged And with what measure ye meet, it shall be measured to you again. And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the bean that is in thine own eye Or how wilt thou say to thy brother, Let me pull the moat out of thine eye, and behold, a beam is in thine own eye. Thou hypocrite, first cast out the beam out of thine own eye, And then shalt thou see clearly to cast out the moat out of thy brother's eye. I'm anxious to get to verses number four, five, and six. We're not going to get there tonight. I want to work our way through. But I want to just point something out that is interesting. And this kind of came out the last week or so as I was studying this. I just noticed this. Notice he doesn't say that it's wrong to take the moat out of thy brother's eye. He doesn't say you shouldn't do that, but he says you need to do something first. And what is that? Get the beam out of your own eye. And then he says, thou shalt see clearly. In other words, you'll have a right perspective. You'll understand a little bit more what your brother's situation is so that you can help him get that moat out. I thought that was interesting and I never picked up on that. But that's not has nothing to do with what we're going to talk about tonight. So let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless our study of your word and this tremendous sermon that was preached so long ago, that you preached. And I pray that you would um take this one truth that we're looking at here tonight, and I pray you would just really burn in our hearts and minds. and that we could be the disciples that we claim to be and that you expect us to be. And so we want to be a good witness here in this world And so we're asking you to help us this evening. I pray with all my heart again that you please fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body, yield my will And I really, Lord, plead that you be the speaker and teacher through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Sermon on the Mount to disciples. It's not evangelistic. He's not talking to unsaved people here. He's talking to people who not only believed in the Lord Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, but these are folks that have gotten to the point, say, you know, I don't want to just be a believer I want to be a disciple. I want to be somebody that has committed myself to be a follower of Jesus Christ. The things he taught, I want them to be true in my life. The instructions he gave, I want to carry them out in my life. I want my life to be. exactly what God saved me to be. So he's talking to disciples. You remember we he addresses a lot of different areas in the Christian life. A very heart-searching message. He's talking about not so much our outward actions and and appearances, but he's talking about the condition of our heart, what we really are, not what we appear to be or what we present ourselves to be. But what we really are. Several years ago, I think I mentioned this in a previous message, several years ago there was a commercial for Kodak. I think it was Kodak, one of the camera things. And their little motto was, they'd say it all the time, it was this, image is everything. Image is everything. And you want to talk about a blantant lie. That was a blanton lie. Just how I appear, how I look, that's everything. That's the most important thing. That mentality is killing our young people. That mentality is destroying our youth. And I got this idea, as long as I look cool, as long as people think I'm cool, as long as I come across that I've got my act together and I'm really something. As long as I come across that way, then that's all that really matters. I'm here to tell you, God in heaven is far more concerned about what I really am than what I appear to be. It's more concerned about what I am than being popular, than being real, than he is concerned about us being popular. In fact, very few of the great Christians throughout history were real popular with the world. A lot of them were despised and hated and rejected. So he's dealing with that aspect of our being, about what we are. Now he gets this point about judging. And um I as I'm looking at this and I'm weeks are going by and I keep re-going over it and studying it again, I keep getting an impression here he is addressing indirectly the Pharisees and their mentality. He kind of keeps coming back to that. He said earlier, he says the Pharisees, their the hypocrites, their righteousness is outward. Now he comes along this judgment. Would you agree with me? The Pharisees were pretty judgmental. Would you agree with me? They despised others. They lifted themselves up. They thought they were something. Remember the guy, I always come back to this for some reason. I think it just illustrates this mentality so much. But the two men went up to the temple to pray. One was a Pharisee Said, I thank you, I'm not like this guy, extortioner. I tithe and I do all this stuff and I'm just wonderful. And then the other, the publican, smote his breast and wouldn't even look up to heaven and said, Father, be merciful to me, a sinner. And so I think he's addressing this mentality, these Pharisees are so judgmental. And he's saying, listen, as a disciple of mine, do not be like that. Judge not that you be not judged. Now I just want to briefly get us caught up to where we're at. If you remember, we noted in verse number one, particularly the first part, the Lord gave this precept, this instruction Judge not. If you remember, we pointed out that is not saying that we should not use discernment. Not saying we should not be able to decide what is right and what is wrong, what is appropriate and what is inappropriate. In fact, the very concept of being wise, having wisdom is the ability to discern between what is what is good and what is bad, what is right and what is wrong, what is good and what is best. And having that ability to make that discernment. And I tell you, Christianity today could use a good dose of discernment across the board, being able to decide what is right and wrong. So what does the Lord mean when he says judge not? The idea here is is the idea of bringing condemnation on a person In other words, saying you are not worthy, you are condemned because of this, that, and the other. And when we do that, when we condemn other people, we're really condemning ourselves Because the Bible says we have all sinned and come short of the glory of God. So if I'm condemning somebody because they sinned, I am, Romans tells us, I'm judging myself. I'm condemning myself because I have sinned also Maybe not the same category of sin they have, but nevertheless uh sin has taken place. So he's not talking about He's not talking about using discernment. What he's talking about here is uh is uh c bringing condemnation on others And we said the ultimate motive. What would be the motive of me uh bringing condemnation on somebody else? I'm going to judge Jerry. I'm going to condemn him for something he did or didn't do, whatever. What would be my motive for doing that? To build myself up, to point out his faults, his failures, so that I look much better. I am uh lifted up in the ice. And that falls right into the category. That's what the Pharisees did So he keeps referring back to this. I gave a few practical ways that we do this, if you remember. One of them, let me just briefly review these. I want to give you another thought here real quick But uh we said this. He says, when we give our opinion or make a judgment or another person that has nothing to do with us That is this idea of judging. That's one way it comes out. It has nothing to do with me whatsoever, but I want everybody to know what I think about that. Has nothing to do, has no involvement with me, but boy, I'm quick and ready to condemn it. We need to be careful about that. Then the other one we said is when we give our opinion or we make a judgment about a person or an issue and we don't have all the facts I don't know. Anybody here uh having a make a judgment on something later on you found out you didn't know the whole deal and you were wrong? Yeah. That's st how many people agree with me, that stinks I hate it when that happens. And uh and that's what happens. And uh don't have all the facts. The other one is when our judgment is based on a personality rather than a principle. And I see this in my I guess if you want to call it occupation or my calling as a pastor, and I am confident this is true in all denominations, so I don't think it's unique to independent Fundamental Baptists. But it's this idea rallying around people because I like that person or a preacher or an evangelist and excusing things they do wrong because I like them or oh or um uh not appreciating things that God is doing because I don't like them. And it's all around the personality. What we need to be able to do is get to the point where we can appreciate somebody that maybe we aren't personalities don't click, but nevertheless, God's using them and God's doing things in their life. And I can still appreciate that. I don't condemn them because of their personality or because I don't see eye to eye with them about something And uh vice versa. Just because I think someone's great doesn't necessarily mean everything they do is right. And so we have to be very careful about that. Some people can do no wrong in our eyes, and other people can do nothing right in our eyes. And we have to be very, very careful about that. Then we said, uh I think we had another one here, we said, uh, when I refuse to give a person the benefit of the doubt. I mean just right off the bat they're wrong. Just right off the bat, they're guilty. Right off the bat, they're messed up. And uh rather than giving them the benefit of the doubt and let them have a chance. So the whole issue here, judge not Has to do with making myself look good. Now let's get to the second thought. He brings something up here. Notice, look at verse number one. He says this Judge not, and he could have just stopped there and went on to verse number six. Give not that which is holy to the dogs, but he doesn't He gives us this precept, this instruction, judge not, but then he comes back and he explains why we should not do that. And we pointed this out through here. He does this over and over and over again. And I always like to point this out. The Lord's not obligated to explain anything he does. In fact, I think Brother Forney referenced that in one of his messages. God's under no obligation to explain to you or me why he does things or why he doesn't do things. He's not obligated. But He concerned about us and he gives us an explanation. So I notice here in the last part of verse 1 and all of verse 2, he is giving the purpose. for his instruction, explaining to us why we should not judge, bring condemnation on others, and put others down, lift ourselves up. Notice what he says. Judge not that what? What? Ye be not judged. So one reason I shouldn't bring this judgment on others. It's not talking about using discernment. But I should not bring this judgment, this personal condemnation on others, so that one reason I shouldn't is so that I'm not judged And then he gives a second reason. Look at verse 2. For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged. And he kind of expands on that. And with what measure ye meet, it shall be measured to you again. So he gives this purpose here behind it, and he gives two good reasons. Why we as disciples of Christ, followers of the Lord Jesus Christ, have to be very, very careful about bringing judgment on others. Not saying I can't make the sermon whether this music is appropriate or not, whether this is godly or not, not talking about that. Talking about bringing condemnation on others And two reasons I shouldn't. Number one, when we judge others, I put it this way, we set ourselves up for our own judgment. When I bring judgment on others and I start condemning others, I'm setting myself up for my own judgment. Again, he says: judge not that ye be not judged. Now, our first response, you look at that, and our first thought is this. That's kind of like, at least this was my first thought, that's kind of like You reap what you sow. Right? Does it sound like that a little bit? The big thing the world likes to use now is karma You know, you got what you did, it comes back on you. That's a Middle Eastern religious thing. But the idea, the first thought is this is talking about reaping what you sow. If I judge Jerry, then Jerry's going to judge me Now, I'll grant this, I think that applies to what he's saying to an extent, but I don't think that's what he's teaching But I think there's a truth behind that. I've found that usually those who are most critical of others are the most sensitive when other people criticize them. Anybody find that to be true? Those who go around criticizing criticizing saying, boy, somebody criticizes them, they're ready to fight. They're up in arms. And I've also found this to be true, that those uh those who are very, very critical of others, other people tend to be critical of them. Right? Or if you have a person that's very patient with others and very understanding, and you know they give them the benefit of the doubt, usually most people will respond in kind. And they'll be kind of patient with that person and kind of uh uh uh you know give them the benefit of the doubt. And it's kind of reciprocal. It's the whole idea, he that hath friends must show himself Friendly. In other words, a person that's friendly to other people, generally people are friendly to them. And people that are hateful to other people, generally people will be hateful to them. And so, is that what he's saying here? Judge not that you be not judged. If you don't judge other people, then they won't judge you. I think there's an element of truth to that. But I don't think that's what he's teaching I think when the Lord says, judge not that you be not judged, he's referencing God's judgment on me as his disciple. Uh I think uh uh he uh I think that's the subject he's getting at. How many people here understand that we're saved by grace? Anybody understand that? It's not the things we do. It's not how I live my life. How many people understand that when Jesus Christ died on the cross, he was judged for our sins for us? Everybody understands that, right? We're not under the judgment of God for our sins. However, that does not mean as Christians we do not face judgment. There are various judgments to come. One is for the unsaved, and we talk about this fairly regularly. One is for the unsaved. It's the great white throne judgment. That's where lost people, people that die in their sins, they're unsaved, they go to hell. We've preached on that recently. And um as horrific as that is They are, at the end of the millennium, they are for a very brief time brought up out of hell. They stand before God, and this is not a judgment of whether they're deserved to go to hell or not. It's a sentencing hearing, basically. And their sentence is carried out, their names verified, they're not written in the book of life, and they're cast in the lake of fire, or torments forever. So that doesn't apply to you as I as a Christian, but there is another judgment And that is what we refer to as the judgment seat of Christ. I'm calling it our Savior's judgment. And that is for you and I as Christians on how we lived our Christian life, the judgment seat of Christ. I want us to go to two references, two passages if you would. Turn to Romans chapter ten. Romans chapter ten. We're going to look at several verses this evening, so I hope you have your Bibles handy there. Romans Chapter ten and beginning in verse number thirteen Romans 10, 13. I hope I've got the right reference then. That is not correct. I want Romans um I was afraid I did it. I think it's Romans fourteen. Come over to Romans fourteen. Aha Romans chapter fourteen and notice verse number 10. Romans 14, verse 10. Why dost thou judge thy brother? Or why dost thou set it naught thy brother? How many people recognize that sounds like a little bit what the Lord Jesus is talking about? Judge not that ye be not judged. Why dost thou judge thy brother, or why dost thou set it not thy brother? For we shall all stand before what The judgment seat of Christ. There's a very important word in that statement. He says, For we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ. Who is the we being addressed? Christian, saved people, Paul's including himself in this. Paul's saying, I'm going to be at this judgment. You as a believer are going to be at this judgment. The judgment seat of Christ. Then he goes on. And he says, For we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ, for it is written, As I live, saith the Lord, every knee shall bow, and every tongue shall confess to God. So then every one of us, look at this, shall give an account of himself to God. Let us not therefore judge one another anymore. Do you notice the correlation Because I'm going to stand before God and I'm going to judge. Therefore, let us not what? Judge this not therefore judge one another anymore But judge this rather that no man put a stumbling block or an occasion to fall in his brother's way Who, according to verse 10, because I'm going to stand before the judgment seat of Christ, according to verse, not verse 10, verse 13, because I'm going to stand before the judgment seat of Christ, according to verse 13, who am I supposed to judge? Read it very carefully. Myself. Get that? Make sure that I'm not doing anything that is going to cause my brother to stumble in his Christian life. So the judgment, because I'm going to stand before God, the judgment seat of Christ, as a believer, I need to be very, very careful that I do not judge my brother. Now, Jesus says, judge not that you be not judged. Come with me if you would, and I want to expand on this. 1 Corinthians chapter 3. Here we have another passage referencing the same event. Now, when does this happen? I believe it's right after the rapture. I think we get raptured, we stand before the judgment seat of Christ. We're going to be judged by the Lord Jesus Christ for how I lived my Christian life, what kind of Christian I was, not for my sins. Jesus Christ already judged for that. But my service, my treatment of my brothers and sisters, my attitude towards others. Look at verse 13 of 1 Corinthians chapter 3. And verse thirteen. Every man's what? Work shall be manifest. Are we saved by works? No. Are we saved to works? Yes. God saves us to serve them. And so that service that we're saved to is now being judged Every man's work shall be made manifest for the day judgment seat of Christ shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire, and a fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is If any man's work abide, which he hath built thereon, he's got saved, and he built his life on this service living for God, this service for Christ, he shall receive a reward. If any man's work shall be burned He shall suffer loss, but he himself shall be what? Saved, yet so as by fire. And so here he's saying, you and I are going to be judged. As a believer, I'm going to stand before the Lord Jesus Christ I'm going to have to give an account. I really, really believe that every one of us as Christians ought to keep this truth very, very close to the front of our minds at all times. How many people when you were a kid your folks went somewhere that give gave you a list of things to do and you forgot all about that list, you forgot they're coming back And just before they get back you think, oh yikes, I had to list this stuff I had to do. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Yeah. Uh I grew up, it was just my dad and I for a number of years, and he'd give me some stuff. He'd leave Sunday night on the truck. He wouldn't be back till Friday I'm a fourteen, fifteen year old kid, you know, and Friday night and I forgot all about it. Oh no, it's Friday. Dad's coming home. I gotta do all this stuff. And uh uh it would have been a good idea for me to keep remember on Monday that I got a list of stuff to do. Dad's coming back. How many people agree with me on that? I think that's what he's telling us It'd be good for us every day, remember, not this overbearing fear that, oh no, I gotta do all this. No, no, no. Just keep in mind I'm going to have to give an account for how I used my day. I'm going to have to give an account for how I lived. Let's read on. If any man's work abide, and if any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss. So The whole idea here is that as a believer, I'm going to have to stand before Jesus Christ. I'm going to give an account. I'm going to be judged for how I live my life as a Christian. We're saved. Praise the Lord for that. We're secure. We can never lose our salvation. We're sealed by the Holy Spirit of God. But our actions, Jesus referenced a little bit later on in Matthew, our words, even the idle words that we use. We're going to have to be held accountable for, and I believe it implies our attitudes also. So what's he saying when he says Matthew 7, verse 1, judge not that you be not judged. I think this is what he's saying. He says, I will judge you for judging others. I think that's the idea. You go around condemning other people, you are going to be held accountable for that. And if you don't want to be judged for that, and if you don't want to be held accountable for going around condemning others and all that, then don't do it. You won't be ahead held accountable to that. I think there's a second aspect of this judgment. One is the judgment seat of Christ If I don't want to be held accountable for bringing judgment on others, then don't do it, and I'll not be judged for that. If I do judge others, I'm going to be held accountable for that. But there's a second aspect, and that is not just I put down this, our Savior's uh our Savior's judgment, the judgment seat of Christ, but also this, our self-judgment Turn with me if you would to 1 Corinthians chapter 11. Now I touch on this just about every month But I never really expand on it. I may have occasionally over the years. This is the passage where we're given instructions on the Lord's Supper And the Lord makes an interesting statement here. He gives us some interesting instructions. 1 Corinthians 11. Are you there? And look with me at verse number 28. He's talking about coming to the Lord's Supper. He goes through this, and he makes the statement about eating and drinking worthily, in an appropriate fashion. And then he makes this in verse number 28. But let a man what? Examine himself. That word examine there has this idea. to kind of the idea of judge himself, to scrutinize, to test himself, to prove himself, to evaluate himself. And the whole idea behind that is, is am I coming to this Lord's Supper with a genuine heart? Am I sincere? Am I humble? I'm testing the sincerity of my involvement in the Lord's Supper. So he goes on But every man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread and drink of that cup, for he that in drink he that eateth and drinketh unworthily eateth and drinketh damnation to himself Not discerning the Lord's body. He's not discerning the seriousness of what we're doing here, the fact that we're commemorating and memorializing Christ giving his body and his blood for our salvation. And he's not seeing that. He's not sincere. So look what he says here, verse uh thirty. For this cause many are weak And sickly among you, and many sleep. Look at verse thirty one. For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be what? Judged. You know what that sounds like to me? Judge not that ye Be not judged. If we would judge ourselves, then we don't bring that judgment on us. But when we are judged, we are chastened of the Lord that we should not be condemned with the world. So you catch what he's saying here. He's saying I need to stop before I take part in the Lord's Supper. I need to stop and evaluate, examine myself. I need to critique. Alright, am I coming with a pure heart? Are my motives right? Am I, you know, have I confessed and forsaken my sin? Am I genuine? And he says, some of y'all aren't doing that. Some of y'all are taking part in the Lord's Supper. You're just being flippant about it. You're just being trite about it. You're just going through the motions. You're not taking it seriously. You're not discerning the Lord's body. And what does he say is the consequence of that? We just read it a minute ago. What he said, some are, what's it say? They're verse 30, something like that. Some are sick, and some are what? Dead, they're asleep is the word he used. Some are asleep. He doesn't mean they fell asleep when the preacher's preaching, you know, leading up to it. He's not talking about that. That happens. When he says asleep, some have died. Here's my question. Did God kill them? Did God make them sick? Did God kill them? I don't think so. I think what happened was they sinned. They took the Lord's blood and body, represent the representation of the Lord's blood and body. And they didn't take it seriously. And they were very, very flippant about it, and they didn't realize they didn't they weren't sincere in taking part of this and loving the Lord and honoring the Lord and remembering what He paid for them. And in so doing, they remove themselves out of God's blessings and God's protection. He says, your sins have separated from me, I will not hear you. And so they in doing so, they've opened themselves up, they've removed God's blessing and protection of themselves, and they brought this on themselves. Notice he says here, for we if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged. The word judge there under judging ourselves uses discernment. Is the idea using discernment? We are supposed to do that. It's not condemning myself. It's evaluating myself. All right, and is my heart pure? Am I coming with a sincere heart? Am I coming with a pure heart and mind? And if we do that, if we judge ourselves, we should not be judged. The word judge there in the second part, we should not be judged, is the idea of condemnation. There won't be any judgment pronounced on us. And so there is a second type of judgment that if I judge not, I should not be judged. This one is If I judge myself, then I remove this judgment off of myself. Now, what is the judgment I'm bringing on myself if I don't judge myself? Does that make sense? I feel like I'm talking in circles. He says there, if we let's look at it again. Let me get this straight. For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged What if I don't judge myself? Then I will be judged. So what is that judgment I'm bringing on myself? The next verse says. But when we are judged of God, because we didn't judge ourselves, we are what? Chastened of the Lord. That we should not be condemned with the world. In other words, it's not sending us to hell. It's bringing God's chastisement on us. So, what is he talking about? He says, judge not that you be not judged. He goes, here's two reasons why you shouldn't go around condemning other people. Here's two reasons you shouldn't go around bringing judgment and putting other people down with the idea of picking yourself up. Number one, so that you are not judged. So that you don't bring that judgment on yourself. But the second is, is so that, look what he says here. Let's come back. Let me get back here, Matthew. He says, judge not thee, be not judged, for with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged, and with what measure ye meet. He shall be measured. And so then he's going to go on and he's going to explain that. So number one, so here's the thing I want to leave with you tonight. I kind of convoluted this message, but I hope it's helpful. One, we don't want to judge. And the reason we don't is because in doing so we bring judgment on ourselves. There's two ways to do that. One is by not judging myself, and the other is by judging others Does that make sense? I kind of convoluted that, but I hope it's helpful. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, dear Lord, that you would help us this evening to see ourselves as you see us. Help us to humble ourselves before you And I pray that we could be a blessing and point others to Christ. And help us, I pray, in Jesus' name. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, I know my flesh? has a tendency to look down on others. If you're like me, yeah that that tendency is there. And you'd say, Preacher, pray with me that God could fill me with His Holy Spirit, and I could point others to Christ and I could judge myself By the same standard I'm holding others to. Is there any like that, preacher, I I'm asking God to help me. God bless you. Hands all around. That's my prayer Father, we don't have a piano tonight, but I pray that you would just help us, Lord, to apply this to our lives. Holy Spirit, stir our hearts. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.