Number one, Romans chapter number one. It's good to have Brother Chip and Vicky in the service this morning, and uh of course he's with um Beacon of Trent and representing the ministry there and Christmas time a lot of the meetings kind of dwindle out so he's going to be here kind of around here for a little bit for a few weeks. We're glad for that. And of course they're the brand new grandparents of uh little Paul Schroyer. And so we congratulate them for that. Romans chapter 1. Look with me again at verse 21 with me if you would. Verse 21 of Romans chapter 1. I was reading in my devotions this past week. I was actually going to preach this morning. My intention was to preach on the ninth commandment, which as we said we're going through and memorizing them this year, and I try to each month take that command that we're memorized and bring a message on it. But uh earlier in the week, I read I was reading through first uh the first chapter of Romans and I came across this verse here and it just gripped my attention And as I dwelt on it and looked at it a little bit, I decided to bring a message on this. Notice verse 21. Because that when they knew God, now that's an important phrase When they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful. And then the rest is the results of that. They became vain in their imagination. Their foolish heart was darkened. I've entitled it this, and I think you'll understand what I mean by the title when we get into the message But just knowing God is not enough. Let's pray. Father in heaven We come to you this morning with very grateful hearts, Lord. This is a special time of year as we get together with family on Thanksgiving Day. Lord, I am personally grateful for a country that still has a day of Thanksgiving. Lord, we're grateful for the coming Christmas season and what a blessing that is. Lord, but we ask now, as we look into your word Or we want to get beyond just holidays, and we want you to search our hearts now. And I pray, Lord, that our relationship with you would stand the test of Scripture That we would know you, and that that knowledge of you would bear fruit in our lives. God, I yield myself to you. I present my body anew, now this hour. I ask with all my heart, Lord, that That you would fill me with your Spirit and open our hearts and minds to your word and your will for us. In Jesus' name, amen. So looking at verse 21 there, it says, because that, and he says, that there's a problem They knew God, when they knew God, they glorified him not as God. Now I got looking at that word no there. Of course, the word no can have a number of different meanings in scripture. So you have to go to the context. Sometimes it's good to go to the word that it was translated from and kind of get an idea there. So as I studied this out, looked at the context, looked at the root of the word, I came to this conclusion When the Bible says here that they knew God, it does not mean that they necessarily had a relationship with God. It simply means this. They were aware of God. They were conscious of the fact that there is a God They knew that truth. They were aware of that. They understood that. You know, for someone to say For someone to declare that they believe that God exists, that is really not a very profound thing. To simply say, oh yes The evidence of God's existence is all around us. You can't get away from it. You look at creation and you see design. If there's design in something, it implies what? There's a designer. Somebody designed that. We have I've often used this illustration here. I'm reading a book. uh about evolution and creation and it's fascinating. And he makes this illustration. He puts this illustration out. It's very similar to one I've used. How many folks here are familiar with uh the organization it's called Sekai. S-E-T-I. Anybody here if you it stands for this, the search for extraterrestrial intelligence. And they have invested literally hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars in building huge satellite radio receivers And they'll have them in various places of the world. They'll have them by scores and scores of them in a field, pointing out into outer space. And they have intricate computers and they have very elaborate network. And the whole purpose of this organization is to try and pick up some signal from far space, deep space, that would indicate that there's intelligence out there. Now I think, if I understand correctly, they've been doing this about 40 to 45 years. Guess how many intelligent signals they've received? Zero. You know what they get? Now, in his book I'm reading, the fellow points out. He said, Imagine if one day Suddenly in these deep space satellites they would start receiving something like What would they immediately conclude? Something's doing that. There's a pattern to it. There's design to that sound. That couldn't just happen. There must be something sending this save. Suppose, he says in this book, suppose that that signal was sent in and it would be instructions on building a rover On how to build a little mechanical thing that would maneuver around. He said, what would the immediate and obvious conclusion be? What would it be? There's intelligence out there. Something that is very intelligent is giving us the designs, the instructions for building this robot. And yet those same people will turn around and look at a bird who is if that what is more complicated and Than anything man will ever build, and say, oh, that just happened. It's just a coincidence. It's the result of chaotic happenstance and chance God says the person that says that is a fool. That's just foolish. That is deliberate denial of the opportunity Obvious. I often illustrate it this way. I like this illustration. We send a pathfinder up to Mars. It's cruising around Mars and it comes over a hill, and here's a peace signal stretched into the We would immediately say, immediately we would say somebody did that. That can't just happen a deliberate design there And yet, in the simplest cell known to man, the complexity of the DNA that makes up that cell is beyond man's ability to comprehend, and yet we say that came from nothing. It's just chaos. It's just the result of millions of years of chance. The evidence of God's existence is overwhelmingly around us. Through the design of creation. For instance, the laws of nature. There are mathematical laws, there are laws of physics, there are laws of chemistry If you have a law, the implication is there must be a what? A law giver. Something had a if all we are is rearranged constant, if all we are is just uh the the uh Group of molecules, if that's all we are, then what justification is there for any type of laws of anything? Do you follow what I'm saying? Where would you why would there be any logic to anything if all we are is just a mass of chaos that's somehow put together in an organized form How would you have morality? Where would the idea of patriotism or love or any of that come from? The very fact of our existence. Is proof that there must be a God. The statistics vary. But 95%, we could say very easily, 95% of the world's population believes in some sort of God. Atheists are in the minority. Now, if you watch the news or if you pay attention to American media You would get the impression that people that believe in God are in the minority. We're some fringe group. But the fact of the matter is, on every kind of United States, people worship God of some sort Right? In fact, every society that has that has ever existed in the history of mankind has had an instinctive Need to worship and innate knowledge that there is something beyond myself There is something greater than I. There never has been an atheistic society discovered by man. In the deepest, darkest Africa, in the islands of the Pacific, in the cold north regions of the Antarctic Circle, everywhere there is man, there is a God worshiped. So we look at creation, we look at the reality of the world we live in, the makeup of the world, the very concept of justice And equity and all of that, we look at the history of man has always worshipped something, and we come to the conclusion there must be a God. There has to be a God. In fact, verse 20, he says we're completely without excuse. For not believing in God. Look, for the invisible things of Him, God, from the creation of the world, that's what I've been talking about, are clearly seen. Being understood by the things that are made. In other words, you look at the things God made, and you have to come to the conclusion there is a God. And look what he says. Even his eternal power and Godhead is evident in creation. So that they are what? Without excuse. Then he gets to verse twenty. Because that when they knew God The issue is not whether man recognizes whether there's a God or not. Just knowing there's a God is not enough. Let me give something that maybe would help. Keep your place here, and we're going to look at just a couple verses outside of Romans here this morning. But if you would, and I want you to notice this in your Bible. Come to the back of the Bible, the book of James. And chapter 2, and I could just read this to you, but I want you to see it in your Bible. And if this verse is not highlighted in some way in your Bible, I highly recommend. That you would underscore this verse uh in one way or another. James chapter 2 and verse 19. James 2 and 19. Give everybody a chance to find it there. I want you to see this in your Bible. James 2:19. Thou believest that there is one God, thou doest what? Well, you believe in God? Good, that's great. But that in and of itself is not enough. Look at the rest of the verse. The devils also believe and tremble, simply acknowledging that God exists. Simply believing that there is a God is not enough. The devils do that much. Now, come back to Romans. We'll try and pull out what what what I believe this verse is getting at. Romans chapter one. Now we're not going to read it for several reasons. I have in the past But from verse 21 down through the end of the chapter, verse 32, you have what is what I would consider one of the most unpleasant passages of scripture in the Bible. It is, to put it nicely, unpleasant. To be very honest with you, I find it uncomfortable to read in public. Verses 21 through the end of the chapter. There are portions of scripture that deal with man's nature in the raw. Man's fallen nature, no sugar added, not color-coded at all, but just blatant raw truth. About the heart, the sinful heart of man. Genesis has some places like that. Judges has some portions of scripture, very frank, are very difficult to read. Kings and Romans chapter one from verse twenty-one to verse thirty-two the end of the chapter there It's very, very ugly. Now I'll be honest with you, this is what it reminds me of. And I've mentioned this before It reminds me of driving through some cities, and you get to certain parts of the city that are just downright nasty. You know what I'm talking about? They're just parts of the city. You don't like to be there. There's nothing attractive about it. It's just nasty. And that's what this passage is. It's an accurate description of the direction our world is racing towards. If you read verse 21 through verse 32 of Romans chapter 1, you find An accurate description of what the United States of America is becoming in many ways. As unpleasant as that is, as much as I hate to acknowledge that. Nevertheless, it's true. We have um brother and Mrs. Raynemah over in Holland, and they're listening in this morning. And we were talking about European society. And he was mentioning we're talking about some things, the way society is there. I read Romans chapter 1, verse 21 down through verse 32, and it sounds to me very much like how they describe much of European society. Some folks have traveled there, Donna and her family. They were in Italy a couple years ago. Donna came back. She said, Pastor, as bad as America is, we're not as bad as Europe has gotten morally and spiritually That's the direction we're heading. And I submit to you that verse 21, this moral freefall that we read of here in this chapter begins With verse twenty-one. And it is the fact that they knew God But they would not glorify him as God, and neither were they thankful that it opened the door. To this, as I said, moral free call. Look at verse 21. Look at the last phrase of verse 21. Their foolish heart Now, he doesn't say they have a foolish heart because they denied the existence of God. They did acknowledge God's existence. But their heart was foolish because they would not recognize him as God and they would not be grateful for what he had done for them as God. And as a result of that, their foolish heart was what? Darkened To darken something, when it talks about their heart being darkened, it means this: their understanding became obscure. They did not think clearly. Their morals became un, they lost any type of Um anchor for their morals. And they opened the door To the most ungodly, wicked, perverse actions known to man. And it all began not by denying God's existence, But by not glorifying him as God and not being thankful. Now, I was reading my devotions this week and I saw that verse. And it just kept ripping. They knew God, but they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful. Two thoughts here in this passage that lead to a darkened understanding that open up this moral cesspool that man is racing toward. By the way, you say, well, in the last days There's going to be more and more atheism. Yeah, yes and no. But if you study Revelation and you study what the Bible teaches about the atheist about the Antichrist The Antichrist is not an atheist. He, in fact, he leads worship. But it is a worship of God, not as God is presented in Scripture So, people will believe in God in the last days, but they will do two things. And those two things open the door to disaster. And these very two things, you and I, if we're not careful, can end up doing the same thing. Number one They refuse to recognize God's authority. They refuse to recognize God's authority. Look at verse 21 again. Because that when they knew God, they what? Glorified him not as God. Now what does it mean to glorify him as God? The word itself simply means to honor, to exalt, to lift up. What he's saying here, when God says that they glorified him not as God, they were saying this. I know there is a God, but I will not honor him in my life as God. I acknowledge the fact that there is a God in existence, but I do not recognize him having any authority over my life. They do not deny God's existence, but they have no reverence for God. They refuse to submit to God as God. Now how is that how do you do that? How is a person believers in God But refuse to recognize that God's authority. I think there are several ways given to us in Scripture how a person does that. One way is by seeking to live my life independent of God. Now, people don't say this in so many words. Occasionally you come across someone that does They don't say it in these words generally, but this is what they mean. I don't need God. I can get by just fine without God telling me what I should and should not do. You say you believe God? Oh, yeah, there's God. I don't have a problem with that. But I do have a problem with him telling me how to live. I do have a problem with him telling me this is right and this is wrong. They refuse to recognize God's authority by living independent of God. The fact of God's existence has no effect on their life. Occasionally you will come across someone that will tell you this. They'll say, Oh, yeah, I believe in God, but I'm an agnostic. How many people are familiar with that term? An agnostic. An agnostic, this is what an agnostic will say they believe. I believe there is a God, but you really can't know it. He's removed from our existence. There's obviously God that created everything, but we can't know. He's not involved in our affairs. He's not a part of our experience. It's interesting, the word ignostic, the root word of the word agnostic means ignorant. And it comes from the same word as our word ignoramus. So if I ever give on rare case I get a conversation on someone's things to be agnostic, uh one of the things in that conversation I like to bring out and say, by the way, do you know what the word agnostic means? Usually the conversation ends around there. But what they're saying is, alright, there's a God, but I'm not going to glorify him as God I'm not going to recognize same have any authority. Tell me how to live my life where I should or should not go, what I should or should not do I'll make my own mind up. I have my own authority. I'll decide what I'm going to do and what I'm not going to do. I will decide what's best for my life. I will decide what's good for me and what's bad for me. God is certainly not going to have any authority over my life. I will live my life independent of God. So just believing that God exists is not enough. I must recognize the fact that that God has authority over my life. I need to acknowledge that. I need to glorify Him as God. I need to exalt Him in my life to The position of Lord of my life. They had a problem. They believed in God. They refused to recognize His authority. They lived their life independent of Him. And it led directly to a moral cesspool. It led directly to total disaster for mankind. How do I live, how does a person refuse to recognize God's authority? By living independent of God? Or also, sometimes a person will live, will refuse to recognize authority by being ignorant of God's attributes. In other words, they never really take the time to find out what God says about Himself. They believe there's a God, but they conjure up in their mind what this God is like. And they imagine this God to be what they think he is, rather than finding out what God says he is. Refusing to recognize his authority. The fact of the matter is, if you study your Bible very much at all, you find out that the God of the Bible is completely different than the God of your average person's understanding. People say something like this. Well I think God is. Listen, it doesn't matter what you or I think God is. The important thing is, what does God say is That's one of the problems in contemporary Christianity. We are fabricating a God of our imagination rather than holding to the truth of the God of the Bible. Well, if Jesus was here, if Jesus was here, he'd be okay with this. How do you know that? Well, that's what I think. Wait a minute. I'm glad you believed in God. I'm glad you believed his existence. I'm glad you understand the role of Jesus. But that's not enough. You need to come to the Word of God and let God, the authority of God's Word, tell you what Jesus would be okay with and what he would not be okay with. okay with. You need to come to the authority of God's Word and find out what this God is really like. How many folks have ever heard this statement? Oh yeah, I believe in the man upstairs I have news for you. The God of the Bible is not a man upstairs. Oh yeah, the big man. I I I've heard them all. The boss man. Oh yeah, the boss man. The God of the Bible is not a boss man. It's not the big man upstairs. Very few people view God as he really is. Very few people have a correct understanding of the actual God that exists. Flesh, money, self, the world have more influence on most of our lives than God does. Because we don't understand who that God is. We say we believe. We don't understand what He's like Bible says that God is all powerful. That God is ever-present. Now that has gripped my mind for the last several years. You and I, right now, where you're sitting, we are in the presence of God. Now think about that. He's not flesh and blood, he is a spirit. And tomorrow morning on the top, and this meeting this classroom, and tomorrow evening in your living room. You will be in the literal, actual presence of God at all times. Well I gotta go to church and meet up with God. I'm sorry, but he's been there the whole time. He is here now. He's all powerful. He is all-knowing. Listen, that one truth, that we cannot hide anything from God, ought to humble every one of us. Well, I don't need God. He is all-powerful. He is ever-present. He is all-knowing. He is unchanging. And here's the one characteristic that God wants to be known as, more than any other characteristic. Very clearly taught in Scripture. And that is that our God is holy, holy, holy. All through scripture, the cherubim and cherubim, the feast of revelation In the presence of God in heaven, cry out over and over and over. Whoy, wholly, wholly is the Lord God Almighty! Nowhere does the Bible say compassionate, compassionate, compassionate is the Lord God Almighty. I don't know about you. I'm glad God is compassionate. Thank God for it. Nowhere does it say patient, patient, patient is the Lord God Almighty. Hey, we're glad God's patient. Amen. But you know what God wants us to understand above everything else? He is holy. Blindingly holy. Intolerantly holy. We live in such a defiled world. Our hearts are so crooked, we can barely even grasp what the concept of holiness is. Your average person will streak says, oh yeah. God's cool. Now this is me. But I am so disgusted with contemporary Christian preachers talking about God as if he's some rap singer. Right. Some sort of cool Hollywood star That is blasphemous. Oh yeah. There's God. They don't glorify I don't recognize his authority. We try to live independent of him. We don't even understand what he is. We don't take the time to look in the Word of God, find out what this God really is like. I hesitate to use this, but how many people recognize the name James Baker? Preacher, Premier, not the Secretary of State. And the man says, how are you organizing Tammy Faye thinker? Ah, you know who I'm talking about now. Now I don't we know the story of that and that was back before half the kids here were born. But he went to prison, justly so. In my opinion. But he wrote a book in prison, and Ed and I were talking about this just recently. He wrote a book in prison at I I was at the library and I saw by James Baker. And the title of a book caught my attention. I checked it out and read it. It's called I Was Wrong. Interesting what you're reading. Some of the stuff he read there is still wrong. He said we would get up with the was it PTL Club? He said we would get up with the PTL Club and we would preach sermons and never even look in a scripture To find out what the Bible said about. In that book, he makes this confession: I did not study my Bible or learn of God until I got to prison, even though I was known as a preacher. Isn't that sad? Now if the preachers are doing that, what's happening in the pew? Right. They knew God. They need to glorify this God. We've got people in churches just like ours all around the world. Talk about God, they'll sing the hymns of God, they'll use the phrase, they'll carry their Bible, then throughout the week they'll live as if there is no God He has no effect upon their work ethic, he has no effect upon their marriage commitments, he has no effect upon the purity of their heart and mind. Do not glorify him as God! Living independent of him, being ignorant of his attributes. And I put this one down, kind of fits under the other two, just indifferent to God. To be indifferent means to be without feeling, to be apathetic, to have no zeal. Somebody asked a God, what do you think about the, somebody asked a fellow, what do you think about the ignorance and apathy in the churches today, he says, I don't know, and I don't care. It's pretty much the way it is, huh? Ah, so what? We were talking in Sunday school. You'll have more church fusses over the budget the church has than you will over the doctrinal state. Huh? Just indifferent. Just don't care about God's love for me or God's will for me. No desire to maintain any type of relationship with God. Just satisfying to come to church and go through the motions. And it's all outward, it's all facad. And there's nothing real in our hearts. There's no real relationship with Christ. There's no real enjoyment of his presence. There's no real evidence of his power and working through me. It's just a show I go through. It's just a facade. We can lie about the things of God. And it never bothers us. And we can Hey, we're doing this, that, and the other, and just lie about it. And it never bothers us. We're completely indifferent as to the existence of God. Oh, we believe it exists, but it doesn't affect any decisions I make in life. God has given us warnings and commandments to protect us and help us have a meaningful life and fulfill the purpose for which He has. He's created us so we can have peace in our heart and purpose in our mind. We completely ignore that And for a little bit of temporal pleasure, we'll sacrifice God's perfect will. Just believing in God's existence is not enough. I must recognize him as God. I must recognize He has authority over my life. He loves me. He has a plan for my life. The second thing that opens this, and by the way, that's the first step to going down more obsessive. That's why you can have people grow up in a church and be taught the things of God and the truths of God, the promises of God, the warnings of God, have all of that change, and they get out and uh They don't recognize that God they've been taught of as having any authority. And then they'll make decisions because this pleases me or I want that. They're not telling me what to do. You go down the road five, ten, fifteen years and find themselves in a disastrous situation. They look back and said, what a fool. What a fool. Why can't I recognize God's authority over my life? End up finding themselves in a situation They swore they would never be in it. I could give illustration. We could be here at five this afternoon giving illustration after illustration after illustration. All of us can stand up and testify. of the disastrous effects that have been as a result of making a decision without seeking government. Right or wrong Number one, refuse to recognize God's authority. And number two, and last of all, refuse to be grateful. For God's goodness. Look at verse 21 again. Because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God. They refused to recognize his authority. Now look at this. Neither, oh, there's something else. Neither were thankful. We do not give gratitude The importance it ought to have. When we when a person becomes unthankful They are opening a door to disaster. It is when man becomes ungrateful. that he becomes perverse. I wish we had more time. I wish we'd go back to Ezekiel. And Ezekiel gives us, how many people here are familiar with Sodom and Gomorrah? Remember, who remember that situation? Do you agree with me? That's one of those neighborhoods you don't like to drive through. Uh that's one of those portions of scripture that's unpleasant to read. You with me? Now we all think we know why God destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah. Because of Sodom. Ezekiel tells us that that is not why God destroyed Sodom and Ez ego tells us that it was because they became unthankful and proud. And the sodomy, the perversity of those cities, was the result of a people that had it so good and became a Ungrateful. Do you know when America was struggling for our very existence back in the early days of the United States of America? When we were struggling for our very existence, you didn't have gay pride parades in Washington. You know what you had? Prayer meetings. You had presidents like George Washington on their knees with open Bibles crying out to God, have mercy on this country. You have men like Benjamin Franklin, who was not even a believer, saying if a sparrow cannot fall to the ground without our Almighty God being aware of it. Surely a nation cannot rise without his direction and guidance. Now we've got it pretty good. And now the holiday of Thanksgiving is nothing more than a gluttonous party. I wonder how many believers in the United States of America this past Thursday got on our knees. And thank God for his goodness. And guess what we have? Sodomites in the highest positions of government in the United States of America. Or right. Cabinet members. Well they're wrong. That's right. He says, neither were they thankful. And you read verse 22, 23, 24, down through verse 32. And by the time you get to the end of the chapter, it is so perverse. You can't even hardly read it in public. It begins with not recognizing God's authority and not being grateful for what God has done for us. One of the worst things that can be said about a man is he is ungrateful. I had a man in Indianapolis, we're out visiting. I don't remember his name, I don't remember any of the settings, but I do remember what he says. What he said to me. He wasn't a member of the church. He says, what has God ever done for me? Someday he'll realize. An ingrateful heart is a self destructive heart. We don't have time. 2 Timothy 3, 1 through 5 says that one of the chief characteristics of the last days is that of ingratitude. It is associated with some of the most wicked, perverse deeds done by man, the act of being unthankful. We should be grateful for the warnings of God. God loves us. Our hearts are defiled. God gives us his wall. God gives us his warnings to direct us so that we don't make foolish decisions. based on our own understanding, our own wicked heart, but based on God's truths, and we make decisions that will benefit us in life and lead to a fruitful, productive God glorifying good pure light. And instead of that, we become selfish and say, no, I'm not going to listen to Scripture. I'm going to make my own decisions based on the pleasure I get out of this situation. And it's an act of ingratitude that God would love me enough to direct me in my life and guide me. We ought to be grateful for God's warnings. We ought to be grateful for the Word of God. This book has the answers to life. This is our manual. Several years ago I bought a pickup truck. I never owned a pickup truck in my life. Until about what was it, 2004. Tom found me a lemon. And uh No, we do it, John. Uh I liked it a lot. But I never had a pickup truck before, so anytime I had a flat tire in a vehicle before you just open the trunk. This sh this gives you my level of intelligence. So I had a black marijuana truck and I was out in the middle of nowhere. I thought, where's the trunk at? I got an EPA, there's the thing. And I I'd never taken up Tire off the back of a pickup truck before. I'm kinda embarrassed to say this now. I'm trying to figure out how to not tell you this story And uh this is like two thousand six. So it's all rusty I gotta finally say this thing's broken, I just gotta break this thing off. So I got back and I got the thing changed, got back and said, Tommy, I couldn't get that tired up from there He looked at any? He said, Did you look at the manual? What's a manual? No, I didn't look at the manual. People end up their lives all broken. Something goes wrong and they try and fix it themselves. Everything is And you say, did you ever look at the manual? Right. Yeah. Hey, you can fix a truck. You can't go Back and do your life over. We ought to thank God for the Bible. We ought to thank God for the Word of God, for the warnings of God. And we ought to thank God last of all for the way of salvation. How hard is a heart that is indifferent to the price that Christ paid for us to be saved? It doesn't happen often. In fact it happens very seldom. But there have been a few instances over the years where we've had more suffer. Which is, in my mind, one of the most sacred things in the local New Testament church. When we refocus on the price, price pay. And it's only happened on rare occasions. There has been some rare occasions that while we're taking part in the Lord's Supper and our minds are focused on the price Christ paid for our sins, that you have somebody laughing and joking around And that grieves my heart. And I was talking with another preacher about it. And he made this statement how How cold is the heart? How hard is the heart that does not appreciate the price That Christ made for us to be forgiven, have a home in him, to shed blood, the suffering of God's judgment for my sins. How can we not be thankful for that? How can we be indifferent? And if we get to the point where what Christ did for us on the cross and And the price he paid for our salvation, when we get to the point that we are indifferent to that, then there's no door closed to how perverse we may end up being There is no end to the depth that a person will go. If they do not appreciate the price Christ paid for the salvation of their soul, they knew God. I wasn't the problem. They didn't recognize his authority. And they weren't grateful for his goodness. He ended up in total disaster. I was reading this week. I was telling my wife, there are so many men and women of God in years gone by we've never heard of that did amazing things for God. And I was reading this week, I came across a fellow I never heard of him before. His name is Alan Gardiner. He was a lieutenant in the British Navy. In fact, I think in 1812, the war of 1812, he was involved with a skirmish with the United States. But he was a Christian. And God was dealing with his heart, and he resigned his position as lieutenant and became a missionary to South America. Some little country I never heard of. I don't even think it exists anymore. And he began traveling through that country, planting churches, preaching the gospel. According to the records, people were saved, churches were established. I'll read for you. One of God's faithful missionaries, Alan Bardeny, experienced many physical difficulties and hardships throughout his service to the Savior But despite his troubles, he said, while God gives me strength, failure will not daunt me. In 1851, at the age of 57, he died of disease and starvation. While serving Christ on Picton Island on the southern tip of America. They hadn't heard from him. They sent some people in to go and find him When his body was found, his diary lay nearby. It bore the record of hunger, thirst, wounds, and loneliness. Now he died of starvation. The last entry in his little book showed the struggle of his shaking hand as he tried to write legendly. And this is what he wrote. On a far away island by himself, dying of starvation, the last thing he said was this: I am overwhelmed with a sense of the goodness of Of God. Imagine that. And we sit here and complain about blood. And we have nothing nice or good to say about him. When here was a man who not only knew God, But he recognized God had authority over his life. And he was grateful for what God did. And even dying in starvation, he glorified God as God. Isn't that powerful? What about you and I? Number one, do you know Christ as Savior? Have you been born again, or is it just a facade? Just something you go through. Or do you know Christ? Have you been born with Sam? Are you spiritually, you have a spiritual relationship with Christ? You recognize his authority in your life? Or are you calling the shots? Tell you what, I'll do what I'm gonna do what I want to do. You're heading down the road of possess. Are you thankful? Are you grateful that God loves you enough to give you direction and give you a manual? Why do you like? Are you so cold-hearted? You don't even care what Christ made. It's going to live in your own independent life. Father in heaven, I pray you help us. Help us, Lord, to glorify you as God. Lord, help us to be thankful. God, maybe some of us, it's been a long time since we got on our knees and just said, Thank you, God, for saving me. Thank you for blessing me in all you've given. Some of us, it's been a long time since we got our knees and said, God, not my will, but your will be done. God, not my own understanding, but your clear word. We need that. We need that. We need that. Head to bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, God's Holy Spirit has spoken to my heart this morning in some specific way? God's Holy Spirit has dealt with me. I've got to rethink some things and I've got to realign some things. I want to be right with the Lord. I want my life to be in tune with God's will and God's word. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me. Is there any like that about the uplifted hand? God's Holy Spirit has dealt with me a very specific way. God bless you, a number of hands around. How about it? Any others? God's Holy Spirit has dealt with me. What about this matter of God having authority