Old Testament book, Second Kings. I told Brother Olsh before I said about them coming back on a Sunday night on vacation, coming back a Sunday night. And uh I said, you know, when you finally get some decent preaching, it's you wanna get as much as you can, but don't tell your preacher that Brother, I said that. But uh you can tell Mike had brain surgery, can't you? The way he adds, you know, twenty five times four is a hundred and eighty. I think they took more than a tumor out. I think they got some of his brain. I'm teasing it. Everybody gets mad at me when I pick on Mike for that. Second Kings chapter five. I'm going to read the first five first seven verses, and I'm not going to get through the message tonight. It's amazing to me. how just a story in the Old Testament that God has put in there preserved for us, of course all under inspiration, but How that simple little story is so full of scriptural principles and things that you reveal to us about God and what he's like and how he works. It's amazing. We could do a whole series just on this one story here. So I'm just gonna touch on one thought tonight. And um I hope it'll be a help to us. Look at verse one with me if you would, Second Kings five. Now Naaman, captain of the hosts of the king of Syria, was a great man with his master and honorable because by him the Lord had given deliverance unto Syria. He was also a mighty man in valor, but he was a leper. And the Syrians had gone out by companies and had brought away captive out of the land of Israel a little maid, and she waited on Naaman's wife. And she said unto her mistress, Would God that my Lord were with the prophet that is in Samaria, for he would recover him of his leprosy. And one went in and told his lord, saying, Thus and thus saith the maid that is of the land of Israel. And the king of Syria said, Go to, go, and I will send a letter unto the king of Syria of Israel. And as he departed and took with him ten talents of silver, and six thousand pieces of gold and ten changes of raiment, And he brought the letter to the king of Israel, saying, Now, when this letter is come unto thee, behold, I have therewith sent Naaman, my servant, to thee, that thou mayest recover him of his leprosy And it came to pass when the king of Israel had read the letter that he rent his clothes. That means he tore them, he didn't rent them out for income. He that was for Mike. That helps make sure Mike Understood. He rent his clothes and said, I am God. He said, Am I God? To kill and to make alive that this man does send unto me to recover a man of his leprosy? Wherefore consider I pray you, and see how he seeketh a quarrel against me Originally I wanted to look tonight at this little maid. And Lord will and next Sunday night we will. And uh but I want to just kind of give the introduction and set it up this evening. So let's pray. Father, please speak our hearts now as we look in your word. God again it just is Blessing to me to read these stories and study them and find so much truth here and so much that you have given to reveal to us about yourself and about life. Help me now to make application. I pray your Holy Spirit would make take these verses and make application in our lives as you know we have have need of. I yield myself to you again, Lord. I present my body anew. Fill me with your spirit, I pray. And speak through me in Jesus' name. Amen. I'm afraid too often we imagine that our happiness or our unhappiness is dependent upon outward circumstances. In other words, we get this idea, and we're probably all guilty of it, we get this idea that if, boy, if only I had that house If I could live in that house, boy, that would be great. Then I would be happy. Boy, if only I could drive that car. If only I had that job. If only my income had one more zero behind it. If only this and if only that. And we get this idea. We imagine that if somehow these outward circumstances We're just a little different. We're just a little bit more in our favor, boy, then we would be happy In reality, we find that genuine happiness, real, and by happiness, I'm talking about fulfillment in life. A satisfaction down inside your heart, a fulfillment there. How many people you know what I'm talking about? Are you with me on here? That deep-seated, not just a laughing at a joke type thing, or I'm at the amusement park happiness. I'm talking about a heartfelt. Fulfillment in my life. We find that that genuine fulfillment and that happiness in life depends very little, if at all, on our outward circumstances. True fulfillment in life, to have a sense of purpose, a sense of fulfillment and joy in my heart, is not dependent upon what side house I live in. It's not dependent upon the number of digits in my income. It's not even dependent upon my health, how healthy I am. But rather, happiness, as we're dealing with it here, is not something that we pursue, but rather it is the product. Of pursuing something. It is a it is a byproduct. This is what I'm trying to say. This contentment, this joy, this fulfillment is the result or the product of living a life of faith in God, living a life in of submission to God. And then as that is my pursuit, pursuing to be submissive to God, obedient and trusting Him, then I find, as a result of that, I find happiness. I find fulfillment in my life. It's a byproduct of a life we live. It brings calm to our heart It brings confusion. It brings calm in the midst of confusion and chaos. God, if we look at this story here, and I'm leading up to something. God can take events that at the time seemed completely unrelated. Now you gotta hang in here with me right now. Is everybody with me? Everybody out there? Okay Now think about this statement. God can take events that at the time seem completely unrelated. This thing happens, this thing happens. It seems like they have nothing in common. They're completely unrelated. Yet, in time, God can bring both of them together in such a way. That he produces incredible blessings and affects so many people in so many great ways Now I'm thinking of several illustrations, but I want to stick to this. Probably the best illustration is the passage we have right here, this story of Naaman and this little maid. Now think about it. We're introduced in verse 1 to this captain of the Syrian army named Naaman. And tonight we're going to look at him. So you have this man, captain of the Syrian army, and he has leprosy. On the other hand, verse 2, you have a little maid. We don't know her name We don't know anything about her. We don't know anything about her family. We don't know anything about her background, other than she's a little Jewish maid who was taken captive in the Syrian raid on Israel. What do those two things have in common? What in the world do they how in the world are those two events related whatsoever? How long his name had leprosy? We don't know Who is this girl? What is her background? What is she the a child of a priest? What is she? We don't know But those two individual, apparently unrelated events, God brings them together in such a way that some phenomenal things happen. I don't know what's going on in your life necessarily. But I'm telling you this: the events that take place in our life, if we will wait on God, If we will trust him, we will be amazed. I'm convinced of this. We will be amazed How that God can take these seemingly chaotic events happening in our life, and if we will trust him, if we will obey him, if we will just exercise Faith in him and wait on him a little bit. God can bring them things together and do some great things. The Bible speaks repeatedly. Wait on the Lord. Wait on the Lord Wait on the Lord. Wait on the Lord. Fact of the matter is you don't know and I don't know what God's doing. We just don't know that. God's doing things. I guarantee. I'm telling you, I was talking this morning in Sunday school and the deacon trustees, some things. God's doing some things in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. God's doing some things. And we don't see how this all works out. Why did this happen? Boy how what's this? Why would this mean why would God let me be taken captive? Why why would I be why would I be bought by the A captain of the army's wife to be her maid. What's the purpose of that? Naaman says, Why in the world would I have leprosy? And who in the world's this little girl? And God brings it all together And does some amazing things. I'm telling you, our God's a great God. And we read these stories, and it's amazing to me as we see how God works. And then we take that and we apply it to our lives, and you know what it does? It puts anticipation in our heart. God is doing something. God is working. God has a plan. I want us to notice this man Naaman, and that's all we're going to do this evening. I would like to say to you that you'll be pleasantly surprised, but I doubt that's going to happen, but we'll try. I want to notice this man, Naaman, a great man. Look at verse 1 again. Now Naaman, captain of the hosts of the king of Syria, was a what? He is a great man. That's God's estimation. It's not what somebody is saying about him. This is what the the record of him, God's description of him Now Naaman, the captain of the king of the Syria, the host of the king of Assyria, was a great man with his master and honorable. Because by him the Lord had given deliverance unto Syria. And he was also a mighty man in valor. But he was a leper. Here he is, Naaman, the general in chief of the Syrian armies. You cannot have There was nobody had higher authority than Naaman in the army other than the king. He outranked everybody. He was the he was the commander-in-chief, the general-in-chief. He was an advisor to the king of Syria, whose name was Ben-Hadad. And I want us to notice several things about him. Number one, I put this down about Naaman. He was a very courageous man. He was a very courageous man. Look what it says here. Captain Lord's host, honorable. He also was a mighty man in valor. In other words, he was a great warrior. Under his leadership, the Syrian armies were conquering other nations all around. The Bible says through him the Lord delivered Syria. And when Naaman was in charge of a battle When Naaman was in charge of a campaign against another army, they were confident they were going to win. This guy was courageous, he was battle smart, he knew how to defeat the enemy. In fact, Jewish tradition says, now we have no way of knowing this, and we have nothing to go on other than Jewish tradition, but it sounds good to me. Jewish tradition says that Naaman was actually the guy. Remember the story when Ahab was killed, that a soldier drew a bow at venture, I think is the term the Bible uses. and just launched it into the armies of Israel, and it hits King Ahab in fulfillment of God's prophecy, and Ahab is killed. Jewish tradition says that was Naaman. The guy that did that. So he's a mighty man of valor. Now picture in your mind what a mighty man of valor is like. Obviously very strong, right? I see very few weak generals and commanders in chief. Very confident. He's got intelligence. He knows how to think things through. He's able to assess a situation and come to the proper response. I mean, he's he's not a dummy He's a courageous man. He is, the Bible tells us, a highly honored man. And by that we understand to mean he was very popular in his country. The entire nation, as far as they were concerned, Naaman was their hero. They uh they uh they loved him, they honored him. But when Naaman walked into a room People paid attention. When Naaman would step up behind the podium, people listened. He was an honorable man. The Bible also implies, now this is my conclusion. But I believe he was a very wealthy man. You find here he offers gifts. Now some of these were from the king, but if you'll stop and think about the gifts that King Ben-Hadad offers to the king of Israel if he will make Naaman well, that tells me they have compensated Naaman very well for his services. I believe he was a very wealthy man. He was a hero in his country. We know that for a fact. And therefore, no doubt he was compensated for it. Now I would like to just throw out something right here. My opinion is, my humble opinion is, that our veterans of our military should be compensated far greater than what they are. I think it's sad. I think it's sad when men and women put their lives on the line in foreign country so that you can I be s you and I can be safe and be at peace in our country and they come back home and have to go to some of these Medical places that are just pitiful. Now, some are good, but it's a shame. And we have men and women in Congress who are absolutely milking this country. And then send these young men and women off to war and come back and they barely get by. Now that's my opinion, all right. Anybody agree with that at all? But not so with Naaman. He was compensated very well. The country understood his value to them as a country, and they reimbursed him for that, and uh as justly so I put down number four about Naaman. He was a very good-looking man, I believe. This is implied, first of all, in his name. The name Naaman means pleasant or handsome. And just to throw this out, my parents thought about naming me that name, but they Name Midenus, which means God of wine, so I'm not exactly sure of the significance of that But his name means pleasant and handsome and apparently he was a very attractive man. Um in not just his physical appearance, I don't believe, but in studying him, I believe he was very attractive in his personality. And if we're very honest with you, an attractive personality will do you and I far more good than an attractive physique will. Now you say, where in the world did he come up that he had an attractive personality? I will grant you, Naaman was a very proud man. And we're going to see that in a little in a neck in another message. He was a very proud man, and he was a very demanding man. But stop and think about the position he held. If he was going to command armies If he was going to lead armies to conquer the enemies of Syria, he would have to be a demanding man. Would you agree with that? You're not going to be a wimp and conquer other armies. You're not going to be a pushover, you're not going to be a softie and be able to lead soldiers into battle and give their lives in defense of their country. So he had to be demanding. His position required that And no doubt that very easily would spill over into perhaps personal life and various other areas. So he's a very proud man, no doubt, and very demanding man. And we pick that up If you would notice in verse number, look with me if you would in verse 11. This is when he shows up in Israel and he confronts he confronts Elisha But may uh let's look at 10. And Elisha sent a messenger unto him. Elisha didn't even go out and see him, and we'll go get this in depth later on. Go and wash in the Jordan seven times. And thy flesh shall come again to thee, and thou shalt be clean. But Naaman was what? Wroth! And went away. This wasn't what he thought. Man, back in Syria, he's treated with respect. People got up when he walked in. When Naaman spoke, when Naaman made a request Man, they were right there to take care of it. He shows up at Elisha, and Elisha's God is not man, but God. And so Elisha doesn't even go out and see it. Sends a mess out, alright, go washing the Jordan. Boy, that's not what Naaman's used to And so he responds, he gets angry, and he responds in uh in a uh ungracious way. He says, Behold, I thought he will surely come out to me and stand. I mean that's what he's used to And call in the name of the Lord his God and strike his hand over the place and recover his lever. He had it all anticipated how God was going to do this. Are not Arba and Farpar rivers in Damascus better than all the waters of Israel? Now not wash in them and be clean? So he turned and went away in a what? So he had his issues We'll touch on them, but there's another side of Naaman I see here that tells me that was probably not Characteristic of him. Because think about it. He has a little Jewish maid. The Syrians hated the Jews. They had just conquered them. They bought her as a slave. They bought her. Like property. And she says, oh, that my uh what does she say? Look at verse 2. And she says verse 3, Oh would God my Lord were with the prophet that is in Samaria, for he'd recover him of his leprosy. And Naaman is pleasant enough to listen to the little girl, Captain of the Army. People bow in his presence. But he listens to this little girl that says something, catches his attention. That tells me something about him. Later on, come over to verse number 13. This is after he got all mad at Elisha. Verse 13. And his servants came near and spake unto him, saying, My father, if the prophet had bid thee do some great thing, wouldest thou not have done it? How much rather than what uh when he saith to thee, wash and be clean. What do you do? Tell him to shut up. You don't know what you're talking about. Did he say that? No, look what he says. Then he went down and dipped himself seven times He listened to his servants. So there's something about Naaman here. He's not just some hard, unguilding tyrant. He listens to a little maiden. He listens to his servants' suggestions. He is open to advice from people who are not his peers, people who are his inferior subordinates Yet he listens to them and he takes their advice. So the more at first I didn't like Naaman. When I first studied them, I thought this guy's arrogant, he's in a rage, he's just losing it. But the more I got looking at him, I thought, wait a minute, there's a side to him here. That's admirable. That's attractive Hey, and it would do us all well to listen to folks sometimes. We think they don't know what they're talking to about. Sometimes it'd be good to listen to them. Amen? Sometimes I just listen to him. And so I see Naaman as an attractive man. Proud? Demanding in some ways, yes. But I think he's personable, he's reasonable, and he listens. So here's the picture we have of this guy. He's very courageous, sharp, he's intelligent, confident, very honored in his country. No doubt a very wealthy man. He could pretty much no doubt purchase whatever he would want to that was available at that time. Apparently a very attractive man, both physically and I believe in his personality. Now come and look at our verse, and this is our message, and this is how it ends. But I circled in verse number one, he was also a mighty man of valor, but I circled that word, but. That changes everything. I tried to build up in your mind and my mind a picture of Naaman. Almost, in some ways, the ideal man succeeded in every area of life, confident, leader, courageous But there's something wrong. But he was a what? Leper A great study would be a study of that word but in the Bible So many times in the Bible, that word but is followed either by great blessing. Or great curse. Sometimes you'll find people in the Bible in hopeless situations Hopeless circumstances. And then the Bible will say something like this. But God. And God steps in and changes everything. Here you have a situation that is ideal. Strong, leader, successful, wealthy, honored, popular, attractive. But he has leprosy. Leprosy. He Naaman had everything going for him. Haman had succeeded in every area of his life, but one thing he had no control over. His leprosy, and it marred everything. I would venture to say he would have given up all his popularity to be rid of leprosy. I would venture to say he would have given up all his wealth to be delivered of leprosy. We don't understand the devastation of what leprosy was. In that day. God has blessed us in a day when we don't have to deal with that. But leprosy was the most cursed, the most dreaded the most life-destroying disease that could happen to a man. And the Bible scholars suggest that he had what was called white leprosy, the most devastating leprosy of all types of leprosy Incurable. There wasn't a man in Syria. There wasn't a doctor on the planet that could deliver Naaman from this leprosy. By the way, there wasn't any false God in Syria that would be able to do a thing for him He could pray to his false gods. He could pray to the Syrian idols all he wanted. He was dying of leprosy. A horrible death. There's nothing he could do about it He could defeat the armies of the world, but he could not deliver himself from leprosy. His home, no doubt, was palatial. But I believe he'd give it all up to be delivered from leprosy. His popularity was unparalleled. But you know the sad thing was? As a leper, he could not greet the people who honored him so much He'd have to stay away from it. He couldn't shake their hands. He couldn't receive their hugs. He couldn't interact with them in a personal, physical way. In any way, he would have spread the disease But he was a leprosy, a leper. How did he get it? Study this and study this and study this. And the answer is: we have no idea Don't know how he got it. Did he was he careless, maybe? Lepers were c uh not really common, but they were quarantined in that day, and every country had their Concentration camps, I guess you would say, of lepers. Had he gotten careless? Maybe there was someone that was a leper and he wasn't careful and he didn't follow protocol and somehow he got within the contagious area and picked it up. We don't know. I know a lot of people mess their lives up because they're not careful. It's very possible. Was it something that just happened that there was no way he could have avoided it? We don't know. But the successful, powerful, intelligent, good-looking, popular man had the most dread disease a person could have: leprosy. Don't know how he got it, but there's nothing he can do now. But what a man. But this but has haunted mankind from the fall Adam and Eve lived in the perfect environment. The Garden of Eden, sinless, uncursed. But Eve ate from the forbidden fruit, and it was gone. Haunted mankind Man does all he can to put his life in place. This world, they fight and fight and scratch and kick and save. And work their fingers to the bone to succeed and to become something in this world and in this life. But God can change it all like that. God can take it all away like that. What I see In the story of Naaman is the fact that you and I are totally dependent upon God. You can try and convince me of how independent you are. You can try and convince me you're a self-made man. You can try and convince me that you don't need nobody, but I'm here to tell you you need God. Because that word, but can apply to your life and my life in a moment's notice. But he was a leper. How foolish! How foolish for us to think that we can live our lives independent of God. In the end, it's God that calls the shots. And you and I would be wise to humbly submit ourselves to the Lord. To trust him and obey him. And when he brings things in our lives that we have no control over, trust him and obey him. And let God have his way. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask that you would help us to understand how fragile our life is. God help us to understand how dependent we are upon you. And God help us as a church and as individuals to trust you and obey you and to wait on you, understanding that you, God, are God. And we need you.