I'll give you a few thoughts. We're preaching through the book of James. And there's one little statement here I want us to look at. Let me get everything turned on here. While you're finding James chapter five, I'll just uh ask the ushers if you would at the end of the service, we have a stack of Bible time flyers back here. And uh we need to get them out. After the next few days, they're really not that effective. And so the ushers would be at the back and stand there, folks. If you can take a handful of these or a few Kind of get them out, last-minute invitations. Um, we really want to get these flyers out. They're on the desk, the welcome desk in the lobby So if the ushers would at the end grab them, stand in the back as folks go out, we encourage you to take those. If you would notice with me, James chapter five Verse number 17. I just want to read the first phrase there. I want to give you a few real quick thoughts here, and we want to get out in plenty of time so that we have time to get ready for this week. Notice verse 17. The first part it says, Elias Was a man subject to like passions as we are? Then it goes on and says he prayed earnestly that it might not rain, and it rained not on the earth by the space of three years And he prayed again, and heaven gave rain, and the earth brought forth her fruit. So I want us to look at that one phrase. Elias was a man subject to like passions as we are I'm entitled My Thoughts Tonight, Just an Ordinary Man. Just an Ordinary Man. Let me pray and give you these as quickly as I can. Father. We thank you for the testimonies, these three men that are going to be with us this week. I ask you to stir us and help us to get behind them, encourage them and pray for them, support them. Lord, we anticipate if you tarry In the coming years you use them in great ways, maybe around the world. And so we're very grateful for the small part we can have in their ministry this summer. Bless our us and prepare our hearts for a few thoughts here as we give ourselves the next seven days to work diligently for you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Book of James is coming to a close. If you notice there where we're at on this, there's only a few verses left in this chapter, actually in the book And the emphasis, I think, is interesting is on prayer. He's emphasizing the greatness of prayer. He makes some fantastic statements For instance, verse number sixteen, the last part. Fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. How many people agree with me? That's an encouraging verse. That's a tremendous verse. That challenges me to pray. and to uh uh be a righteous man. Then he goes on and he s makes other statements how Elias, it's Elijah is who he's referring to. The word Elias there is simply the uh New Testament version of the word um Elijah And uh the Greek of course spelled a little differently and so it comes across as Easter. But anyway, he uses Elijah as an example of how the effectual fervent prayers of a righteous man avail much. He talks about him praying and the rain not coming. Then again praying again a few years later and God sends the rain And he's using him as an example. Elijah was a tremendous man. He was a fascinating man. We preached a number of years ago through the life of Elijah. And I fell in love with this guy. I admire Elijah. He's one of my favorite prophets. all through the Bible. He's one of the boldest prophets in all the Bible. Uh he stood fearlessly against the pagans. God used Eli Elijah to uh turn back uh Uh Israel was in a si a situation very similar maybe to what America is, and God used Elijah to stand boldly for God to preach against the false doctrine of the pro uh the pagans And uh God turned that thing around and brought a bit of a revival to uh Israel and God used Elijah for that. He saw, as we noticed here, powerful answers to prayer He exercised tremendous faith in God as God provided it with for him in a miraculous way through ravens and other means. Um and uh he left the world in spectacular fashion, remember The fiery chariots came down and took Elijah away and and caught him up and um uh and he appears out of nowhere. You're kind of reading through the Old Testament, all of a sudden, boom, Elijah's on the scene, an adult, a prophet He does these spectacular things. God does amazing things. And then boom, God takes them away. Now here's the danger, and this is what I'm getting at. This is the message this morning. And this is what I think Ela uh God is telling us through the James here in verse seventeen there's a real danger of thinking that unless I'm some sort of super Christian like Elijah is, then I can't see great powerful answers to my prayer. And James is reminding us here, look at this Elijah Elijah, Elias, was a man subject to like passions as we are And he's cautioning us here, I believe, to not get this idea that I have to be some spectacular superhuman Christian. for God to do, uh, answer my prayers in an amazing way. Elijah was not from the planet Krypton. Alright? He wasn't Superman. And James is telling us here, he says, listen, he's a guy that dealt with issues, the same issues you and I deal with. He this is another way of saying it. You ever hear anybody say this? He put his pants on one leg at a time. No we mean by that he's no different than any of us. Dr. Pat Creed, I thought of him when I was studying this. Dr. Pat Creed says, hey, we're all the same. Ever here remember him saying that? Oh, we're all the same. Made of the same stuff. We're all made of the same stuff And that's what he's telling us. Listen, there's some fantastic promises to prayer here. And don't get the idea. He's going to use Elijah as an example, and he's saying, now wait a minute, don't get the idea That Elijah is something you and I are. God did amazing things to him. Elijah was an ordinary man, but he had faith in an extraordinary God. And that's what you and I need. We're just normal, ordinary people. But we have an amazing, amazing God. We have a God that is all-powerful, that can use somebody that's really nobody to you amazing things. And so I found tremendous encouragement here. An ordinary man with faith in an extraordinary God. Um now I'm going to give you a couple thoughts, and I really want us to get out here real quick First one is this. The thing I noticed about Elijah here is that he was an individual. He was an individual. Elijah Elias was a man. Now, I get the idea that he was an individual in his own right from 1 Kings chapter 1. 2 Kings, if you would turn back there. Keep your place in James here, and go to 1 Kings. I'm sorry, 2 Kings. We're gonna be in 1 Kings also. And I want us to notice an interesting statement. About Elijah here that tells me he was just kind of his own unique guy. 1 Kings chapter 1 and verse number 8. Tells us a little bit about this guy, Elijah. 1 Kings, or I'm sorry, 2 Kings chapter 1, verse 8. I'm bamboozled here a little bit. Second Kings chapter one verse eight. Everybody there? Second Kings is right after First Kings. Notice it says, They answered him, speaking about Elijah. He was a hairy man, and girt with a girdle of leather about his loins. And he said, it is Elijah the Tishvite. He was a hairy man girt with girdle of leather about his loins. You know what that tells me? This guy was his own man. He was a little different. In other words, he wasn't trying to be like anybody else. We must not get the idea, and again, this is the caution here We must not get the idea that if I'm going to be if I'm going to see God use me, if God is going to use me, if God is going to answer my prayers in a significant way, we must not think that I have to be like some other great Christian. Elijah was just his own unique self. He had his own unique characteristics, his own unique quirks. So we studied his life. I saw, at least from my perspective, I see a few things that definitely made him human I think he had a little bit of a short temper. I think he got irritable sometimes, irritated with things. Uh he wasn't trying to be like somebody before him He was just his own unique. Here's my point I'm trying to make. God uses individuals with their own unique personalities, with our own unique strengths and weaknesses, with our own unique gifts. God gives to each of us gifts, and none of the all those gifts are different. He doesn't give everybody the same gift. And so God uses individuals, unique people. Here's the point. God is wanting to use you. The way you are. Now I'm not talking about sins and disobedience. God needs to deal with that. Has to be a righteous man. But I don't need to be like some other Christian for God to use me in the way God used them. I've used this illustration before, but when I first got w I since God was calling me into the ministry. I was preaching all over Chattanooga, North Georgia, all over there. Any little chapel anything I had, I was we were preaching all over the place. Run the bus route Preaching in a uh in um uh the the mission down there, the Union Gospel mission every week, preaching in these chapels. God didn't even call me preaching, I was gonna be a school teacher And out soul went and doing all this, and I kind of sense that God had something for me other than teaching elementary kids, first graders I thought it's something else. And I got thinking, you know, if I'm if God's called me to be a preacher, then I want God to use me. I want his power. I want to make a difference And I got this idea that I needed to be like these other preachers that God was using in great ways. Of course, Dr. Lee Robertson. Very dignified man, leadership all about him. All he wore was double-breasted. I thought, well, I've got to get double-breasted suits if I'm going to be used of God. And I gotta speak like Dr. Robertson was, have faith in God, you know, I got tried to incorporate all his characteristics into my life. And then of course back then Dr. Um uh Jack Hiles was huge. He was preaching all over The power of God was on that man. And he had a unique little uh uh characteristic about himself. He coughed a lot later in his life. He had a condition in his throat. He would cough while he's preaching. He'd pray to a way, uh, and then he'd preach and praise away and have this gravelly voice saying, I thought, well, if you want to power God, you've got to cough You know? And so I'd cough and somebody'd say, You alright? You know. And uh and then Bob Jones Sr. , you know, just had that southern draw and had these real down homey stories and I thought I've got a f I'm from Philly, but I gotta have a southern draw if I'm gonna And I heard all these other preachers would tell how poor they were when they were kids. They were so poor. And I thought we weren't poor, we were pretty well off where I grew up in my home. We had pools and indoor pools and, you know, all the not indoor, in ground pools and all this stuff. I thought I'm not even qualified to preach. I wasn't poor as a kid And God taught me something. God would use me the way he made me. I didn't have to be like somebody else. They were God they were used to God in tremendous ways, but they weren't like somebody before them. They weren't trying to emulate somebody before they were just themselves. And I thought of Bible time this week, and I've said this often, we have kids, the teachers here, you have such a vital role in the spiritual life of these children coming in. You're investing three hours every day for five days. Some of these kids are going to hear from you the truths of God. They're not going to hear anywhere else. And we think, and we often say, and I've said this many times over years, and we think sometimes, hey, the next, the next uh Billy Sunday, maybe sitting in this class. The next Charles Spurgeon, D. L. Moody may be sitting in your class. And I don't agree with that at all. The next D. Al Moody is not sitting in that class, but there are kids in that class that, if they'll get saved, they can be filled with the same Holy Spirit that D. Al Moody was filled with. They don't have to be like these other preachers. All they need is the presence and power of God in their life. And so Elijah wasn't trying to be like Moses. He wasn't trying to be like David. He wasn't trying to be like Noah Elijah was just Elijah, fully yielded and surrendered to God with all his hairiness and girdle belts and whatever it was he was wearing. He was just who he was. But God's hand was on him. He had faith in a powerful, powerful God. And when he prayed, God did amazing things. So he was an individual. He was an individual. I believe the secret, if there is, if you want to call that, the secret to be a great Christian is simply this. Having faith in God and understanding that anything that God does through me is simply his grace. I thought it was interesting. One of the young men that gave testimony, I forget which one it was, that They made this, they quoted a verse I had for my message tonight. It's from 1 Corinthians chapter 15, verse 10. It says this, by the grace of God I am what I am And listen, it's not because this person is really gifted or this person has that characteristic or this person has this idiosyncrasy. That's not what makes them great in the kingdom of God. It's the grace of God that makes us what we are. And so whoever you are, wherever you're at, don't think I'm gonna be like this, I'm not tall, but I'm not big enough, I'm not gonna what these guys are, they're just ordinary individual people who put their faith in a God that is powerful and that is very, very gracious. And we pray, we understand that, and we get a hold of these principles and this teaching in Scripture that God will use ordinary people and God will answer the prayers of ordinary people who trust him completely. It could transform our prayer lives. We could see some great things. So I find great encouragement. Elijah was an individual. He wasn't trying to be like somebody else Simply meant. Let me say this. We've had some tremendous do you agree with me over the last twenty-three years we were there? We've had some great preachers come through here. I mean some great men of God that I admire tremendously And as a young preacher, when I first came, a young pastor, I was just in awe of these fellows. We had um uh um uh Hugh uh um Uh who uh the first guy came through. Oh Hugh. Uh what's his name? Man, my mind just went blank. Do you remember how and he wrote the little book? We had him in the first Um this preacher came in and I just admired him. My mind just went blank, but I admired him so much and he would uh come down to temple and preach and God was using him And I'd sit there and I told we had lunch together and I said, um, uh Brother Hughes, uh, uh uh I'll tell you Wednesday his name. But um No, one cli uh Clyde Box is another one of them, but it was from Hugh Piles is who it was. And I admired that man so much. And I just thought he was like the second coming of Moses or something, you know. And uh we had lunch and I said, Brother Piles, if you'll tell you just tell me what to do to be a good pastor and I'll do whatever you say. And I got his book and read it And he was so gracious to God. You know what? After a while we kind of became friends and we'd sit together bound to big conferences and went, Hey Brother Dennis, come on over and sit with us. And he's with the Lord many years now. And I was just in awe of this man. You know what? After I spent some time, you know what I found out? He puts his pants on the same way I do. He was just an ordinary guy. He was just a neat great Now I'm not trying to diminish a tremendous man, but he was just a man And I realized, you know, it's the presence of God in the life, it's not the greatness of the man. And what a blessing it was to get that. And then uh Clyde Box comes in, Dr. Pat Creed, I just have every time he comes I have more respect for that man. than ever before. But you know what I found out? He's got some little idiosyncrasies. And uh I can tell you some. I'll wait some some other time. But um But isn't that a great encouragement? But I don't have to be some Superman Christian. I'd just be Dennis Leatherman. Get my heart right, get the sin out And just humbly put my faith and trust in God, and God can do great things. Here's my last thought. I want to leave it with you, and we've got to quit. Elijah, not only was he an individual, but Elijah was not perfect. That little phrase, he was subject to like passions, even as we are. Elijah, like all of us, was imperfect. Elijah, like all of us, was just a human being. In Acts chapter 14, again, I wanted to go spend some time on this, but we won't. But Acts chapter 14, you had Paul and Barnabas, and God had done some amazing things to them. I think it's where the uh uh they got god uh they they did some miracle. But anyway the people came they began worshiping Paul and uh uh that uh Barnabas as uh gods And he said, and Paul says to them, No, no, no, don't do this. They brought sacrifices to them. They were just amazed at what God was doing for them. And they started exalting them as if they were the gods come down. Paul said, Don't do that. And he makes this statement He says, we are men of like passions just as you are. Paul recognized, hey, listen, we're not perfect. We're just human beings. God's the one doing the great things here. And that's the way it was with Elijah. If you would turn now to 1 Kings. Chapter 19, I want to show you a few things about Elijah that tell us he was imperfect. He was not a super Christian. In the sense we think of it, but he was just an ordinary fellow of like passions, had the same temptations, struggled with the same issues that you and I do. 1 Kings chapter 19. Look with me if you would at verse 3 and 4. But he himself, as Elijah, went a day's journey into the wilderness, and came down and sat under a juniper tree, and requested for himself that he might what? Die. And said, It is enough now, O Lord, take away my life, for I am not better than my father's. And he goes down through that. What's the story here? Elijah had just done amazing. God had done amazing through Elijah. He had confronted the false prophets. He said, the God that answers by fire, let him be God. The pagans, they're going on, carrying on, of course there's no fire. Elijah prays, and a fire God falls on the place. Man, how many people would love to have been there to see that? I'll tell you this, you might want to take that back because it was pretty gruesome. He'd cut the heads off of 400 false prophets. That's pretty brutal. But uh he calls down fire. And you think, man, what an amazing man. This guy is perfect. This guy is super human Christian. The next chapter, guess what he's doing? He's running from a woman. Jezebel says, oh yeah, I'm going to do you what you did to my prophets. And rather than standing up, I'll pray down fire on you, turns and turns tail and runs. Now he's up here and he wants to die. I put down this, he's imperfect. He struggled with insecurities He got scared. He got scared to the point where he didn't want to live anymore. He got his eyes off of him, off the Lord, and onto himself. And guess what? We are all prone to do the same thing. Anybody here honest enough to acknowledge the fact you've ever had a pity party? Yeah, some of us. Uh I ha I wish I could tell you your pastor has never had pity parties But I have. Oh, woe is me. The whole church hates me. Everybody Nobody loves me. Everybody hates me. I'm gonna go eat worms. Elijah struggled with the same thing. And God used him in a tremendous way. Not only did he have struggle with insecurity, look over at verse 10. He also had an inflated view of himself. And I've got a sneaking suspicion those two aspects are related to each other. I think we think too highly of ourselves produces ultimately insecurity. Look at verse ten. And he said, Elijah, I have been very jealous for the Lord God of hosts, for the children of Israel have forsaken thy covenant and thrown down thine orders and slain thy prophets with a sword. And I, even I only am left, and they seek my life to take it away. Who's he talking about here? About himself a lot He had inflated you. I'm the one. I'm the only one living for God. Of course, God had to correct them. There were 7,000 others that hadn't bowed the knee. But he forgot about that. He didn't see that. He was focused on himself. What was he doing? He was comparing himself to others. Other people aren't living for God. I am. These other people aren't doing right. I am. Self-righteous. Inflated view of himself. Let me ask you a question. Now, since we're in confessing mode, how many folks here ever thought too highly of yourself? How many people ever you might not have said it but you thought this I deserve better than this. Huh? I deserve to be treated better than this. Oh what is what who's that? How come they get away with that? And look at me, I'm living for God and that Be careful. You say I deserve betterness. You know what we really deserve? We deserve to be burning in hell. We don't deserve the least of his mercies. And here you have Elijah. And he's feeling sorry for himself. And he's thinking that he's so much better than everybody else, and you say, what in the world? This guy isn't much different than me. Yeah, that's the point. He's just an ordinary guy. He's an individual person trying to be like somebody else, but he has imperfections, yet God used them in great ways. Now don't misunderstand. He doesn't let them get away with this. God deals with him. God confronts him and corrects him and gets him right. But the point is this God will do great things through people who understand it is God doing the great things. It's not me being great. Does that make sense? I say this all the time. God has blessed Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. But I always add this on, not because we're wonderful, but because He's wonderful. You say, how can God use me? Just an ordinary guy, just an ordinary gal, how could God use me in any significant way? I'm telling you, that is all the kind of people God uses. You boil it down to just ordinary people, men of like passions as us. And God answered amazing prayers. And he's given us these amazing truths here. And so James is using Elijah as an example of what prayer can accomplish. And we're going to look at that, Lord will, next Wednesday night and or next Sunday night and uh go on here. But he's reminding us. Elijah was just an ordinary man that God used. And if we'll trust God, God can use us in ways we have no idea. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask that you would help us this coming week to realize not to think too highly of ourselves, not to think too lowly of ourselves, but understand, Lord. We're just what we are. We don't need to be like anybody else, and in spite of our imperfections, you God can still do some great things if we'll just trust you and pray And follow your instructions. How many this evening would say, preacher, I understand that I'm just an ordinary, no super Christian I believe in God. I want to trust God that He can and will use me however He sees fit in a way that He gets all the glory. Is there any like that tonight, Preacher? I want God to use me Amen. Of course, this is a big week for us. Gospel's going to be going out all day long, morning and evening to a lot of people. And so let's pray tonight that God's presence will be here in a mighty way. Of course we'd love to have huge crowds, and if God sends them, praise the Lord. But however many come, let's just give ourselves in faith. to the Lord to use us to impact this next generation for Christ. And let's really pray. If you happen to be here tonight and you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven, You're on your way to heaven. I'm here to tell you, God can and will save us. You say, but I'm just a sinner. That's exactly who he saves. Maybe there's someone here tonight say, preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I certainly don't want to go to hell. I'd like for God to help me settle that in my heart, that I'm saved. And the and safe in the arms of Jesus. Anybody like that this evening, preach or pray for me. I'm not sure I'm saved. I'm concerned about that. And I need the Lord to help me Father in heaven, I pray you bless our invitation time now. I pray we could finish out the Lord's day and go into this big week, maybe on our knees at an altar, asking for your power and your presence You to do a great work, save souls and change lives this week. We ask this in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer, play a few verses of invitation. And how about it this evening? Let's just uh start this week of Bible time, just God's people at the altar before the Lord, begging and Pleading with him to send his power. Maybe the teachers, the Bible story, missionary story teacher want to get together, just pray that God's presence and be in your class. The power of God be upon that thing. Maybe others, you work, you're not able to be involved in for whatever reason. But tonight you'd want to join with us and pray together that God would send his power, that souls would be saved. We have two two teenagers down in the barn right now. One got saved last year, this very night. The year before that, his sister got saved this very night and their lives have been changed. As a result of that, their whole family's been baptized except for maybe a brother or two. And they're living for God. They're a witness. I'm telling you, only God can do that. That's not our skills or our abilities. It's God using just ordinary people to point people to Christ and see them trust Him and their lives change, their destiny changed from hell to heaven. But God has to do that. We're just ordinary people, we can't do that.