I want to thank Pastor for letting me for asking me to um to speak tonight. It's always just a privilege. I I can't even get around the fact that we're even here, um, let alone that he would ask me to uh preach. It's just an amazing honor. Proverbs chapter four. We're gonna read verses twenty-three through twenty-seven. Proverbs 4, verse 23 says, Keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. Put away from thee a forward mouth, and perverse lips put far from thee. Let thine eyes look right on, and let thine eyelids look straight before thee. Ponder the path of thy feet and let all thy ways be established. Turn not to the right hand nor to the left. Remove thy foot from evil. I'm going to pray and then I'm going to speak to you guys tonight on the subject of keeping our hearts. Keeping our hearts. Heavenly Father, I thank you for this day that you've given us I thank you for this church. Lord, I thank you for giving us your word. But it's just amazing, Lord, that um um That you put all this together and preserved it for us for all these years, Lord, and I'm thankful that we have the opportunity to see what it is you have for us in your word. Uh Lord, I ask that you would help me t tonight, Lord. I I I I want to be a blessing, Lord. I I don't want to uh say anything that would go against your word. Lord, I want to yield myself to you tonight, my will to your will, and Lord, I just ask that you would use this message tonight to challenge all of our hearts. And it's in Jesus' name. Amen. Verse 23 says, Keep your heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. If you read through Proverbs, no doubt there are many verses in the book of Proverbs that stick out. In Sunday school, we've been going over the book of Proverbs. Right now we're in chapter 3. There's quite a few verses that stick out there Verse 5 and 6 of Proverbs 3, I think, are some very famous verses. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart and lean not on thine own understanding and all thy ways. Acknowledge him and he shall direct thy paths. But as you read through Proverbs, I think there's a lot of verses that really stick out, and this is probably one of them. Verse 23, keep your heart, keep thine heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. And as I got to thinking about this, I thought, man, we have a lot of issues in life. Um if you're a person, raise your hand. Alright, keep your hand up. Everyone look around. They're raising their hand saying they have issues because people have issues. Okay. Um there's a lot of issues that go on in life. And um so I thought about that, and as I was thinking about that, I thought Well, he says, keep thine heart with all diligence. I think it's something that we ought to pay attention to, because every issue in life is going to be affected by the condition of our heart. I got to looking at this word keep. Keep thy heart with all diligence. The word keep can mean a couple different things. It can mean like you're taking ownership of something, like you're going to keep something as your own. It can also mean to protect or to guard. I thought like of a gatekeeper or a a storekeeper, if you will, someone that is watching over something. Sometimes it can mean both. You have a family and it's your family, but you're also going to protect your family. I thought of cases like that. And of course we look at the context of the sentence and we know what it is saying So when we see the word keep here, keep thy heart with all diligence, obviously it's something that is our own that we are supposed to protect. Keep thy heart, it means to protect, to watch over, if you will, or to keep on guard. And to do so with all diligence, this means it takes work. I think sometimes we get kind of laxed in the area of protecting our heart, protecting what comes into our heart through our eyes, through our ears, and and uh vice versa, how however you will apply that there. But it is something that is of the utmost importance. And I believe that what happens is i is maybe when we're younger We think, yes, I'm going to be careful, little eyes what I see, little feet where I go, and things like that. And then maybe we get a little older and we say we think, well, I've done a good job of protecting my heart So we get a little lax maybe. Maybe we might even think, well, I've I've lived the majority of my life and and it's time that um the younger generation they need to keep their heart. Well it the the the thing goes for everyone The command goes for everyone. We need to constantly be on guard. And if we're on guard a couple days a week, or even most of the time, but not constantly on guard to protect what comes into our heart. then our um defenses will fall. With all that being said, um we can clearly say the Lord is is seeing to is saying to us here to uh keep our heart, to protect our heart, and to do so with all diligence. This means it takes work. The question may come up of why. Why should we keep our hearts? What is the big deal? Why should we protect what comes into our heart through our eyes, through our ears? Um, through our various senses. I mean, aside from the fact that God said to do it, I think that should be enough. But why is it that keeping our hearts is such a big deal? Because out of it are the issues of life. There is a lot of issues that come up in life. There are a lot of choices we have to make. I'm only 27, and I feel like I've made a lot of choices. Right? And I have a whole lot more to make. And the condition that my heart is in spiritually is going to affect every single issue. You might think, well, what's the big deal? I'm a young person right now. I don't have that many decisions to make. Well, first of all, you do. But second of all, the condition you are putting your heart in, the way you are exercising your heart now, is going to affect even more decisions later on. Um when I was probably about 16 or 17 years old, um I started playing a sport. And I I love sports, I'm I'm for sports. I mean I think it's good to um stay fit and things like that. I'm not against sports. But what happened was is I had allowed my condition my heart conditioning to um be sidetracked from spiritual things. And I had decisions to make, issues that came up in life, and because my heart was not in the correct spiritual condition, those issues were affected. And um I I made I made I wouldn't say horrible choices, but I believe I went to a school that I should not have gone to, and there's another issue that comes up in life for a young person. And how your heart, it it the condition of your heart is going to affect those issues. So you see, it's very important what you allow to come in through your eyes, your ears, and get to your heart. Because the way your heart is, is the way you will pick. The way you will choose, if you will. And there's a lot of issues that come up in life. Um, like I mentioned the issue of of where to go to school as a young person. Um sometimes um pastor mentioned I uh I think that we have one of the greatest churches um in the world I know I'm kind of biased, but man, this place is awesome. But you know, sometimes things come up. Young people, you'll you'll you'll you'll grow up and you'll move away and you'll have to find a church somewhere. First of all, this is just my opinion, but I think you should find a church before you move. But um what kind of condition your heart is in is going to determine what kind of church you go to. What kind of condition your heart is in is going to uh affect the rest of your family when you get older And uh um and many of you you have children at home right now and you see the effects that you of of of your youth now. And a and may I just say that'll be even more magnified later on. Because kids are watching mom and dad in the in the choices they're making. You might think, well, I you know I'm I I'm not you know I don't have to protect my heart like I did with when I was a youth. But your youth are watching it, if if that makes sense. So you're still affecting your your life, but you're also affecting someone else's as well. Um I thought about this. Um a young lady might be looking um for a man to marry and she's a a young adult and she's looking at a man and her desire is to get someone that's just so attractive and I don't know what attractive is, but she's looking for someone who's attractive, and if that's what her heart is after, that might be what she gets. But if you have a young lady that says, you know what, I'm going to look for a man that loves God, I'm going to look for a man that is going to treat me right. And I'm going to look for a spouse that is going to serve God, stay in church, and uh work hard, provide for his family, then that's probably what she'll get as well. But what happened is that condition, heart, is what affected her choice in who she was looking for. You follow what I'm saying? And I'm just using this as an example. But every single issue Your heart is going to affect that issue. The condition of your heart is going to affect that issue. This is a very important thing. Family issues. Man, you you you you j we we have family issues. If you're part of a family, you might even be the issue, right? But we have issues. And the thing is this If our hearts are not conditioned right, then those issues that come up won't be handled correctly. Why why is it that siblings g don't get along and just hate each other? I know that I had brothers and we you know we we scrapped and we you know picked back and forth and that's fine But I'm talking about families that actually detest one another. It doesn't make sense to me. It's because their heart's not spiritually conditioned I think about uh fathers that don't get along with sons, uh daughters that don't get along with parents. Why? It's because their heart isn't spiritually conditioned right And this is such an important issue of guarding what comes in to our heart. And it takes diligence. We see that. It takes work. Someone that has no standards or convictions and just lets whatever come into their heart is someone that's asking for a disaster. And I think a lot of times what happens is is we rely on other people's standards and convictions rather than our own. What happens, I think, sometimes is this. Again, as a young person, we might say, Well, I'm just going to follow the rules and then when I get out on my own, I'll make my own rules. Well, that's dangerous. Because we're not keeping our heart, we're relying on someone else to protect our heart Uh uh maybe th there's parents that will say, you know what, I'll just send them to school and I'll let the school protect them and keep them. That's not really going to work Or you know, I'll let my s I'll let the kids' Sunday school teachers, they'll teach them and and and then they'll be able to keep them and and they'll be able to uh set up standards and things like that. That's not going to work either. What it is is this. What needs to happen is this We need to come up with our own standards based on convictions we based off of principles we find in the Word of God. So when the Word of God says something, we need to say, I'm going to claim this for me. And then that is how we are protecting our heart. One verse that always kind of helped me out was um I will set no wicked things before my eye. I always like, okay, mom and dad don't want me to go to the movies, but why? And now I understand when I find principles in the Word of God. And if we will read the Word of God, it's important that you read it. But then once you read it, you um claim these promises for your own, and then you set up standards, and that's how we keep our heart. Verse 24 says, put away from the a forward mouth. Put away from the a froward mouth. In perverse lips put far from the what it means to be forward, it means um to be blunt or to be rude. I think what he's talking about here is attitude. Now let me ex let me let me kind of try to explain this. My mind sometimes goes off on trails that I can't even follow, okay? But I think what he's saying here is this. Our attitude, whether towards something or towards someone else Is going to negatively impact our heart if we have a negative attitude. Someone who has a bitter attitude, no doubt, will end up having a bitter heart and then make choices accordingly. Again, I thought about this thing with family issues. We'll allow our attitudes, our bitter hearts, to affect not only ourselves, but our families. Put away from the a forward mouth. Sometimes we just need to watch what we say to one another. And I and I I don't remember when it was, but Pastor, I heard you say this once. Just because it's true doesn't mean we have to say it. And I think sometimes we are s we can be so hurtful to someone else Thinking that what we're doing is damaging that person, but what we're actually doing is creating a hard heart of ourselves. We're creating a bitter heart within ourselves. And then when issues come up, our heart's affected. And it hurts. The next verse I wanted to show you tonight was Verse 25. And flip to Colossians 3:2. And I'll just read verse 25. We already read it. It says, Let thine eyes look right on, and let thine eyelids look straight before thee. Secondly, um, in order to keep our heart, we not only do we need to just watch our attitude, but we need to focus on what is right. Colossians 3:2, it says, set your affections on things above and not on things of the earth. We need to look at what's right and dwell and focus on what is right. I understand that we live in a sinful world. And sometimes issues come up, sinful issues, and we have to deal with them, sure. But what is it that we're dwelling on? We ought to be dwelling on good things. Man, yeah, we live in a a sinful world, sure, but we're going to heaven. I mean, that's something to rejoice about. If we always dwell on the negative and sinful things, we won't have the joyful heart. Our heart's negatively affected. And we haven't been protecting our heart. If we allow these negative thoughts to come into our mind. I thought of Philippians 4. 8. Whatever things are lovely, pure, honest, of good report, I'm probably leaving some out. If there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think on these things. Sometimes we can stew over something that just irks us. And that doesn't do anything except for just create a hard heart within us. Yeah, sometimes issues come up, we gotta deal with them, but what is it that we're letting our minds dwell on? What is our affection set on? Sometimes I feel like some people's affection that they're set on, the thing they enjoy is dwelling on negative things. That's going to create a bitter heart. That's not protecting your heart by allowing your mind to think on these things. This one's a big one here. Verse 26. It says, ponder the path of thy feet and let all thy ways be established. Do you want to keep your heart? Do you want to guard your heart? What comes into it? Via any of the senses? What comes into it? Do you want to protect it? This is key. We need to think about what we're doing. Verse 26: Ponder the path of thy feet. I circled that word ponder. It means to think. Think long and hard on something. What we need to do, we need before we commit an action of any kind, we need to think about that action. Before we say something, we need to think about what we're going to say. Before we go to a place, we need to think about the place we're going. Before we listen to something on the radio, we need to think about what it is we're listening to. Before we watch something on TV, we need to think about what this thing is that we're watching. And I could go on and on, but you get the point We need to think before we do. Ponder the path of thy feet. And what else I think is interesting is He says, ponder the path. Sometimes the path we're going on is a path that is not guarding and keeping and protecting our heart. And ultimately it leads to, well, a heart that chooses the wrong decisions on issues, and then we have even more issues come up. We need to ponder the path of our feet. I heard a story I don't know whether this was true or not. It might just be an old legend, but there was a story of a of a young prince, and his father, the king, was about to die. The prince loved his dad, but he was kind of upset that he was going to die and everything. But at the same time, he was a little excited because he's like, hey, I'm about to be king. So anyway, excuse me, his dad um call the king calls him to the bedside and he says, I just have one last request for you before I die. And the the prince says, Yes, Dad, what is it? He said, when you wake up every morning, I want you to spend 30 minutes thinking before you do anything. And at first he's like, well, that's no big deal. I can spend 30 minutes thinking. So anyway, um the the king passed away, and then the first morning the prince got up, he's all excited because he's sad because his dad died, but now he's the king, he's the ruler. He's like, oh that's right, I'd spend 30 minutes thinking. And the first day he just thought about all the good times he was going to have. And the second day he thought, well, maybe these good times aren't going to be so good later. And the third day he thought, you know what, maybe I'm going about this the whole wrong way. And he ended up being a really good king because he didn't act on impulse and he thought about things before he did them. So let me challenge you before you do things, before you go places, before you um have friendships, before you um go to a uh a p work party before you go to someone's uh house party or before you go anywhere, listen to anything, before you do anything, think. And think is if by going to this place, are there going to be things here that are going to negatively affect my heart? Are there going to be lyrics that are going to negatively affect my heart and cause things in my heart to be broken? Well, Pastor Matt, what's such the big deal? Well, because every issue of life is going to be affected by this So we need to think about things before we do them. And then verse 27: turn not to the right hand nor to the left. Remove thy foot from evil. This is what it boils down to. If we're gonna guard, protect um what comes into our heart We're just gonna have to remove our foot from evil. We're just gonna have to remove from evil. Now that implies that it's evil we have the ability to remove from. Right? There are sins that we are just going to have to separate ourselves from. This is what we call what we call standards. You know what? I'm just not going to go there. I'm just not going to do this. I'm going to remove myself from this. Sometimes you'll find yourself in situations where you say, man, I gotta get out. I gotta get out. And and young people, if you're ever in a situation that you didn't think it was going to end up that way, it some might sometimes you just gotta call someone and say, hey, you need to come get me out Sometimes you what we have to do is remove ourselves from evil. Sometimes we have to remove evil from ourselves. Sometimes we gotta say, you know what, I'm whatever this thing is I'm struggling with, I'm just gonna get it out of the way. Because it's not worth messing up my heart and then messing up every single issue the rest of my life So I'm just going to remove this from me. Sometimes you got to smash up something. Sometimes you got to throw something away. Sometimes you just got to run. Remove your foot from evil. Well that what's such the big deal? Everything's affected by your heart And it's a very big deal. So, what will happen if you don't keep your heart? What if you hear the importance of guarding yourself, protecting your heart, and uh deciding not to? What if you decide not to? I'm not going to watch my attitude. I'm not going to focus on what's right. I'm not going to think before I do anything. I'm not going to remove my foot from evil. What will happen if you don't keep your heart? Verse 19 says, the way of the wicked is as darkness. They know not at what they stumble. The way of the wicked is as darkness, they know not at what they stumble. What does that mean happen to them? They stumbled. Stumble means to get tripped up or to fall. Someone who does not care about what comes into their heart, they don't have standards for themselves Whether they just have none at all or they rely on someone else's, either way they don't have any for themselves, what's going to happen in the long run? They're going to stumble. Something is going to trip them up But you know what the worst part about this is? They know not at what they stumble, is what it says. The way of the wicked is as darkness. They know not at what they stumble. Have you ever heard anyone make this comment, I don't even know how I got here? I don't even know how this happened. See, it's bad enough to stumble and fall. It's worse to realize how I don't even know or I don't even know how this happened What happens is this. You think I'm a young person. You might think, you know, I'm I'm I'm just a teenager. It's not so not a big deal to keep my heart right now. Not a big deal to protect myself right now. What's gonna happen ten years down the road because you set up no standards in your life? You'll be on your third spouse and you won't even see half of your kids. And you'll say, Man, I don't even know how I got here. Well, the reason you got here was because when you were a teenager, you did not protect what came into your heart, via your eyes, ears, throat, whatever. Fast forward a few years, maybe you're thinking, well I I did that when I was a young person, but now I'm I you know I'm I'm a I'm an adult, I'm a young adult, um I have a family, things are good, I've protected my heart, and now I'm good. I have a good marriage. I have a good church. I have good kids. I don't need to be as on guard as I used to be. I can lax up in some of my standards now. Fast forward ten years, that good marriage you had doesn't exist anymore. That good church you had, half your family goes there, half doesn't. And you say, man, how did I get here? Man, I feel like I've fallen flat on my face, and I don't even know how this happened. It's because you let your guard down ways back. You kept your heart, but maybe not as diligently as you had used to. And maybe you're thinking, well I'm in the latter part of my life. I've kept my heart. I've protected it. I've had standards. I've had convictions. Now I'm on my own. The kids are gone. I'm just going to do my own thing now. I'm going to relax on some of my standards and convictions. Well, now you don't just have one generation watching you, you have several. And that is going to negatively impact not only your heart but theirs as well. That's why I think he says we need to keep our hearts protect, protect yourself. From all of these influences with all diligence. That takes work to protect yourself. So what happens if we do keep our hearts successfully? Verse 18 says the path of the just is as a shining light that shineth more and more unto the perfect day. And verse 26 says, ponder the path of thy feet, and let all thy ways be established. In verse 18, I see that a way is clear. The path of the justice is a shining light that shineth more and more. There's a big difference between falling flat on your face, saying I don't even know how I got here, and then there's a big difference between that and saying Man, I can see God's work all throughout my life. I don't know if this makes sense what I'm saying. But the alternative To not keeping your heart is a way of confusion. And the the way of keeping your heart and protecting your heart and setting up standards It might be a a a hard working way, maybe, uh uh I mean if you want to call it that, but it's a way that's clear. I think he just said it a little while ago, a pastor did. He was saying um correct me if I'm wrong, but you were he was saying that um whatever it is God wants you to do, it you we ought to know what God's will is. And we can know that if we stay in the book and we apply the principles there. But someone who does not and is not diligent about this matter, keeping their heart, their way is not clear. They don't know what it is God would have for them. Well, with some issues they do, but again they just choose not to, and then other issues come up. So I I I just want to challenge you tonight. Are you guarding your heart? You know, like we sing the song when we're kids, they'll be careful little eyes what you see, careful little ears where what you hear, feet where you go. That is a very big deal. We have we have a lot of young people here that have a lot of life-changing issues that aren't far away And the the things that you're allowing to come into your heart will affect those decisions. Are you keeping your heart? Are you keeping your heart? And it could be that there's someone here, I I I don't want to take it for granted that everyone has trusted Christ as their Savior, but there could be someone here that you you're not sure that if something were to happen to you Where you'd spend eternity. And thinking about this issue of keeping our heart, you can't do it alone. You have to have God's help to do this. No one can will themselves to avoid a sin. It takes God's help. We understand this. But if you're lost and you have you don't even know if your your sins are forgiven, that that comes first. And then we need we will have God help us with all these issues that come up later. Heavenly Father, I thank you for this day you've given us. I thank you again for your word Lord, this matter of protecting what comes into our hearts. Lord, help us to take this seriously. Lord, help us to understand that We need to be in the right spiritual condition now before issues come up so that we better um Can make choices in things. Lord, just help us with this, please. And it's in Jesus' name I pray.