Chapter number twenty-eight. How many have ever heard the saying, an apple a day keeps the doctor away? Anybody ever hear that saying? Actually an apple day will keep anybody away if you throw it hard enough. And uh little bit of advice there. First Chronicles chapter twenty eight. I just want to look at verse number uh verse number eight this morning and uh if you have your pen handy there and a couple statements here be good to underscore or or highlight uh one way or another. Notice the verse number eight. The Bible says, Now therefore, in the sight of all Israel, the congregation of the Lord And in the audience of God, now look what he says here, keep and seek for all the commandments of the Lord your God, that ye may possess this good land, and leave it for an inheritance Children, after you forever. Read this in my devotions a week or so ago, and uh that little phrase Keep and seek for all the commandments of the Lord your God. That caught my attention. And I want to bring a message this morning from this portion of Scripture. And I just entitled it, for lack of creativity, I just called it Keeping and Seeking. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to bless. Father, thank you for the Word of God. And Lord, I'm grateful for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. What a blessing this body of believers has been to me personally many, many years And I pray you'd meet with us this morning. We've assembled together in your name. Lord, the singing's been a blessing. The fellowship's been a blessing. Now we ask that you would challenge us and teach us from your word A little bit about yourself, God, that we would understand you. I pray, Lord, you teach us something about ourselves. Or that we can understand accurately who and what we are. And uh where we're at spiritually. And then challenge us to go forward, I pray, Lord. Lord, I plead with you with all my heart. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to yours, and every ounce of my being I surrender my present my body anew to you and just work through me as a as a channel, Lord. Just speak right through me To all of our hearts help us, we pray in Jesus' name, Amen. This passage of scripture here, we're actually Coming to the end of King David's life. Now what do we know about King David? Was he a good king or a bad king? He was a great king. He was tremendous. The Bible says that David was a man after God's own heart. In other words, he saw things the way God saw things. He loved the things that God loved. He hated the things that God hated. I mean, he was in tune with God. He was a man after God's own heart. David, I like to put it this way: David was a passionate man. Whatever he was doing, brother, it was it had a hundred percent. He was doing with all his heart. Boy, when he's praising God, he's praising God a hundred percent. Uh when he's fighting battles and he's out there fighting the Philistines, man, it's a hundred percent. He's slaying them left and right. He's slaying his tens of thousands of them. The guy was a warrior Uh but the bad thing is when David messed up, boy, he messed up. I mean he was just all out. Everything he did. And God says, God praises David. God speaks highly of the man in spite of his flaws. But now David's coming to the end of his life. He'd been a good king. Israel had prospered under his leadership, had expanded. And that's where we're at in the in the book. He's elderly now. Look at verse number one. And what he does in this chapter, notice verse number one, he calls together all the leadership of the nation of Israel. He knows his days are numbered He knows he's not going to be alive longer. And in verse number one, he says, David assembled all the princes of Israel. And the princes of the tribes and the captains of the companies that ministered to the king by course. These are all leaders, people in leadership positions. And the captains over the thousands, and the captains over hundreds, and stewards over all the substance and possessions of the king. So that's folks that are in charge of the material parts of the kingdom. And of his son, and of his sons and the officers, with the mighty men, and with all the valiant men unto Jerusalem. So he's calling together the leadership of Israel He had a good reign. He'd been a good king at his ups and downs, but overall he was a good king, was a man after God's own heart. And he's about to die and go out and uh into eternity and go to be with the Lord. He knows that. And so he calls together the leadership, and then in verses 2 through 7, he rehearses to these leaders. He's got them called together, I assume, in some sort of assembly room or something. No doubt there's maybe a couple thousand of these people or more. And he begins to rehearse to them not his entire reign, not everything that happened while he was king. But he rehearses to them the fact that he had determined in his heart that he was going to build a temple for God. The Lord's ark had been in the tabernacle, which was basically a very sanctified tent. And he had in his heart and mind, I'm going to build a beautiful temple. For the worship of God and to put the Ark of the Covenant in there, and boy, it's just going to be beautiful. Well, God tells him, No, you're not. You're not going to build me a temple. If you would, come back to chapter 17. It's a little interesting event here in this whole process that's going on in David's mind. Chapter 17, same book, 1 Chronicles. Verse number 1, it says, It came to pass as David sat in his house, that David said to Nathan the prophet, and that's kind of like his pastor, I guess you could say, in an indirect way. So Nathan's the prophet. David says to him, Lo, I dwell in a house of cedars, but the ark of the covenant of the Lord remaineth under curtains. Then Nathan said unto David, Do all that is in thine heart, for God is with thee. So here's the picture: David's sitting in his beautiful palace that he has as king. And he gets thinking about it. Here I'm living in this beautiful house. God's covenant is out under curtains, under this tent. And in other passages of church, we understand that he says, I need to build a house for God. Now, Nathan, what do we know about Nathan, good or bad? Good, he's great, very courageous preacher. Man, he's not afraid to say it the way it is. And he comes to David and says Hey Dave, I'm putting this in Dennis Letterman Lingo, all right? Hey, Dave. No, I don't think he said it that way. But he says basically, David, that's a great idea. Put a building for God and a house for God. That's a great idea. Hey, do everything that's in your heart. I'm for it. I think it's a great idea. Now here's the problem. God didn't think it was a great idea. Look at the next verse. And it came to pass that same night That the word of God came unto Nathan, saying, Go and tell David my servant, thus saith the Lord, thou shalt not build me a house to dwell in. Ooh. David's the prophet, or Nathan, the prophet of God, says to David, sure, that'd be super. But God's word, hey, God's word trumped the preacher's word. Do you get that? Nathan was wrong. It wasn't God's will for David to build this temple. And Nathan, to his credit, acknowledges that God has said no. And I was wrong when I said it's okay. So Nathan comes back to David and says, Hey, wait a minute. God says no. And God had his reasonings, and and we'll not get into that for sake of this message, but God had his reasoning. So David is here back in chapter twenty-eight. In verse 2 through 7, David is going through all this with his uh leadership and the nation there and his cabinet and his uh representatives and whatever titles they had Uh he's going through all of that with them. And he's saying, Listen, I had in my heart to build a temple to God, but God said no, and God chose my son Solomon to uh uh he's gonna be the one to build the temple And uh so I put all these things in place so that he's able to build it and to support him. Now, this is not the message, but I want to inject this here. How do we respond when God says no to us? How do we respond when we ask God to do something for us, or ask God to meet a need, or we ask God for whatever, and God gives a clear, definite no? How should we respond? Let me give you a few suggestions real quick. Number one, and again, this is a message, this is just extra. Number one, we should be thankful for all the times he says yes. If I pray and I ask, and God clearly says, no, I'm not going to do that for you. No, you cannot have that. What I should do is become very, very grateful for all the prayers that God has answered. Anybody here, has anybody here ever had a prayer answered? Amen. God answered just this past week for Kathy and I, the past two weeks. We were talking the other day. God has answered some very specific requests, did what we asked. And uh obviously answers to prayer. And so rather than getting all worked up, well, I want to do this and God didn't do it for me. Why don't we stop and say, well, praise the Lord, he's done a lot of things I did ask for. And so number one, be thankful for all his yeses. When he does say no. Number two, I put this down. Ask God for wisdom as to the reason he said no. If I pray and ask for something and God doesn't do it, God says no to that request, there's nothing wrong with saying, God, why are you saying no? God, maybe there's something in my life that's displeasing to you that needs to be addressed. Maybe there's something about how I'm living my life. that is keeping you from answering my prayer. Maybe there's some adjustments I need to make in my attitude or my actions or my behavior or whatever. God may have other reasons. God had reasons for saying no to David about building this temple David had been a bloody man and the the um uh uh uh apparently his his uh reputation as a uh as a uh warrior and a man had killed tens, probably hundreds of thousands of people Personally, he's killed scores thousands of people. No doubt that had affect, maybe the testimony associated, but God had his reasonings And there's nothing wrong with asking God why. God may or may not choose to reveal to us the reason. But nevertheless, there's nothing wrong with asking him for wisdom as to the reason he said no. Number three, I put this down. When God says no, understand that God means no. Do you get that? When God says no, it's good for us to understand that He means no. What do we do? Come on now. God says no to something. What do we do? We try and figure out a way to get around that no. Am I right or wrong? How many people here ever raise children? Did you ever tell your children no? And the little sneaks, they're trying to figure out how to get around that no. Am I right or wrong? We're no different. Well the same thing. God says no, hmm, I can figure out another way. Listen, do us a heap of good to understand when God says no, he needs no. And to David's credit, he didn't argue with God. He accepted the fact that this was not God's will for him. God did not want him to do this. He accepted that fact. He didn't try and work around it or anyway. He just said God said no. And then number four, I put this down. When God says no to my request, go and help others do what God has instructed them to do. That's what David did. He said, I want to build a house for God. God says, No, you know you ain't. I'm going to have Solomon build me a house. So what did David do? That stupid kid, he gets all the attention. No, he didn't say that. What did David do? He says, all right, God, you want Solomon built? Alright, I'm gonna get all the supplies. I'm going to invest money, I'm going to get materials, I'm going to have everything I cost I'm going to put everything together I possibly can so that when his time comes to build it He's got all the resources there, he has everything he needs, and he can build that thing for God. When God said no to him, he decided I'm going to help those who God said yes to. Now, can I illustrate this with a little personal illustration? I mentioned this a couple times over the years, but when I was in Bible college, we had a big missions conference, and God stirred my heart about missions. And I wanted to go to the mission field. I wanted to go to the Philippines. And I remember it very, very clearly. It was just a couple weeks ago. I now at the altar at the Highland Park Baptist Church in Chattanooga, Tennessee. And I begged God. God, I am here. Send me. Go to the Philippines and be a missionary and plant churches and preach the word of God and win souls to Christ. God, here I am. God, send me. Here I am. You know what God said to me? Very clearly, not audibly, but very clearly. No. It's not my will for your life for you to go to the Philippines. Can I say I was disappointed? And for several years I prayed. Several years I tried to pursue that. And it was and finally I came to the conclusion it's not God's will for me to go to the mission field, but the Philippines or mission field in general. And so I continued to pursue. There were two times, two times in my life that God clearly said no to me. One was at that point in my life. Back in nineteen ninety-nine, the church sent my wife and I to Dominican Republic. I preached down there in churches. We had a big mission uh mission Missionary conference, and all the missionaries from the Caribbeans that were with BIMI came together. I had the privilege of preaching to them. And I'm telling you, that was our first mission trip, and God stirred my heart And on the Sunday night of that conference, it was like a Thursday through Sunday, I had preached. And I gave the invitation, and my wife and I responded to my own invitation. And we knelt at the altar there down in Santo Domingo. And the altar was filled, missionaries and different ones all around. And my wife and I weeping. We said, God, we want to come down here and be missionaries in the Dominican Republic. God, this is please send us. The need is so great. We had seen cities, hundreds of thousands of people, no gospel witness. And we said, God, send us, we'll learn the language, we'll do what we need to do. God, send us down here. In the following weeks, God clearly said to us, no. It's not my will for you to go to the mission field. It is my will for you to be here. And by the way, I say this morning, I'm absolutely convinced every ounce of my being that I'm exactly where God wants me to be right now. But I wanted to do that and God said no. So mine personally, and Kathy and I together, our response has been this. If we cannot go to the mission field, then we are going to do everything we possibly can to enable and support and supply those who can go to the mission field. Exactly what David did for Solomon. He said, I can't build the temple. So Solomon's going to be the one. God has chosen Solomon to be the one. So I'm going to do everything I can. I'm going to invest my finances, I'm going to invest my talents, my abilities, I'm going to put everything together I possibly can to enable him to do what God has chosen him to do And that's the way it is, should be for every one of us, particularly as Christians. We ought to say, God, I am willing to go. Here I am. If it's your will, I will go to the mission field. And if God says no, it's my will for you to stay right where you are and be a witness there and serve me there in your position, then we ought to do everything we can to enable those he does choose to go to enable them to go. Does that make sense? So David's rehearsing to his leaders of Israel this whole process that had taken place and what he was doing to enable Solomon to be able to build this temple. And he's telling them. Then you get to verse number eight. And in verse number eight, he challenges the leadership of the nation of Israel. The princes, those that are over thousands, those that are responsible for the material issues of the country. He challenges them to do something. To keep and seek for all the commandments of the Lord. He's saying this to his leaders. Now I got that caught my attention, as I said. I got my computer out and started looking up those words and how they're used in Strong's concordance and how they're used other places in the Bible and and uh what the uh Strong's definition is for them and the languages that they were translated out of, and I came up with this this uh definition. The word keep means to, among other things, but in this context, it means to observe very carefully. Or to take him to, to perform whatever it is, to carry it out or fulfill So when he says to the leaders of Israel, he has all these leaders lined up uh assembled together, he goes, listen, fellas, this is how it is. I wanted to build a temple. God said no. He's chosen my son. I've done everything I can to try and enable him to do it. Now here's what I need you guys to do: I need you to keep the commandments of God. I need you to perform what God has commanded us to do. I need you all. And if he was from the South, he would have said, all y'all. He said, I need you all. To perform what God has commanded us to do. I need you to carry out God's instructions. I need you to fulfill God's commands. So he says, keep. Then he adds in there the word seek. Again, I got my research and going on, and I came to this conclusion on the word seek. It means to inquire diligently into To investigate very carefully something. Again, it conjures up a word picture in your mind, a crime scene investigation. Isn't that exciting? And and you know what do those crime scene investigators do? I tell you this, they don't do it anything like they show on TV. That's ridiculous. My son, uh he had seen some of those I shouldn't uh he's not here, so anyway. Uh but he he had seen all these when he was young, these and we him and I used to can I confess something? Well, I got everybody's attention now. Uh Sunday nights after church to wind down when when the boys were small, we'd watch cops. That helped me wind down, seeing people get busted. And so um it was kind of the way I felt I wanted to do to some people. No, I'm kidding. Uh but anyway he saw this and oh I'm gonna be a crime scene investigator. And so he went off to college and uh took a class on crime scene investigation, I guess is what the class is called And uh he said, Good night, this ain't anything like I thought it was. And so now he shoots deer for a living. And so but uh that's the idea of the word here, seek It means you get this thing and you just investigate it. You find out every little detail. Man, those those investigators, they'll find little they'll find little fabrics stuck in the carpet And a little eyelash of the criminal had come out and fallen on the sink. And they'll do a DNA on that and they'll investigate that all out. And they'll find out what's going on. That's the idea of this word seek. He's saying, I want you. Fellas, I'm fixing the pass away. Solomon's next in line. You guys, here's what I need you to do. I need you to do what God says, fulfill his commandments. Seek out those commandments. You study them. You understand perfectly what God expects from you and what God demands of you And you carry that out and fulfill it. Um it's interesting, as I was studying this word seek, it's the same word is used uh earlier when David First saw Bathsheba. Remember the story? He's up on top. Bathsheba is bathing, publicly bathing there on top, and he sees her. The Bible says he inquired after her. Man, his flesh was inflamed. His passion was stirred. He wanted her And he inquired diligently. He was determined he was going to find out who she was. Where she lived, what her schedule's like, I have got to have this woman. That's the same word here. And he's telling the leaders of Israel, you have got to determine that you are going to know God's word You've got to study it, seek it, investigate it, and the idea is to come back frequently to it And so he's challenging them. So what's happening here? This is what I believe. David knows he's about to pass away. His time is up. God has chosen his son to be the next king. His son's going to build the temple. Very significant. David, I believe, wants a smooth transition. Uh this isn't a democracy. They don't change leaders peaceably like we do here in the United States. That's kind of unique. There's a lot of you read later on, man, when kings change there's a lot of bloodshed, there's a lot of violence goes on fighting till somebody gnaws their way to the top and they're the king. David doesn't want that to happen. God's already made it clear who the next king is to be And he wants that transition to be smooth. And he knows the best way for a smooth transition is to have his leadership committed to obeying the commands of God. If they will do what God tells them to do, everything's going to be fine. If they will obey God's instructions. If they will obey God's commands, everything will be just fine. Hey, I want to say to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. And to us as individuals, if we will do what God tells us to do, everything will be just fine. Amen. You know when we get in trouble is when we start disregarding this instructions of God. When we get in trouble in our homes, in our personal lives, in our ministries, in our workplaces, in our marriages, when we get in trouble, is when we start disregarding what God has commanded us. We do what we want to do. And then we have trouble. And David doesn't want trouble. He wants there to be a smooth transition. So he challenges them. Diligently seek and understand God's word and do it. And do it. This was a dangerous time, really, for the kingdom. Anytime they made transition, it was dangerous. There'd be upheavals. In fact, there was a little skirmish here after David died. Another one of the sons says, Oh, I think I'll be king. And there was a little skirmish there and it was settled. Everybody did things right and it got dealt with and they went and they went on. But it is a risky time for the nation. Hey, I'm here to tell you, our nation is in some dangerous times. Would you agree with me? I mean, it is bad spiritually in the United States of America And what we as God's people need to do is determine that we are going to seek and keep the commandments of God. Regardless of what direction this country goes, listen, it's not a question what direction this country is going to go. It's done already going. But regardless of what this country does, regardless of what society decides is right and wrong, regardless of what society tells us we should or should not do We're going to seek and keep the commands of God. And it'll be alright. It'll be alright. My message this morning is really not to unsaved people. If there's someone here and you never accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, you're here this morning, and you don't have the assurance that when you die, your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven, this message, the substance of this message, does not necessarily apply to you. Obeying God's commands is not going to save a soul from hell. We are not saved by our obedience to the law, we are saved by grace through faith. And so it would be easy for an unsaved person to listen to the priest and say, Alright, if I just obey God's commands and I do uh do uh tr and trust in my obedience Then I'll get to heaven. No, no, no. Nobody gets to heaven because they obeyed God's laws. People get to heaven because they've accepted Jesus Christ their personal Savior. Amen or not? Amen But once we've been saved, once we've accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, God expects from us to obey Him. To follow his directions, follow his instructions. Not to stay saved, but to please him and fulfill his purpose in our life This is a completely separate message. Let me just throw it out. Once a person accepts Jesus Christ sincerely and genuinely as their personal Savior, that person can never ever be lost again. Once a person accepts Jesus Christ Savior, they are no longer in danger of going to hell. But I do have a responsibility as a saved person to seek and keep the commands of God. To follow his instructions, obey him. And so the subject this morning is obedience. Obedience. Here's my the introduction was longer than the message And so here's the outline. And all God's people said, praise the Lord for that. Number one, jot this down, would you? Obedience is spiritual. Obedience is spiritual. Can I say this? The most spiritual thing. It's funny, I was talking. Is Kathy in here? Good, I can use her for an illustration. Um talking to Kathy this week. We were driving somewhere. I said, Kathy, what's the most spiritual thing a person can do? And people want to guess what some of her answers were. What would you say? If someone don't don't listen just disregard what I've already said. What would you think people would say? What's the most spiritual thing a person can do? Pray. Alright, that was one. Read your Bible. Lead someone to Christ. Her answer was she was getting saved. I said, nope, that's not the most spiritual thing a person can do. She goes, uh, winning a soul to Christ. I said, nope, it's not the most spiritual thing a person can do. She goes, all right, smarty pants, what is the most spiritual thing a person can do? That's the most spiritual thing a person can do is obey God. Obey God. There's nothing more spiritual than that. In fact, getting saved is an act of obedience, is it not? The Bible says, Jesus said, ye must be born again. 1 Thessalonians references those who obey not the gospel of Jesus Christ. It is God's instructions to every lost person That they accept Jesus Christ as Savior and be saved from His judgment in hell. It is a matter of obedience. Somebody says, Well, I just don't know if I want to get saved or not. By refusing to get saved, you are disobeying God. It's a command. You must be born again. And so, uh, how about soul winning? That's a matter of obedience, right? God has commanded us to go into all the world and preach the gospel. Every creature, every person. You're my witnesses, he says. You're the light of the world. It is our responsibility. God has commanded us To take the message of the gospel to the unsaved people of our own community and our entire world and share with them the fact that Christ died for them, was buried And rose again if they'll trust him as their Savior, he'll forgive their sin and save them from going to hell. That's a command of God And so the most spiritual thing I can do is obey God. The most spiritual thing I can do is keep and seek the Word of God. Now, let me ask you a question. Is it possible to obey God outwardly and yet be not very spiritual inwardly? Absolutely. Anybody ever hear the Pharisees? Keep your place here if you would. Real quickly, turn with me to the book of Matthew, first book of the Old Testament, New Testament. Yeah. Matthew chapter number 23. Boy, this is sobering to uh church folk, this passage of scripture. Jesus is speaking the Pharisees. Question, were the Pharisees saved or lost? Lost. They were religious, but they were as lost as could be. They split hell wide open And notice what he says to them in Matthew chapter 23, look with me at verse 25. Man, you talk about a hard preacher. Jesus, man, he just shot straight. He didn't mince his words at all. Look at verse 25. Woe unto you, scribes and hypocrites, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! How many folks would like it if you came to church and I'd start calling you hypocrites? You bunch of hypocrites! How would you like that? Hey Sunday school teachers, bunch of hypocrites. Fire members are a bunch of hypocrites. I wouldn't have my job very long. That's what the Lord's doing. I mean, these are the religious leaders. Look what he says. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. Why do you call them hypocrites? For ye make clean the outside of the cup of the platter, but within there are full of extortion and excess. Thou blind Pharisee, Cleanse first that which is within the cup and platter, that the outside of them may be clean also. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For ye are like unto white sepulchres, which indeed appear beautiful outward, but are within full of dead man's bones and of all uncleanness Even so, ye also outwardly appear righteous unto men, but within ye are full of hypocrisies and iniquity. Wow! Ye talk about strong words. He says, boy, you guys are good at putting on a show. You do all these things outwardly, but inwardly you are as dead as a graveyard. You have no spiritual life whatsoever. It's just a sham. It's just a facade. It's just a show. Listen to me, we need to be real careful. We should and we are commanded to obey God, most spiritual thing we do. But if our obedience is just an outward show to make ourselves look good It does us no good. It must come from the heart. It must be genuine. And so David is saying to the leaders here: listen, you guys need to obey the commands of God. Find out what they are and obey them. It's the most spiritual thing you can do. Now don't just do it outwardly. Your entire being is in submission and obedience to God. Not just a show I'm telling you, we need to be careful. It is very easy in churches for our obedience to deteriorate into just a show. It must be genuine. It must be for real. It is possible to obey God outwardly and disobey inwardly. How many people recognize the name Dennis the Menace? I'm not talking about me. The cartoon. You everybody remember that? I don't know if it's still around anymore, but Dennis the Menace. My favorite cartoon. And um, well, one time he had gotten in trouble, it was years ago, and he was standing in the corner like this. And uh he said this I'm standing in the corner outside, but I'm playing outside on the inside. Boy, doesn't that sound like some of us Christians? Boy, we put on the show outwardly, but inwardly we're something completely different. It is possible to obey God outwardly and disobey Him inwardly. Wrong attitude, wrong motives Just a show. But it is impossible to obey God inwardly and disobey Him outwardly. Follow what I'm saying? In other words, if my heart is submissive in obedience to God, then my life will be. Follow what I'm saying? If I my attitude and my and my my heart and soul is yielded in obedience to God, then it's going to come out in my life. It's going to come out of my life. I deliberately made an effort when I became pastor. I believe the Bible teaches certain convictions and standards that every Christian ought to have. But I've tried very, very hard not to push to just do that outwardly. I tried very hard to let God deal with our hearts as Christians that as we grow, those convictions, those standards are implemented from our hearts out and not just an external thing. You follow what I'm saying? So the most spiritual thing a person can do is simply obey God. Sincerely, genuinely from the heart, not just a show. Number two, I put this down. Not is obedience spiritual, obedience is sincerity. In other words, a sincere Christian says, I want to please the Lord in every aspect of my life. And when I'm sincere in that, then it's not difficult to obey God. I want to obey, I sincerely want to please the Lord. From my heart, I want to please God. And then obedience is the fruit of that sincerity. An insincere Christian says, all right, how much do I have to do to be able to get away with it? The sincere Christian says, I want to please God with every ounce of my being. Every, every, I want my whole life to please God. An insincere Christian says, Alright, what do I have to do? I saw an illustration of this when I was a youth pastor in Indianapolis. There was a young man. He had made a profession of faith. He had grown up in a nominal Christian home, wasn't real strong. And um I'd preached one Sunday morning to teens. There's about 35, 40 teens. I'd preached one Sunday morning about being a witness and sharing the gospel. And I said, you guys are in school, a lot of them, most of them went to public school. I said, you've got friends in school, you sip aside, they die without Christ, they're going to hell. I said, you can do something about that. You can share a gospel track. You can be a witness to them. And I really challenged them. God stirred their hearts. And this one young man after the that was Sunday school hour, after the church hour, and buses were gone and the people left and I was doing some stuff. He stayed after and he pulled me aside and we sat on the steps out in front of the church in Indianapolis. And he said, Pastor Dennis, they called me that, he said, Pastor Dennis I have a question. I said, okay. And I thought he was going to ask, how can I witness to my friends or whatever? Because the Lord had really stirred up. He goes, if I don't witness to my friends, will I still go to heaven? I said, what do you say? He goes, well, I really don't want to talk to my friends and people about Jesus. Can I still go to heaven even if I don't do that? You know what he was saying? He said, What's the least amount I can do and still make it to heaven? I explained to them, listen, you don't go to heaven because you witness, or you don't go to hell because you don't witness. It's more whether you accept Jesus Christ as Savior or not. I said, but listen, his name is Brett. I said, Brett, listen Jesus Christ died for you. And your witnessing is simply a matter of obeying the one who gave so much for you. I said, no, you don't have to witness to your friends, and you can still go to heaven. And that's sad. That is insincerity at its worst. What's the least amount I can have to do, and yet still be okay with God? Sincere Christian says, Lord, I want to please you every aspect of my life. I want everything in my life to please you, whatever that is. Lord, I'm going to seek out what your desire and will is for me, and I'm going to keep it. I'm going to fulfill it. Live it out. So obedience is spiritual, obedience is sincere. And thirdly, and last of all, obedience is sentimental. And that's not really the word I want. What I mean by that is, obedience is what shows my love for Christ. Say, what's the best way? What's the best way to show God that you love him? What's the best manifestation of love for God? Somebody says, well, carry a gigantic big black James Bible, and boy, then it's obvious you really love God. Eh wrong. Right? Right. Right? That's wrong. Well, sing really loud And that'll prove that you really love God. Say amen, really laugh, amen. Boy, that guy really loves God. He said, Amen. Or down south they go, hip. Did you ever hear them do that down south? They don't say amen. They say hip, hip, hip. Now, is there anything wrong with carrying a gigantic big King James Bible? No. That's what you got. Praise the Lord. You got the right one at least. Is there anything wrong with singing loud? No. No. And they would notice I like to sing loud. I say it out. Is there anything wrong with saying amen in church? I mean, is there anything wrong with saying amen in church? No, some of y'all could do that a little more actually. But that's not what shows my love for Christ. That's not what shows I love God. You come home from work. Treat her, it's me. And then you treat her like the dog. Do you love her? No. That's not the way you announce yourself or whatever isn't what. It's how you treat her. Take your Bibles, I'll end with this. Take your Bibles, go to the Gospel of John, the fourth book of the New Testament, and chapter 14. Boy, the Lord has ways of just laying it out. John chapter fourteen. Now look at this. This isn't Brother Leatherman saying this. This isn't the preacher saying this. This is Jesus from his own lips. Look what he says. Verse 15, John chapter 14. If ye love me, sing really loud. No. If you love me, what? Keep my commandments. What's he saying there? If you love me, obey me. Obey me Come down to verse number twenty-one. He that hath my commandments and what Oh, there's that word. He that hath my commandments and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me. Come down to verse 23. Jesus answered and said unto him, If a man love me, he will keep my words. Verse 24. He that loveth me not keepeth not my sayings I underlined verse 15, 21, 23, and 24, and I drew a line connecting those four verses. You know what Jesus is saying here? The only manifestation of love for the Lord is to obey him. Obedience is an act of love for God. And then what was it, the second last one we reference, or the last one? He says, He that doesn't keep my commandments, he doesn't love me. Listen, let's not go around and tell folks how much we love God and then turn around and disobey Him. The Lord says, You don't love me. If you don't keep my commandments, you don't love me. It's plain as that. There's no other way around it. Another place the Lord said, Why call ye me Lord, Lord? And do not those things I say. Obedience. David was telling his leaders that for this nation to go forward To maintain God's blessings and God's hand upon our nation, we must find out what God's commands are, what His word is, and then fulfill it and do it and obey it. It's the most spiritual thing we can possibly do. It must be sincere, and it's evidence of the fact that we love our God when we obey Him. It is possible to obey God without loving him, Pharisees. But it is not possible to love God without obeying him Doesn't matter how often or how loudly you say, or I saying, oh, how I love Jesus. I'm disobeying him. I'm not loving them. I don't love them. There is no substitution for obedience I read what one commentator said, and this I adapted the phrase a little bit, but he made this statement. It is far better to humbly obey God's word. Than face the consequences of disobeying his word. He put it something like this: it is easier to do what God says Than it is to deal with the consequences of not doing what he says. That's a good statement. That's a good we say, oh God told me to do this, that's too hard. Not nearly as hard as the consequences of not doing what he says is going to be. Huh? I've had how many people over the years have said to me, I know I need to be saved. I know I need to get saved. I'll die and go to hell. I know I need to be saved, but it's too hard. My friends, it costs too much. If I accept Christ, my life I lose my friends. Brother, that's not nearly as hard as spending eternity in hell. Huh? Let me say this. There's not a friend in the world that is worth going to hell for. A one. And then once we're saved, to love God is to obey Him. Paul many times in the scriptures would reference sporting events In Corinthians, he references boxing. He says, I'm not one that beats against the air. He has the idea of boxing, but no person. He says, I'm not just going through the motions. And Paul would reference sporting events to illustrate biblical truths. With that in mind, how many people recognize the name Roger Stallback? Anybody recognize? He prayed for some little piddly team down in South somewhere and Some team that loses a lot. Um maybe it was in Texas or somewhere, I think. Tom, I think Tom knows. But um Roger Stallback led the Dallas Cowboys to the Super Bowl Championship in 1971. His position is qu uh the anybody know who the coach was back then? Tom Landry, the greatest coach as far as I'm concerned, ever lived. Great Christian man, had a solid testimony. I don't understand why he was with the Dallas Cowboys, but um But anyway, you're ruining my illustration. He admitted that Roger Stolbach, I don't know if you knew this or not, but he did not call his own plays. He was required, I mean, the great quarterback, Roger Stolbach. And Tom Landry required that he only play the plays that Tom Landry sent in for him to play. He said that was a trial for him. He knew he could call plays and be successful But if he was going to be quarterback of the Dallas Cowboys, he was going to do what his coach told him to do, or he'd not be quarterback. Tom Landry told Roger when to pass, when to run. And only in extreme emergency situations could Stallback change the play. And if he did, he had better be right. Roger Stahlbach said that Coach Landry had a genius mind when it came to football strategy. And said that he could run uh he was able to run any team. But after they won, and after he he did all this, he made this statement. Now this is what I'm getting at. Roger Stahlbach later said, I had to face up to the issue of obedience. I learned that I learned to obey And when I obeyed my instructions, there was harmony, fulfillment, and victory. Isn't that good? That's a good lesson for you and I to learn as Christians. When we learn to simply by faith obey God. There'll be blessing, there'll be harmony, there'll be victory. But as long as we insist on calling our own place And calling our own shots, it's going to be trouble. It's going to be difficulty. David says, I'm at the end of my life. I want God's blessings on this nation. I want this thing. I want my son to be a good king and have a good nation. This is what I need you guys to do. Seek God's word and obey it. What God says do, you do it. What God says don't do, don't you do it! Obey Him. Obey Him. It'll be okay. It'll be okay I have yet to hear anybody give me a scriptural justification for disobedience. There aren't any. Obey. Now I don't know what God's telling you to do. We could go down a list: baptism, church tendons, soul winning, whatever. But if we'll seek God's word, He'll tell us we can obey Him. Maybe there's someone here today who needs to get saved. Why don't you obey God today? Don't disobey Him any longer and trust Christ. And be safe. Father, bless our invitation now. Preparing this message, Lord, you stirred my heart and brought conviction to my own heart about areas. I pray that as I communicated this message and trust you through me, that many of us that you've dealt with our hearts about areas of our life that need obedience, that you would help us to trust you and obey you.