Acts chapter six, Acts chapter twelve, and I'd like for us to notice, if you would, uh verse number sixteen. I read this in my devotions, oh, it was the end of last week, maybe early this week, and just a little phrase here. that caught my attention, that really struck me, and I felt like the Lord uh would have me try and preach on this. Notice verse 16. It says, but Peter continued knocking And when they had opened the door and saw him, they were astonished. He continued knocking. He just kept knocking. Just kept knocking. Just kept knocking. Till he finally came and opened the door. But he just kept knocking. This morning I want to preach on just keep on knocking. Just keep on knocking. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to help us now. Father in heaven, Lord, it's as we've been saying, it's such a full week and such a blessing. And I know a lot of us are tired, but it's a good tired, Lord, to be tired in the work of the Lord. And I pray now as we settle in with our Bibles open, I ask that you were your Holy Spirit would just move in our midst. God, I pray you'd take your word and just apply it to each of our hearts and lives this morning. God, if any of us need to be convicted about some sin maybe in our life or some way that's out of line. I pray, dear Lord, that your Holy Spirit would convict us as we need. Lord, maybe some folks need encouragement today and just need a little boost, just a little uplift. And Lord, I know you're good at that. Your Holy Spirit does that. And I pray that in this hour, use this passage to uplift, encourage. And Lord, maybe some of us need to be, stretch our faith a little bit. We need to step out. I ask that your Holy Spirit would provoke us to exercise faith and to step, go forward in our Christian life. And so, Lord, I yield myself to you. I can't do any of that. God, I ask with all my heart that your Holy Spirit would fill me as I present my body anew to you, and I yield my mind and my thoughts as I speak, that you would guide them And guard me, Lord. Help me not to say anything I shouldn't. And so please speak to our hearts. Please have your way, is my prayer in this hour. In Jesus' name. Amen. I don't know about you, but I love this event in the life of Peter. It's fascinating. You could do a series through this as I was studying this throughout the week. There's so many things here And I want to remind you about this. This Peter is in prison, and we'll review here the setting for this whole thing in just a moment. But I want to remind you, this is not just a Bible story Sometimes I'm afraid that sometimes we get these ideas, well, it's just a story long ago and far away, some story. This is an actual Histor this is a historical, this is a Holy Spirit-inspired, accurate, historical account of an actual event that took place. Alright? And so it's important to keep that in mind. We we uh we hear uh David and Goliath and Noah in the Ark and we have all these Old Testament stories and in a technical sense they're stories, but they're much more than a story. They're historical accounts. This actually happened. as it's recorded here. And in this passage, again, I would love I'm tempted to just look at it closely, work our way through there. But one thing I do want to point out, we're introduced to a man here that is part of one of the most wicked families that you're going to find in the New Testament. If you would, come back to verse number one with me. And uh notice verse 1 of chapter 12, it says, now about that time, who's the king mentioned here? Herod the king. Now let me tell you a little bit about this guy, Herod the King. He is part of, as I said, one of the most wicked families that are in all of Scripture, really, all in the New Testament, in my mind, for sure. His grandfather, this Herod the King, his grandfather was known as Herod the Great. If you'll read in Matthew chapter 2, and we won't take time to turn this, in Matthew chapter 2, Herod the Great, as he was called, Heard about the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ from these wise men from the East. And he's immediately told that a king is born Well, if you study these Herod family, they were intensely paranoid, especially Herod the Great. In fact, he killed some of his own family members because he felt that they were a threat to his throne And so he was brutal, he was cold-blooded. When you heard about the Lord Jesus Christ, you remember the story. He told the wise men that when you find him, what were they supposed to do? What did he instruct them to do? Come back and tell me. So I know where he is. And he made this statement. And so I can worship him. He was lying through his teeth. He didn't want to know where Jesus was, this king of the Jews to worship him. He wanted to know where he was to what? Kill him. He was a threat to his throne. Well the Lord warned the wise men they go they don't tell 'em they go a different way and um and god God warns uh Joseph, Jesus' stepfather and They get out of town, and when Herod finds out he goes in, slaughters all the children, two years old and under, and all of Bethlehem. Would you agree? That's a pretty wicked man. That's a pretty wicked man. So that's this Herod the king, that's his grandpa that he comes from. Then his daddy, or I'm sorry, his uncle is Herod Antipas. Herod Antipas, and we read of him in Luke chapter 3. This is 20, 30 years later. And here we find Herod Antipas takes his brother's wife, commits adultery, is living in sin, living in adultery. And John the Baptist preaches against his sin. How many people think a preacher ought to preach against sin? How many people ought to think a preacher ought to preach against sin of people that are sinning? What I mean by that is, you know, sometimes we'll just talk general, but he's right in his face. He says, You ought not to have this woman. You're living in adultery. And he and he preached against it And Herod and Antipas, this Herod the king's uncle, for no other reason than he did not like what the preacher was saying Had him executed, beheaded. For no other reason. John the Baptist didn't commit any crime. He never committed murder. He didn't rob any banks. He didn't rape any women. He didn't He didn't do anything that you would think would be worthy of capital punishment. He simply did not like his message. And he beheaded him. Would you agree? That's pretty wicked. That's pretty wicked. And now we have, here's Herod the king. The grandson of Herod the Great, the nephew of Herod Antipas. And notice in verse number two it says, and he killed James, the brother of John, with the sword. And so here we have this nephew is killing people for no other reason. Well, uh Herod the Great killed the babies because he wanted to retain his position. Herod Antipas killed John the Baptist because he enjoyed his pleasure of living in adultery with this woman And now Herod the king kills James because it would make him popular with the Jews. I'm telling you, this is a wicked family. This is an ungodly family. And this is uh uh, and he takes uh and John he he he uh kills James and he takes Peter now And he has him imprisoned for no other reason than it made the Jews happy. The enemies of Christ made them happy. He puts Peter in prison. Look at verse 3. Because he saw that it pleased the Jews that he killed James, he proceeded further to take Peter also. The intention is to kill Peter. And so the church goes to prayer. Verse number five. And by the way, I appreciate Brother Ferguson mention about prayer, a church ought to be a praying church. Jesus says my house is to be the house of prayer. I'm glad I'm part of a church that believes in prayer. We prayed last night, we prayed this morning, we're going to pray this evening before the evening service. We pray Wednesday night. We have ladies' prayer luncheon. We have men's prayer meetings. We pray. And we need prayer. Jesus said, Without me, ye can do nothing And so Peter's in prison. He's lined up. He's scheduled to be executed, just like James, and the church immediately goes to prayer. Look over at verse number 12. Again, Pastor Matt read all this, but it says, now this is Peter gets out, we'll talk about this. And when he had considered a thing, he came to the house of Mary The mother of John, whose surname was Mark, that's Mark who penned the book of Mark. God used to pen the book of Mark. And it says, where many were gathered together praying. Now this is in the middle of the night This is one, two o'clock in the morning, and the church is praying. They've got together Peter's in prison They call the members, and the members show up at Mary's house, and she was apparently very wealthy, had a large house, and all the churches gathered together. And they're praying from the moment Peter is taken, they begin to pray, and they keep on praying, and they keep on praying, and they keep on praying, and the sun sets, and it gets late, and it's the middle of the night And they're still praying Thank God for church that prays. And so the church goes to prayer without ceasing all through the night. And then Peter is miraculously delivered. This is so Touch anything. I like to imagine seeing this. I wish I was a little mouse watching this. Look at verse 7. The angel of the Lord came upon him. He's uh well, look at verse 6. He said, When Herod would have brought him forth the same night In other words, that morning, Herod's going to take him out, and he's going to execute him, probably behead him. That same night, Peter was sleeping between the two soldiers bound with two chains And the keepers before the door kept the prison. And the keepers before the door kept the prison. And behold, the angel of the Lord came upon him, and a light shined in the prison, and he smote Peter on the side. I don't know. I love my mother, but when I was little, she didn't come uh she didn't come in. My wife, when the boys were small and she had to wake them up, she'd go in and she'd go Sam, wake up, sweetie. She'd rubbed her face. Sweetie pie and rubbed her arm a little bit. They'd wake up Daniel, sweetie When I was little, my mom woke us up. She'd take her foot and kick the bed. Wake up, time to get up. And I know it was all in love and for me Well Peter's sound asleep and this angel shows up. Did you notice how the angel wakes him up? Boom! Get up! And uh smites him on the side. I mean Peter's sound asleep. And uh the light showed up and it didn't wake him up. The angel there didn't wake him up, so he smote him on the side and raised him up, saying, Arise up quickly his chains fell off. Think about this. Picture this. He's there sound asleep. The angel wakes up. He's trying to figure out what in the world? Here's this angel And all of a sudden his change just magically fall off, or not magically, miraculously fall off his hands. Would you be amazed if you that was good night? What in the world? What in the world And then the angel said to him, Gird thyself! And he put on his sandals and got some clothes on. And so he did. And he saith unto him, Cast thy garment about thee and follow me. And he went out and followed him, and wis not it was true, which was done by the angel. But he thought he saw a vision. He's thinking, I must be dreaming. What in the world? And uh then that's not it. Look at this. When they're past the first and the second ward, so they're just miraculously walking past these guards And just walking out of the prison. And then they get to this outer gate. When they were past the first, second word, they came to an iron gate. that leadeth into the city. I mean they're fixing to get out of the prison, but there's this iron gate there. An iron gate on a prison is designed to do what? Keep the prisoners in. That's the whole point. They walk up to this gate. Peter's in this fog. He doesn't know if he's dreaming or what I would imagine he's thinking, how in the world are we going to get through this gate? They're going to kill me now. Look what happens when they get to the gate. They came unto the iron gate, verse 10, that leadeth into the city. Look at this. Which opened to them of his own accord. And they went out. Agree with me? Pretty amazing. Now that's not as amazing to us now because we have these automatic doors. You know, the grocery store, you walk up, they just Do that. And uh do you hear about the one fella, um an Amish guy went into the city and um he never seen an elevator before or anything and he was with his son and they're going through the lobby of this big skyscraper and there's elevator And he saw this old lady uh go get on the elevator and she walks in and she gets in there and the doors just close by themselves It's incredible. About a minute later the thing went bing and the doors opened up and this beautiful woman came walking out. He said, Son, go get mama. That's about how confused Peter was. Everything going on. I mean this is uh uh this is just uh uh an amazing thing. Now just a quick lesson here from this. Let me just throw this out there Everything that's taken place up to this point, Peter could not have done himself He could not have gotten those iron chains off himself. It is impossible. There is no way in the world he could have gotten out of those chains There's no way in the world he could have gotten past the first ward. There's guards there. There's other prisoners. So there's no way he could have gotten past the first ward. He gets to the second ward, there's no way he could have gotten this far in the prison. They would have been all over him. Even if somehow he could have gotten out of those chains, they'd have been all over him Then when he got to the Iron Gate, these gates are designed to keep people in. They were very, the Romans were very, very good at handling prisoners. They were very brutal. Violent. And so Peter, in and of himself, could not have accomplished any of this. God did for Peter what Peter could not do for himself. Now, we're going to see here, I'm getting a little ahead of myself, but we're going to see here in a little bit. In a few moments, he's going to end up at just a door, a wooden door. And it doesn't open of itself. He's standing there, he has to knock, he has to wait. And I think there's a lesson in that for us. When I got saved back back uh 19, I was working in a meat packing plant, I think I've told you this many times. And um uh I got saved and there was another gal that worked on the floor where I worked cutting meat And then the the one of the foremen, they all got saved about the same time. Uh we all got saved, the three of us. They called us. And this is a rough crowd. In a meat pack and plant, it's a rough crowd. They were all, just about all of them were ex-cons And the others were were just cons. They weren't ex. They were and it's a rough crowd. And um the one of the fellas, uh one of the foremans that was n oh they called us three. They called us the God Squad. Anybody remember that show Mod Squad years ago? Well we were the God Squad. And I thought that was pretty cool name, but anyway One of the uh foremans was a Catholic fellow. He said to me, he he knew we got saved, so everybody talks about God once then, and uh he would say to me over and over, he says, Well, you know what the Bible says The Bible says God helps those who help themselves. And I said, well that's interesting. I didn't know. I was just newly saved. Uh uh and so I started looking for it. Uh I'm forty-six years later. I still can't find anywhere in the Bible where it says that. But I do tell I'll tell you what the Bible does say. God helps those who do what He says. Right? If I do what God says, He'll help me God will do what I can't do, but He will expect me to do what He tells me to do. And so I thought that was interesting. Like I said, there's a lot of There's a lot in this whole event that we can learn from. But I notice here the angel does all this stuff. Now we find in verse 13, we find Peter knocking at this door. Verse 13. As Peter knocked at the door of the gate, uh where the church is inside praying. Now picture this. All these believers are inside. It's the middle of the night, two o'clock in the morning, probably have some candles burning, a little bit of light coming through the windows there. And um he he he knows they're in there, and so he knocks. Now look at this at the door of the gate, a damsel came to hearken. So one of those young ladies named Rhoda She hears somebody knocking at the door, and I imagine the church is on their knees and they're praying, maybe they're spread throughout the house, and you hear this murmuring, oh God, please get saved. Peter, God, please spare his life. Oh God, work on Herod the King's heart. Turn it his Lord the King's heart is in your hand. You can turn it just like real. And I can hear the church praying all through this, murmuring, praying uh maybe a hundred people or I don't know and and they're praying and praying for Peter. They've been praying a long time. Some are weeping. They got word he's going to be killed in the morning. Oh God, please intervene. And so they hear Rhoda hears someone knocking at the door. And she goes running over there. Now look how this plays out. And uh and Peter knocked at the door, and the damsel came and hearkened, named Rhoda And when she knew Peter's voice, so apparently Peter's out there knocking, and apparently he's speaking, because she hears his voice. I've never heard someone's voice that isn't speaking Right? I mean people are glad you came to church and learned that great truth. And so Peter apparently is there, hey! Hey y'all! He's from the South. Uh You guys! Hey guys! It's me, Peter! And so Rhonda, she hears this knocking, she hears the and she goes and she It's and so she gets so excited, this poor girl, she gets so excited she forgets to open the door And she comes running back, and you can read this here. She comes there. Hey guys, guess what? We're praying. What? And uh Peter's out at the door. What? Peter, I just heard his voice, he's knocking at the door, Peter, who Peter Somebody gets up. That's impossible. It can't be Peter. He's in prison. We're praying. God gets him out. That can't be Peter. It's Peter. It ain't Peter. It is Peter. You're crazy, Rhonda. Rhoda? I might be crazy, but I'm no fool. Meanwhile, and then here's my message. Meanwhile, Peter's out there. He just keeps knocking. He just keeps knocking. Just keeps knocking. And they're in there arguing over whether it's Peter or not. And finally they say, whoever's out there is still knocking. They won't quit knocking. And so finally she goes over and opens the door, and Peter comes in, and whoa, the church is astonished. So that phrase where it says he just kept on knocking, just kept on knocking, just kept on knocking, caught my attention. I want to give you three thoughts. Number one, I noticed that he knocked patiently. It was a patient knocking. One of the great characteristics of great faith One of the characteristics of spiritual maturity is patience. Just being patient. Just being patient. How many people here would like to have more patience? I um I was uh texting I think it was Betty, I'm not sure. I was texting uh I think it was Betty Gower, if I remember, this week and just told her we were praying and uh how she was uh her health, you know, she fell and injured herself pretty seriously. And um and uh I said something. We're praying, I'm praying for you, Betty, that you heal and that God will give you patience She texts back, please don't pray, I get patience. I know how that works. Usually if you want patience, you've got to go through some trial to learn patience But if we can learn, and and this this is my thought, he just stayed there. He was patient. If we can just learn to be patient, With one another, with our certainness. Just be patient. That's a sign that we're growing in the Lord, that our faith is in God Notice I put down a few passages here that talk about patience. God instructing us to be patient. Romans 2. 7 says that we're to be patient in well-doing. In other words, just do nice things. Do what's right. Do what's kind. And just keep doing it. And just keep doing it. And just keep doing it. You say, preacher, nobody does anything kind back to me. Well, just keep on being kind. Nobody does anything good back to me. Well, just keep on doing good to them. Just be patient in well doing. I like what Jesus said. This verse struck me about five, six years ago In the Gospels, it says that Jesus made this statement. He says, I came not to be ministered unto, but to what? But to minister. He says, nobody nobody ministers back to me, nobody does anything, but I'm just going to keep on giving. I'm just going to keep on serving. I'm just going to be Keep on being uh doing right. And that's we're to be patient in well doing. Uh Romans twelve twelve says we're to be patient in tribulation Listen, when things go wrong as they sometimes will, often will, just keep on trusting God. Just keep on trusting God. In 1 Thessalonians 5. 14, it says we're to be patient toward all men. Would you agree some people are harder to be patient with than others? Well, we're told to be patient with all men. Just be patient with all men. Again, in 2 Thessalonians 3, verse 5, we're told to be pay we're to patiently wait for the coming of Christ. I agree. Jesus is coming again. Now we don't know when. I think it seems like it's very soon. But if he doesn't come very soon, we just keep on looking for him. And just keep on looking for him. I wouldn't be surprised one bit if Jesus came back this afternoon. I look at world circumstances, everything's in place, nothing has to happen. I wouldn't be a bit surprised if he doesn't come back this afternoon. But if Jesus doesn't come back this afternoon, I can get up tomorrow morning and look for him tomorrow He doesn't come back tomorrow, and we'll look for him the next day. You study these New Testament believers, you Paul and them, every single one of them expected Jesus to come back in their lifetime. They were expecting them. They were expecting them. They were expecting them. So be patient. Keep waiting. Well, I thought he'd come back by now. Yes, so did I, but that doesn't change his time frame one bit He's still coming back. So be patient. Be patient. Oh, the world makes fun of us for thinking Jesus is coming back. That's all right. Just keep waiting on him. Just keep waiting on them. In 1 Thessalonians 3. 3. Now I wasn't going to share this one, but there it says that pastors are to be patient with people. Now I just kind of skip over that part there and but uh how many people wish how many people think the pastor ought to be patient? Amen. How many how many pastors think the people ought to be patient? Yeah, Amen. Patience Just be patient. Just be patient. In 2 Timothy 2. 24 says, the servant of the Lord is to be patient. In fact, in James 5, verse 7 and 8, we're commanded, straight up commanded twice, be ye patient. So, I see Peter being very, very patient here. He's patient in the confusion of the event. In other words, did you notice there we pointed out in verse 9? Peter doesn't know what in the world is going on. He doesn't know what's happening. Am I dreaming? Is this for real? How is this going to play out? Where am I going to end up? And then, uh, as we tried to show in verse 14 and 15, the believers, the church is confused. They don't know how in the world can Peter be there. We're praying for him to get out. He can't be out. We're praying for him to get out. And all this confusion, he didn't know what was happening, he didn't know how this was going to play out, but he just stayed there and just kept on knocking, just kept on knocking. Would you agree? We live in a very confusing world, amen or not. And I'm talking to some people. You're in a situation, maybe a marriage, a home, a job, and you say, preacher, I don't know how this thing's going to play out. I'm worried. I uh I don't I don't know what tomorrow holds for me. There's a lot of Confusion, uncertainty there. I my advice to you is just keep trusting God. When I understand what God is doing, when it's clear what God is doing, I'll trust Him When I don't understand what God is doing, when I don't understand what's happening, I'm just going to keep on trusting him. And so Peter is uh in this confusion. He's being uh very, very patient. He nobody knew what was happening, but He just kept on knocking. Then, and this is a uh I thought this was interesting, there's no criticism on the part of Peter. Now think with me It's the middle of the night, he's trying to process everything that's just happened to him. And uh he comes to the door of his church folk, his people. He loves them. They love him And uh he knocks on the door and they come and they see that it's him and they don't open the door. Now think with me a minute. Peter doesn't know what's happening inside the house All he knows is Rhonda was out there, Rhoda was out there, and she uh looks through, sees him, and she goes in. He could have very easily taken offense by that. Right? He could have said, What in the world? What are they afraid that associate with me? Maybe they think the guards are coming after me and they don't want me to come in because I might uh endanger them? What what have they Befriended me or uh he could have very easily taken offense by this. And a lot of people would have. But he doesn't. He just stays right there. He just keeps on knocking. He could have stormed away in anger, but he doesn't. Uh he just keeps knocking. Um uh uh you know what he was doing? And this is this will help so much. What he was doing, he was giving them the benefit of the doubt. He didn't immediately think evil of them. Now some of us, we need to be very, very careful about that. Sometimes if somebody says or does something that doesn't quite Regist, or doesn't go the way we think. Sometimes if we're not careful, we'll immediately think evil of them. Oh here, watch out for this statement. Oh, I know why they did that Be very, very careful. You might not know why they did that. Ah, so and so said this. I know what they were trying to say. Listen, if we could just back up a little bit and have a little spiritual maturity about ourselves and give people the benefit of the doubt instead of immediately assuming that what they're doing has evil intent. We'd all get along a whole lot better. Take your Bible with me, keep your place here, and turn with me to 1 Corinthians, if you would, and chapter number 13. First Corinthians chapter 13 is the, no doubt, without debate, the greatest piece of literature on what genuine unconditional love is than ever written in all history And notice what he says. And by the way, the Bible uses the term, and I try to point this out every time we reference 1 Corinthians 13, the Bible uses the term charity. Now, I don't know, I can't answer for all of them, but I know a lot, probably most, if not all, of these false translations will translate that word love That is an incorrect translation. The word charity is not the same as just the generic term love. Charity is a very specific term. The word charity used here means unconditional love, not just the concept of it But it is the action, the display, the behavior of unconditional love. In other words, if I love my wife unconditionally, Then this is how I will treat her. We're going to see here in just a moment. If I love someone unconditionally, then this will be my behavior towards them. This will be my attitude towards them. This will be my behavior towards them. That word charity talks about the action of unconditional love. Not just the concept, and it's not even emotion, it's a decision. But it's how it behaves. It's the manifestation of it. Now look what he says here He says in verse number one, he says, Though I speak with the tongues of angels and men, and have not charity I am become as a sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal. Then he comes on down through here. Now look with me if you would at verse number four. Charity, unconditional love, this is how it's expressed. It suffereth long and is kind. Charity envieth not, Charity vaunteth not itself, isn't boast and puff itself up and promote itself. Verse 5 doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked. Now look at this next phrase. Are you with me? Look what it says. Charity thinketh no evil. Peter loved those people behind the door. People loved that church there and what they did maybe didn't make any sense to him and what they were doing, why did they not answer the door? Why in the world wouldn't they open the door and let me in? What in the world are they thinking? I'm out here. The entire Roman army is going to be looking for me any minute. Why won't they let me in? He didn't think that way at all He's patient. Just stayed at it. Just stayed at it. Gave him the benefit of the doubt. He thought no evil towards them. You know how many relationships have been destroyed because somebody didn't give somebody the benefit of the doubt? They took offense at something where no offense was even remotely suggested. They misunderstood. They misread. They misinterpreted. And they'll take it all wrong and get offended and get angry and destroy a good relationship simply because they won't give them the benefit of the doubt. I had people come to me and say, Oh uh about another church member, they say, Oh, so and so did this or said that My answer usually is, well, number one, I don't believe that happened that way, but even if it did, they certainly didn't mean to hurt you or any way. Give them the benefit of the doubt. Amen. Are you with me? Tell you, it would help a whole lot. Why do we immediately go to thinking evil? Why isn't our first thought, why isn't our first reaction, oh, I'm sure they didn't mean it that way. Oh, I'm sure they I'm I'm sure that's not the way it was. I'm sure that they misspoke. I'm sure something. And so Peter, to his credit He doesn't take offense. There's no criticism. He doesn't we have no record that he gets in the house here in the church and says, What's the matter with you? I was out there No, he gives them the benefit of the doubt. Charity thinketh no evil. It's not quick to come to some conclusion or condemnation Here's what I put down. I said too often, I wrote this down, too often, we're too quick to make judgment or give our opinion or condemn somebody before we have all the information We need to be patient. We need compassion one with another. I tell you, this whole world could use some compassion, huh? Our churches could use a little compassion, just a little patience with each other, bear up with one another, and even if they did wrong, and even if they meant wrong, listen, thank God for the mercy and grace of God. I like what Ephesians chapter 4 32, be ye kind one to another, tender hearted Forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. I tell you, that'll keep a marriage together, that'll keep a relationship together, that'll keep a church together Just being a little patient, not taking offense, giving the benefit of the doubt. So uh there's confusion going on, but Peter just patiently knocks. There's no criticism, he could have misunderstood, he Could have taken offense, but he doesn't. He just keeps knocking. And here's another thought. There's great courage on the part of Peter. Now think about this. He's in a dangerous situation He just escaped, miraculously, a maximum security prison. Now any one of those guards wakes up and sees what takes place They he is he is uh what's it called um number one uh uh uh most wanted, is that what it is? Huh? Public enemy number one. Um I mean uh that guy with the TV shows on there, this is who the FBI is looking for. I mean if they when they find out he's gone, they are after him. And they're not going to wait till the morning to kill him this time. When they find him, he's dead. Now here he is out on a public street It's the middle of the night. There's very few people out on the street. The house where he's at has lights on, no doubt. They're in there praying. There's uh uh horses and carts and donkeys all around where they parked all their stuff and uh he's knocking and uh they're not answering the door and uh he's watching and he's in a precarious situation here But he doesn't stop. He could have come and said, hey guys, it's me, Peter. They come and look and they run, woo! And he could have ran off and tried to hide somewhere, but he doesn't He just keeps knocking. He just keeps knocking. He's in a dangerous situation. He's a wanted man. Now, can I suggest to you what gave Peter such great courage? If you would, come with me again to John chapter 21. Peter had some information available to him that enabled him to not fear death. John chapter 21 and verse 18, this is after the resurrection of the Lord. Peter says, Ah, I'm going back fishing. The Lord meets them, confronts him on the shore there. You know the story. He says, Peter, do you love me? Loveest thou means. Peter says, Lord, you know I love you. Go feed my sheep. He does that three times Now look what he says in verse number 18 of John 21. Jesus speaking to Peter directly to Peter says, Verily, verily, whenever the Lord says, verily, verily, pay attention. He says, I mean it. What I'm about to tell you, Peter, is absolute truth. Pay attention. Verily, verily, I say unto you, when thou wast young, Thou girdest thyself and walkest about whither thou wouldest. Now look at this next statement. But when thou shalt be what Old, thou shalt stretch forth thy hands, and another shall gird thee, and carry thee whither thou wouldest not. He's describing his death. Peter's going to be crucified But notice when is Peter going to die? When he is what? Old. Peter's not old yet. Are you with me? So he's there out on the street, a wanted man, an escape from maximum security prison He's knocking on the door. There's nobody else on the streets, no doubt. He's in a very, very vulnerable, dangerous position, but he doesn't faze him one bit. He just stays there and keeps knocking. You know why Because he knew they weren't going to kill him, because he wasn't old yet. And the Lord promised them that he would live until he's old. Come back to Acts there, chapter 12. Everybody with me? Alright. Acts chapter 12, look again, look at verse number, and I kind of touch pointed this out before, but I want to look at again. Verse 7. And uh Herod would have brought him forth the same night. So he's in prison. He's going to be executed that next morning, we believe. And look what Peter's doing. And when Herod would have brought him forth, the same night, Peter was pacing back and forth, worried sick, because he's going to be killed the next morning. Is that what it says? Yes or no? No. And Peter was on his knees begging God to spare his life. Yes or no? No. What's Peter doing? He's sleeping. How many people, if you knew your head was going to get chopped off tomorrow morning, you'd be sound asleep that uh that night. Anybody here? I know I I I I May uh my faith isn't that great. I'd be uh oh Lord, please God have mercy. Anybody here? Oh our preacher's so brave. Oh Lord No, he's not. And uh but Peter He's sound asleep. In fact, he's so sound asleep the angel has to get up. Hey, Peter, get up! Oh You know why Peter was sleeping the night before they were planning on killing him? Because he knew they weren't going to kill him God had promised him. Jesus had promised him he wouldn't die until he's old. You know, you and I, we don't have to worry, we don't have to pray and pray and pray We don't have to be sick to our stomachs worrying about whether we're going to hell or not. If we trust Jesus Christ as Savior, we can take God at His Word. We ain't going to hell. I give unto them eternal life and they shall never perish. Here's the thing I think we have people that have sincerely trusted Christ, but they've been told that they still might could still go to hell even after they trust Christ, and they're worried about something they don't need to be worried about When I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, I'm not going to hell because I have the promise of God. Peter could sleep. He was at peace. He was courageous because he knew he wasn't going to die because Jesus said he wasn't going to. Not till he was old. And so he could just keep right on knocking. He wouldn't worry about those soldiers coming. He wouldn't worry about the the the guillotine uh he uh Jesus had promised uh he was not going to die. Ah, no indication of fear on Peter's part, no panic on Peter's part, just kept on knocking, just kept on knocking, just kept on knocking. And so, uh, if we could just learn to rest on the promises of God. Listen, if I confess my sins, God is faithful and just to what? Quit fretting over sins you've confessed. Don't let the devil keep beating you over the head and beating you over the head and beating over the head of sins you've confessed and forsaken. God has forgiven you. He's promised me of that. Forgiveness and provision. God will provide. And so I see Peter patiently knocking, and I've got to quit. Let me give you this one: his persistent knocking. The word continued, it says he continued knocking. That word continue means stay at it, persevere, keep on, keep on, just stay at it, stay at it, stay at it. He just kept knocking and knocking and knocking and knock Tinganaki Now the interesting thing is an hour earlier the angel opened the door miraculously for him. But now Rhoda won't even open the door. But he just keeps knocking, just keeps knocking, just keeps knocking. He may have said, Lord, an hour ago you opened the steel gate for me. Why in the world do I have to keep knocking here? But he just kept knocking, just kept knocking. I got thinking about that I don't know about you, but I look back at the old-time revivals the church had back a hundred years ago. Billy Sunday, how many people are familiar with the name Billy Sunday? D. L. Moody, uh John R. Rice, these great men years gone by, and how God would move in a whole city. They'd have citywide meaning And the and the liquor stores would shut down, the bars would shut down, the churches were packed full. I don't know about you, but sometimes I get thinking, Lord, those days might be gone forever You know what? I think we ought to just keep on praying for revival. Say, well, it was before God did all that before, but uh I can't even open this door now. Well just keep on knocking, just keep on knocking. You see, I've had people say, Preacher, this country ain't never gonna see revival. I don't know if our country will see revival or not But I'm just going to keep on knocking, just keep on knocking. Lord, send revival. God send revival. Lord, please send revival. God, fill the church again. God, fill it up And just keep on knocking, just keep on knocking. There's folks here you've been praying for unsaved family members for years. I want to tell you, just keep on knocking, just keep on knocking, keep on praying, keep on praying Uh Peter, uh, he just persisted and he wouldn't quit. He wouldn't quit. I know a church over in West Virginia, no I know him fairly well. And uh years ago I knew the pastor there, uh many, many years ago, and uh good man, soul winner, the church was growing, people were getting baptized, but things kind of cooled down. He told me one time I was down there, and he said to me, He said, Brother Dennis He said, folks in this town used to get saved. We've knocked on all these doors we've preached and uh folks used that but they don't want to hear it anymore. They he said, I don't even bother going out knocking on doors anymore. We don't even bother trying. We've just tried and tried and tried. And guess what? Nobody was getting saved. Nobody was coming to Christ. He moved on. Another preacher came in, a young fellow. I know him. I've preached for him. And uh he got in there. Guess what he started doing? He started going knocking on doors. He started winning souls, doing programs, reaching the loss, running buses. Guess what happened Folks started getting saved. Folks started getting saved. The problem wasn't the people didn't want to get saved. The problem was the old preacher quit knocking. He just walked away and he didn't see God do anything. What I'm trying to say is this. Let's just do right and keep on doing right and keep on doing right and keep on doing right. Say, preacher, my friend will never get saved. I say, keep on knocking. Keep witnessing to him. My child will never come back to the Lord. Keep on knocking. Keep on knocking My marriage will never be happy. You keep on praying. You keep on working at it. You keep on knocking at it. My bus route will never grow. Keep on going out, knocking on doors. Keep on working that route My sin, I'll never have victory over this sin. You keep on fighting it. Keep on fighting it. I like what Proverbs 24:16 says A just man falleth seven times and rises up again. You know what you do? You just keep getting back up and you keep getting back up and you keep getting back up and you keep getting back up and you say, Preacher, I go back and I fall the same sin again. Get back up Just keep getting up, getting up, getting up, getting up. One of these days that door will open and you'll say, Praise God, God gave me the victory. Praise God, my child came home. Praise God, my bus route's filled. Praise God, my marriage is healed. Praise God, God met that need. Just stay at it. Just stay at it. Our church will never grow. Keep on working at it. Keep on knocking. Keep on going to church. Keep on praying. Keep on doing right. Keep on witnessing. Just stay at it. Dr. Don Williams, 91 years old. We just buried him, what, three weeks ago. Faithful preacher, over 50 years, preaching the gospel all across the east coast of the United States, Maine to Florida. Indiana, Colorado, preached all over. Hundreds of thousands of people heard the gospel because of Dr. Don C. Williams. I talked to him one time. I said, Doc Did you ever have a do you ever uh have opportunity to quit, just give up and forget it? He laughed. You you could hear him laughing. He'd laugh. He'd say, uh, he goes, oh yeah, I've had a few chances just to quit But you know what he did? He just kept at it. He just kept at it. He just kept at it. And he's buried with a tremendous family. Thousands of people saved. God used them in a great way. He didn't quit. I read that in my devotions the other morning. He continued knocking. He just kept knocking, kept knocking, kept knocking, kept knocking until finally the door opens. And I asked the Lord, I got my knees. I said, Lord, help me never quit knocking. Say, preacher, people don't get saved like they used to. Well, we're going to keep on preaching the gospel. People don't believe the Bible like they used to. Well, we're going to keep on believing it. People don't do right like they used to. We're going to keep on doing right. Keep on trusting God. He kept on knocking, kept on knocking. And it was productive. People were astonished. They come out, good night. I guarantee you, that church was glad he kept on knocking. When he came in there, it was like, man, they're amazed. And I thought of this, and I'll end with this. Peter's going to lead a whole lot of more people to Christ. Thousands are going to get saved after this event. Suppose he had got a bad attitude. Suppose he said, those sorry Christians, I mean I'm in prison for all this. I finally God miracle and gets me out. And they don't have enough decency to open the door for me. They don't even care about me enough to open the door for me. I'm done with this. And think of all the people that wouldn't have been saved. I think of all the people wouldn't have been reached. But he just kept knocking. He just stayed at it, stayed at it. And I got thinking about this. This is our 32nd year. Last week we celebrated our 32nd here. So I'm being a little nostalgic, so bear with me. Be patient with me. But I got thinking back 32 years ago, and Helen was here, a couple others, there was eight people attending church Sunday mornings, a little bit. And um but I thank God for those eight people because they determined we're not letting this place go down. We're not letting this place shut down without us doing everything we can. And they prayed and they prayed, they brought Dr. Williams in. They went through a series of preachers, interviewed. Finally, I was the last one on the list. Literally, the scraping the bottom of the barrel. And I thought of all the people in the last 32 years. Now this is glory to God. You know my heart. This is glory to God. But think of all the people that have gotten saved these past 32 years that would have not been reached if they'd have shut that thing, if they'd have quit knocking 32 years ago. You with me? Think of all the lives that has been changed. I'm just looking out here at a crowd of folks, people that got saved, their lives have been changed. I'm thinking of those buses back there. All the children downstairs in the children's shirts. This and none of that. Would be going on. There'd be people died and going to hell that are now in heaven if those people would have quit knocking. What I'm trying to say is this, you've got someone that's unsaved, you're the maybe the only one that could ever win them to Christ. Don't you quit witnessing to them. Don't you quit loving your spouse. You say, you don't know what they've done. You don't know what they are. I know, but I know what I was, and God kept loving me. You keep on loving them. Keep on praying, keep on praying. You say, preacher, you don't know what my debt is. You keep on praying, you keep on working at it, keep on knocking, keep on knocking, keep on knocking. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to just stay at it. Help us not to quit. Lord, there's too much at stake. So please help us. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if there's some here this morning say, Preacher, I got a loved one that's either unsaved or they're away from God, and I've been trying to win them, and I've been praying I'm trying to be a good witness and it just seems like they're never going to come around. But you say this morning, preacher, I'm going to do what Peter did. I'm just going to keep on working at it. Keep on. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. God bless you. Don't ever give up on anyone. I wonder if there's some this morning say, Preacher, and this might be a little personal, but maybe there's some say, Preacher, I just got a struggle in my Christian life, and man, it just keeps knocking me down and knocking me down and knocking me down. I don't even think I'll ever be able to. to deal with this thing. But you say this morning I'm going to keep getting up. I'm going to keep getting up. I'm going to keep getting up. Is there any like that, preacher? Uplifted hand, pray for me. I'm just going to keep on fighting and going for it. God bless you. Hands all around Maybe there's some here this morning you say, Preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't think there's any hope for me to be saved and have my sins forgiven, have a home in heaven. I'm just doomed to go to hell I'm here to tell you that's a lie of the devil. And you can be saved. You'll come to Christ and trust Him as your Savior. Is there any here this morning? Say, preacher, pray for me. I don't want to die and go to hell. I want to know for sure I'm going to heaven You say, preacher, pray for me. Any at all like that. Any at all. Father, I pray you bless now our imitation in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes.