Daniel chapter 6, if you would notice with me, verse number 10. Daniel 6, verse 10. Evan read this. I want to tack on verse 11 for our text this morning. Verse 10 Two, that the writing was signed. That writing was, as Evan read, that they outlawed prayer to anybody other than the king And these these presidents and these governors, these princes were jealous because uh David was uh Daniel was so highly favored by the king. So they got the king, tricked him into passing this law. So when Dav Daniel heard that the writing was signed outlawing prayer He went into his house, his windows being open in his chamber toward Jerusalem, he kneeled upon his knees three times a day, and what Prayed. It's illegal. It's outlawed. By punishment, by death. And he prayed. And gave thanks before his God, as he did aforetime. Then these men assembled and found Daniel praying and making supplication before his God. Now I noticed in verse number 10, the Bible points out a little detail there that I think we overlook sometimes. It says there, it says, his windows being open in his chamber towards Jerusalem. The Bible points out that when Daniel prayed, and he did three times a day, and he'd been doing a long time. But when he prayed, he opened the window. He made sure the windows were open towards Jerusalem. So I'm entitled The Message this morning. I think you'll understand what I mean by this. Keep the windows open. Keep the windows open. Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us and challenge us this morning. Father. Thank you for all that's taken place in the house of God this morning. This is your day, Lord. This is the Lord's day. And Lord, we want to honor you on this day as our Creator. We want to honor you as our Savior. You died for our sins, rose again. God, we love you for that. Lord, we want to honor you with our lives. As we submit to your will and we listen to your word and we follow your instructions and we trust you, and Father, I ask that you would please Fill me with your Holy Spirit these next few moments. I pray it would not just be me standing up here, but I pray the Word of God would go through my lips and off my lips. And into our hearts, and that you would challenge us in this matter of prayer. Or we have some big days coming up, we have some great needs in our homes. We have great needs in our families. And so we look to you and ask you to help us to learn to pray, to see those needs met and see your will done in our lives I yield my will to you anew in this hour, as I do seek to every time I preach. I present my body anew to you. I ask that you fill me That your Holy Spirit indwelling me would now fill me and speak through me. And that when we're done here, we'd be challenged. We'd be helped. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Daniel chapter 6 gives us the account of one of the great events in all of Scripture. Probably one of the most well-known events, Daniel and the Lion's Den. You'd be hard-pressed to find anybody that attends church any length of time at all that doesn't is not at least a little bit aware of Daniel and the lion's den. It's a story of a man of great faith in God. He believed God in an impossible situation. He believed God and he trusted God It's an account of a man with great courage to stand up for that faith, unashamed, of a believer in God, unashamed. As a child of God, courage to stand in a world that hated what he stood for and outlawed what he believed in. It's a story of an account of the power of God over nature. We read in the Gospels how Jesus calmed the storm. He just spoke a word and the storm stopped. The power of our God. And to be able to take lions, these lions who were no doubt, and we're not going to get into the details of the story this morning. We're familiar with it. But no doubt these lions were starved. That was part of the procedure of casting somebody into the lion's den. They would starve them. They would torment them When his body, the whole thing was designed that whenever he was thrown into this pit, when he hit the ground, those lions were going to be all over him. And our God was able, in his infinite power, to alter the natural instincts of these wild beasts. The power of God. Faith in God, courage to stand for that faith. We have in this account of Daniel and the lion's den, we see the power of prayer How one man can get a hold of God and see God do impossible things, see God do amazing things. I want to remind you that the story of Daniel and the Lion's Den is not just a story. It is a it is an accurate inspired account of an actual historical event. I think sometimes we overlook the reality of these events in Scripture because we call them stories. Well, that's a nice Bible story. And if we're not careful, we adopt, we maybe unconsciously adopt this mentality. Well, it's a story. Like a myth or a fairy tale. It's just something long ago and far away. Reality, it's a historical account of a real man that prayed to a real God. And saw real lions, held at bay, and his life was spared. Historical account. Historical account. Now, Daniel, as we consider the man Daniel. He's one of just a handful of people in Scripture that we have no record of any failure in his life. We have no account of David doing anything he ought not to do. We have no record of any uh uh sin on Daniel's part Um and I think I'm gonna I think I'm catching myself, I'm gonna say d David sometimes. So if I say David when it's If I say David in the Lion's Den, uh, you'll know what I mean, okay? It's been a long week. It's very, very difficult. And so, Daniel We have no account of Daniel. Any sin on Daniel's part. No failure on Daniel's part. There's a handful of people in Scripture that we have no record. Of them doing anything and failing in any way. Now we go back to Noah, the great man of faith, Noah's art, and Noah failed. We have a record of Noah's getting drunk of all things. I mean people, if you didn't know anything, uh if you were just reading through the first time, would be shocked to find out Noah getting drunk. But he did. For real. We read of Abraham, the great father of our faith, one of the great men of God throughout history. And yet he lied, committed adultery with uh um uh uh Hagar We read of David, the great king of Israel, the man after God's own heart, murders one of his best soldiers, commits adultery with his wife, has a child out of wedlock. Numbers the people. Dane David, great man of God. Elijah got discouraged and fled from Jezebel and said, Oh, I wish I was dead. We read of people through Scripture, great men of God through Scripture, that had great faith and men after God's own heart, like that, yet we have a record of their failures. Peter failed God, denied the Lord. Even Apostle Paul said, That which I would, I do not, and that which I would not, I end up doing. But we look at Daniel, we have no record of any failure on his part as all. Now, I want to be quick to stop here and say this. That's not to say that Daniel was not a sinner. The Bible says, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. There are no exceptions. The only person, human being, that ever walked this planet without sin was the Lord Jesus Christ. Daniel was a sinner, just like you and I are sinners. We have no account of any particular sins he did, but he would know he was a sinner. Daniel needed forgiveness for his sins, just like I need forgiveness for my sins, and just like you need forgiveness for your sins. Daniel needed God to forgive him. The Bible is very, very clear. The worst thing that can possibly happen to a person, whether young or old. is to die in their sins unforgiven. Now this is a message that is Neglected, I believe, in many, many of our pulpits around the world, and that is this. If a person dies in their sins unforgiven, the Bible is very, very clear, they are separated from God for all eternity in a horrific place called hell. The Bible is very, very clear on that. The most important issue in your life and my life is that we know for sure that our sins are forgiven. There's only one way to have that through faith in Jesus Christ. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church cannot take your sins away. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church cannot save you from a devil's hell. Only Jesus Christ can do that. So Daniel was a sinner, just like you and I, no different. We have no account of particular sins, but we know he was. The Bible's clear. He needed forgiveness for his sins, just like you and I do. He needed to be saved from God's judgment on his sins like everyone else does. Before I go any farther in the message, if by chance you're here this morning, either online or you're in the auditorium here this morning, And you don't know for sure that your sins are forgiven. Oh, you recognize the fact that you're sinner. You know you've said and done things that displease God. You know you've broken God's law. And if that and it and if you don't know for sure that your sins are forgiven, that God is forgiven. Come in your life. Forgive your sins, giving you a new life in Christ the children. If that's not settled in your life, I plead with you this morning, get that settled. Trust Christ today. I can't save you. This church can't save you. But Jesus Christ can and he will. If you'll call on him, invite him in your heart and life and trust him as your Savior. I think God Thursday night we were in Teralta giving out gospel tracts and a couple of our ladies uh or no, Evan and his mother were uh visiting and uh lady came They're able to open their Bible, show her from the Bible how she could have her sins forgiven, all taken away, have a new life in Christ, have a home in heaven. And she bowed her head and trusted Jesus Christ as Savior Daniel was a sinner just like you and I. He needed forgiveness. He needed salvation just like you and I did. However, Daniel was an extraordinary man. He was a man of tremendous conviction. If you would turn with me quickly back to chapter 1. And notice verse number 8. Here's one of the great passages we preach on. A lot of times we preach on Daniel 1. 8 to young people, but the fact of the matter is this is for all of us. Daniel chapter 1, notice he's just taken as a prisoner of war. He's been taken as a slave. No doubt his parents had been brutally killed by the enemy. He's taken back to Babylon, scared, alone. He's got a couple buddies with him that came with him. Strange lands, strange culture, strange language. And they're trying to change him. They're trying to undercut his values. They're trying to undercut his convictions and his faith in God. And notice what it says in verse 8, but Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with a portion of the king's meat. Listen, there's a whole lot more behind that than just dietary regulations. There was a conviction that Daniel had, and he says, I'm not going to compromise my conviction before God I'm going to do right if it costs me everything. Dan was a man of great conviction. God give us some folks in 2026 that have some convictions. To do right, no matter what. Daniel was a man of great courage. He was unafraid to stand for his God. He was unafraid to kneel before God when it was illegal, when his life was on the line. He's going to trust God. He's going to stay faithful to God. And he was a man of great consistency. In chapter one, we have him as a young man. You get to the end of the book, chapter 12, he's an old man. And his testimony is consistent all the way through. From a young man to an old man, faithful to God, faithful to God, faithful to God. Standing for what is right, not compromising his convictions, trusting the Lord with all his heart, faithfully, consistently before God. Daniel is an extraordinary man. One thing we see in our account, coming back to chapter 6 here, is we, and actually throughout his life, we see it mentioned numerous times. Daniel believed in prayer. He believed in prayer. Now I'm not going to ask you to respond to this, but if I would ask and say Now don't respond, but if I would ask you and say how many people here believe in prayer, I would say most of, if not all of us, would say, Amen! I believe in prayer. Daniel not only believed in prayer, he actually prayed. He believed it and he practiced it. How's your prayer life? How's my prayer life? Do I pray? Do I believe it? Daniel did. He believed in prayer. He prayed fearlessly. We saw that there in verse number 10. Opened the windows, got on his knees, prayed to God right at right after they passed. There's a national decree, no praying or you die. He prayed. Fearlessly, he believed in prayer. He prayed faithfully. Look at come back to chapter 6 there. Look at verse 10. In the middle of the verse, it says he kneeled upon his knees three times a day and prayed. Just kept at it. Then at the end, uh he says, gave thanks before his God, as he did aforetime. This wasn't just a knee-jerk reaction to some law they passed. Oh, yeah, you say we can't pray? Well, I'm gonna pray. I heard years ago there was this fussing going on in our country, this is 20, 30 years ago, about kids praying at their graduation services. Anybody remember that it was in the news, you can't pray graduation service And then every kid that got up and spoke at their uh ceremonies, uh every one of them were told you can't pray, guess what they did? They all prayed. Somebody said the best way to get a young person to pray is tell 'em they can't Well that wasn't what David was doing. This was part of his life. This was consistent throughout his life. He prayed, he prayed, he prayed faithfully. So he prayed fearlessly, he prayed faithfully, he prayed effectively. Come over to verse 23 of chapter 6 and notice what happens. This is they throw Daniel in the line, say we know the story The king is all upset. Daniel, he comes out the next morning, comes out to the lion's den. He said, uh He says, uh the the king says uh verse twenty when he came to the den he cried, this is the king, with a lamentable voice unto Daniel And the king spake and said, O Daniel, servant of the living God, is thy God whom thou servest continually what a good testimony he had there, able to deliver thee from the lions Daniel then said Daniel unto the king, O king, live forever. My God hath sent his angel and hath shut the lion's mouths. And they have not heard me. Daniel's prayers were effective. They're effective. God answered them Fearless, faithful, affected. Now I got thinking, what was Daniel actually praying When they heard the word, all right, nobody can pray to anybody but King Darius. If you do, lions den for you. You're dead meat, you're going to die a horrible, violent, painful death, you're going to be ripped to shreds and eaten alive by a bunch of lions. So Daniel goes and prays, like he always did, but he prays. Now my question is: what was he praying Mai would imagine the reasonable thought would be he prayed that he wouldn't have to go in the lion's den, right Oh God, please spare me from the lion's sin. How many people here would pray that God would spare you from the lion's den? I would I don't want to go in there. And God could intervene. God could have done ten thousand different ways. Keep them from ever ending up in the lion's den God answered his prayer, but maybe not exactly the way he was praying. You see, God did not keep him from the lion's den God saw him through the lion's den and brought him out the other side, all parts intact. I found a lot of times God doesn't answer prayers necessarily the way I ask them, but he answers them the way he knows is best. And he's always faithful. And always see us through. God, I don't want any more trials in my life. Oh, God's going to let you go through trials, but I'll tell you this: if we trust Him, He'll see us through them, and we can come out the other side. Amen? So what a man, an extraordinary man of prayer We learn so much about prayer for him. God did not keep him from the trial, he saw him through the trial. God answered Daniel's prayers. God answered his prayer. I want God to answer my prayers. Am I speaking for anybody else here? I have some family that need God to help them. I need God to answer my prayers. I have some family that I need God to answer those prayers and help them. Can I get anybody here know what I'm talking about? I cannot afford to risk my family By me not praying in such a way that my prayers are not answered. You follow what I'm saying? There are needs in my family that that only God can meet. And I need God. To hear my prayer and answer my prayer for my family's sake. And I'm talking to people all across the audience in the same condition. Amen or not. We have material needs That only God can meet those needs, and we need God to hear us and answer us if those prayer, if those needs are going to be met. God heard Daniel and answered his prayer, not exactly perhaps the way he did it, but God saw it through. God brought it out. Family, financial needs, material needs. Our church needs God Our church needs something that only God can do for us revival And we need to be able to pray. We've got to be able to get to the place where we can pray, and God hears our prayers, and God answers our prayers. Our church desperately needs God to answer our prayers. Amen or not. We look at our world, we look at our country, the chaos, the violence, the confusion. In our society. And there's not a man in the world that has the answer There's not a person, human being in the world that can give direction and meaning and fulfillment and stability to our young people and our communities Other than the Lord Jesus Christ. And that comes in answer to prayer. In answer to prayer. David believed in prayer. David prayed. God heard his prayer. God answered his prayer. That's what I want. That's what I need in my life and in our church. And I believe there's a lot of people here who feel the exact same way I do. Amen? So, I look at Daniel's prayer, and I notice in verse number 10 a statement that I pointed out at the beginning of the message. It says there in chapter 6, verse 10, it says, Now when Daniel knew that the writing was signed, he went into his house, and his windows being open in his chamber Toward Jerusalem. His windows being opened in his chamber towards Jerusalem. I don't believe that is put there just as a random detail I think God put that statement in there for you and I to learn something about prayer and getting our prayers answered, how Daniel did. Now what was Jerusalem? Those windows are open. It says his windows being opened in his chamber toward Jerusalem. Now what was Jerusalem? It wasn't just Daniel's hometown. Jerusalem was the home of the temple of God. That's what made Jerusalem significant. The temple of God was there. The temple of God represented the presence of God. When Daniel opened his windows toward Jerusalem and he got on his knees, And he prayed in that direction. He was praying towards the building that represented the very presence of Almighty God, created this universe. God Almighty. And so he opens his windows and he prays towards Jerusalem. The very presence Representing the very presence of God. But not only did the temple with the ark in there and all, not only did that represent the presence of God, but that temple also represented promises of God. To answer prayer. When Solomon dedicated the temple, now I wanted to go to these verses, but we're already losing time. But when Solomon dedicated that temple there in Jerusalem, God had given some very specific promises to the nation of Israel. And they said, and I'm putting in my own words now, so bear with me, but he said, God said something to this effect He said, if you get away from me and you're in some foreign lands and far from God, and God stirs your heart and you seek to pray, if you will pray towards this temple I will hear you. And I will answer your prayer and I will restore you. I have no doubt in my mind. When Daniel opened those windows and he knelt facing towards Jerusalem, that he was praying For the very presence of God, and he was claiming and holding to the promises of God that he would hear and answer their prayer. The windows being opened. An open window. I think he wanted to make sure there was nothing between him and the presence of God. There was nothing between him and the promises of prayer. I want these windows open. I want direct, open, unhindered access. To the very presence of God and the promise He's given me in answering my prayer. If we're going to get our prayers answered. If we're going to have our prayers be effective, if we're going to see our families members saved, we're going to see our needs met If we're going to see our church and our homes revived, we need to keep the windows open. You follow what I'm saying? We cannot allow things to come between God and I. I cannot allow things to hinder or grieve God so that his promises aren't fulfilled in my prayer. I need to keep the windows open. My message this morning is let's make sure we have the windows open in our prayer life. By that I mean this, the window of faith. The Bible tells us to have faith in God. Have faith in God. I believe the most important factor in my prayer life Is simply having faith that God hears me, that He cares about my requests, and that He will answer me in His wisdom, in His time, and for His glory. Matthew 21, verse 22, Jesus says, All things whatsoever ye shall ask in prayer, believing ye shall receive. Hebrews 11, verse 6 said, Without faith, it is impossible to please him. James chapter 1 and verse 6 says, if any man lack wisdom, let him ask of God, who giveth to all men liberally and abradeth not, and it shall be given him. But let him ask in faith. Nothing wavering. Nothing wavering. Listen, if you don't believe God's going to answer your prayer, then just might as well mark it down. He won't. God honors faith. God answers the prayer of faith. I must keep the window of faith open. I believe the most important factor in my Christian life is my faith in God. Holding on to my faith in God. God, I trust you. God, I'm trusting you with this. I believe the most powerful factor in my spiritual life is my faith in God. I may not be very educated. I may not have much financially. I may not be very popular in the world. But if I can learn to have faith in God, I can see God answer my prayers and do great things. So keep the window of faith open. Don't lose your faith. Don't abandon your faith in God. Trust Him. Hold to him. Faith sees God answer prayer because faith is confident God keeps his promises. Window of faith. Keep that window of faith open. I put another one down. Keep the window of faithfulness open. Faithfulness. 1 Corinthians chapter 4 and verse 2. Moreover, it is required in stewards that a man be found faithful. Faithful. Daniel was faithful. I think the basis of a victorious Christian life is just being faithful. Just being, preacher, what does God want me to do? He wants you to be faithful. Faithful to your Lord. Faithful to your church. Faithful to your family. Faithful. The window of faithful. I put this down. An unfaithful Christian is an ineffective has ineffective prayers. The most effective prayer is a prayer that is faithful, unrelenting, and refuses to quit. I'm going to keep on praying. I'm going to keep on praying. I'm going to be in my place. I'm going to do what I should do. I'm going to be faithful to my Lord. I' I'm going to be faithful to my spouse. I'm going to be faithful to my church And I'm going to keep on praying and keep on praying and keep on praying and keep on praying. An unfaithful Christian is ineffectual in their prayers. Matthew chapter 7, verse 7 and 8, Jesus in the Sermon on the Mound said this. Ask and it shall be given unto you Seek and ye shall find. Knock and it shall be unto you. For every one that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and he that knocketh it shall be open unto you. And if you study that out very, very carefully, the idea behind that is He that asked and keeps on asking and keeps on asking and keeps on asking and keeps on asking and keeps on seeking and keeps on seeking and keeps on seeking and Keeps on knocking and keeps on knocking and keeps on knocking God says they seek, they ask, be given. They seek, they find. They're not, it'll be open. The idea behind all that isn't just some one time, oh Lord, do this, or for a week or two, or a month or two, or a year or two. It's unrelenting. I'm not going to quit. In Luke chapter 18, Jesus says men ought always to pray and faint not He goes on and gives the illustration of a widow that just bugged a judge out of his mind until finally says, All right, already, I'll give it to you. And he says, you just keep praying and you just keep praying and you just pre praying. Say, preacher, when should I quit praying? Never Stay at it, stay at it. When should I quit praying that my spouse gets saved? Never! When should I quit praying that my mommy and my daddy get saved? Never I thank God, and I use this too much, I say it all the time, but I thank God that I had a daddy that would not quit praying for his son. Nine years. God save my son. God save my son. And then when I did get saved, he didn't quit praying. He kept praying. God use my son. God use my son. I'm telling you, I thank God, and I'm not even close to what I ought to be on. Please don't misunderstand what I'm trying to say But what I am trying to say is, I would not be what I am if it was not for a daddy who refused to quit praying for his boy. Don't you quit praying. Don't close that window of faithfulness. You keep it open. I'm going to keep on praying. I'm going to keep on praying. Keep that window of faith open. I put this one down. Keep the window open, the window of a free heart. Now, this is what I mean by that. A heart free from sin. A clean heart. Don't let sin dwell in your heart and life. Listen, we may be hard-pressed to keep sin out of our life, and we ought to do everything we can, but when it comes in there, get rid of it. Don't tolerate it. Don't cherish it. Hate it. Confess it. Forsake it. Psalm 66, 18 says, If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. David prayed, Psalm 51, he begged God, create in me a clean heart, O God. When I ignore sin, when I ignore the sin that's in my life, I'm pulling down the window on my prayers When I cherish sin and bitterness and wickedness in my heart and mind, I'm pulling that window down on my prayers. Make sure our heart is free from sin. Free from selfishness. James 4:3 says, You ask And you receive not because you ask amiss that you can consume it upon your own lust. When I get so wrapped up in myself, it's all about me and mine I'm pulling that window down on answered prayer. Keep the window of a free heart open. I put this down, the window of forgiveness. The window of forgiveness. Mark 11, 25, Jesus says, and when ye stand praying, forgive. Forgive. Unforgiveness will hinder my prayers. Bitterness in my heart will hinder my prayers. I'm pulling down the window between God and I. Between the presence of God and the promises of God, when I allow bitterness in my heart and I won't forgive and I hold a grudge against them, God won't hear my prayers. I'm pulling the window down. And I've got family that are too dear to me, that they're worth sacrificing for some bitterness and unforgiveness in my heart towards somebody. I need God to answer my prayers. I've got to forgive. Are you with me? I've got needs. We've got a church that needs revival. And to hold on to some bitterness and unforgiveness and anger. We're pulling the window down and we don't have our prayers answered. Keep the windows open, the window of faith, the window of faithfulness, the window of a free heart, the window of forgiveness. Just forgive them. Say, preacher, you don't know what they did. You're right, I don't know what they did, but I know what we did to Jesus, and he forgave us. We can forgive one another. Then I put this down, the window of friendliness. Say, preacher, you're not preaching very friendly. I know, because we want revival, amen. But we ought to be friendly, the window of friendliness See what I mean by what do you mean by that? In Proverbs 21, 13, and again I wanted to turn to these, but the Bible says, if I don't have a concern for the needs of others, my prayer is going to be an abomination to God. I don't try and help others. I don't be friendly and kind and helpful to others. God says, I'm not going to answer your prayers. Sorry. That window's closed. Mean, hateful, unkind Christians are pulling the windows shut on prayer. 1 Peter 3:7 says, the husbands ought to be kind to their wives, or they'll hinder their prayers. I think it goes both ways. But to be kind, tender-hearted, forgiving one another. If we want God to answer our prayers Mean, hateful, unkind Christians shut up the windows of heaven. And I put down, last of all The window of full submission. The window of full submission. Proverbs 28, verse 9 says, He that turneth away his ear from hearing the law, his prayer is an abomination. Say, I don't care what God wants from me. I'm not even going to listen to what God has to say. I'm not going to listen to what He wants me to do. I'm not going to pay any attention to His will. I just want this from you, God God said that prayer is an abomination. I'm not answering that. I'm not even listening to that 1 John 5. 14, the Bible says, if we ask anything according to his will, he heareth us. I need to determine God's will and do what God's will is and then pray. And then pray. And then pray. In Luke 22, verse 42, Jesus was, excuse me, in the Garden of Gethsemane, he was about to be betrayed. He took Peter, James, and John with him. He went apart to pray himself. He took Peter, James, and John with him. He said, Come apart with me. I don't know. I got reading that the other week or so ago And I'm wondering, and I could be totally wrong on this, but I'm wondering if he didn't bring them, he knowing that the guards, the Roman soldiers are coming up after him, maybe just some little sentinels to be with him, just somebody to be around him while he prays. I don't know. But they fell asleep. They failed him completely. He begins praying in his the the Realization of what he's about to encounter, not just the physical violence, but the spiritual separation from God, which is what hell is. For all every sin that every human being ever committed is going to come on him. The shame, reproach. The judgment and condemnation for every sin ever committed is going to come upon his heart and soul himself. And begins to pray. The Bible says he sweat, as it were, great drops of blood just under pressure. I had a I worked uh in the hospital there in in Tennessee. And there and uh one of the surgeons, we were talking about this, and he said that's a literal condition. It's possible to get under such stress that your blood vessels actually rupture And the blood mixes in with your sweat glands, and you sweat blood. And in that prayer, knowing what he was facing, In that garden, knowing what he's facing, he prayed. He says, Abba Father, all things are possible unto you. If it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Lord, if there's any other way to save a soul from hell, if there's any other way to forgive, provide forgiveness of sins, if there's any other way. And then he prayed, I believe, the most powerful prayer that's ever been prayed. He said, nevertheless. Not my will, but thy will be done. God's will was done. And by the way, thank God for that. I have eternal life because God's will was done. That garden that night, on that cross. Here's my message, and I'll end. Let's keep the windows open. The need is too great for us to forfeit our access to God. Our church and our young people are too important for us to close the windows on prayer. Trust God, get our hearts right, be kind, do right, believe God, stay at it and stay at it and stay at it. And keep the windows open. Amen. Father, I ask you'd help us to pray. I pray you'd take these words. Just felt like I stumbled a little bit, Lord, but I pray. That you'd see our hearts. And God, I know you know what our needs are. And I ask your Holy Spirit would help those of us that know you as Savior. To make sure those windows stay open and not allow anything to come between you and us. Not allow anything to hinder the power of answered prayer that's available. I ask you'd help us. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would along with me say, preacher, I've got some family, I got some material needs. Lord spirits of my church. I love my church. You say, preacher, I need God to hear my prayers. I need God to do a work. Is there any like that? The uplifted hand. Anybody can relate to what I'm trying to say this morning Maybe we can come to an old altar and just say, Lord, I want the windows open. I don't want to shut any of them on you. I want my heart and my mind and my life. To be in tune with you so you can hear and answer and meet needs. Father, bless our imitation now. Before I finish the prayer with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if there's some would say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know that God has forgiven me and I can spend eternity with the Lord, have a new life here on earth. Is there anything like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me I don't know for sure I'm saved. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know the Lord. Any at all? Father, bless our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together.