I was looking for the microphone and it was on me. 1 Peter chapter number 1, and uh we're going to begin reading in verse number 3. It's in the doctor's office the other day and uh you know it's ever you could hear the people next in the next room. Do you ever get that? It's kind of embarrassing sometimes. You could hear and this guy's talking to the doctor and he doctor he said uh I I was listening, I thought, what in the world? He said, um, I doc I can't stop telling airport jokes. The doctor said, uh, well, that's obviously a terminal condition. And so Are you there? First Peter chapter one, verse number three. I'm gonna read verse three, four. And I want us to read together verse number 5. All right? If you got it there, I'm going to read verse 3 and 4. You follow along. Then we get to verse 5. We'll all read that together. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead To an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled, and that fadeth not away. Now I like this next phrase. We preached on this last week. Reserved in heaven for you Now, verse number five. Let's read it all together. Ready? Begin. Who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. kept by the power of God. Let's pray and ask the Lord to uh speak to our hearts and challenge us. Father, we are grateful for a very good day. Good testimonies tonight, what you're doing in our lives and things we're rejoicing in. My heart is full this evening as we finish out your day, Lord's day. And as we look forward now to the New Work Week, I pray that you would use your word and all that's transpired here in the last hours. And prepare us to be a good witness and to serve you faithfully. I ask, Lord, as it's prayed earlier, that you fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body anew and yield my will. And I pray, Lord, it would be you through your Holy Spirit speaking through me Each of our open hearts and minds. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Kathy and I were married on February 14th, Valentine's Day. 1987, one of the smartest things I ever did, got married on Valentine's Day, and never forget our anniversary. It's advertised everywhere We had gone about a month or so before our wedding, uh uh the beginning of the year, we went up to we were living in Chattanooga at the time. I'd finished schooling and We went up to Pigeon Forge and we reserved a room in a honeymoon motel type thing. Anybody know one of those ones just designed for honeymooners. And uh, I mean it was fancy. It had a fireplace there in the in the um uh in the room itself, a fireplace right there. had a heart-shaped bed, had a um uh heart-shaped swimming pool. I mean ooh la la it was something We got talking and we got reservations all there. We picked it out and I said I want something nice and uh we got it all picked out and we said now we reserve this. This is the day, it'll be a little later in the evening. We're getting married in Chattanooga, we gotta drive up here. And um uh we want this reserved for us. We want you to keep it for us. They said, oh, you got it, it's reserved, it's yours We had the wedding. We did the Bible time booster cheer at our wedding, and we just had a big time. And so finally we got changed and we headed up the interstate up to Pigeon Forge. And we got there and we walked in and I'm so excited. My bride's here. And I said, we have reservations. Dennis Leatherman, we have reservations. And she looked and looked. She goes, we don't have nothing here for that. I said, well you're mistaken. Somewhere it's there. We were just up here not long ago and and uh she goes, I'm sorry. And they went through, brought the manager out, went through said, we don't have anything. It is book solid. This is Valentine's uh weekend and uh we don't have anything for you at all. I said, I know how you guys do it. You got a secret room you hold back. You know you always keep one back. You always say that and you got one. They said, no, we nothing. We don't have anything. I couldn't believe it. So we drove up the r h interstate and and just found a place and uh went on. I said all that to say this. No believer ever is going to arrive in heaven and God say, oh, I'm sorry, we don't have a place for you here. When God says we have reserved inheritance in heaven, you can mark it down. When we show up, it's going to be there. It's going to be there. Peter's writing to these young believers, and uh they're being persecuted intensely. We notice that in the first couple verses and we're going to see that as we work our way through this book. These are young believers that are being severely persecuted for their faith in Christ. God's changed their lives. They have new values. They have new priorities. They have a new worldview than what they had before they trusted Christ. And they no longer fit in the world. In fact, if you remember, is it verse number uh uh uh two, I think, there he refers to them as, maybe it's verse one, he refers to them as strangers Pilgrims, not part of this world, not citizens of this world, but citizens of a heavenly country, a new world. And they just didn't fit in, and people turned against them, their families and their communities turned against them. Many of them were uh suffered physically persecution and uh some gave their lives You know, things in the world have not changed that much. Believers are still misfits in this old world. We just don't fit in. Anybody here, I don't know how you are, but the longer I'm saved, the older I get, the longer I've walked with the Lord, the the more I feel like I don't fit in around here. Anybody know what I'm talking about? This world is still our spiritual enemy as a believer. We have three enemies, the world, the flesh, and the devil. And this world hasn't changed. And much of the attitudes that these New Testament believers that Peter was addressing here Much of the attitudes that the world had towards them then are still in place today in our day and age. We still live in a world that rejects God's word and God's values and God's people in a lot of ways. Now we've been a bit of an exception here in America, and there's a few countries around the world where it's a bit of an exception where uh Christianity and historically has been respected and churches and God's people have been respected to some extent, but The world at large hasn't changed very much. Jesus said in John chapter 15 and verse 20, he said, the servant is not greater than his Lord. And then he said this, if they have persecuted me, they will persecute you. Someone asked one time, they said, What would this world do if Jesus uh was born today if he'd have showed up today rather than two thousand years ago. And the answer was the same thing they did to him two thousand years ago World hasn't changed that much. I like verses 3 through 5, and my subject tonight is one of my favorite subjects to preach on. There's some subjects in the Bible I do not enjoy preaching on. I do it simply because the Lord instructs me to. I don't like preaching on hell I don't like preaching on the Great White Throne and the Lake of Fire. I don't like those subjects, but they're true. I don't like preaching on them any more than a doctor likes telling a patient you have terminal cancer. But nevertheless, it's required. Integrity and honesty requires that. And there's some subjects I like preaching on, and what I'm preaching on tonight I very much enjoy Spurgeon. I was looking at what Spurgeon said about this passage, and uh he referred to these these opening verses here in 1 Peter as strings on a pearl I'm sorry, let me take that back. Pearls on a string. And he went down, he listed these different pearls, so to speak, on this The first one, and again, we've preached on these, but the first one in verse 3 was the pearl of abundant mercy. God has and is has been and is now very merciful to us The second pearl he pointed out was again from verse 3, the new life, eternal life, being, he says there being, hath begotten us again. We're born again with a new life. How many folks here have been born again? You know it. Say amen. God's given us a new life, eternal life. The next pearl he mentioned was the lively hope, and we preached on that an enthusiastic confidence that God has accepted me, and I stand redeemed in his eyes. I stand accepted. And I have access to the Lord and to heaven. The next pearl he mentioned was the risen Savior again in verse number three. We serve a risen Savior. We don't serve some dead God. We don't serve some dry doctrinal list, some dry creed. We serve a living Savior. Salvation is not a religion, it is a relationship with a living God. Praise the Lord for that. Then he said the other pearl in this lit this string is we have an incorruptible inheritance, and we preached on that last week. We have an inheritance reserved in heaven for us. And then he mentioned, and this is what I want to get to tonight, was an indestructible security. Verse number five, who are kept by the power of God. Through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. Peter was assuring these young believers that are lost their jobs, some of them lost their families, some of them Some of these young believers were mothers with uh children who the daddy was killed and and martyred because of his faith. Some of them are children whose parents were killed because of their faith Some of them are parents who uh children were killed because of their faith in Christ. Some of them lost their jobs, their families turned against them. And Peter's writing to them under the inspiration of God, and he's trying to give them some hope, some assurance, some uh lively hope that what they were going through God would not fail them or forsake them. He's assuring us, through the inspired word of God, that our seats in heaven are reserved. I don't hesitate one moment to make the statement if a person is saved, they are guaranteed a place in heaven. It's not a hope-so, think so, maybe so, maybe I'll get there. I hope I'll get there. If I hang out, I'll get there. No, that is not the Bible. Bible is reserved. In heaven for you. I put it this way, I kind of like this statement. Our seats in heaven are preserved Our seats in heaven are reserved, and our soul on earth is preserved. And that's what he's talking about here. Two things we're going to notice in our study of this book. First of all, two things believers can be sure of as we study this book. One is There's suffering here on earth. How many people have been alive long enough to find out you can't get through this life without some hard times? Can't do it. I want to suggest this. You can't live the Christian life, live for God, out and out for God, without facing some opposition. I'm talking to some folks, you faced opposition from family members. Give you a hard time because you got saved. We have we've had folks in our church got saved and their spouse kicked them out of the house. Say, I didn't I didn't marry no fundamental fanatic and kick them out of their house because of their faith in Christ. We've worked with young people over the years, get saved, want to live for God and parents turn on them. That's not the way I'm raising you. You can't live for God, be out and out for God without facing some sort of opposition So we can be sure of suffering here on earth, and another thing we can be sure of, and that is the security of our salvation The security of our salvation. I want us to notice a few things just quickly. I love this. I could speak on this so much we could do a series for years. On the assurance of our salvation, the security of our salvation. I want us to notice number one, in verse number five, I want us to notice our protection, the protection of our salvation There's a key word there in verse number five. Who are, what's that word? Kept. I circled that in my Bible. That's an important word. Who are kept. I got looking up that word kept. I like to do word studies. I like to see what it the di dictionary definition. I like to see how it's used other places in the Bible. Sometimes I got some resources I can find out how it was used outside of Scripture and the culture back then. And all that gives you insight into what the meaning there is And I did a little study on this word kept. I found this out. The word kept there is a military term. It's only translated four times in our Bible. That word comes from kept four times in our Bible. It means it has this idea. Again, it's a military term, and it has this idea to protect someone or something by a military guard It means to preserve or secure something again with the might, with the power of a military military. Another definition I found was this. To be kept in custody. Tom knows about that. He works now at the jail. They have people in custody. They are secured there. Did anybody escape on your watch? You did. You've got out but oh uh Kept by the power of God. Our salvation is protected. It is secured. Take your Bible, if you would, and we're going to see how this is used in the book of 2 Corinthians. Come back there if you would. Just quickly, I want you to see this. Paul is testifying how he, when he first got saved, he faced opposition and persecution. They were going to try and kill him. 2 Corinthians chapter 11. And towards the end of the chapter, verse number thirty-two Verse 30, he he's talking about different things he went through leading up there to verse 30. He says, If I much needs glory I will glory in the things which concern my infirmities, the trials, difficulties I faced as a Christian, and he faced them. The God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which is blessed forevermore, knoweth that I lie not Now look what he says in verse 32. In Damascus, the governor under Artis, the king, kept the city of the the the Massa the Massines with a what A garrison desirous to apprehend me. And through a window in a base in a basket I was let down by the wall and escaped his hands. Now, picture in your mind what Paul is describing here. This was an event, he was newly saved, he was preaching Christ, the people turned against him for that. And uh the governor puts this garrison around the town, this little town where Paul was staying, he puts a garrison up around it. Now talk to me a little bit tonight. What is a garrison? How would you describe a garrison? Anyone have an idea? What uh what's what's that? A lot of military people. In other words, what he did here was is he took the military, a squadron or whatever, who knows. And he positioned these fellows all around this city to make sure that Paul did not get out. Paul was a wanted man. He was a hated man. And the authority, the most powerful authority in that city, ordered the military to put this garrison around the city to keep Paul in there, to keep him from getting out. That word garrison is the exact same word as the word kept in 1 Peter 1 and verse 5. We are garrisoned in. We are secured. We are kept in custody, so to speak Jesus referenced this in John chapter 10. He made this statement to his disciples. He says um uh he he said uh um he says I give unto them eternal life. Well let's turn there. I give unto them eternal life and neither shall never perish. Turn with me to John chapter 10, would you? In fact, you might want to consider in the margin of 1 Peter 1. 5, writing that reference down, John 10, 28 and 29. He says in verse 28, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. That's a good statement right there. I'll give you a chance to get there. Are you there? John chapter 10, look at verse 28. I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. Now look at his next statement. Neither shall any man pluck them where? Out of my hand What he's saying is, he says, a person that receives Jesus Christ, the person that God gives eternal life to, they will never perish. Question: When is never? It's not going to happen. It will never perish. Then he adds this on to reinforce the truth he's making. Neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. They are, I am in his hand. Can I put it this way? We are garrisoned. In the hand of God. We are kept. His hand surrounds us. No man, uh give them the eternal life, they surround, and no man can pluck them out of my hand. You're here tonight and you're saved. You're scripturally saved. You trusted Jesus Christ. God says you will never perish and nobody can pluck you out of his hand. You are garrisoned in his hand. You are kept In his hand. You are secured, surrounded by the hand of God by salvation. Wow. Then goes on. Look at verse 29. My Father, which gave them me, is greater than all. Look at this. And no man is able to pluck them what? Out of my father's hand, I got my little pocket knife here. This is the believer. Jesus says, You'll never perish. You've trusted me as Savior, I give you eternal life. I've never talked to a knife before. I give you eternal life. You're never going to perish. No man can pluck you out of my hand. You are secured, you are garrisoned in my hand. Then he says verse 29, my father is greater than all. And no man can pluck them out of my Father's hand. Not just the hand of God the Son, but God the Father. And I'm telling you, the devil in hell can't bust open God's hand. We are kept. We are preserved, garrisoned in as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, secure Secure. Uh Curtis Hudson was uh he was out sold when he said I heard him say this years ago, he said he was out s he uh go sold one Thursday night And he got a call from a fellow says uh from another church, he said uh not part of his church, said, Can you come over and uh I just have some questions for you, I want to talk about the Lord. And he thought, Oh, this guy needs to be saved So he said, I'll be over Thursday night, gave the time, got the address, showed up. The guy answered the door, he's in a suit. And by the minute, stepped in, here's four other guys in a suit. And uh uh he says, uh what's going on? He says, well, we want to talk to you about this matter of eternal security. Once saved, always saved. And he said, Oh brother. And he realized he got sucked into just a big argument is what they wanted to do. So they got talking and different things and heard his husband said he took them to this passage right here I just read No man is able to pluck them out of my hand, no is able to pluck them out of my father's hand. And he says, uh, according to that verse there, nobody in the world, nobody can pluck you out of God's hand. And the guy said this, oh yeah, but I can pluck myself out of God's hand He said, are you a man? He said, yeah. He says, that says no man is able to pluck you out of my hand. And so Peter here is making a statement that is taught throughout Scripture that Jesus very clearly emphasized, he is very clearly taught. That we are pro- Our salvation is protected, it is kept, it is preserved, it is secured, it is held in custody by none other than God Himself. My salvation is secure. The only assurance we have of heaven is God's promise to keep us saved. God's promise to keep us safe. Now I want to stop here real quickly and point this out. And this is where the hackles go up sometimes. Ah so you're saying that we have a license to sin? Negative That's not what we're saying at all. You won't find the idea of having a license to sin anywhere in the Bible whatsoever. God hates sin. God condemns sin. God judges sin. Nowhere, you'll never find the concept that a holy God gives anybody a license to sin. That does not exist. But what we are is we are secure in our salvation. You say, what if somebody gets saved? What if somebody trusts Christ and they're secure? They're kept. And they go and sin and they start sinning. Well, there's more to salvation than just one aspect. When a person gets saved, we are born into the family of God, we become a child of God. And our God is a very, very good father. How many people here ever heard of a good father that gave his kids a license to disobey. Now some bad fathers do that. I can I can take you to home Not far from here. I know the folks. I could take you to home. A daddy and his daughter go out and stand on the front porch, smoke cigarettes together. High school daughter. I don't know about you, and I'm not trying to be judgmental. I'll just say that's not good fatherhood. I could take you to homes where dad and the kids smoked dope together. Mom and the kids drink. I could take we could take you to home where uh mom and dad let the girl sleep with the boy, 14 years old, sleep back in the bedroom in their house. He just stays there and whatever. That's a license to sin. Our God doesn't do that. Our God. What does a good father, if a kid does something, disobeys, living in disobedience, What does a good father do when his child disobeys, when his child sins? He corrects them. He chastens them is the Bible term. And we don't have time, I spent more time on this than I initially wanted to, but I want to urge you to read Hebrews chapter 12. There it says that God, because of his love, he loves us and he chastens us, his children, when we sin. And then he makes, and I point this out all the time. He makes a very, very strong, uncomfortable statement. He says, if you don't experience the chastening of God as a if you claim to be a child of God and you live in sin and there's no chastisement, listen, he says you are aster. That's an illegitimate child. He's saying your claim to be a child of God is illegitimate. Does God give a license to sin? No His child sins he lovingly and in his wisdom he chastens and corrects and brings them back. Oh, they may be out for a while, they may be a prodigal, like some of our people were here the last week or so out camping. But he always brings them back. He brings them back. He chastens. He corrects. How many people here know what I mean by the chastening hand of God? Someday I think I might have someday I'd like to preach a message on God's woodshed. So he says we're kept, we're preserved, we're protected, we're secured. And uh I'm not going to get through this. Let me give you the second one here. Notice the power that protects us. Come back there to Peter. Who are kept by our own power. Nah, it's not what it says. We are kept by our own goodness. No, no. We are kept by living holy. No. We are kept by our own perseverance. We just hang in there and hold on. Doesn't say that at all. We are kept by what? The power of God. We are kept by. That's what keeps us. The power of God. The word power there means what you'd think it would mean, straight. And ability. That word power is translated from the same word our English word dynamite is translated from. The power of God is what keeps us. The assurance and security of my salvation rests solely upon the promise and the power of God Himself. I am not saved because of my abilities to live a certain level of Christian life. I am not secure. I do not get to heaven because of my power, my ability to live a certain level of a Christian life, then yes, you'll make it into heaven. I am saved and I am kept saved by the power of God. We don't save ourselves and we don't keep ourselves saved. You say, oh yeah, we got oh I got saved. No, you didn't save yourself. All you did was receive the gift. Men? Just receive the gift. By faith, I put my faith and trust in Christ, and then he keeps us. Number three, I want us to notice, and I'll jump down through these. I notice the promptings of this protection. First, we're kept, we're kept by the power of God, but then he says this through faith. Unto salvation. Through faith. That word through has this idea by reason of, on account of In other words, he's saying this here. He's saying, we are kept, we are secured, our salvation is secured, it cannot be lost, it cannot fail. Because of the power of God, we are kept by His power to keep us saved, and that is through or on account of the result of our faith unto salvation. This is what he's saying. He is saying it's our free will to put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ as our personal Savior that secures this This protection, this uh assurance that secures this uh this this keeping of the power of God. Am I making sense? You follow what I'm saying My faith in Christ is what prompts him to save me and secure me. The moment I put my faith in Jesus Christ, my eternal destiny is secured. May 7, 1979, approximately 10:30 at night, I knelt by my bed, and with a sincere, desperate heart, I called out on God to forgive me of my sin and take my sin away and make me what he would have me to be. And that very moment my eternal destiny was placed in his hands, no longer, my hands are off of it. My eternal destiny, where I end up, is in the hands of Jesus Christ. And he says, I will keep it by my power to that heaven that's reserved, that place in heaven reserved for you. What a tremendous truth. It's placed in Jesus' hand. The moment I trust Jesus Christ my Savior, Jesus takes responsibility for my ultimate salvation. It's in his hands. Preacher, are you saved? Yeah, I know I'm saved. Yeah. You know for sure you're going to heaven. Yeah, absolutely. Could you lose it? No. There's no way in the world. Oh, you think you're something. You're sure you're going to heaven because you're a preacher. No. I ain't going to heaven because I'm a preacher or because anything else of me. Going to heaven because my eternal destiny was placed in the hands of Jesus Christ way back on that Monday night when I called on him. Have mercy on me and forgive me and save me. My soul's destiny is placed in his hand. I can rest secured. I really appreciate Mabel's testimony tonight. When she said that I thought, bingo. It's exactly what we're talking about. These Christians are being persecuted. Some of them their their mother, father were killed. Some of them, their husband, wife, maybe beheaded. They lost their jobs, their homes, they have nothing. They're being pushed out all through Asia Minor there. They're trying to be a witness and they're trying to and Peter writes to them. And he starts right off from the beginning. He says, listen, this isn't your home. You're strangers in this world. We're just passing through. And he assures them, listen, when you trusted Christ, Every eternal destiny is in the hands of Jesus Christ. There's nothing this world can do to you to take away your salvation. There's nothing you and I can do to take away our salvation. It's in the hands of Christ. We are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation. There's one more thought here real quickly and he makes this statement. He says that the last part, ready to be revealed in the last time. I put it this way: that's the perfection of our protection. By perfection, I mean this: the completion of it, unto salvation, unto the fullness of our salvation. The moment I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, I'm secure. I'm in the hands of Christ. But wait a minute. Not every aspect of my being has been fully saved yet. Somebody stood up in testimony one time and says, uh not in my not here I read of this, stood up in testimony and says, I thank God I'm completely saved. Well, in a sense that's true, but not completely How many people hear your body's saved? Not yet, hardly. I looked in the mirror. Oh boy. This thing ain't saved yet. Our souls saved, our eternal sins are forgiven, our acceptance to God is established and kept secure, that can never change, it's in the hands of Jesus Christ. But brother, there's a lot of things about me that uh still need the so still need things and there's a day coming. This is where you if you're press if you were if this is if you were down south you'd start shouting right about here There's a day coming when this whole body is going to be everything God intends for it to be. Last May, I started feeling it right down here. inside of my knee. And it just and I want I'm trying to get sympathy. And I'm telling you, it just got worse and worse. And at height yesterday, I come walking from the office. I was like, mmm, mmm. Happy said, you're limpy An arthritis. I went to the doctor and the doctor x-rayed and everything and she said, I said, what is it, a tumor? Something terrible. She goes, hey, you got mild arthritis. So what do we do? She said, suck it up, buttercup. Said, seriously? I gotta live like this the rest of my life? She goes, well, I love you too. Hey, but there's coming a day. Coming a day. And this whole body's gonna be saved And until that point, God has kept us. He's preserved us. He keeps us by his power. Paul and I was walking with Paul out to the car. He's waiting for the bus to get back. And he said, he said, Pastor, I learned something. I said, what's that? I can't do all the things I used to could do. And we got talking and we said, you know, there's coming a day. This old body will be everything it should be again. What a wonderful day. Peter says, Hey, they're chopping your heads off, they're putting you in prison, they're running you off, they're torturing you. Because of your faith in Christ, because of your commitment to Jesus Christ, listen, you trust God, it's okay. Your salvation is in his hands. You're secure. There's coming a day at the end time All this will be behind. And we'll be everything God wants us to be. Saved. Every time so much I could like to say about this, I've got to quit. Every time that the reference being saved, it's always past tense. Do you ever notice that? Saved, saved, saved. Not hopefully, might be, going to be, but saved. Now this, I'm going to try and illustrate. I hope this works. We're at Deep Creek Lake. Somebody's out on the boat. Run by is a young young man sitting on the back of the boat. And they're racing by the the state park there, and they hit a wave, and it slings the young man up in the air. And he lands in the water, and the boat doesn't know that he got thrown off, and they keep racing up the lake. The boy can't swim, and he doesn't have a life preserver Life jacket. And he is frantic. He is drowning. He is going to die. And just off there at the beach, he sees a lifeguard, expert swimmer. And he cries out, help save me! Lifeguard hears that, spots him. Boom, he's in the water. Boom, boom, boom. He gets out there. He grabs that young man drowning. He gets a hold of him, he's got an arm under him. He starts making his way back. They go about five, six yards. And the lefeguard looks around, sees who it is. Oh, I know you. You're a jerk. And he lets go and goes swimming back. Let me ask you a question. Was that boy saved? At any point in time was he saved? No. At no point in time was he saved. He's got him. Let's back up. He's got him. He's swimming along. All of a sudden the lifeguard gets a cramp in his leg. Ah, I can't swim. And he goes down. At any point in time, could we say that boy was saved? No, he wasn't saved. You can't say that boy's saved until he's on shore. Then you can say the boy saved from drowning. You and I are sinners We're on our way to hell. There's nothing we can do. We can't be good enough. We can't do anything to earn God's acceptance. And we cry out, Jesus, save me, help, save me. Jesus comes and he saves us. And he takes us in his hand. And when I'm in the hands of Jesus Christ, I can say, at any point between now and heaven, I can say, I am. Saved. Why? Because Jesus never fails. He says, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. He that cometh to me, who I will now wise cast out. You will never perish, neither can any man pluck you out of my hand, and my father is greater than all, and neither can he pluck him out of my father's hand. And even though I'm not in heaven yet, I can stand here, and you, if you know Christ, can stand here and we can say, Yes, I am saved. Past tense finished. Because it's in the hands of Christ and kept by his power. Now that'll make a Presbyterian shout right there. And it might make some Northern Baptist shout. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to rejoice in this. Lord, help us not to be foolish enough to presume on it if we're living in sin. There's going to bring issues. God doesn't do that. We know that, Lord. So help us if there is sin in our life, if there is something there. And you're working on our hearts, and Lord, and you're chastening and correcting and convicting. I pray you'd help each one of us to submit to that and yield to that and confess and forsake and repent of that sin. So that your chastening hand can be removed. Lord, by chance, if there's someone, there's never any conviction, never any chastisement, never anything at all. Just live in sin and find with it. Something's seriously wrong, Lord. I pray you'd help us to address that. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I'm saved? I know I'm saved. And I want to have that peace that even when I go to a doctor, maybe a bad report, even though things start me falling around, people are giving me a hard time, I can still have that peace. and confidence in my heart that I'm accepted of God and that will never change. Is there anything like that, preacher? I want that peace that comes with that. That assurance. Now many of us no doubt already have that. I trust you do. But if not, take God at His word. Trust His promises. Rest in the palm of His hand. Maybe there's some here tonight say, preacher, I know someone that's not saved. I'm very concerned for them. Maybe you say, I know a Christian or somebody or somebody claims to be a Christian or living in terrible, terrible sin. I'm concerned for them. You'd say, preacher, pray with me. They would get that settled, get it cleared up, or maybe I could be a good witness. Anybody like that, I know someone. I'm very concerned for them. I'm very concerned. Might be a child, might be a spouse, co-worker, friend, neighbor. There's someone here night and say, preacher, I don't have that assurance that my sins are forgiven on my way to heaven. I hope, I'd like to, I'm more, I don't know God wants to settle that in your heart. Is there anything like that? Preacher, pray for me. I need to get that settled. I need to get that settled. Any at all? God bless you. Father in heaven, bless now our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name, amen.