Emuel, if you would, turn in your Bibles. First Samuel chapter eighteen. Goliath is dead And whole phase that chapter's over, we're at coming up on a new chapter on David's experience and his road to the throne How many people, while you're finding 1 Samuel 18, how many folks, uh, we're a lot of us are here, uh uh you wouldn't be described us as kids. Um, how many look back over your life and you see there were different stages in your life as you went through life? Anyone know what I'm talking about? Of course you have the childhood stage, that's very obvious, and then the teen stage, and then young adult. But I was thinking even about our Christian life. There are stages in our Christian life that we go through. And um as we're studying the life of David, I just kind of backed up this past week or so and just kind of backed up from the life of David and looked at his the entire record. of David's life and I see um different stages there. I got one. Um Almost forgot about this. But I see different stages through David. Of course he was uh not too long ago in our record here, he was anointed to be king of Israel. Saul had forsaken his responsibilities and uh God had removed his spirit, his blessings from uh Solomon or Saul, and so then God anointed David in his place. So that was one stage where he's going just being an unknown shepherd boy that loved the Lord, was very faithful to the Lord, no doubt, obviously. But uh now he is anointed king of Israel. How many people agree with me? That would be a turning point in life. Anticipate the rest of your life I'm going to be a shepherd, take care of cattle or whatever, probably what I'm going to be. And then lo and behold, the preacher shows up, the prophet shows up, your anointed king. That changes your whole outlook, your whole perspective on life. So that was a key point, obviously, in David's life. Now we're in this stage, and I mentioned it several times going through here, and it's continuing Now we're in a stage of David's life where God is preparing him to take the throne He doesn't just go a young boy, anointed king, boom, right on the throne. He doesn't do that. It takes a number of years. It takes a significant passage of time and experiences For David to be prepared to take on that responsibility. Now remember, we're talking about, we're studying the life of the greatest king that ever sat on a throne in Israel And only one greater, of course, is going to be the Lord Jesus Christ. And you know, we mentioned this, I think it was Sunday sometime, we mentioned that Jesus is referred to as a number of times as the Son of David. And it says that Jesus is going to sit on the throne of David. And so David is going to be a a very, very significant king, and you know, the greatest king that ever sat on the throne in Israel. Um and so that just doesn't happen That doesn't, you know, it's not just poof, all of a sudden you're a great man, you're a great king. There's a tremendous amount of um preparation. and trials and grooming and mentoring is going to take place for him to get there. So I said all that to say this. We're in the midst of that phase of his life Where he is being prepared for this tremendous role he's going to play in the nation of Israel and really in the history of God's people. And so he's in this midst of this period. So let's look, 1 Samuel chapter 18, and I want to read down through verse 4. We're not going to get to all of these verses. I'll give you my little outline of it But we'll probably only get to the first verse or two. Look at verse 1. It says, And it came to pass when he had made an end of speaking unto Saul. Question, what was he talking to Saul about? Alright, probably whose son he was and explaining that and probably uh about killing Goliath and all that. We're we're not told. But he kills Goliath, he's brought into Saul's presence, and they have they're having some sort of conversation. And look what happens. And when he made an end of when he made an end of speaking unto Saul, that the soul of Jonathan Was knit with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul. And Saul took him that day, David, and would let him go no more home to his father's house. Then Jonathan and David made a covenant because he loved him as his own soul, and Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him and gave it to David. Very significant And his garments, even to his sword and his bow and to his girdle. I've entitled this section a phrase that maybe you're familiar with. I think people use it, my wife and I use it a good bit. Kindred spirits. How many people have ever used that term? Kindred spirits. Anybody? How many folks have ever heard that term? Kindred spirits. I think that's exactly what we see right here. We see some kindred spirits. So let's pray, and I'll share some thoughts with you tonight. Father in heaven. I thank you so much for David and Lord how my heart has been blessed and challenged through studying the life of this man And God, I pray that you would help all of us, myself included, to glean from Him and His example, His testimony. to be a better Christian on our part, that we could emulate some of these characteristics and learn from his experiences. Lord, teach us. I pray that your Holy Spirit would fill me and speak through me, Lord. And teach us, Lord, what we need to be for our day and age from the life of David. So please bless now, I pray, in Jesus' name, amen. As I said, David is being groomed. He's being prepared to serve God as King of Israel. And I got, again, I was looking at David's life here, and I jotted a few thoughts down along these lines. Uh sometimes spiritual development. How many people here have been saved uh let's say five years or more? Anybody five years or more, ten, fifteen, twenty, twenty-five Give me thirty, thirty-five, forty. I'll be forty in May. That was years ago that I got saved. That doesn't even seem realistic. But you look back, as I was trying to say before, and we see how God worked in our lives. And I want you to do a little looking back over your Christian life. And how God prepared. And sometimes God, when He's developing us, when God's working in our life to conform us to the image of Christ, Maybe he's preparing us for a specific ministry or a role we play in the church's growth and the getting the gospel out Sometimes that development, that work that God is doing, sometimes it's very pleasant and exciting. I look back over my life as a Christian. I see some periods of time in my Christian life where it was just downright exciting. Uh I'm thinking uh for me, uh my years in Bible college were just such a thrill. I was a new Christian, man, and I was just in this amazing place where God was doing so much in some of the meetings I was reminiscing a little bit this week. And I look back at how God used some tremendously amazing and exciting and very, very pleasant experiences in my life to help me grow and to develop me. I thought about David. How many people agree with me it would be exciting to kill a giant? Might be a little scary, but man, don't tell me David wasn't excited when all that was over. The adrenaline was running uh uh killing the guy, I'm sure that was very pleasant for him. And uh and uh how about killing a bear and a lion? That would be exciting. And those are positive things. And those are when it's all said and done, say, wow, that was great. That was amazing. He gets good friends here. This just this whole record of David and Jonathan is a very positive thing, a very pleasant thing. He gets his best friend in all the world is developed. That friendship is developed. And God uses, and here's what we got to be careful. Sometimes we look back and all we see are the bad things, the negative things, and we forget, hey, there's a lot of good and exciting things that God has brought into our lives that helped us. And that were good for us. So sometimes God uses things that are pleasant, things that are exciting. Sometimes God uses things that are mundane and just normal stuff. I mean, you just go through it. Again, when I was in Bible college was significant, and many of the years in the ministry since then. Did you ever think about it? Most days are just average days, thus they are average. And so the overwhelming majority of our time is spent on just doing average things, doing what we're supposed to do. Get up, go to work, go to class when I was in college, go to the office, go out and make visits for me For all of us, you know, that might be different, but it's just the everyday thing. But we need to remember God is teaching us stuff. One thing I learned from just the Monday everyday thing is that the Christian life, I say this often, the Christian life is described as a walk. Walking in faith, walking with the Lord. What do you do when you're walking? I uh I like this concept. You just put one foot in front of the other, just the same thing over and over and over and over. And a lot of the Christian life, success in the Christian life is often very dependent upon just doing the right thing over and over and over again, just doing what I'm supposed to do over and over and over again So God uses these exciting times in our Christian life. He uses these very, very pleasant experiences to help us grow and prepare us. He uses the mundane, everyday stuff going over, and we're going to see that in David here as we work our way through. Lot of this was just mundane stuff. In fact, um uh look at verse five. I'm getting way ahead of myself, but this is where I got it from. And David went out whithersoever Saul sent him and behaved himself wisely. And Saul set him over the men of war, and he was accepted in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Saul's servant. So what's happening there? He gets incorporated into Saul's administration, so to speak. He's given some responsibility And he's just doing the right thing day after day, week after week, month after month. He's just doing what he's supposed to do. But it's a part of our development It's a part of our growth. And then God uses pleasant, exciting things. Sometimes God uses the mundane, normal things. Sometimes and often most powerfully. He uses the dark and the difficult days to teach us. In those dark and difficult days, I believe the Lord teaches us to have faith in Him, to have faith in Him. David is about to go into, now this is, I said all that, I'm getting to something here. All of this is part of his development to prepare him for the king. Now he is about to, in part of this development, all this work of God's doing in his life, some was very exciting, some was very mundane, but he is about to go through a dark valley here for the next period of time. And then in our study We're going to see how that plays out. And it is, in many regards, going to be the most unpleasant time of David's life, I think. The most darkest hours of David's life. Now he had some after he was king. We'll look at them. But I mean for an extended period of time. It is not pleasant, it is not exciting, and I guarantee you he would have given his right arm to back get back to the mundane everyday routine. So it's going to get pretty dark for them. But in those dark hours is when our faith is developed. I put it down this way: in the exciting times, that's a lot of times when we get our vision. Man, something's happening. We won a soul to Christ. We saw somebody's life change. Maybe we taught a class or we did something for God. And man, it really went well and God blessed it. And boy, we get a vision of doing something for God. Then in the mundane things we learn to there we develop our discipline. We learn to be disciplined. I get up, nothing exciting happening today, but I'm still going to read my Bible. I'm going to pray. I'm going to try and get some gospel tracts out. I'm gonna avoid sin. I'm gonna try not to sin real hard. I'm gonna try and please the Lord. I want to keep a good testimony and then tomorrow I get up. Nothing real exciting. There's no big meetings. I don't have anything. But I'm gonna Read my Bible and I'm going to pray, I'm going to try and keep a good testimony, I'm going to try and witness to some people. And so there is where I learned to be disciplined in my Christian life and do the things that a Christian does Not because it's great exciting, or not because I'm in some deep valley, but just because that's what you do on mundane things. And then in the dark days we develop our faith trials. When we get hurt, somebody hurts us deeply. I'm not going to ask you to raise your hand. I know every one of us would raise our hand if we said if I if I asked, has anyone ever hurt you and hurt you deeply? Of course we have. The opposite side of that is we've hurt people deeply by our actions. That goes both ways. And so in these times of failure, and in these times of hurts and trials and disappointments and fear and doubt. There we learn to trust God. That is where our faith in God is developed. So God develops vision, develops discipline. And he develops our faith through these things. So God's hand is on David. He's going to be Israel's most significant king, no doubt about it. He needs to be broken. He needs to be sharpened up a little bit. He needs to be strengthened in his faith, and so that's what he's going through. And every one of these help develop our service, and God brings them into their lives. Now I'm building up to the passage here. David's about to go into some dark, dark days. He's going to be tested. His faith is going to be stretched to the limit. In fact, it gets to the point where he fails in his faith Pretty significantly. We'll see that. And he has tried and tested. But God prepared, here's my statement. God prepares us for our preparation. That testing, that dark valley he's going through is going to be part of his preparation, but God gives him resources to go through that preparation so that he can deal with it, so he can be developed. This is what I'm trying to get at. God will bring net people into our lives that are going to help us when we go through tough times God's going to bring some resources in. We're going to notice that here in a little bit. And so God is preparing him for this preparation. And one of the preparation is this. I said all that to get to this point. God brings Jonathan into David's life. Now, David is in a very significant time heading to the throne, and he is going to need a good friend. And God knows that. And God brings into his life a godly man by the name of Jonathan. And that's where we pick up our passage. I have Three thought I have four thoughts here in these four verses. Rolling as I said, I'm not going to get to all of them, but I did for verse number one, I gave it this head. First number one, I notice the connection of David and Jonathan. They connect. You know what I'm talking about They're with each other, they see each other, and man, there is a connection between those two. So I see that in verse number one. In verse number two, I see Saul's conscription of David. What do we mean by conscription? When a when a military comes into a uh town or something, they can they can constrip conscript things. Yes. He is taking a he is it's basically a draft. Our country used to have a draft. I think they referred to it sometimes as conscription. You're being conscripted into the army. that the government has the authority to take over and use you, as Brian said, in whatever role they need. They can take uh uh in a time of war, they have authority, I believe, if I understand it correctly, you get resources. From the population, maybe, and use them for the advancement of the war. So Saul conscripts David into his service in verse number two. Verse number three, then we have a covenant Between Jonathan and David. And that's significant. This is not just a casual surface friendship between Jonathan and David. It is a covenantal friendship. And we're going to talk about that. We're going to notice that. It is not a contractual friendship. It is a covenant friendship. What is it when you make a contract with somebody? How does that how does that work? If I make a contract with Matt, I'm gonna make a contract with Matt and he's gonna do something for me. If he does his part, then I'll do my part, right? And if I do my part, he'll do his part. It's a contract. This friendship with Jonathan is not a contract, it's a covenant. That is a promise. Whether he does his part or not, I'm going to do my part. Marriage is a covenant. It is not a contract. Right? And so this is a uh a a covenant friendship. And then verse number four, we notice Jonathan's compassion towards David. And he makes a phenomenal sacrifice there. So that's the outline of these four verses. Let's look at verse number one, and uh we're going to dissect this here a good little bit. Let's read it again Verse 1 it says, It came to pass when he had made an end of speaking to unto Saul, David made an end of speaking to Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was what? Was knit unto the soul of David. What does it mean? I hope you guys are with me tonight. What does it mean if something is knit together? What are you doing? It's being somebody's knitting socks. Alright, they're joining it together. It's even stronger than that. Something is knit together. What is it? Alright, it's tie one of the definitions means to tie one thing to another. Um To weave it together is a form of knitting. If something is knit together, here's the literal definition to tightly bind two items to each other. I mean they're tightly bound Uh in fact to the point where it's not, you take that thread, you have different s uh, is it a string of thread or a thread of thread? You have a thread, and then you knit them together into a sock. They're no longer individual threads. Now they are what? They're a stock. It's one unit. It's knit together. Um it has the idea of uh of uh tying together as was mentioned. I like this, this helped me picture it in my mind, to be fused together. What happens if you fuse something together? The two merge together into one part. And so the Bible says that when Jonathan saw David and he heard him speak in, and they were introduced to each other, their souls were knit together. I mean, they were just one. They became, where I get my title, they became kindred spirits. Um now I I hate to even bring this up and I wouldn't if it wasn't so prevalent out in the world today. If you get talking to somebody in our day and age And this subject comes up or if you work with somebody that lives uh you know they're living a uh a sodomite lifestyle or that type of thing Now it is very, very common that they want to come and take this statement, this passage, and suggest that this was some sort of sodomite relationship. That is absolutely ridiculous. And that is taking this so far out of context and stretching any implications here to the nth degree. Notice what is knit together. What is knit together? Jonathan's what Soul was knit with David's soul. This is not a surface, this is not some sort of perverse relationship. This is a spiritual bonding between the two. This is a uh hearts and souls being knit together, becoming kindred spirits. And we'll look at that, what all that was and what all brought that about. I got studying here this about David and David and Jonathan. David and Jonathan. And it was Jonathan and David were the closest people in all their lives. If you were to ask David who's the closest person to you, who's your dearest, dearest heartfelt friend, he would say, without a doubt, Jonathan. And I believe vice versa, Jonathan with David. But you think about David's life, and there's three people that David is associated with. You'll say David and you have three different people. The first one is David and Goliath. We just studied that. David and Goliath. David and Goliath. David and Goliath. The next one chronologically would be David and Jonathan. Their hearts are knit together. They're one and the same. How many when you were young, any of you guys, or I'm sure you ladies did when you were when we were small children? We had our best buddy Remember that I had a neighbor, Scott Smet. He was kind of onry and naughty. I wasn't, but he was very aunry and naughty. But at one time we were best buddies in the whole world, so we cut our thumbs You know, and he cut his thumb and we're putting our we're blood buddies. And um that last about two years and he moved away and we never saw him again. But for a wider period of time we were blood buddies And so you have David and Jonathan, David and Jonathan. Then tragically, you have a third person that's associated with David, David and Bathsheba. Bathsheba. So of those three, Jonathan is the one that was dearest, obviously, to the heart of David, dearest to the heart of David. Now, think about this. David and Jonathan. I want to suggest to you their backgrounds were about as different as they could get. What kind of home did Jonathan grow up in? A king's home? What would what would a king's what would a king's kid be like? What would his life be like? He would probably have what? He'd probably have servants taking care of him. No doubt he had many tutors in various areas. I think we could sum it up with this. David or Jonathan grew up with the best of everything that was available. What every kid in Israel wanted, David uh Jonathan could have. the best education, no doubt unlimited resources, finances. He could have the best of whatever was available in that day, no doubt about it. What kind of lifestyle did David grow up with? Probably lower middle class, we would say. Shepherds were not the rich folk of the day. And so he's out working with his hands. He's out there making do. He's living off the land. Perhaps living hand to mouth. I don't know. Jesse was probably somewhat wealthy, but two completely different backgrounds, two completely different uh upbringings, but yet they're knit together. Now how can that be? How can two people who are so different in their upbringing and their backgrounds, how can they be so knit together and so tight? I give you a couple reasons, I believe. This is what I wrote down. I think they share the same purpose in life. As we study the life of Jonathan, you find out Jonathan, his focus was on the Lord and the advancement of God's people, and we see that throughout the Bible record of Jonathan. And David was living for the glory of God. So they had the same purpose of life, to serve the Lord. They had the same perspective on life. They both saw life in the same way. They both saw the enemies of God and the people of God from the same perspective, and they both had the same values. Now listen, you get a local church. I thought, well, how does that apply to us? You get a local church, and just look at our church, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. How many different backgrounds do we have here? How many different upbringings, how the variety of different upbringings and financial status and standing in our church And yet we're one in Christ. And I can honestly say to you, the dearest friends I have on earth, the dearest friends I have on earth, is the folks of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. I don't know about you, but I've said many times, I'm as close, if not closer, to the folks of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church than I am to my own family. In a lot of ways. And so how can that be? We have such different backgrounds and we have such different personalities and different personal interests. Why? Because we share one common bond, and that is our relationship and our love and our commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ. And David and Jonathan, though so different in their backgrounds, yet it was the Lord God that knit them together. Their relationship with God, their commitment to Jehovah, their perspective on God's will for their lives. And that's a powerful, powerful thing. When I got saved, I th uh I lost all the friends I had at that time, no doubt about it And here's the interesting thing, you know, we tell people, and I think this is right, you need to separate from those old friends, you need to separate from those old friends. I never did separate from my old friends. They separated from me I was fine, you know. They're my I considered them my friends. They considered me a freak. They say, you ain't going with Leatherman, are you? You know, he's wanting everybody to go to church. So he ain't going to church. He ain't going drinking no more and all that. And so I found out That what I considered friends before I had Christ weren't friends at all is very superficial. It was a covenant, it was a contractual friendship If I they if they were fun having fun around me then they'd be around me and if I was having fun around them then I'd be around them. But now that all fell apart. And I found out what real friends are after I came to Christ. And that is a friendship that revolves around and is governed by our relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. So David and Jonathan, by the way, Saul did not have that relationship with Jehovah that his son Jonathan did. Thus, David and Saul never hit it off. Two completely different perspectives, two completely different values. Does anybody know what Amos chapter 3 verse 3 says? I bet if I start it off, you will know it. Um can two walk together except what? Except they be agreed. And what that verse is referencing is exactly what was the case with David and Jonathan. They were agreed on their values, they were agreed on their perspectives, they were agreed on their relationship with Jehovah, and thus their hearts were knit together. They became kindred spirits in the most deepest sense that can be. Now, let me just jump aside here a little bit. We're talking about Jonathan, and I'm gonna do I want to do a little study on Jonathan if time allows. Here's a question that came to my mind, and I think we might have touched on it earlier. Why did Jonathan not confront Goliath? They have very similar experiences in dealing with the enemies of God's people. We'll see that in a bit. But why did Jonathan not step out there? He's of the same spirit as David. Their souls are knit together. They have, we're going to see here in a little bit, they pretty much had the same level of faith in God. Jonathan did as David did. Why anybody take a shot? Why did Jonathan not step out there and say, I'll take on Goliath Okay, I agree with that to some extent, but Saul said, hey, anybody that goes out there and takes him, I'll give him my daughter. Which I don't think Jonathan would have married his sister, but I know I wouldn't want to marry mine, good grief. Um but yeah, that's that's part of it. Possible that Yeah, that could be kind of what you were saying. Maybe um uh Solomon did or Solomon, uh maybe Saul didn't let him go. Just said, You ain't going out there, you're my kid. Um Alright. God may if God was in all this. Sure w we can do that. You always have to bring God up in this stuff. But um no, that's true. God obviously didn't. Uh I think there might be some other factors. Yeah, it could be. I'd be honest with you, there's no definitive answer because the Bible doesn't tell us. I think perhaps Solo uh his daddy's fear Saul should have been the one out there. And I wonder if it wasn't the influence of a father that was so powerful and so significant. That those Jonathan no doubt had the faith, we're going to see that in a little bit. I no doubt Jonathan had the faith, he could have confronted uh Goliath just as David did and been just as successful. There's no doubt in my mind. But I'm just wondering if the fear and backsliddenness of his father was such an influence We're going to see as we go through the life of David, Jonathan loved his daddy very, very much. In spite of his father's condition, Jonathan loved his father. And my feeling is that a father's influence over his children is so significant that that may have been what played a role in Jonathan's life and not going out. Oh yeah, we're part of the right. Yeah, and there actually became a bit of a falling out between Jonathan and Saul when it came to David when when Saul was trying to kill Jonathan. Jonathan stood up or When Saul was trying to kill David, Jonathan stood up for David. So uh we're not told. I speculated, but I have a tendency to think maybe his daddy's influence there. Now what do we know about Jonathan? Let me keep plugging away here. What do we know about Jonathan? As far as I can tell, there are ten Jonathan's mentioned in Scripture. As far as I could find. Some of them it's just a name and a list. We don't know anything about them. But Saul's son Jonathan is the most prominent, without a doubt. And he was a man of great faith, of great courage. Now, if you would, come back to chapter 14 And this is where I s this is where I get the thought that there's no doubt in my mind that Jonathan had the same faith to take out Goliath that David had. But he had the influence of a backslidden father over him and perhaps hindered it. John 1 Samuel chapter 14 And look with me if you would. Actually, verses 1 through 14 is the record here of Jonathan exercising tremendous faith. Chapter 14 and verse number one. Now it came to pass upon a day that Jonathan, the son of Saul, said unto the young man that bare his armor, Come and let us go over to the who The Philistines' garrison, that's the enemies. This is before Goliath shows up. That is on the other side, but he told not his father. Now look what Saul's doing. What is Jonathan doing? He's acting. We're not going to sit here. The enemies are there. Why are we just sitting here? Let's go see what the deal is. Let's scope it out. But look what Saul's doing. He's tearing where. He's in Gibeah, where he's sitting under a pomegranate tree. He's drinking pomegr pomegranate juice Which is in Migrant, and the people that were with him were about six hundred men. And then it comes down through here, and look at verse um uh four, and between the passages by which Jonathan sought to go over unto the Philistines' garrison There was a sharp rock on one side and a sharp rock on the other side. And the name of the one was Bosez, and the name of the other was Sina. The forefront of the one that was situate northward over against Mi'kmaq and the other southward over against Gibeah, so he's given the stati uh specifics there. And Jonathan said to his young man, look at this, that bare his armor, come, let us go over unto the garrison of these what's he call them? What does that sound like? That's what David was calling the Philistines. David was calling Goliath. They got the same perspective on these people. They're just a bunch of heathen. And it may be, look at this, that what? The Lord will work for us, for there is no restraint to the Lord to save by many or by few. Who does that sound like? That sounds like David out there before he faced Goliath. God can take out this guy. David, Jonathan's saying God can take out them. You don't need a whole army. So I see in Goli in Jonathan, I see a a knit soul of faith and courage in God. Saul's back up. What was when David was facing Goliath, where was Saul at? He's sitting up in his tent. He went out there on the forefront. Jonathan, sometime before that, Jonathan's going facing the Philistine garrison. Saul's sitting up under a tree. in the shade of a tree. And so tremendous similarities here. Jonathan took action. They're just sitting there doing nothing. The enemy's here, the uh Israelites are here, they're not doing nothing, not doing nothing, and uh um uh Jonathan says, hey, let we gotta do something. Let's go let's go find out what's going on, let's get over there You know what that sounds like to me? That sounds like David walking around saying, Is there not a cause? Is there not a cause? Why aren't we doing something? Why doesn't somebody go out there? Is there not a cause? Similar, they're knit together. Jonathan exercised great faith. I read there in verse number six maybe the Lord will work for us. There's no restraint to the Lord to say by many or for or by few. That sounds like David talking to me. Inspirational. Look what happens in verse 22. So you know the story. Jonathan goes over, he says, we're going to reveal ourselves to them. And if they say come up hither, then we'll know it's God telling us and so they go and show themselves. They just say, Hey look at this, come up here guys. I want to show you something. They go up there, they rout 'em There's a tremendous trembling of the Lord and there's tremendous victory. Look at verse 22 of chapter 14. Verse 22. Likewise all the men of Israel which had hid themselves in Mount Ephraim when they heard that the Philistines fled Look what they do. Even they also followed hard after them in battle. What does that sound like? That sounds like when Goliath was killed, and all of a sudden the Israelites come charging out after the Philistines I mean these guys are knit together in their heart and soul. And then the other thing I notice is they give glory to God. Verse number 12. Notice what I think verse 12 is the one on one. The men of the garrison answered Jonathan, armor-bearer, and said, Come up to us and we'll show you a thing. And Jonathan said unto his armor-bearer, Come up after me, for the Lord hath delivered them into the hand of Israel. He didn't say, Oh, I'm going to deliver these guys in the hands of Israel. He said, The Lord's going to do it. Same thing David said about Goliath. The Lord's going to take you out. Well, I can't find anywhere where Saul directly rebuked um oh well in this battle, yeah, at the end of this battle he did. In fact, he was going to kill him. The people stood up. So that's a good point. That may have been a an intimidating factor, and maybe Jonathan said later, I ain't stepping out if I get treated that way. Who knows? We don't know But I do know this. I see David and I see good Jonathan and I see kindred spirits. And these guys see things and they act and they trust God and they have a relationship with God. that is just identical. So uh I put it this way. To sum it all up I put it this way. There was a spiritual connection between the two. There was a spiritual connection. Come back there to chapter 18 It says the soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David. I mean, this was a spiritual thing. Did you ever get around someone and they just seem to spiritually click with you? And you start talking about the Lord and they say stuff like this, yeah, I know, that's the way I think. Anybody know what I'm talking about? They might be a total stranger. You might be on vacation, you go to a church, you get talking to someone. Yeah, that's the way I see it. I think so. Yeah, God can do that. Man, I've been praying for that same thing. And there's a spiritual connection there. And that's the way David and Jonathan were. David and Saul didn't have that. In fact, I don't think Saul had that with anybody. So there's a spiritual connection, but there was a very strong connection. It says, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul. Wow. That's pretty intense. Um This is a very rare depth of love You find that very few times mention anywhere that somebody loves someone like they love their own soul Jesus commanded his disciples that we are to love others as we love ourselves. And that is exactly what Jonathan is doing here This is this is pretty there's some depth here, there's some strength to this. I was reading what some people said about this and one fella made this statement. This this commitment, this love that David and Jonathan had for each other is like a rare diamond. I'm sorry, he said it's like a diamond. Number one, it's very rare You don't see that very often, this level of commitment and uh to one another. It's very rare. It's very valuable. I'm telling you, if you and I have a godly friend who shares our values and our commitment to Christ and our perspective on life in the world, I tell you, that is something very, very valuable to have. Jonathan is going to be of tremendous help to David in the coming days. When David goes through some real difficult times, humanly speaking, Jonathan's going to save his life on more than one occasion And God knows that, and God's putting them in place. So here's something that's very, very rare. Relationships are very, very rare, is very, very valuable, and it is ex and it is very, very strong, and it is exactly What David's going to need. I wrote this question down in my notes. How many people do I love as my own soul? Think about that. How many people d do I know that I say I love that person like my own soul? It's easy to say, but how real is that? How real is that? Here's another interesting thing, and I'm going to have to wind down here. Neither of these two were looking for a friend This wasn't arranged. Nobody says, hey, I know a guy that's just like, man, you love him. This guy's great. He says that he he talks like you, he acts like you, he's got the same values you. Well you got n that never happened. David wasn't walking around looking for someone, all right, who's somebody that sees things the way I do? I need a good friend here. Wasn't that at all? John wasn't walking around looking for a good friend. This was just something that they got into each other's presence and man it clicked. This was without a doubt a God-arranged thing. Both of them, and here's what I thought: neither of them were looking for a friend. They were just being the kind of friend that the other would want. And here's where I think we need to be careful. How many people agree we ought to be careful what kind of friends we have? How many people agree there ought to be a criteria of what kind of friends we have? I agree with that. But I want to say just as equally so, I ought to be concerned about what kind of friend I am. And I ought to have a criteria for me being a friend, because w a lot of times we're not careful, walk around saying, well they're not good, they wouldn't be a good friend, they wouldn't be a good friend, they wouldn't be a good friend. And again, I believe we ought to have some standards there. But I think we ought to put as much time and effort And the being the kind of person, the kind of friend that I would look for in others. Am I making sense? And so this is a tremendous, tremendous event in the life of David when God brings Jonathan into his life, and their souls are so knit together, they become such a kindred spirit And it all revolves around their commitment and their relationship with the Lord God and their faith in God. And we'll see how that plays out a little bit later. Alright, let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, you'd help us to glean from this. And Lord, I pray that I could be a good friend. And I pray, Lord, that we each of us you'd help us to maintain and develop a relationship with you. That when others come along with that same relationship, boy, that thing just clicks. It just connects. And so help us, Lord, as a church, as families. And Lord is friends. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, Pastor Leatherman, I need to work on being the kind of person that I would like to have in a friend? Follow what I'm saying? I want to work on being the kind of person that I would look for, have the characteristics in my life that I would look for in another friend. Is there any like that? That's that's my prayer I'm gonna work on being that kind of friend that someone who is what I believe a good friend would be would connect with me. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord Jesus, for being a friend to us. And I pray that we would be a friend to you in how we live and act and talk. In Jesus' name, amen.