1 Samuel chapter 18, first three verses we started last week, and uh I entitled this A Kindred Spirit. Notice verse number one, it says, And it came to pass when he, David, had made an end of speaking unto Saul that the soul, the soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David. And Jonathan loved him as his own soul. And Saul took him that day and would let him go no more home to his father's house. Then Jonathan and David made a covenant because he loved him as his own soul, a kindred spirit. Let's pray. We'll uh look at something. Verse number three in particular tonight. Let's pray. Father, I ask uh now again the blessing, your blessing, upon the reading of your word and the study of your word. I pray, as I always do when I teach and preach, that you would fill me with your Spirit. And Lord, that it would be you, your Holy Spirit, speaking through me to each of our hearts and lives. Help us to grow in our faith and our understanding and our understanding of our responsibilities to one another, to you. I pray, Lord, that you would um help us to be responsive then by faith. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen Alright, this is all the process of David's David's pathway to the king, to the throne of Israel, and God's preparing them. God's preparing Israel for David's reign. It's going to be a miraculous powerful reign. He is going to be the greatest king that Israel ever has apart from the Lord Jesus Christ. And so God's preparing them. He's working. And he's bringing He's bringing not just experiences into David's life to enable him to fill the role that God has for him, but he's also bringing key people into his life. to enable him to fill the role that God has for him. You know, Romans tells us, no man liveth unto himself and no man dieth unto himself. And one of the clear things in Scripture is that we need one another to enable us to be the people God intends for us to be. God has no lone rangers. Anybody ever hear that statement? God has no lone rangers. He's designed us to work together as a body. uh in cooperation and in with responsibilities one with another, in cooperation one with another. And the amazing thing is, and some of you no doubt would attest to this also I look back over my life and I see God brought key people into my life at certain times that were exactly what I needed. Now sometimes at the time I didn't I thought I don't need this person in my life. But uh as I look back, God used even those to help me uh grow in my faith and relationship. So that's what we find here. And if you remember, last week we pointed out, first of all, we pointed out that there was a an immediate connection between David and Jonathan. And we got that from verse number one. It says that when David made an end of his speaking, that the soul of Jonathan was what? Knit to his heart, knit with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul. And so there's this connection there. We don't know that they interacted very much before this. We don't know that they knew each other perhaps at at all previous to David showing up here. Well, I guess he might have known him when he was playing music in the court with them there. But as far as we know, we don't see any interaction between David and Jonathan before this point. And so when they do connect, it's just the immediate connection. And we looked at that. And we studied that. Then we pointed out in verse number two, it's kind of injected into the subject matter here. Verse number two is that we notice the conscription of David by Saul. Saul basically drafts David You can't go home, you're gonna stay here, you're gonna be in the military, you're gonna be part of my um uh part of the court here, and it's tremendous honor, no doubt, and I feel certain, and if you look over Verse number five of chapter 18, it says, David went out whithersoever Saul whithersoever Saul sent him, and behaved himself what? Wisely. So that indicates to me that David saw this position that he's drafted to as a very honorable position, as something a great honor to be here. Well, he wants to do his best, and he's uh behaving himself very wisely in whatever uh King Saul sends him to do. And now we come to verse number three, and that's what I want to zero in on this evening Where it says this. It's a little repetitious from verse 1, but it says, then Jonathan and David made a contract. No, don't say contract says what? A covenant? Um a covenant because he, Jonathan, loved him, David. as his own soul. And so that's my third point here, the covenant of Jonathan and David, the covenant. Now I touched on this a little bit. I think at the end I just kind of brought the subject up But there's a world of difference between a covenant and a contract. A contract is a uh you do X and I'll do Y. It's a it's an agreement. If you fail on your part, then I'm no longer under any obligation on my part. If I fail on my part, then you are no longer under any obligation on your part. It's a contractual friendship. That is not what they had here. How many people are familiar with the Greek word phileo? Anybody ever hear a preacher talk about that? How would you describe phileo love? It's a brotherly love. We were just in Philly the other week, and uh we were in the city of brotherly shove. I mean brotherly love And the whole idea behind this brotherly love is, is uh it's kind of like this. And this is more negative than what the word really implies, but it's kind of like this. I'll scratch your back if you scratch mine. Right? You've heard that saying before. And the whole basis of Phileo love, this friendship love, is that I like you, I have an affection for you, because You make me feel happy because of what you do for me. Because of the pleasure I get out of it, the enjoyment I have in your presence, or whatever. And then vice versa. And it is uh phoreo love can be a very deeply committed love. There's no doubt about it. I'm not trying to minimize it It doesn't necessarily imply shallowness on its part. Um there are some folks that are very, very good friends, very, very uh love each other very much, but it it doesn't reach the level of agape love. Agape love. Phileo love, for the sake of the context here, would be a contractual type love, even though there's no contract sign. But uh why aren't you friends with so-and-so? Nah, not anymore. I just couldn't stand or be around them You know, that was they weren't bringing me pleasure. They weren't I wasn't enjoyable for me anymore. Thus there's no longer that friendship, their association. Whereas a covenant love is I am committed to you. I am your friend no matter what. You follow what I'm saying? Regardless of anything that happens whenever, I am in a covenant with you. And regardless, that is a commitment on my part. I am your friend. That is what we find here between David and Jonathan. Jonathan, in particular, is making this covenant with David that David, I am your friend. I love you like I love my own soul. And I'm bound to that. I am committing myself to that. And so this is a This is pretty significant decision on Jonathan's part. Uh this covenant love that Jonathan is expressing and making with David and And David is responding to, uh, this is a commitment, a love, a friendship that is rooted in the one being loved. You get that? It is rooted. Um, uh no, I let me take a bath. Well, when I said that, that don't sound right. It is rooted in the one loving God loves us with a agape love. Now, is it be does God love us in an uncommitted way because we are so lovable? No. God's love for us is not rooted in any lovableness on our part. God's love for us is rooted in the fact that He is what? Love. He is love. That's what he is. And thus his love for us is unconditional. It is a covenant type love And so that's what we see here between Jonathan and David. And there's so much symbolism here, and you can get so much, you can spiritualize this between us and Christ in so many ways. But I want to look at it strictly as this human friendship, this human covenant that is made between Jonathan and David. God created us With the need for fellowship. We are social beings. Um, God created us that way. In fact, right in the very beginning You had all these animals and birds and fish and trees and all of that. And God created man. He formed man from the dust of the earth, and God breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul. Now think about this. He's the only person on the entire planet. Wow. Think about that. I was talking to a fella, Charlie and I were having lunch together a little while ago, and Uh by the way he bought me lunch and um this is a long time ago. I haven't done that again lately. But um but we were talking there and we were uh and this guy came over and we got talking. The guy had been hunting up in Alaska And he shot a wolf. And he had the wolf mounted there. We were out there at Schrock's store. And it was one of the boys. And we got talking about it. And um I was asking him different things. It's fascinating And he says the pl I said how asked how they got back there and what he said that plane landed, dropped three of them off. Plane landed on the water, dropped three of them off there at the camp and and their all their supplies The plane turned around and took off, and he said this. He says, we were the only three people within 200 miles. And he says that'll make you pause and think about it. Nobody around for 200 miles. Can you imagine Adam? Nobody around how what's the circumference of the earth? 8,000 miles? 25,000 miles. Can you imagine that? Nobody being within 25,000 miles of you? And what did God say? God said, hey, this is not good. It is not good that what? Man should be alone. So that tells me that God created us as social beings. We need interaction with other people. Of course, Adam uh needed the wife, and then he told them, be fruitful and multiply. And he wanted man to fill the earth and he wanted man to interact. We were designed We were designed for fellowship, directly fellowship with God, but then also He created us with the need to fellowship one with another. There's no Long Rangers. God designed for us to need friendships. That is part of our makeup. That's part of the way He made us for that need. Now here's the thing. Would you agree with me? We live in a strange day. We live in really strange days. I don't think uh as far as technology and all the impact that's having on society and on our lives I don't think the world's ever seen days like today. I know we're you know, I I know it's been bad and time's gone by, but with uh strange of today. And thinking about this need for interaction, this need for fellowship, this this innate God-designed need for friendships. We live in it to this day when there are coming substitute um technology really. replacing the interaction that we were designed and we need to have. You follow what I'm trying to say? For instance, I put a few of these down here. It's kind of interesting. Television came on the scene Back in what, the nineteen fifties? This was long before I was around. Um 1950s, uh television came. And you know what the effect of television was It limited our interaction with other people around. Charles Holmesher, the founder and director of Neighborhood Bible Time, he started Bible Time in its slums of Denver, the ghettos of Denver, 1952 with running buses. And the mid-50s, late 50s, television, I think, started taking off. And he told me one time we were talking, he said the biggest change I saw in society is when television started showing up in the homes. the kid's behavior changed completely. He said it was drastic and it was obvious. And what was happening? This substitute quote-unquote fellowship interaction came in the place of actual genuine interaction with others. And so friendships were affected. And then that took off and got worse. And then now we've got the internet. And these smartphones, and we all see it, and maybe some of us are guilty to some extent, but boy, we got our nose in that phone, and we don't even see the people that are around us. And this artificial technology is replacing an actual genuine, meaningful, fulfilling Friendships and relationships and actions with real people and all that that carries with it. And um and you we see it in our society. I this social media thing is replacing actual social interaction. And it is become has anybody noticed our society's become increasingly rude. And crude and hateful, and we're seeing it erupt now throughout our country. And I think it is because of this satanic perhaps substitution. That is replaced, and people don't know how to interact with each other. We don't know how to disagree in a civil way. in a respectful and and civil way because that interaction is deteriorated. Now you can just type on there whatever you want, the most hateful stuff, and um you know there's no re immediate repercussion. And so I was reading one article this past week, and um they were saying how there are more counselors in America and around the world than ever has been in the history of the world. It's like everybody has a counselor. Everybody has a counselor. And the article was suggesting that these counselors are paid friends A counselor will do what really a friend is designed to do, to give me advice, feedback, listen to me, interact with me. But now that it has become a substitute friend, you pay them $90 an hour. And they'll basically be what a friend is supposed to be for that one hour. Oh, bing, time's up. See you next week, nine o'clock on Thursday. And we wonder why society is so angry and so frustrated and so empty. It's because the thing God has designed us for, to be able to interact and be friends, to love and be loved And to be friends with people is being supplanted by this artificial friendship. And so society is losing its ability to interact socially with one another. Um I noticed it with young people a lot of times. More and more I'm seeing it with young people. They don't know how to interact. And they're so insecure and they don't know what to say and they don't know what to do. And I think it's probably A natural of that age group is just they're developing it. But I'm telling you, this isolation of technology Is so affecting the ability to develop genuine real friendships that God designed us to need that we are to foster and develop. And so this matter of friendship. So I look here at Jonathan and David and man they make this covenant together, this covenant friendship. That is rooted in a deep love for one another. And there's a lot of lessons to be learned here. The first thing I want to point out in looking at this covenant of Jonathan and David is, I notice it's initiated by Jonathan. Jonathan is the one that comes to David, and Jonathan is the one that is expressing This deep admiration that he has for David. Look at verse number one, the last part. We already read it a couple times. It says, And Jonathan loved him as what? His own soul. Verse number 3, the last part, repeats it. Because he loved him as his own soul. This is Jonathan loving, expressing this love for David as his own soul. Come over to chapter number 20. And here you even uh you have it here again stated, chapter twenty, look at verse sixteen. So Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, Let the Lord even require it at the hand of David's enemies. And Jonathan caused David to swear again, look at this, because he loved him, because Jonathan loved David. For he, Jonathan, loved him, David, as he loved his own soul. It is Jonathan that is coming to David and expressing this love for him. Come over, this is fascinating, come over to 2 Samuel chapter 1. We're in 1 Samuel. Go to the second book of Samuel. Now, did David love Jonathan? Sure. But I can't find anywhere where it says that David loved Jonathan as his own soul. I see three times where it says that Jonathan loved David as his own soul. But I don't find anywhere that it reverses that David to Jonathan. Now, does that mean David didn't love Jonathan? No, I know David loved Jonathan dearly. He would not have made this covenant if he did not But look at the statement here, just to kind of reinforce that, in 2 Samuel chapter 1, and I want to begin reading in verse number 25. This is after Saul has been killed, Jonathan's been killed, David is lamenting Jonathan's death, and look what it says. Verse 25: How are the mighty fallen in the midst of the battle? O Jonathan, thou wast slain in thy high places. I am distressed for thee, my brother Jonathan. Very pleasant hast thou been unto me. Does that sound like beloved Jonathan? Sure it does. This is broken his heart. But look what he says here Uh thy love to me was wonderful. Look at this. Passing the love of women He's expressing Jonathan's love for David. And what I get in looking at this and seeing this, David was a good friend. David absolutely loved Jonathan. He took care of Jonathan's son. But Jonathan was the one that was absolutely enamored with David. He absolutely loved this man. Now, there could have been. There could have been tension between those two. Why would I say that? Competition, but what would there be potential competition for? Jonathan would have been legal heir to the throne of King Saul. And Jonathan could very well, now does Jonathan know that David has been anointed? And back in chapter 18, when they're coveting this friendship, did Jonathan know that David was anointed to be future king? I can't say for certain, but I don't think so. There's nothing to indicate that Jonathan was even remotely aware that he wasn't going to be the next king. However They are like-minded. They're both warriors. We noticed the comparisons last time. We're going to see it again here in a little bit. And there could have very easily been competition. Jonathan could have felt threatened. By David and his skills and his faith and his confidence, but there wasn't any of that. And Jonathan was stirred in his heart. For David. Now, I wonder why was that? What was it that so attracted Jonathan to David? I think, and again, we touched on this a little bit last time, but I think Jonathan saw in David qualities, attributes, characteristics that he wanted to be true in himself. And I think we're already there. But he saw in David characteristics and attributes that Jonathan highly valued, that were very important to him. And when he saw them in David, his heart was drawn to that. And his affection was drawn to that. Um, I think he responded to David's faith. And Jonathan was a man of great faith. He responded to To David's focus, no matter how much other people criticized him, his brothers threatened him, and all that stuff, he stayed focused on job at hand, God's glory is at stake. Uh I think he responded to David's fire, his faith, his focus, his fire. David was stirred up. David was passionate. Man, he goes racing out there After uh Goliath, and he gets it. And Jonathan's watching all this, and his heart is being stirred, and he says, That is what I admire, that is what I respect. Those characteristics are what I highly value Boy, his heart is drawn to David, and uh he loves him dearly. Uh I put down a list here, and I think, like I said, I touched on these last week a little bit, but they both took initiative to act in both cases They both had great faith in God's power. They both had tremendous courage in spite of tremendous odds against them. They both experienced God's deliverance in battle, miraculous deliverance in battle. They both inspired loyalty in others. They were men of integrity. They led others to victory. The people loved both of them. They were two men who thought and acted alike. What is it? Here's the question I asked myself. What is it that causes us to be attracted to somebody else? And I'm not talking physical attraction here, that's all we think of. But I'm talking about what is it that makes us What is it that attracts us to somebody else, another person? What is it? Or somebody else, and boy, boy, that that's a kindred spirit right there. That's somebody. Anybody take a shot? I put down this. I thought common values. You come across somebody and they share your values. Boy, there's a connection there. Um uh common interests sometimes. Um I get to a preacher's meeting and uh and I don't hardly go to any, and the ones I do, I'm I'm I'm real careful that they're right that they're right. But occasionally get around and uh you'll get there and somebody and uh I'll get there and maybe a preacher, he's using some other version of the Bible, and maybe they're going a little contemporary. You know what I find out? I'm not attracted to that. That's not, oh man, I want to be buddies with him. You know why? Because we don't share the same values. You follow what I'm trying to say? But I'll get the sum, we get talking, and boy, this guy believes what I do and he holds the same values I do and he has the same convictions I do and boy we start hitting it off and we have the same interests we want to see souls saved Oh, we want to get missionaries out as much as we can. And we start sharing those values and those same interests. And man, before you know it, there's a connection there. I walk away saying, man, I like that guy I like that guy. Why? Because he has something that I consider to be of great value, very, very important. I think that's the way it was with Jonathan. He saw that. I used to say this to teens. And a lot of times when I was first studying this, I thought, eh, friends, that's more a teen message, teen subject, making good friends. By the way, it's very important teenagers make good friends But I'm telling you, it is no different than you and I at our point in our life. In fact, I was going to end with this statement, but the older I get, the more I value good friendships. The more important they become to me, the older I'm getting. And so friends, God designed us to need friends. And so I used to say this to the young people all the time, I used to say, do you want to know what kind of person you are? And a lot of young a lot of times young people are trying to figure out who they are. I gotta find out, I gotta, how do they say it? Uh I gotta find myself. I'll tell you right here right there. I know exactly where you are. You want to find yourself? You want to know what kind of person you are? Best way to do that is to look at the people you hang around with. Look at the people you choose to be with. What kind of people are they? What kind of values do they have? What kind of principles do they live by? What are their priorities? And if that's who you know, if I work with somebody on any choice, I get stuck on with them, that's one thing. But who I choose and say that's who I'm attracted to, that's that's who I want to be with, I want to be I want to be friends with them, I want to That's a good reflection on what kind of person I am, or at least what kind of person I'm becoming If I'm not there yet. And so uh Jonathan initiated this whole covenant friendship, this whole covenant love with David. He initiated because he saw in David. I'm convinced. He saw in David values that he shared and he desired for himself. They could have been rev- uh reviv uh the revivals. They could have been Rivals, they could have been enemies, but here's the thing: Jonathan was not threatened by David. Not threatened at all. In fact, he saw in David something that stirred his heart and that he highly valued. And thus he loved David as his own soul. So the first thing I notice here about this covenant of Jonathan and David, it's initiated by Jonathan. He's the one that steps out. He's the one that initiates this. But then I also noticed this. It was intense in its affection. I mean, this wasn't Jonathan didn't just say, boy, I like that guy. Or not at all. Jonathan said, man, um uh, I love you, man. He can say that's how guys tell another guy they love Love you man. Yeah, you too. You know. Uh Chip Paul, every time we talk on the phone he goes, Pastor, I love you. Oh yeah, love you man. You know And I do. I I love 'em dearly. And and um Lee Bowman called me today, we were talking and and he hung up and I said, uh I said, Hey Brother Bowman, I love you, man. And he goes, Ah yeah, love you. And so it's not Jonathan just saying, Oh, I like that guy. It's not Jonathan saying, Oh, I love you, man. This is intense. Did you catch what he said he loved them as what? His own soul. Man. He uh uh and then come over, look at this, you think that's intense. Come over to 2 Samuel chapter 1 again. We were just looked at it there, but look at it again with me And this is this is this is intense. Look at verse 26. David again after the death of Jonathan, he's lamenting this. I'm distressed for thee, my brother Jonathan Very pleasant hast thou been unto me. Look at this. Thy love for me is wonderful. Look at that last statement. Passing the love of a woman. Did I say it right? Passing the love of women. What's he saying here? He is saying Jonathan's love for him, the love here was even greater past, I think he's saying, than a love that a man would have for a woman and vice versa, within the marriage situation. And people agree with me. That's pretty that's pretty tight. That's pretty intense. To say that. Wow Um now I th this bothers me to death to even have to suggest this, but it is such the world is so perverse. That a lot of the sodomy and that type of thinking try to use this passage to suggest that there was something immoral here. And that is absolutely ludicrous. Titus chapter number one in verse 15 says that unto the pure all things are pure. But to the defiled and unbelieving is nothing pure And the defiled minds of this old sinful world, even something that is as pure as innocent, they can take that and they will take that and twist that around and make it so impure. And it's a shame that we live in a society like that. It is tragic to even think that there would be anything that abominable. In a dear, dear, intense friendship and love that these two fellows had for each other. We live in a day where you have to even be careful, just giving a little child a hug. Because of the defiled minds of of of mankind. And uh it's a shame. Uh we go out visiting and um you know there's kids on the street now, you've got to be so careful just to go up and give them a flyer, invite them out to church. W we s w what we do is we say, hey, is your mom and dad around? Go talk to mom and dad simply because of uh such a defiled society. So this is an intense covenant that they have for each other. To the world, to the world, love equals lust. The world, if you use the word love, I'm telling you in the songs they sing and the movies they make, when they talk about love Just erase that word and put lust in there, and that's exactly what they're talking about. Even in their referencing, even the terms they use for physical intimacy They will use the term love, making love. And what they're talking about is lust. You want to know what love is? Genuine, true love, not the world's defilement of love. And physical indonies is a good thing in a husband and wife between that's God honors that it's it's a sacred thing But you want to know what love is, not what the world defiles it? Read First Corinthians chapter thirteen. That is love. That is love. Love thinketh no evil. It's pure. Man, it's a tremendous statement. And by the way, 1 Corinthians 13 is not, the subject, the context of that is not husband and wife. It's church members. We're studying chapter 12. It's talking about the body of Christ. And in that context is he brings the definition of love. Charity suffereth long, it is kind. And so when the Bible's talking about Jonathan loving David, and that love surpassing that of women, he's not talking about some defiled, abominable thing. He's talking about true biblical genuine love between two individuals. And so this is intense, the level of commitment there. The world looks at love as philates. Oh every time I'm near her. Oh, he's just divine. You know That is not love. That might be infatuation or something. Uh when I was um while I was still in college, I went home for something, I don't remember what But uh I stayed with my dad and my sister had been living there for a while and um I don't know where she was, but anyway she had a little alarm clock there, and so I sat it the night before, never thinking anything And here it was set on a country and western station. And I woke up, it went off, and it woke up as some song playing. And I only that's the only time I think I've ever heard that song in my life, but those words are burned into my mind because it woke me up. And I I don't have the words exactly right, but it went something like this. Some of you all know this as soon as I start saying I'm sure. Um it goes something, if it if it makes you something, then it must be love Anybody know what I'm talking about? You wouldn't admit it if you did. Uh if it uh if it makes birds sing in the sky and if it makes you feel this way, and uh oh forget it. Anyway. Um But true biblical love that Jonathan has for David, and David loves Jonathan, is best defined, I think, in 1 Corinthians 13. And we don't have time to go there and study that, but what a tremendous study that's going to be when we get to that in Sunday school. And so, uh, this is an intense in its infection In its affection, it is initiated by Jonathan. And last of all, real quickly, I only got a little bit of time. It's incomparable in its quality. I think this friendship between David and Jonathan, Jonathan and David, is perhaps the closest friendship expressed in the Bible, closest to a perfect friendship. That you'll find anywhere. I think it is perhaps the greatest model of biblical friendship in all of Scripture. Now, there's a lot of partnerships in Scripture. There was a lot of people that had close associations with each other in Scripture. Can you think of any? Who are two folks in the Bible you think of you connect those two together? Anyone think of any? There's a bunch of them, really Paul and Silas. And before that, Paul and Barnabas, boy, they were tight, they were close until they had a disagreement, then they went their separate ways. Paul and Silas were close. Who else do you think of in the Bible? There are two. I thought of Elijah and Elisha. They're closely associated with each other. Their ministries overlapped a bit. And boy, Elisha says, wherever you go, I'm going, Elijah. But nowhere do you find, in all these partnerships and various associations listed in the Bible, nowhere do you find a quality of friendship as that of David and Jonathan? Uh it's about as as near a perfect a friendship you're going to find in all of Scripture. Best example I can find. Now let me go through and Oh, I wanted more time for this. But I want to give some principles of a healthy friendship. I'm probably not going to even get to these tonight. But principles of a healthy friendship. Um anybody want to guess which book of the Bible talks more about friendship than any other book in the Bible. Almost all the other books in the Bible put together. Anyone want to take a guess? Proverbs. It is incredible. I know I've read through Proverbs easily, hundreds of times. And I never paid close attention to how often and how many, how often it references friends and friendship and how many principles it clearly lays out. And so what I'm going to do is save this for next week because there's no way in the world I can cover these like I'd like to in five minutes I could just go on till nine thirty if you want, or we could how many people want to do it next week? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for these two tremendous men of faith, very passionate men in so many areas of their life And Lord, this bonding, this knitting their hearts and souls is a really a beautiful thing. I pray you would help us, Lord, in our lives not to isolate ourselves. God help us not, help us to be careful not to allow substitute fellowship. Replace genuine thing that you designed us to need. And Lord, on top of that, what I've been thinking, studying this and concern, is that you help us to be friends. And not just hold these such high expectations for others, but actually be these kinds of friends. So help us, Lord, and challenge us, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many would say, preacher, I want to be careful who I allow to influence me and get my attention. I know I'm not talking to teenagers. I know I'm talking to mostly folks my age and older probably. But we still have to be careful. Because of the influence of others. Jonathan saw in David values and principles that he knew were important and he wanted true in himself. If we're not careful, we let movie stars and all this stuff. Replace that and influence us and we need the real deal. How many say, preacher, I I I need to cons I need to consider that, I need to focus. on who I'm going to allow influence me and uh my values. Or any like that by the uplifted hand. And I was challenged by this myself, even within the body of Christ. And so Father, please bless us. And help