I will turn to 1 Samuel chapter 18. 1 Samuel chapter 18. Our uh subject here is kindred spirits. And I have my mic turned on Dave, but I don't have nothing coming through 1 Samuel chapter 18. We'll read the first three verses, four verses, and uh we're going to kind of zero in and uh Kind of take a little rabbit trail, talk about friendship. Alright? First Samuel 18, verse 1. If you would follow along. It came to pass when he had a when he, David, made an end of speaking unto Saul That the soul of Jonathan was what? Knit with the soul of David, the kindred spirits, what I wrote in the marks of my Bible there. And Jonathan loved him as his own soul. And David took him that day and would let him go no more home to his father's house. Then Jonathan and David made a covenant because he loved him as his own soul. And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him and gave it to David and his garments, even to his sword and to his bow and to his girdle. Kindred Spirit, let's pray. I'll review the outline I made of this, and then I want to zero in on one thought this evening, one subject. Let's pray. Father, we ask now you're blessed, you'd bless our study of your word tonight Particularly Jonathan and David and their relationship and this tremendous friendship. I pray you would help us, Lord, to um have and be. uh biblical friends and um and to uh that you would help us in this matter and I know a lot of us Lord are uh older in years but nevertheless we believe friends are very very important So help us, Lord. Teach through me, I pray. Fill me with your Spirit is my request, Lord. And help us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. We pointed out first of all and noted the connection between Jonathan and David. That was in verse number one, where it says their soul was knit to each other. And uh we talked about why that would be. What was it about David that attracted Jonathan to him so much? And one of the conclusions I came to is that David displayed uh the values and um the character, the attributes that I believe Jonathan sought to be true in his life and actually were true in his life in many ways. We are attracted to people who share the values we share. And so that's what we notice there. Then we saw in verse number two, we just touched briefly, was the conscription of David by Saul. And notice there verse two, Saul took him that day and wouldn't let him go home to his father's house. We're going to pick that up in verse five and when we get down there uh what that was all about. Then verse 3 and 4 comes back to this relationship of Jonathan and David and the uses of keyword in there. Verse 3 and 4, there's a keyword that Jonathan and David um join into. And what was that? We highlighted that last time. It was what? Covenant. Their relationship was not a what's in it for me type relationship. Their relationship, if you remember, we used the um, I referenced the Greek word for friendship, phileo. Which is the best way I've always over the years I've defined it as I'll scratch you scratch my back, I'll scratch your back. There's a mutual benefit. There's a mutual pleasure in the relationship. And a lot of times when that when one side fails to be what the other desires in them, then the relationship dissolves, the friendship dissolves. And that is not what David and Jonathan developed. They had a covenant friendship, a covenant relationship, where is a covenant is I'm committed to you regardless. Regardless of what your behavior or anything, I am committed to you. So it was an intense, it was a very, very intense relationship. This was the outline I did on these verses here. First of all, it was initiated by Jonathan And if you remember, I suggested maybe it is because David might have been a little hesitant to make this sort of commitment simply because he was the outsider Jonathan's the heir to the throne. Jon David's, you know, he might have been, and we're speculating here, but he might have been a little hesitant, say, you know, I don't know how I'm going to fit in here. And uh way this is. But when Jonathan gave him his robe, that was very significant. I think that was a clear message to David. Hey I recognize who you are. I recognize where this is going to go. Whether it was revealed to him at that point or not, we're not sure. So it was uh initiated by Jonathan. It was intense in his affection And we talked about that. Then it was incomparable in its quality, was my outline for it there. There's a lot of partnerships in Scripture. We touched on that. Elijah and Elisha uh you know Paul and Barnabas, later Paul and Silas. You have these associations, these partnerships, but I can't find any other friendship in Scripture that comes even close to what David and Jonathan had. This is, as far as I can uh uh ascertain as studying this, this is the closest thing to the purest uh friendship that you're going to find anywhere between Jonathan and David. So that's where we were at and that's what we got to. Now what I want to do tonight Before we move on to David and Saul and that horrendous relationship, particularly on Saul's side, I want to stop, and tonight I want to give five principles for healthy friendships. Five principles for a healthy friendship. You say, oh, this ought to be for the teens, eh? Friends are important. Friends are important to teens, but friends are important at all ages of life. Remember, I made the statement and I I repeat it now. I believe it as strong as ever, is the older I get, the more important my friends are to me. And particularly in the Christian life, uh uh I have friends that are closer than family. Does anybody know what I'm talking about? I mean dearer to me and more in common and more of the same frame of mind than uh with many of my family. And so uh five principles for healthy friendship. Now, there's one book of the Bible that tells us and speaks of and teaches on friendship more than any other book in all the Bible. I think I mentioned it last week. See if anybody remembers. What Proverbs. So let's go to Proverbs. We're going to be there for most of the time. I would encourage you maybe to jot these down. I think they'll be pretty helpful. And particularly as if you're a parent, grandparent Maybe in if you get an opportunity to work with the kids or grandkids, explain to them the importance of friends and some principles from the book of Proverbs. that deals with friendships. And of course it will apply to us also. We don't want to disregard that. The book of Proverbs was recorded by who? Who was the penman of Proverbs? Solomon. But who is the person he is writing to? His son. Now that's interesting. Over and over, particularly in the early part of the book, he says, my son. My son, my son, I highlighted that. If you buy one of these highlighters, you can highlight it in your Bible too. And um I inject little commercials in all through there. But uh nevertheless, he's writing this down, and he he references friendship over and over and over again. And so I put together here five principles, primarily from the book of Proverbs. Uh we're going to get one from the Gospel of John at the end. But number one, first principle of a healthy friendship. A healthy friendship is, write this down, discerning. Discerning. And what I mean by that is this: not everyone should be our close friend. We should be very discerning on the friendships we establish. We should be very careful. We should use wisdom in uh in uh in allowing friendships to develop. And uh let me let me let me put it this way. We should choose who our friends are, don't let it just happen. I found that use uh things where that just happened doesn't generally turn out well. But I need to choose, I need to use discernment Who my friends are. Be discerning on who your friends are. Now let me say this. We ought to be friendly to everybody. Right? I would like to think that anybody in there could look to Brotherham and say, hey, he's he'll be my friend. He'll be my friend. I'll be a friend. But I want to be very, very careful who my close friends are, who I uh uh unite my heart with, who I knit my heart with. I need to use discernment. I believe Christians ought to be the friendliest people in the town, in the county. I believe my conviction is, and I hope this is true for me, I'm sure I can do much better But my conviction is I believe the members and the pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church ought to be the friendliest people in Garrett County and Tucker County and Preston County and Grant County and Mineral County and whatever other county We ought to be the friendliest people around. We ought to be friendly to everybody. I don't see any situation or any circumstance where it's appropriate for a Christian to be unkind to somebody. Now having said that, we need to be very discerning on who we who we establish um Close ties with. Now, if you would turn there, if you're in Proverbs, go to Proverbs chapter 13. Now I told you to turn to Proverbs, and I did not turn there myself. Proverbs chapter 13, and we're going to be jumping all around here in Proverbs, so keep your Bible handy there. Proverbs chapter 13 and verse number 20. He that walketh with what? Wise men shall be wise, but a companion of fools shall be what? Destroyed. What's he telling us here? I put in the margin of my Bible beside this verse, I put this, the importance of right associations If I make friends with a full, according to this verse, if I tie in with a full, a biblical definition, somebody that meets the biblical uh characteristics of a fool. If I tie in with them, what's going to happen to me according to that verse? I'm going to be destroyed. It's going to ruin my life. How many people are their body is laying in a grave tonight because they got in a car with a fool How many people are damaged? How many people are addicted to something? Now I'm not taking away personal responsibility But they made friends with a fool, somebody drinking and smoking dope and carrying on and all of that, and they got sucked in because they wanted that friend. How many people are messed up tonight? So a companion of fools shall be destroyed. I got studying that word companion there, and it's interesting. This is the literal definition. Sometimes you look these words up and it's it's Just pretty creative what their definitions are. It means what uh it means to graze together You know, cows graze. It's out there grazing together. It has the idea of um of a close companion. A companion of fools, a a a close friend is the idea. And so I ought to be very discerning. I ought to look and say, Amen, you know, here's somebody and You know, we're starting to hit it off a little bit. I need to stop and wait a minute. What kind of person is this? This person wise or are they foolish? Notice the he that walketh with wise men shall be wise So I believe I need to be discerning. Is does this friend, does this person have the values in their life that God wants me to have in my life? And if they don't, then I'm going to be friendly to them. I'll try and be a good testimony to them. I'll help them every time and every chance I possibly can. But I am not going to make any covenant with that person. I'm not going to graze with that person. Right? And so here he's teaching us discernment. Come over, if you would, to chapter 22 of Proverbs. He touches on this again. Proverbs twenty-two and verse number twenty-four He says, Proverbs twenty-two, twenty-four, make no friendships with uh what angry man and with a furious man thou shalt not go. Why not? Read verse twenty-five. Lest thou learn his ways and get a snare to thy soul And so here he tells us, he tells us very, very clearly that there are certain people that we should not make friends with. And if that person cannot control their temper, if that person is an angry man, and he it would be a furious man I'm going to be friendly to them, but I am not going to graze with them. I am not going to make a covenant friendship with them. Carelessly making friendships is disaster. That's one of the dangers, and again we think of young people. That's one of the dangers when a family moves to a new area and the kids go in a new school. One of the things they're going to be very vulnerable with is what? The friends they make in that new school. Now this is this is sad and I I don't know exactly the answer for this But it seems like when you go into a new area, the easiest people to become friends with are probably the ones you don't want to be friends with. Why is that? I don't know. It was true for me when we would go to new school and it was like the misfits and the rebels. They they they don't have that's a good point. They don't have any real friends, so they're just reaching out and grabbing A lot of times people like that will want to use people and what they can get out of them. And so here's a new kid. Oh, we can we can uh fleece this guy. And so we have to be very, very careful. Carelessly making friends is a disaster, the influence of associations. And so number one, the first principle I have for healthy friendships is discerning. I must use discernment. Number two Second principle that I see in Proverbs and throughout Scripture for a healthy friendship is they must be dependable. And along with that, put dependable slash consistent. Consistent. Um I want to go to Proverbs seventeen. Start out there. Proverbs chapter seventeen. And verse 17. It's a familiar verse, I'm sure, with a lot of us. Five principles for healthy friendship. Number one, must be discerning, use discernment. Number two, they must be dependable or consistent. Proverbs 17, 17. How many people have this verse memorized? Anybody? How many folks are familiar with this verse? This is a good verse. A friend loveth at all times. And a brother is born for adversity at all times. If I'm going to be a friend or if I'm going to tie in with somebody, I want somebody that's going to be friend, they're going to be dependable, they're going to be consistent. in my friendship, in my relationship, using the term in the context of friendships, uh, that they're going to be consistent that. Not one day they hate me, the next day they They uh, oh, I'm their best friend the next day, then they're around this crowd and all of a sudden I'm I'm I don't fit in and and uh you know, but there's somebody that friend that loveth when At all times. And that phrase at all times has this idea: in all seasons, in all seasons of the year, in all seasons of life. In all fortunes. One of the books I was reading on this, they suggested at all times, meaning all fortunes. In other words, there, my friend, when I'm rich But they're also my friend when what? When I'm poor, when things go broke, and boy, they stick right there. They're faithful. And they're friends in all seasons, all seasons of life. In all occasions, they are friends to the end. And so a friend loveth at all times. Now I want to be careful in this. We have to be careful uh that we keep a balance here. It's not just what I'm looking for in a friend, but it also needs to be, what's the other side of that? Yes, what I am in a friend. You know, we were kind of had our eyes on the gals there a little bit and looking for a uh a lady that was there to get her MRS degree and um her MRS degree You got it. It was just dumb. It's not the okay. And so uh we uh these guys would come up with these lists of what they wanted in a white. And boy, I mean it was she would be a miracle woman, you know, that she met all these things. I mean, it was unbelievable. And um and that's fine and dandy But we got talking one time, a couple of us guys, and we thought, you know, it might be a good idea if we came up with a list of what kind of husband I should be to the wife. That wasn't nearly as popular. But nevertheless, if I'm looking for in a friendship somebody that's going to love at all times, at all seasons, whatever the circumstances, I need to have that in myself also. Come with me over to Proverbs chapter 14. We have a little contrast of this here. A true friend, a biblical friend, a sincere friend, is loveth at all times. But look at chapter 14 and verse number 20. The poor is hated even of his own neighbor. Look at this next statement. But the rich hath what? Wow, how about that? You want lots of friends? Get rich. That's what this says. You know what this is? This is Fair Weather Friends. This is the exact opposite of what Proverbs 17, 17 was talking about, a friend loveth at all times. Here, um, here, boy, you're rich, I'll be your friend. I think I mentioned this recently, the guy, and I remembered his name. His name was Craig in junior high school. We went to tech school. We went to classes in the morning. And then we were basically knuckleheads, so we went to tech school in the afternoon. They bust us down to Lansdale, and there we basically did nothing, you know, run the lathe or different stuff. I was doing architectural drafting. And um but anyway Craig was there and he would every almost every day for a w period of time there he'd come in and he said uh I'll g if you be my friend I'll give you a dollar. Did I mention that recently? Yeah, I'll be your friend. I said Sure. And uh I was glad to be his friend. He gave me a dollar. How many people agree with me? That's not a very strong friendship. The rich have many friends. Hey, uh uh now I don't think you ought to play the lottery. Don't play the lottery. If you do play the lottery, you're not going to win. You're just giving your money away. In the remote chance that you do win, you ought to tithe. on it, but um but don't do it. But uh you you pay attention to that. Somebody wins the lottery, what happens? People start showing up from everywhere. Hey, remember us? We were friends, best friends in high school. I never saw you before. And so there is a real contrast. Hey, if somebody, if my friend, the only time they want to be around me, the only time they want to associate with me, the only time they want to identify with me, is when they can get something out of me That is not a dependable friend. And I want to avoid that. You have to watch out for that. Somebody put it this way. I came across this quote, I thought it was pretty good. Prosperity produces friends. But adversity proves friends. And boy, isn't that the truth. Some of us have been around for a little while. We can look back over our lives and we can see how that has played out. Go to chapter 18, just a page or so over there. Proverbs and verse 24. I enjoyed studying this and looking at it. Proverbs 18, 24. Here's a familiar verse. A man that hath friends must do what? Show himself friendly. And there is a friend that sticketh closer than a brother. And there are certain friends. Now, we understand this, a prophetic reference, no doubt, to Lord Jesus. But the principle here is there are some people that become closer than family. We already mentioned that. That's what he's talking about here. They just share such values. They almost come like blood brothers. But it's interesting what he says here: a man that hath friends must show himself friendly Now I got looking, uh somebody says, I don't have any friends. Uh this verse might explain that. Right? Nobody likes me. Uh this verse might have the answer to that problem, the solution to that problem be I've had over the years every now and then a young person will say, you know, nobody treats me with respect. How do you get respect? Be respectable. Tell the truth. Be on time. Work hard. Be honest. And so, oh, I don't have friends. He that had friends must show himself friendly. Um but I got studying that word friendly, and again, this is one of those words that just has such a rich definition to it. The word itself, and it it's kind of a convoluted translation from the the words that it's translated from But it has this idea. He that hath friends must show himself, and here's the idea, broken or destitute. And I thought, what in the world does that mean? And then it referenced another Hebrew word, that it's kind of part of the depth part of that word and where they come from. And I put it together, and this is what I believe God is saying here He that hath friends must show himself friendly. In other words, he needs to break himself, his self-will, his own desires. He needs to his His self needs to get off the throne for the well-being of the other. Am I making sense there? My desires and and my will is broken is becomes destitute for the well-being of the friend. And I think we see that in Jonathan exactly. Jonathan gave up his road. I mean, he could have claimed the throne. He was the rightful heir. He could have demanded. He could have seen David as a threat. But he showed himself friendly. He broke his self, his own will, his own dreams, his own plans, his own desires, because he saw in David something that he admired and he respected And so he that hath friends must show himself friendly. Hey, uh a good way to be a friend is the old statement Dr. Robertson always said, just die to sell. Die to self, die to self. If I'm in a friendship for what I get out of it, that is not a good, healthy friendship And so they must be dependable, they must be consistent. And also, this was interesting, another word that that word friendly there is tied in with, and I and I'm not a linguist, so I I can't explain all this, but it was somehow tied in with the word shepherd. What does a good shepherd do for the sheep? He cares for them. But Jesus said, the good shepherd giveth giveth his life for the sheep. And that's kind of the concept here. He that hath friends must give of himself, give his life, so to speak, for the friend And so it's just a fascinating thought there and teaching there. Friendship must be dependable, must be consistent. Go, let's see, where are we at? 18? Tell you what, let's come back to chapter 17. We're right here. And look with me at verse number nine. He that covereth a transgression seeketh love But he that repeat a matter separateth very friends. Well, that's a fascinating statement. He that covereth a transgression. Let me read it again. Verse 9. I lost my place here. He that covereth a transgression seeketh love. What does it mean to cover a transgression? What would you think? What's he talking about there? Somebody give me some feet. He hides it, but I think it's more than just hiding it. He doesn't dwell on it. Okay, doesn't dwell on it. What would be the word what would be the word you would use? He said to the side, or he forgives. I've forgiven that. It's covered. It's well Jesus, our relationship with God, we put it this way: it's under the blood. It's cleansed, it's gone, it's been dealt with, it's in the past. So he says here, he says, um, he that covereth the transgression seeketh love. How many pe how anybody here is perfect? I saw that. Oh, I thought you started to raise your hand, I'm sorry. The only perfect woman is the fella's first wife, you know, is the No I'm kidding. But anyway. What was I talking about? Um perfect. I in a friendship I lo um in a friendship Uh how many people here have ever said somebody something or done something that somebody is very dear to you and they meant a lot, but you said or did something stupid Everybody know I'm talking about marriage or friendship. It's like, oh man, well, that's my friend. You know, why would I say that? Why would I do that? Anybody know what I'm talking about? A consistent friend, a dependable friend, says, alright, I'm going to cover that up. I'm going to forget. We're not going to let that affect our friendship. Here's a tragic thing, and this tells you a lot about the the the depth of the friendship. But you have a friendship with somebody, and let's say, let's turn this around, and they say or do something stupid Or that maybe they say something hurts us or whatever. And here's what we do. If that friendship is not a covenant friendship, here's what we do. We'll sacrifice 25 years of blessing and enjoyment For that one stupid thing. They said, and we can't get beyond that. And we forget all about the 10,000 things they did that were a blessing and a help and encouragement. And all we can see is that one stupid thing Or maybe it's the other way around. I don't know about you. That's a tragedy. That's tragedy that we would let that happen. And he says here, he that covereth that and says, listen We've been friends a long time. We've been dear friends. We share the same values. We love the same God. We're on the same page. I'm just going to forgive that and put it by. And notice what he says there. He that covereth the transgression seeketh. But he that repeateth the matter separateth very friends, destroys a friendship. That word repeat can be used, the idea that a repeat of the matter can be used in various ways. One idea is I won't let him forget what he did to me. I won't let her forget what she did to me. I just keep repeating it and repeating it and keep bringing it up over and over and over and over. What does that do to a friendship? What does that do to a relationship? Destroys it. Separates it. I mean just destroys it. But there's another idea. He that repeateth the matter, maybe I know something. That they did, or they know something that I did and they cannot keep a confidentiality And they repeat it to others something they know, a flaw in me, and they repeat that to others. How's that friendship going to hold up? It's not going to hold up. It's going to destroy. It's going to separate friends. Now, I think there's a real caution here, and I'm sure many of you are fully aware of this, but we have to be very, very careful who we confide in. Hmm? Don't just be don't just confide in anybody that'll give you an ear. Man, that can come back and bite us so bad. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Boy, maybe something very personal, something you just it's heavy on your heart, and you want to get it out, and boy, you have someone, you share with them the situation very personally, share it with them. Man, if they're not if they're not dependable, if they're not a consistent covenant friend, and they go out and start saying that, man, that can hurt you really bad. And here's something I think you also have to be careful about. You can share something, share your heart or situation, a burden or whatever with somebody who at the time seems very, very trustworthy, but two, three years down the road. You have some fallen out or whatever. Now they've got that on you, and boy, that can come out. Right? You follow what I'm saying? So I come back to my first point, the first principle is we must be very discerning. on who we ch who we allow and choose to be our very dear friends. And it needs to be somebody that I can trust in, I can have confidence in. Because he that repeats a matter is going to separate very, very friendly friends. Come over to chapter 27 and verse 10. I'm telling you, Proverbs is all through about friendships. Chapter 27, and look with me at verse 10. And some of these we're going to hit over and over. 2710, thine own friend and thy father's friend, what shouldn't we do? Forsake not. Don't forsake them. Neither go into thy brother's house in a day of calamity, for better is a neighbor that is near than a brother is far. That's a little another subject. But notice this is here's your own friend and your father's friend. Forsake not. And so this is telling me that a uh one principle of friendship is they are dependable, they are consistent. They're not going to forsake me. I'm not going to forsake them. They go through a hard time. Kind of ties in back up there with 1717. A friend loveth at all times But it's on the other side, me being a friend. Forsake not, forsake not. Years ago I had preached for a fellow, it was since I was here in New Jersey, and he asked me to come over and preach a Sunday And for whatever reason I did. I don't normally do that. This was quite some time ago. And I went over and preached for him and I got to know him a little bit. We became somewhat friends. I know none of them and we were acquainted before But he was a very close friend with Dr. Smith, Sheldon Smith. And I've come to find out that years ago, this was a very large church, they ran, I don't know, 1,500 two thousand, something like that. Pretty good sized church, a big school. And um some time ago the church had hit on some real hard financial times. And I think in the accountant or whoever had mismanaged, something wasn't good. And boy, that thing fell apart and people started bickering and fussing and it was just not good. And um and they he hung in there, he stayed in there and got it through and got them through that time and the church was rebuilding and they were going on and and still today a very, very good church. But I learned something. I found out through all that, Dr. Smith stayed loyal and a close friend to that guy. And he had said, you know, he says I've just about lost all my friends. There was a lot of questions, a lot of accusations going on And he said, but Dr. Smith, he said, he called me every single day to ask how I was doing. Everything's going to be alright. He'd pray with me and encourage me. I thought, boy, what a friend. What a friend. Forsake not. He's going through some dark times. So principle number one is I must be discerning in my friendship. Number two, I must be dependable in my friendships. By the way, let me throw this in. Number three is this, must be direct, and by that I mean open, honest, and sincere. Uh I'll get to that, but I came across a statement by Benjamin Franklin. How many people agree with me? He's made some incredible statements. That guy had a sense of humor and he had some common sense. That was very, very rare. He said this about friends. He said, you got when you have a friend, and this is the idea of dependable, you gotta know when to give them some space. And this is the way he said it. He said, guests are like fish. They stink after three days. So a good friend knows when it's time to back off and give him a little space. I thought that was funnier than that, but um I thought that was a great statement. I write that in my Bible But uh number three, a friend, uh principle number three is uh healthy friendship is direct, open, honest, sincere. Are you in chapter 27? Look at verse six. Faithful are the what? Wounds of a friend. What? But the kisses of an enemy are deceitful. A friend is concerned for the other's well being. Faithful are the wounds of a friend He's concerned. Hey, listen, man, you're messing up. You can't be doing this. And he says things that maybe you really don't want to hear. And he points stuff out that you really wish that they would just let's just let me alone. No, I can't. You're going the wrong direction. You're making a dumb mistake. This is going to hurt you That's a friend there. But the kisses of an enemy, boy, they're deceitful. They're deceitful. And so if a covenant friendship, those friends can be very direct with each other. And uh and and it is received, and I understand that. Um I have a few people, there's and all these I consider them mentors, they were all older than me, most of them are dead um are going to be with the Lord. But I had certain people that I wanted them to quote unquote wound me. You know what I'm talking about? I wanted them to be honest. I wanted them to be straight. They were my friends. They were my mentors. I trusted them. I loved them. I believe they love me. And I wanted them to shoot straight, and I'd call up and say, hey, here's the situation. Am I doing right? Am I doing wrong? Tell me the truth. And I have a few, and Dr. Creed is one of them. But man, he'll just shoot it straight. Um we had this is a number of years ago, we were having lunch together and there was a situation and I said, what should I do? And he had told me before, he says, well, here's really what you need to do But the situation didn't change and it was getting more and uh I just didn't see how I could do what he said, so we had lunch together one time several months later, and I said, Dr. Creed, I got this here and I don't know what to do. And he's he said, well do you want me to tell you the truth or not? Oh yes, tell me the truth. And uh he says, well this is what you Oh no, he put it this way. He said, Do you want me to tell you what you want to hear or do you want me to tell you the truth? And I said, Dr. Creed, I want you to tell me the truth. And uh he told me how it was and it worked out beautifully. But that to me is a friend. The wounds of a friend. Now, let me throw a caution out here on this. Faithful are the wounds of a friend. Now let's put it on this side that I'm the one doing the wounding. Alright? Let's flip the other side of the coin. I need to be very careful who I'm going to do that to. I don't just go around and start telling everybody how it is. I don't go around just wounding everybody. Right? I can walk in the street, see somebody, I can just dump on them. You're doing this, you're not doing that, and just lay into them. That's not what this is talking about. It says, faithful are the wounds of a what? A friend. And so if I'm going to if I'm going to wound somebody, so to speak, in this context, I need to first of all make sure they know me. Number two, they need to trust me, and they need to know that I love them and I am committed to their well-being. Right? Because if they're not convinced of that, if they're not convinced that I love them, I care about them, they trust me and respect me, Then those wounds are going to be are going to do damage. You follow what you follow my thinking here? And so before I go around wounding people I need to first of all establish a friendship with them. I need to first of all establish a trust and a respect and a love and a commitment to each other. So that just like I w I don't want somebody coming up and wounding me. If it's someone I know and trust who committed, have this uh covenant friendship, boy, I'm open to it And I need to make sure I have that same thing the same way. How many folks here God has ever quote-unquote wounded you? Huh? You follow what I'm saying? He said or did something convicted me or he chastened me and Hebrews chapter 12, he scourged me. And what are we to do? We're to accept that because whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth. And we can take that from God, and we accept it, and we want it from God. Because we know him, we love him, we trust him, and he loves us, we know that. Follow what I'm saying? And so we have to be very, very careful on this. This is talking about a relationship where there is trust, respect uh and love for one another. And so we have to be very, very careful about this. Go over to chapter 29. It's got a few minutes left here. I want to get these last two here to you quick. But look at verse chapter 29 and verse 5. A man that flattereth his neighbor, the word neighbor there is translated 42 times friend in the Bible. A man that flattereth his neighbor spreadeth a net for his feet. Oh, what's he doing? Why why would you spread a net for something? Because you want to what? Catch it? Why do you want to catch it? Because you want to eat it. Right? You set a net. You want to skin it out. I used to set nets or traps for muskrats and raccoons and fox and stuff. Why would I catch it? Because I want to skin them out and sell their hide and get some moolah in my pocket. So watch out for people that are flattering you. A friend doesn't flatter you because they what? They want something. The difference between praise and flattery, praise wants to benefit the one being praised. Praise wants to enhance and exhort the one and lift up the one being praised. Flattery says, I want to use this quote-unquote praise to advance myself Alright? And so a friend doesn't do that. Friend's not going to flatter. Flattery is a tool used to advance myself, not help the other one. I wrote down chapter 28, verse 23. I've got to move quicker here. Look at 28, 23. He that rebuketh a man afterwards shall find more favor than he that flattereth with the tongue. So honesty is a quality of a true friend. Number one, discerning. Number two, dependable. Number three, they're direct. By that we mean open, honest, sincere. Number four, write this one down. Direction A true friend, a good friend, gives direction. By that I mean this: constructive advice. Chapter 27, 17. I think we already looked at this. No, we didn't. Here's a great verse. Iron sharpeneth iron. So a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend. What does it mean iron sharpeneth iron? What's the picture you have in your mind when he says iron sharpeneth iron? What do you picture what do you visualize? Iron sharpening iron. A sword or I'm thinking an axe? Shh, you gotta you're scraping on there, shh and ru uh s uh uh taking off rough edges, making it sharper. What happens when you take a sword or an axe and you sharpen it with iron? You sharpen it. What does it make the sword? What does it do to the sword? See if you can think, makes it sharper, but what does that do to the sword? Makes it more useful, makes it more valuable Makes it more effective. Same thing with the axe. If you had to cut a tree down, which would be more valuable to you? A sharp axe or a dull axe? A sharp axe Chainsaw or a chainsaw. A sharp chainsaw or a chainsaw that has the chain on the right direction is also very, very helpful. That's a little personal dig there. But um And so what he's saying here is hey, a good friend, a friend Is going to work on me, is going to have an influence on me, is going to influence me to help me be a better person. And vice versa. Their influence on me makes me stronger in my faith. Makes me deeper in my love for the Lord, makes me purer in my life. And here's the tragedy of making bad friends and hanging around with wrong associations. Hey, if they start dragging us down, if they start having a negative influence, if I'm a if I am a if I need a if I need to hit the altar every time I leave a friend's house And make confession and repent every time I leave a friend's house, that's not a good friend. Because iron, sharpener, iron, they're not making me sharper, they're not making me better, they're not making me of more value to the Lord. And so I have to be very careful about that. A friend gives honest input and the decisions and direction of the life. Let me give you the last one real quick. I want to spend more time on that. Number five, devoted Number five devoted. By that I mean they're selfless, they're sacrificial. They would you ever hear this statement? Oh, he'd give me the shirt off his back. Ever hear that? There's a deeper friendship than even giving your shirt off your back. Greater love, John 15, verse number 13 says: Greater love hath no man than this Then a man do what? Lay down his life for his friends. For his friends. And a true friend says, nothing is more valuable or more important to me. Than you. I lay down my life. Lay down my life. And the greatest friend that has ever walked this planet is not Jonathan to David, but is the Lord Jesus Christ to us. Because not only is he willing to lay down his life, he did. And not just laid down his life. You know, soldiers give their lives. For the well-being of a country. And we respect that. We honor that tremendously. But Jesus Christ didn't give his life just for me to live a free life here on earth. He gave his life to save me from hell And suffered the wrath and judgment of God for me. What a friend we have in Jesus. And the greatest friend that ever has been. The older I get, the more I value friendships. And so let's work on being careful who our friends are, and maybe we need to even at this stage of life, we need to stop saying oh this guy, this guy, A little dicey there. Maybe we need to reevaluate that. But more importantly, let's work on being that kind of friend. Being that kind of friend. And then then uh working on our our friendship with the Lord. Our Lord. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd help You take these thoughts and help Holy Spirit indwell them into our hearts, ingrain them into our hearts and minds. And we would be friends. That's the Bible describes, and that, Lord, that we would appreciate the friendship you've shown us I pray these things in Jesus' name. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, I really, really take this seriously. I really want to be a better friend. Maybe to my spouse or to Others in the church, or maybe some specific friend I've had a long time. I I can work on that. I can develop that a little better and be what this Bible teaches about friendship. Is there any like that? I could do that. God spoke to my heart. God bless you. Of course I think we would all want to be that way. Now, this is between you and the Lord. I know we're older. We're not kids. But maybe there are some associations there and some things, and we don't want to be unkind, we never be unkind, never be unfriendly, but we really they're not helping us. Maybe we just need to be a little careful that. Careful. And um and then our relationship and our walk with the Lord, the greatest friend ever. Let's be a good friend back to Jesus. Father in heaven, bless our invitation, I ask.