Um as we were going through Leviticus in uh in Institute in Doctor Heatwall's class, um, I came upon the Kinsman Redeemer and thought that'd be an interesting topic. I really didn't know much about it. And uh so we uh I looked at that and uh wrote my paper for the for uh That semester on that. We when we start first started Bible Institute, we'll put in a little plug for Bible Institute. I I really didn't have any clue what I was getting into I just knew it was something that the Lord wanted me to do. It just seemed like he kept hounding me, uh, you need to get involved in this. And I uh I went there the first night and I was a bit overwhelmed the first night, uh, in Doctor Heatwall's class. But uh For for me, not being much of a student, it was a little overwhelming, I guess. But uh I I I thoroughly enjoyed it. I thought writing papers, that doesn't sound like any fun. We don't have any force in the night. Yeah, for sure. But it it is a it is a it is a blessing. Um I I thoroughly enjoyed it. Um, you know, it it was sometimes a bit of a challenge. I'm I'm a procrastinator, so I usually wrote my papers about two days before they were due. But as always through school, that's how I always did it. It seemed like I that always worked for me. It might not work for everybody, but it always worked for me. The more time I spent preparing, uh the worse I did usually But gave me less time to revise. I was sitting up here tonight revising it's crazy. Anyway. Uh the Kinsman Redeemer. Uh it's not I don't know if you'd call it preaching tonight as much as just we're gonna look at the Kinsman Redeemer. uh what what what the purpose of the kinsman redeemer was we'll look at an example of the kinsman redeemer and then try to make some application. If you would turn to a Levit Leviticus Chapter 25. I kind of struggled with the text because I didn't know whether to read from Leviticus, whether to read from Ruth, or whether to read from John tonight. So I think we'll just look at all of them throughout. But my text I'm going to read in Leviticus 25, verses 47 through 55. This is basically where where God outlined um the role of the kinsman redeemer. So we'll begin reading in verse uh forty-seven of chapter twenty-five of Leviticus And if a sojourner were stranger, wax rich by thee, and thy brother that dwelleth by him wax poor, and sell himself unto the stranger. were sojourner by thee, or to the stalk of the stranger's family. After that he is sold, he may be redeemed again, one of his brethren may redeem him. Either his uncle or his uncle's son may redeem him, or any that is nigh of kin, or any that is nigh of kin unto him of his family may redeem him, or if he be able, he may redeem himself And he shall reckon with him that bought him from the year that he was sold, to him unto the year of Jubilee, and the price of his sale shall be according unto the number of years, according to the time of an hired servant, shall it be with him If there be yet many years behind, according unto them, he shall give again the price of his redemption, out of the money that he was bought for And if there remain but few years into the year of Jubilee, then he shall count with him, and according unto his years shall he give him again the price of his redemption. And as a yearly hired servant shall he be with him, and the other shall not rule with rigor over him in the in thy sight, and if he be not redeemed in these years, and he shall go out in the year of Juile, both he and his children with him For unto me the children of Israel are servants, they are my servants whom I brought forth out of the land of Egypt. I am the Lord your God. Let's pray. Father, we uh do thank you again for uh a good day, uh beautiful day, Lord. It uh it felt like spring out there today, Lord, and uh it was nice just to be able to get out and enjoy the the weather and the warmth, Lord. We just thank you for your creation, Lord, and your goodness to us, Lord. I pray that you would be with me tonight, Lord, and speak through me. Lord, whatever the message is that you have tonight, Lord, I pray Or that this might just, if nothing else, just be a reminder of the great price that Christ paid when he redeemed us. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, we'll just go into a little brief history of what's happening here. I like to start back in Genesis, Genesis 22. Verse 18, God made a promise. He made a promise to Abraham back in Genesis. The promise was that in thy siege shall all the nations of the earth be blessed. This blessing, as we know now, would be fulfilled some 2,050 years later, would be fulfilled in the person of Jesus Christ, our kinsman, Redeemer. The kidsmen redeemer in the in the in Leviticus chapter five, we see uh what what God had in mind here as far as institut the role of the kinsman redeemer. Um God had a an economic plan for the the people and the land, and uh it was a perfect plan. Uh we've Uh sometimes if you know if we just go back to to God's plan, uh we'd be a lot better off. But he had a plan for the people. Uh part of this economic system, one one of the reasons for institutes this uh This system it present prevented the rich from continuing to get rich and continuing to oppress the poor And keep putting the poor you know more poor. It also gave the land time to rest. Uh some of the farmers here know how important that is. to let the the land have time to rest and and replenish itself. It also kept the land where God wanted it. God wanted the land where he wanted it. He would keep this would allow the ownership of the land Over, we'll get into the 50 years, but over a period of time, if the land was bought and sold back and forth, um it would then revert back to the original owner and it would put the land back where God wanted it So it was a a good system um that that he had had in mind here. You know the people the people possessed the land, but God owned the land. And uh He determined how how it would be used. There was uh something in in the a year that they called the sabbatic year. The sabbatic year was a year that took place every seven years, so there was a cycle. Every seven years Um let me get here. The it was a land it was a time of rest for the people, a time of less for rest for the land, a time of rest for the animals. And it was it was that that's what God uh intended. The debts were released at this time, indentured servants uh were set free. And this was interesting, the priests would read and explain the book of Deuteronomy. um which was, as we know, the book of the law. I I put I I see a r a physical rest for the people and a spiritual revival. that that I could imagine would take place during that seventh year. Um a time of a revival. There was another year, it was called the year of of uh Jubilee, which we talked about which it talked about here and the the text that we read. This this was basically the same, uh, other than it was every fifty years. Um the land would rest, the people would rest, the animals would rest. All of the indentured servants, same thing, everyone would go back. But at that time the land, all the land that was bought in or no, I'm sorry. Land would go back. At that time, uh that's where the Kinsman Redeemer comes in. Property that was bought and sold over the last fifty years was returned to its original owner at that time. So uh You know, w what does that have to do with the kinsman redeemer if you look at Leviticus twenty five again, verse forty seven through forty eight? It said, And if a sojourner or stranger wax rich by thee, and thy brother that dwellth by him wax poor, and sell himself unto the stranger this or sojourner by thee Or the stock of the stranger's family. After that he has sold, he may be redeemed again. One of his brethren may redeem him. So the role of the kinsman redeemer during those fifty years If if I was if I was poor I had to sell myself, my family, my land, whatever it was someone in my family, a near kinsman, could redeem me. And it says I could even redeem myself if I I guess somehow found found some money and or whatever. Um but that was the role. And then we go you don't get down through there and it it gives some other instructions determining the price based upon how many years was left. up until the the fifty years and and it talks about that. But it was a you know an interesting system that that God set up Um, I don't know how well they kept it, probably not very well, but uh because uh the people back then were just like we are now. They they want they want more for for them. And uh, you know, so often we we just want what we can get and uh And not uh worry about the poor. But uh that's probably a message in itself or a series of messages. So next I want to I want to look at uh an illustration That's basically what the Kinsman Redeemer was set up to be. I'll look at an illustration of the Kinsman Redeemer. Of course, the best illustration in the Bible for the Kinsman Redeemer is in the book of Ruth. Here we again, we see we see the blessing that we talked about there in Genesis early on. God is continuing. to to fulfill uh the the covenant there with Abraham and the blessing that he told him that in his seed all the nations of the earth would be blessed. And here we're back to that. This is six to nine hundred years past when he gave that that to Abraham. Six to nine hundred years later we find ourselves in the time of the judges, which wasn't the wasn't the greatest time in the history of the people, but we find ourselves in the time of the Judges. uh which is when the the book of the Ruth uh the book of the Ruth the Book of Ruth takes place on the time of the judges here. Uh and again we see God continuing to fulfill his promise to Abraham. uh as the la as the lineage of Christ continues to be established here through Boaz and uh and Ruth. If you want, you can if you haven't already, I sort of page his turn, you can make your way over towards Ruth. It's probably where we'll be headed. But in Ruth, we'll just uh go through the story of Ruth, and it's a familiar story to most people, no doubt, but it's a really neat story. Here we uh Elimelech. Uh Naomi and their two sons, which I'm not gonna try to pronounce. I don't even have them have them down here, but uh they were on their way to Moab. And uh if you know anything about uh God's people and and uh the Moabites, they didn't th they weren't uh intermingle. Um So they were on their way to Moab. They were on their way to Moab for because there was a famine in in their land, and they were going there much as Abraham did when he went to uh to Egypt. We find kind of the same scenario going on here. They were heading heading to Moab, which uh was a a bad idea. Um I I found a quote today I was reading through uh Uh wears me a little bit what he had to say about this. Uh he said better to starve in the will of God than to eat the enemy's bread Which I thought that was pretty good. You know, God promised He promised Abraham and He promised uh uh Elim Alech and Naomi here the same promises, the same promises that we have today. that if we that that he will take care of us if we trust him. And I know when you're when you're probably in the state that these people were starving, that would be difficult. But Anyway, uh they were still they uh they started on their way to Moab uh because of the famine. Uh after arriving in Moab, there's a lot of things that happened to that family, a lot of bad things that didn't happen that happened. Uh if you if you're if you know the story, the first thing Elimelech dies. Um so we have Naomi and her their two sons. Um so their two sons, Mary, uh Moabite woman women, and uh Ruth and Wurpa. And the next thing happens is their husbands both die. So there you have Naomi and Orpa and Ruth. and uh and this land. Um it's not their homeland, or it's not Naomi's homeland. Her husband and and both of her sons are are dead. And uh Let me catch up to my notes here. So evidently the famine the famine in um is over and they're heading back. Well Naomi I think she does I think she does what th she thinks best. uh for her two uh daughters in law and she tells them to go to go back to Moab. I think she thinks that's probably the best thing for them. So uh as if as you know, Orpa, she goes, she goes back. Um but Ruth Ruth stays with uh with Naomi and uh she makes uh a commitment to Naomi which I think towards the end we're gonna look at exactly what what she said. Uh it's pretty remarkable uh how she she took care of her her mother-in-law. Um I don't know if uh if anyway. What a commitment. The Lord blessed her for it though. The Lord really blessed her for it. So when they arrive at home, Ruth goes to glean the field. You all know this story, but We got all kinds of time. Pat didn't eat brother Pat didn't even start preaching until quarter till the other night. We're we're way ahead of the game here. So I'll try to drag this out as long as I can So when they arrive at at the home, Ruth goes out to gleam the field. Uh and she goes out to gleam the field of one of her near kinsmen. Um Who Nao Naomi knew was Boaz. Uh Boaz, we know, uh instantly uh noticed Ruth. Uh I don't know the Bible doesn't say she was fair to look upon or maybe she did, I didn't see it. But obviously she was fair to look upon And uh I I think more than that he mu he noticed her character and her hard work and her her dedication to her mother in law and and taking care of her and and the family. Because no doubt he knew um what had happened. So uh Boaz was very generous, very generous to her. Uh he took very good care of her. He uh provided for her needs, both her physical needs, the food that she needed. She gave her egg made sure she had plenty, had had them leave extra for her and things like that. And uh she made sure that that he made sure that she was protected. The Bible says that he protected her from the other men that were there So uh he made sure that that she was protective. Uh um I think Boaz had a a genuine uh love for Ruth. um or or was that was um happening there. Um Naomi knew that Boaz both had she had the ability or Boaz had the ability to redeem Naomi, her state, and along with that would be Ruth Um so she instructed Ruth uh what to do. Did I write the yeah, chapter three verse four of Ruth, she tells uh Ruth, what to do? She says, And it shall be when he lieth down that thou shalt mark the place where he shall lie, and thou shalt go in, and uncover his feet, and lay and lay thee down, and he will tell thee what thou shalt do. This is the first first place in the Bible that a man had cold feet. I think Dr. Heatwall might have told us that. And I remembered that when I read that. First instance in the Bible with a man with cold feet. So she uncovered his feet anyway. Uh Boaz, that's the story. That's the story of the the you know what the Kinsman Redeemer was was meant to be, how God set it up the purpose of it and and that the illustration up to up to this point um of the Kinsman Redeemer. We haven't really talked about it, but we're going to talk about it now. And I'm going to mix the rest of the story in with uh with Jesus Christ, because Boaz was a type of Christ. He pictured uh Boaz was a perfect picture of Christ. And uh our our redeemer. Um I'd like to notice a few things as we look uh down through here. Uh some things that Boaz had to do in order to redeem Ruth. There were some things that he had to do. Uh or B. Number one, Boaz had to be a near kinsman in order to redeem redeem of I keep saying Ruth, but it was more than Ruth, it was Naomi and their whole estate, basically, and her sons, Naomi's son's estate. um because of his death that would since he was married to to Ruth that would bring her into the estate. So I was saying Ruth but I'm I'm meaning the whole the whole estate there. He was actually had to be willing I I may say this later, not only to redeem Ruth, but Naomi also and the whole estate. Um so he had to he had he had to be a near kinsman, which he was. Um we'll find see he wasn't the nearest, but he was a near kinsman. Um we know Christ uh was our near kinsman. Uh but he had to do something too. He had to take on flesh in order to be our kinsman. He could have stayed in heaven. Um but he had to take on uh flesh that he might redeem us. He had to do that Matthew 121, so familiar verse, it says, And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. Jesus Christ became flesh, born of a virgin, had to be born of a virgin, because if he'd have been born of a of the seed of a man, he would have been he would have inherited that sin nature. Um some I don't know how, you know, some people can't understand why the virgin birth is so important, but it's just that simple. Uh one reason why it's so important to uh to our beliefs. Um So Christ Christ took on flesh to be our near kinsman. The second thing Boaz had to do was he had to be able to pay the redemptive price. He had to be able to do that financially. He had to do that. Um evidently he was wealthy enough to to do that. It says I don't know if we read it. If we didn't we may in a minute. But there was another and Boaz said he knew of another uh Ruth went basically went to him and and he said that I know there is another Kinsman is closer. So evidently if there was someone closer, they had the right, legitimate right first. And uh he wasn't willing. I know I talk about that later, so I won't dwell on that part. Um Where was it? Boaz had to be able to pay the redemptive price. Christ was the only one able to pay the price. He was it. You know, there was another one that could have redeemed pro probably multiple people. Well there there had to have been, you know, dozens of people that could have redeemed them uh if they so wished, if it would have went past Boaz and there probably would have been somebody else. Uh but Christ was the only one. He was the only one, the only sinless, perfect, spotless Lamb. Hebrews 4. 15 says, but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. He uh he took on flesh, he was tempted just like we are, um, but yet he was without sin. Um you know all those sacrifices, you think all those sacrifices through the Old Testament and up, they were all pointing to uh to the perfect Lamb uh of Jesus Christ. Um only his blood would pay the debt. He was sinless, but only his blood would pay the debt. Hebrews again in 922 says, without shedding of blood there is no remission. So without uh without The the the the redemptive price of Christ was his blood and his death. We all know that. But uh through shedding his blood, uh he was able to pay the price. I wrote down John nineteen, twenty-six through thirty, but I didn't finish it, so I'm gonna have to look it up to see what it says. This was the other this was the other text I was looking at. If you want to go there, if you don't, you can just listen to it. John 19, 26 through 30 is when Jesus was going to the cross to pay our redemptive price. I'm going to read that portion, those few verses there, starting in verse twenty-six When Jesus therefore saw his mother and the disciples standing by whom he loved, he saith unto his mother, Woman, behold thy son. Then saith he to his disciple, Behold thy mother, and from that hour that disciple took her unto his own home. After this Jesus, knowing that all things were now accomplished that the scripture might be fulfilled, saith I thirst. Now there was set a vessel full of vinegar, and they filled a sponge with vinegar, and put it upon hyssop put it to his mouth. When Jesus therefore had received the vinegar, he said, It is finished. And he bowed his head, gave up the ghost. So In that scripture, the perfect, sinless, spotless Lamb of God shed his blood, and he paid the redemptive redemptive price, just like Boaz paid the price. to redeem Naomi and Ruth and their estate, Christ had to pay that price with his blood. Um the other thing, near Kinsman, able to pay the price, he had to be willing. That's a big one. He had Boaz had to be willing. Um and this is where I was talking about uh the other the other uh guy there that could have. You know this this wasn't probably wasn't the greatest uh business from a business standpoint for Boaz. This probably wasn't the the best thing. for him to do. And it says that I wish I had the text now I don't. But this other uh I'm gonna go back to Ruth because I think that's where I end up. Maybe I'll stumble on it later. We got plenty of time. I'm gonna take us a minute. Sorry. Uh somebody has it what's that? Chapter four, yeah. Okay, there we go. We'll start in five. Then said Boaz, what day thou buyest the field of the hand of Naomi? So He went to the the near kinsman and said, Look, this this is a situation. Um and then he says What day thou buyest the field of the hand of Naomi thou must buy also of Ruth, the Moabitus, the wife of the dead, to raise up the name of the dead and to his inheritance. And the kinsman said, I cannot redeem it for myself, lest I mar mine own inheritance. Redeem thou my right to thyself, for I cannot redeem it. He wasn't willing. This guy was not willing to uh to redeem it. Well one of the reasons he wasn't willing was because he knew if they were to have a son, that that son's name would not bear his name but uh Ruth's name. So he didn't want that. And like I said from a it probably wasn't good for his business. So, as I said earlier, uh it's obvious that that Boaz uh loved Ruth. He wanted to take care of her. Um you know, Christ So he was willing, Boaz was willing to fulfill this role of the kinsman redeemer. Christ willingly, as we know, he went to the cross, he suffered death and hell for us that he might redeem us. Because he loved us, obviously. John 3. 16, for God so loved the world. He gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life. And throughout the Bible we see the love of Christ uh towards us. The other thing, he supplied our needs. Um Boaz supplied Ruth's needs and took care of her, took care of her mother-in-law and her family. Um Christ supplies our needs. Uh he redeemed the inheritance for us and uh the Bible over and over and uh Hebrews tells us that he gives us rest. Uh and he gives us rest. So uh I know we're home crowd tonight. Um, you know, and uh it's I I don't know that everyone's saved, and the only person I know is saved in here for sure is myself. But as near as I know everyone in here, I think uh, you know everyone here tonight has uh trust to the Lord as Savior. Um but there's something that else that I didn't talk about is that Not only did Boaz have to be uh willing Ruth had to be willing to accept the price. She had to be willing to accept Boaz and uh the same way with us. Christ, he puts it out there. He's paid the price, but we have to we have to be willing to accept that uh price. Uh like I said, most of us I think here tonight are saved. We've trusted Christ as uh Savior. So uh we all know that because uh because he paid that price for us, basically Brother Stroop's message this morning. You know, we need to live for him and uh and and uh love him, walk in his ways, obey his commands and uh and serve him. uh we need to tell others is is one thing um he expects he expects from us is is to tell others. Um we must be willing to serve God uh in order to be used. I think Brother Stru brought that up this morning also. We must put ourselves in a place uh where we can be used. Ruth put herself in that place. Um that's where I wanted to read Ru Ruth uh chapter one, verse sixteen through eighteen if you're still anywhere close to there. You say Ruth Ruth put herself in this place. Orpah, she she packed her bags and went home. She headed back to her people. Um I don't know if she was saved or not, but she she headed back to uh to her gods and her people and this is what Ruth this is what Ruth did. uh putting herself where where she could be used of God. In verse chapter one, uh verse sixteen, it says, And Ruth said, Entreat me not to leave thee were to return from following after thee, for whither thou goest, I will go, where thou lodgest, I will lodge. Thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God. Where thou diest will I die, and there will I be buried. The Lord do so to me, and more also if aught by death part thee and me. So Ruth uh Ruth committed herself to uh to Naomi to to care for her. And uh if we know the end of the story, um she put her play herself a moabitis No no no. She put her place herself in the place where where God could use her. Um We know Boaz and Ruth had a son, if you know the genealogy, in Ruth 4, verse 16 and 17. Says, and Naomi took the child. Boaz and Ruth had a child. and laid it in her bosom, and became nurse unto it. And the women, her neighbors, gave it a name, saying, There is a son born to Naomi, and they called his name Obed. He is the father of Jesse, the father of David. So we see back from Genesis um the promise to Abraham being fulfilled here in uh In in Ruth, God used some uh unlikely people, but they put themselves in in a position to be used and uh trusted and and obeyed God. And uh he used them in a great way. He used Ruth uh in the line of uh of Christ. And uh you know what a what a tremendous uh honor that uh That must have been for Ruth to be there. So I guess my message tonight is uh you know just like I said, maybe just a reminder of the price Christ paid for us. It never hurts to to think about that and be reminded of that And uh to put ourselves in the place where we can serve. Uh Brother Stroop this morning preached a wonderful message on serving and and putting ourselves where we can serve. We all know in the church here there's there's so many needs, um places to serve. Uh you know, we need bus drivers, bus workers, Sunday school teachers, assistants. Uh there's always something something that can be done, uh something you can do for the Lord. But uh you know the Lord won't he only use people if if they want to be used and if they'll put themselves in the the place where he can use them. That's the the thing. So That would be my uh challenge tonight is that we uh you know put ourselves in that place uh where uh where we can be used with Christ. Uh let's pray. Father, we thank you for uh this day again and and uh Just all your blessings, Lord. We thank you for uh for being our Redeemer, Lord, to for going to the cross, paying the price for our sins, Lord, and doing that willingly. Father, and uh We just pray, Lord, that uh we keep that in our our daily thoughts and our walk with you, Lord. That it uh might affect our lives and and how we live, looking uh looking for for when you return. Lord help us to to uh just be submitted to you, Lord. in our daily lives, in our prayer lives, in our Bible reading, Lord, and in our commitment to you that you might use us uh that we can put ourselves in a place where we can be used of of you, Lord. We just thank you again for uh for this night and uh this message, Lord. I pray you bless the remainder of our service now in Jesus' name.