I'm going to begin reading in verse number seven. The Bible says, Philippians 3:7, But what things were gained to me, those I counted lost for Christ. Yea, doubtless, and I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but dumb that I may win Christ, and be found in him, not having mine own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith. Now look at verse ten That I may know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings be made conformable unto his death, if by any means I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead, not as though I had already attained, neither were already perfect, but I follow after, if that I may apprehend Verse 10, Paul says that I might know him. And Daniel, brother Pastor Grant, read a few moments ago. Verse 32, it says, and the people that do know their God shall be strong and do exploits. And I want to speak this morning on the subject knowing God. Knowing God. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless our time in your word. I thank you for what's been done. The music has been an absolute blessing to me, Lord. The songs, the hymns, the choir is special, has blessed and served my heart. The fellowship has been uh a tremendous blessing. Now as we look into your word, I'm asking, dear Lord That you would open our hearts and minds, and that you would reveal yourself to us and your will to us, and that we would know you and understand you And that we would, if we don't have a relationship, dear Lord, that that would be established today. And if we do, it would be developed I present my body anew to you, Lord, and yield my will, and I ask that you would just speak through me, use my tongue, my lips to communicate the truth you have for each of our lives. And I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. I failed to recognize, but Steve Harris is with us here today. Where are you at, Steve? And uh somewhere around here Oh, there you are. I'm looking right at you. Uh it's a good thing you wasn't a snake. He'd have bit me. So good to see you, Steve. Glad you're here. And I do want to say this also, we're having some issues with our air conditioning. It's warmer than usual in here It's actually above freezing and so um we're having some issues with our air conditioning. So if you'll bear with us on that. We appreciate that. Uh we've been preaching, we've been starting the summer off and going through the summer and uh bringing various messages about God And wanting to understand who God is, what he's like. Last week and previous messages, we discussed the existence of God. And we've noted that the evidence of God's existence is, first of all, obvious. If someone denies the existence of God, they are denying the obvious It's all around us. The evidence for the existence of God is overwhelming. I mean, it just stacks up. The more that science discovers, the more it confirms God's existence, not the opposite. The more we learn, the more we see, the more the scientists have to work at explaining away God's existence. And so it's obvious, it's overwhelming, and in my opinion, the existence, the evidence for the existence of God is undeniable. You cannot deny that God is. Not honestly. And so, I said, how well, how do we know this? We pointed out, just briefly, we pointed out that first of all, our conscious Conscience tells us that God exists. In our hearts and soul, in the heart and soul of every human being, there is awareness of God's existence. There is awareness that there is something beyond myself, something out there that is bigger than I. Now, our conscience doesn't tell us who this God is or what he's like. And so there's a lot of misconceptions in the world about God. We call them false gods. Because if all I have to go by is my conscience I am aware that there is a God, I am aware that there is a deity that exists, but I don't know anything about him And thus they grab for straws and come up with their theories, and so you have all these different ideas about God. So our conscience confirms to us that God does exist, and then we look at creation, and creation tells us that God exists Now, creation tells us a little bit about what this God is like. As we study the world we live in and the universe we live in We uh uh we see, we come to the conclusion that this God that exists is a very powerful God He could make all this that exists here. We learned that this God that exists is uh in my mind, he's an artist. Did you see some of those sunsets this past week? I'm telling you, our God is an artist. And uh just absolute beauty in this world we live in. We lived in Boulder, Colorado for a little while. We enjoyed hiking up to the Continental Divide. You get up there Um, you know, you're s you're uh I I don't know what it's 10,000 feet up or somewhere like that. You're up there a good little ways. Um and uh it's just you think it's barren and the beauty of there, but you look and there'll be a little flower down behind a rock. And up in that horrendous environment, that most beautiful flower you'd ever see, with design and beauty. I'm telling you, our God is an artist. So we look at creation and we our conscience tells us, yes, there is a God. We look at the world he made, and we learn some things about this God. He's powerful. He's an artist. He obviously enjoys and appreciates beauty. This God is intelligent. I'm telling you, no dummy made this world. God that created this world is incredibly intelligent. And we're learning this from in from creation. As we look at it, there's intelligence here, there's design. There's beauty that obviously requires power. We look at creation and we learn, and we mentioned this last week, that this God must be some sort of mathematician. And the underlying basis of everything, there's mathematics involved all through this. So this is an intelligent God, very highly intelligent. Um uh he is uh a chemist. And the interaction laws of chemistry designed by this God He is highly intelligent. He is a designer. And we could go down the list, things that as we look around us, we see, and we know there's a God, and we see a little bit what he's like But we cannot see God. We don't see him anywhere. We can't find him, so to speak. We see what he's made and it tells us about him. Our conscience tells us that he exists, but we don't know where he's at. We could surmise from creation that God is invisible. The Bible says he's invisible. We cannot see him. We don't know where he's at. The creation doesn't tell us who he is. We don't know his name from creation. We can't tell from creation what he wants from us. It's hard to surmise without scripture from creation what he expects of us or how he interacts with us, what he thinks about us. We know he's there. We can't see him, but we see what he's made and we learn from him. So our conscience tells us God exists. Creation confirms to us that God exists. And the scriptures declare to us that God exists. I still keep coming back all week long as I was preparing and doing Bible time and preparing for this morning. The verse Genesis 1-1 just keeps coming back. In the beginning, God But the Bible goes beyond what our conscience tells us and what we see in creation. The Bible tells us not just that God exists, but it reveals to us who He is. Who this God is? Jehovah. The true and living God. Moses, when he was To go down to Egypt, he says, Who should I tell him sent me? He said, You tell him I am sent you What does he mean by that? God was telling, you tell this whole world that the self-existent, eternal God is the one that sent you. So the Bible reveals to us a little bit who God is. We find out his name. It tells us where God is. A little boy was coming home from Sunday school and he was hopping around in the puddles and he was chasing butterflies. He was making his way home from Sunday school and uh Atheistic neighbors saw him going by and he says, uh saw him playing around and says, son, where are you heading? He says, I'm going home from Sunday school. And the atheist thought, Well, I'll give him a hard time here. He says, Really? Uh what'd you learn in Sunday school? He says, All about God. He goes, let me ask you a question. The atheist said, Son, I'll give you a dollar if you can tell me where God is. The son without head, the little boy without hesitating, was playing in a puddle. He looked up and said Sir, I'll give you a hundred bucks if you can tell me where he ain't. The Bible tells us where God is. God is everywhere. He's omnipresent. If we go to the farthest galaxy, God is there. If we go to the deepest hell, God is there. Cannot escape his presence So the Bible reveals to us, our conscience tells us God exists. Creation confirms to us that God exists, and we learn a little bit about Him from creation, but we look in Scripture, we find out who this God is That made us. We find out where he's at. We find out what he wants. The Bible tells us what God expects, what God desires from his creation. Find out what he wants. Would you agree with me? If there is a God and He made me, it's a good idea to find out what He wants, right? What do you want? What's He want? Why was I created? What is my purpose What does he want from me? The Bible tells us about this God, who he is, where he is, what he wants from us. I like this one. The Bible tells us what God thinks about us. If there is a God, and there is, and I'm going to have to stand before Him someday, and I will I would like to have a little bit of idea what this God thinks about me. What's his attitude towards me? What does he think of me? And I read my Bible, I get to the Gospel of John chapter 3 and verse 16, and I find this out: for God so loved the world. That he gave his only begotten son, that whosoever believeth in me shall not perish but have everlasting life. One of the most wonderful things that I find in the Bible is that this God that is all powerful, all-wise All-knowing, eternal, ever-present. This God loves me. He loves me. So God is. God exists. We can't deny it. We can ignore it. We can neglect it, but we cannot with integrity and honesty deny the existence of God. Now here's the question. How do I know him? I know about him. How do I know him? That's where Philippians comes in. I want to look at some of this here. How many people here are familiar, at least to some degree, with the book of Salah Solomon? Song of Solomon. Anybody? Some of you are familiar with it. Some of you read that through there. By the way, I just throw this out. I think every Christian at some point in their Christian life ought to start reading your Bible through, Genesis to Revelation. Now, new Christians starting out, probably the Gospel of John, Gospel of Mark, some of these books, Psalms is always good, Proverbs, good start there. But at some point in my Christian life, I need to start reading this entire book And when you get to the Song of Solomon, it's a fascinating book. It might be a little uh difficult to follow exactly what's happening, but Song of Solomon is similar The record of David and his wife and their passionate love. They have one for another. It's a fascinating book. And it goes into a little bit of graphic detail. About their love and passion one for another. And C. I. Schofield, the author of the Schofield Study Bible, and suggests, and I think probably accurately, it's a tremendous picture of Christ's love for his church. The church's love for Christ. Someone has said that the book of Philippians is the New Testament Song of Solomon. And what they meant by that was this is that Paul in the book of Philippians expresses his passionate love, not just for the church at Philippi, but his love for Jesus Christ. It's a book of joy and rejoicing, just as the Song of Solomon is. And Paul records in here a tremendous statement in chapter 3 in verse 10. He says this, that I may know him. He says, I want to know God. Now, I have a few thoughts along those lines. First of all, I want us to consider the concept of knowing God. What does he mean when he says that I may know God. What is he talking about? Well the word know here in that verse, ver Philippians 3. 10 means this. Simply means to have knowledge of. Or in other words, to have the facts about something. I want to know God, that I want to know Christ. So included in that statement would be: I want to know facts about him. Some of the things we touched on. I want to know what he's like. I want to know what he thinks. I want to know how he interacts with mankind. Is God active in our lives at all? Is God active in humanity or has he removed himself? From our existence. Are we just here kind of getting by on our own? Paul says, I want to know these things about Christ. I want this information. I want these facts about him. But the word know there goes beyond that And it also has this idea, it has this idea of being able to understand something. It's one thing to know some facts. It's another thing to understand those facts. I know, there's no doubt in my mind, that a gigantic several-ton, I assume, 747 airplane, I know that that airplane can fly. And be honest with you, I have no idea how that works. I don't understand it how something that size can do that. So it's one thing to know have facts about something. It's a whole another thing to understand what it is. Paul said, I want to know him. I want to know what he's like. I want to know where he's at. I want to know how he functions. I want to know what he thinks of me. But I want to go beyond that. I want to understand it. I want to understand how he's like, not just have dry facts. The word know there also has this idea to become acquainted with And it has this idea, and it's used in reference to husbands and wife sometimes. It means to have a relationship with Now that's interesting. Here I am, a mortal man. And there is a God that very obviously exists. And I learned a little bit about him as I looked at the world I live in. I learned a little bit what that God is like. He's obviously very powerful. He's obviously very organized. He obviously has an artistic Characteristic to them. It's obviously very wise and intelligent. And then I look in scriptures, I find out it's Jehovah, the true and living God, the eternal God. I find out that uh everywhere I go, He's there. He is present right. By the way, God is right here, present right now. Now that doesn't send chills up your spine. That we are in the presence of the God that created all this. And I look in the scripture, I find out He's holy. That he requires of me an absolute, perfect righteousness to be accepted by him. And I learn all these things and I think I want to understand what this means. And he loves me. I find out in scriptures that God has entered humanity in the person of Jesus Christ and He became a man. I learned all this stuff about God, and I have all these facts. But I want to know him. I want to have a relationship with him. I want this God that obviously exists. I would like to be able to communicate with him and him communicate with me. I would like to be able to do things for this God and be able to give him things that please him and do things that please him. I would like for him to be able to do things for me and Give things to me. I want to have a relationship with him. Now the concept of knowing God, and I kind of touched on both of them here. There's two aspects to this. idea of knowing God. One is to know God intellectually. Would you keep your place here and just turn not a few not too far away to 2 Timothy chapter number 3. 2 Timothy chapter 3. To know God intellectually, it's kind of what I was touching on there a moment ago, where you say we have the facts about God. I have some information about God. 2 Timothy chapter 3. If you're there, look at verse number 14. Paul is writing to a young preacher boy, Timothy. And he's addressing some issues. And he makes this statement here in verse number 14 of 2 Timothy 3. He says, But continue thou in the things which thou hast. What? Learned. He says, listen, you've been given some information. You've been given some facts. Act on them. He goes on and says, The things thou hast learned hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them. Then verse 15, and from a child thou hast known the Holy Scriptures. Which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. Paul is addressing in this passage we just read to Timothy, he's addressing the idea of accumulating information. Timothy obviously was taught some things about God from Paul and from scriptures, and he was gaining information about God. God wants us to know about him. God wants us to have information about him. He does not want us to be in the dark as to who he is and what he's like, what he thinks of us, what he expects from us. He wants us to have those facts. So it is important that I know God intellectually. I have to know some things about Him. By the way, God wants the whole world to know about him. David said in second and 1 Samuel 17 Verse 46, David said that all, let me quote it for you, that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel. God wants every single boy, girl, man, woman in Kazakhstan to know about him. To know that he exists, to know that he loves them. To know that he has entered humanity. To know that there's a judgment coming, that his son is coming back again. He wants them to have that information. He wants them to have those facts about himself. And not just Kazakhstan, but America and every country, every nation, every city, every town, every village, every home, every person in a person in a individual person, God wants them to know about him. Intellectually, the facts about God. A relationship with God must begin with an awareness of and a knowledge about God. I cannot have a relationship with somebody I don't know anything about them Um when I was down in Bible college, I had traveled my last year of Bible college, I'd traveled neighborhood Bible time for the summer. I got back and there was a couple weeks in between when school star when the classes started and when I got there. Um back back in those days you didn't start school until after Labor Day. You know, I mean you didn't get out of school in the end of June and start school the second week of July, you know. You actually had a summer. I got that off my chest. Thank you. But anyway, but all the parents are glad, right? But anyway, anyway I got back early and the school hired me on and I had a couple weeks between my summer ended and uh school was starting They hired me on, I was mowing grass all around Tennessee Temple and going around mowing grass everywhere. And uh one day I was mowing grass and uh uh there was uh there was uh school housing. The school had bought a slew of houses and they'd keep students and they could have rent the housing, the families they're uh cheap and they just provide it for 'em. So I was cutting some of this school housing and while I was doing it, this uh Very pretty girl came out and brought me a glass of iced tea. I thought, well that's interesting. She goes, oh, you're out here sweating. I brought some iced tea and I said, Oh, it's terrible. Oh, thank you so much. And I thought, huh, so that distracted me. I'm mowing all over the place now. Next thing I look over and there's I thought it was the same girl and she's hanging clothes up on the line and she's about eight and a half months pregnant. I thought, whoa Here's her sister. So anyway, a little bit later she came out and said, What's your name? And back then I I went by I said, Denny She said, Oh Danny, would you like more iced tea? I said, Sure. So she went in and got me more. Uh needs need some more, sure. I met my wife. I didn't know it at the time, but I thought, wow, I didn't know she existed. Ten minutes ago, ten minutes before I didn't know she existed. Now I know she existed. Now she was attractive. Now she was very nice. I knew a few facts about her. Hmm, I want to get to learn more about her. So behold a few weeks, months went by, a month or so, a few weeks. I'm in working in the bus ministry and I had a leadership position there. And I looked out and there's about 150, 175 people worked in the bus ministry at a time And I looked out, and lo and behold, guess who was sitting in the bus meeting? Here was this gal, and I never did get her name. So I went over and got her name. I found out now who she is. They had like banquets and I asked her to go to the bank with me, and she did, and uh found out where she was from. Found out that she was uh a pretty active soul winner. And the weeks went into months, and we get together, and I found out she shared my convictions. And one thing led to another, and we began to establish a relationship. But it had to start with having some information about her. I needed to know she existed. I need to know if a little bit about her before I could have an inf uh uh uh relationship with her. So the one idea of knowing God is first of all I've got to gain some information about. I need to know that he that who he is and and uh We need to have some facts about him. So God gives us that. A relationship with God must begin with an awareness of who he is and a knowledge of what he's like. Romans 10, 17 says, faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. The Bible gives me the information I need to know God. That's why it's so important this past week in Bible time, and as we're out visiting, we go by people's homes. We always, if we're going to introduce someone and encourage them to trust Christ as Savior, we give them some facts about God from the Bible. So when Paul said that I may know him, that I may know God, when day and Daniel uh said under the inspiration of God, the people that do know their God One of the concepts of that is to have information about them. And one of the important responsibilities of us as a church and our missionaries around the world is that we distribute information about God. So that a relationship with God can be established. So one thing is to know God intellectually. The next step, a concept of knowing God, is to know God intimately. And that is where the interaction begins. That is where the relationship with God begins. Our son, our oldest son, for a number of years, this was quite a while ago, he managed a very large and a kind of an elite hunting ranch in Texas. If you're familiar with the King Ranch, they leased about 40,000 acres off of the King Ranch and he was a hired hand on there. A lot of wealthy and and influential people would come and hunt there and for various reasons. One day he found out he called us up and he says, uh This coming weekend we have a fellow coming in. I'm going to be his guide. They were quail hunting. He says, I'm going to be his guide. James Baker, Secretary of State for Ronald Reagan, is coming in. I'm going to be his guide And Sam had gotten on the computer and found out some things about him and and I had known him back f I knew about him from uh when he was in in Washington and so I knew a few things about him. Sam had looked some stuff up about him. Before James Baker showed up, before Sam ever met him, Sam knew some things about him. He had information. He knew where he was from and offices he had held and different things he had done. For three days, they were in the pickup truck, they're out in the field, they're on the ranch. From morning till night, Sam was right-hand man to James Baker went through It's all said and done. Sam calls up, he got a picture with him and all this stuff. And now he can say, he doesn't say, I know about James Baker. Now he can say, I know James Baker He knows my name. I know his. We've interacted. Gave me advice. We talked for three days. All day long we got to spend time with each other That's the difference between no now he does he know them very well? No, obviously not. But he can say I know them. It'd be one thing for me to come and say, hey, I know about George Bush. I know about him. I can give you some facts. It's a whole nother thing for me to come and say, hey, I know him. We have a relationship. We have interaction That's a whole nother level. So when Paul says that I may know him, part of that is I have information about God. But Paul's going on beyond that, and he says I want to know him. And Paul did know God. I want to have interaction. I want a relationship with him. Turn with me if you would to Mark chapter twelve A fellow came to the Lord Jesus and he asked him, what's the first greatest commandment? Would you agree with me? I think we can assume if God says this is the first, this is the greatest commandment, That would tell me that that's what God wants the most. Would you agree with me? If it's the first, if it's the greatest commandment, then I can safely assume This is what God wants above everything else. Mark chapter 12, look with me if you would at verse 28. And one of the scribes came and having heard them reasoning together and perceiving that he had answered them well, asked him, Which is the first commandment of all? Now the idea here, I don't think he's asking chronologically so much, although no doubt that wouldn't be included. I think he's called, what is it that God above everything else, this is what God requires of us? God desires of us. Jesus answered him and the first of all the commandments is, Hero Israel The Lord our God is one Lord. There's your intellectual. There's your facts. There's no other God, just one God, and He's one. Now look at this. And thou shalt what love the Lord thy God. How much should I love him? With all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, and with all thy strength, this is the first commandment And of course he goes on the second is like, namely, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. There is none other commandment greater than these. God says, listen, you need to have a little information first. There's one Lord God. But the purpose of that intellectual information is so that you have an Intimate relationship with God, loving Him with all my heart, my soul, my mind, my body, my strength. Every ounce of my being is in love with God That's what God wants. That's the relationship that the God that created all of this. I read an article yesterday of a new telescope in South Africa that they put in there. It's just in its early stage. Only 25% functioning. They pointed at one part of the universe and they discovered 1,300 more galaxies that they did not have a record of before. Unbelievable world this God has created, incomprehensible. And this God wants me to love him. And by the way, this God loves me. That is the intimacy of knowing God. Having relationship If I know facts about God, but I don't have any relationship with him, I don't know him, that is intellect without intimacy. That is me at one point knowing a few things about Kathy Michelle Shiplett. Where she's from? Back hills of West Virginia. Whoever thought a Philly boy would marry a Hinkle Mountain West Virginia gal? I learned a few facts about her. She hardly ever wore shoes. But as time went by, that intellectual knowledge of her became intimate. And we established a relationship. And the day came when I looked her in the eyes and said, I love you. She looked in my eyes and said, I love you too. And it became more intimate. And that's what God. That's what God's talking about, knowing God. I learn all about Him. But there comes a point. I s I have a relationship with him. I know him personally, intimately. So the concept of knowing God is knowing Him intellectually and intimately. Now I want us to consider a few minutes we have left the characteristics. Of strong believers throughout history. Now I'm going to tie these two together. The concept is this: I know facts about God, but I also know God personally. I have a relationship with Him. He talks to me and I talk to Him. He walks with me and talks with me. I walk with him and I talk with him. We interact. He does things for me. I do things for him. We love each other. Now I look at great men and women of faith throughout history, and I notice a common characteristic. There have been some tremendous men and women of faith. We know someone. We read them in Scripture. We read of them throughout history. There have been some tremendous men and women of faith you and I never heard of. Mentioned my wife is from West Virginia. I preached in the early days uh some of those backwoods, back hollers in West Virginia. And some of those places they don't even get sunshine till eleven and the s they're back in the shade at one, you know. It's just the mountains are down there. They don't know what sunglasses are. I preach back some of those little howlers. And I come across some dear ladies that loved and that knew God better than any seminary professor I ever had. I knew some old hard-working farmers, coal miners, backwoods, lumberjacks that knew God far greater. I ever dream of knowing God. So there are some people that have been tremendous men and women of faith that we've all heard of. We have them listed in Scripture and we read about them in our biographies of church history. Some we never heard of. Some some when we get the judgment seat of Christ, they're going to be so far in the front of the line, we're going to be left behind. We never heard of them. Never printed a sermon, never stood behind a pulpit, never published, never named, got out of that holler, but they had God's attention. And I look at these people that I've come across and I've read about and I see certain characteristics that they have in common. Some of those characteristics are every one of them, without fail, are men and women of prayer. They were prayers. They knew how to get a hold of God in prayer. They believed in the power of prayer. I read of them and the ones I've met and I look at them and I consider them and I see not only were they every single one of them without fail men and women of prayer, but I also see they were men and women of great faith They trusted God. If God said it, then that settles it. I'm going to follow his instructions. Great faith in God. I noticed that some of the common characteristics of these men that we read about and women we read about, some we've met, they were great prayer warriors. They have tremendous faith in God. I find that another characteristic is they were pure in heart and mind. Were they perfect? No. But their hearts and their minds were pure. They were separated from the world to Christ. They didn't care what the world says. I tell you, it bothers me deeply when you see Christians, professing Christians, young and old, who are more concerned about what the world thinks about them than what God thinks about them. Whenever a Christian gets to the point where they're so concerned that they are cool in the eyes of the world, that tells me they really don't understand God. And I look at these great men and women, tremendous men and women of faith. They were pure in their hearts and minds. Their concern was to be separated unto Christ, unto God. Not concerned about the world's thoughts or values or priorities, but my God. My God. So there were men and women of prayer, there were men and women of faith, there were men and women of purity. They were faithful. Common denominators of these great people, faithful to God. But underlying all that, I found one characteristic stands out. Every one of them knew God. And by that I mean this. They had an intimate, strong love relationship with their Creator They loved God. They knew God. Would you agree with me? Moses, tremendous man of faith. Amen? Absolutely. Moses, when he saw God working and he saw some of the amazing things God did in Egypt and for the nation of Israel as he was being used of God to lead them out. In Exodus chapter number 33, verse 18, he cried out to God, Oh God, show me thy glory. What was he saying? He said, God, I want to know you. I want to understand you more. I want to have a more uh more intelligent, uh uh accurate relationship with you. I see your power, I see your love for these people, I see your working in our world. And show me your glory, God. I want to know you. David said in the Psalms when as a young man, perhaps he saw God doing amazing things in his world and he sensed the presence and love of God, and he says, As the heart panteth after the water brooks, So panteth my soul after thee, O God. David said, I want to know you. I want a relationship with you. I want intimacy with you. You agree with me? David, a great man of God, a man after God's own heart. And he had a relationship with the God that made this. In John chapter 14, we have one of the disciples named Philip. And Philip was seen God doing amazing things through the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, I don't believe at this point in time Philip fully comprehended the deity of Christ. He knew that he was a man from God, no doubt about that. He's a great prophet of God. Maybe it may have been developing in his mind. Hey, this is more than just a man, this is God in the flesh. I don't know that he was there yet. But he saw the miracles that Christ was doing. He saw the presence of God in the life of Jesus Christ. And he made this statement: Lord, show us the Father. This God that is doing amazing things. I want to know him. Show him to me. Introduce me to him. I want to know this man. I want to have a relationship with this God. And of course in Philippians 3. 10, our text, Paul had seen God do amazing things through his life. How God had changed his life. So dramatically. At one moment, he's persecuting the church of Christ. The next moment, next few days, it turns around, and he's preaching the gospel of Christ. He saw God change him from the inside out, fundamentally change him. He saw churches established, he saw souls saved by the hundreds of thousands. And he said that I may know him. I want to know God. I want to know God. All through history Oh, it's interesting, and we didn't touch on it, but there in Philippians 3, he says, All things that I may know him and the power of his resurrection, I consider all things but dung. In other words, he's comparing every every other thing in the world that I could pursue. I consider it dung. Compare to knowing God, knowing Christ. In other words, the things that some of us think are so important Some of us we can't live out without. It's so high value and priority in our life. Paul says that is dung compared to knowing the God that created me, having a relationship with him. Now I don't know many people that think about dung very much. Some farmers maybe. But what what possesses this is what point I'm trying to make. What possesses our minds so much Is of absolute no value when compared to knowing God. And that's the way these men and women were, these great people of faith. The ones we read about, the ones we never heard of. Every one of them knew God. Every one of them had a relationship with God. Every one of them hungered To know God intimately. To react to Him and God reacting to me and God asking things from me and I'm doing them and giving them and I'm asking things from God and He's giving them and doing them for me I'm loving my Creator, and my Creator loves me. That's intimacy. So the concept intellect Intimacy. Characteristics of strong Christians, all strong Christians, is they hungered for that. They desired for that. Now, last of all, and I am with this. How do I come to know God intimately? I see his evidence all around me. See the tree, the makeup, you look in the microscope, and you see design, you see pattern, you see purpose. You look out in the universe and you see design and organization. Everywhere we look, we see this God. We read in the Bible that he loves me. And he has expectations for me, his instructions for me. He's entered our world. How do I get to know this guy? I mow in the grass and met this gal, Cappy. I thought, how do I get to know her? Where do I find her? How do I get to know her? How do we get to know God? Hebrews chapter 11, verse 6 says, He that cometh to God must believe that he is. Starts with faith. I've got to believe what God says about himself. I've got to accept as true what God tells me in his word about himself and about myself. If I'm not willing to trust God, if I'm not willing to believe God, if I'm not willing to take God at His Word, I will never have a relationship with Him. I may know a lot about Him I will never know him until I learn to take him at his word. So there has to be faith. How do I come to know God? First of all, I need to trust Jesus Christ as my Savior. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. I will nobody ever has a relationship with God the Creator that does not trust Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. They can sing about him, they can write poems about him, they can write books about him, they can talk about him, they can preach about him, but they do not know him. Until they trust Jesus Christ, their personal Savior. Many people know about God, many people know about Jesus. A lot of people know about heaven, a lot of people know about hell. They know about salvation. They know about judgment, but they do not have a personal relationship with God because they never trusted Jesus Christ their personal Savior. So, number one, do you know Jesus Christ, your personal Savior? Do you know for sure that God, through the person and blood, and shed blood of Jesus Christ, has forgiven your sins, cleansed you from all sin? And giving you eternal life. Have you trusted Jesus Christ, your personal? If not, that is the most important thing, issue in your life at this time. We always say this, well you need to get saved. You don't get saved, you die in your sins, you're going to hell. And that is absolutely true. And that is a fearful thought. But there's more to it than that. If I don't trust Jesus Christ my Savior And get eternal life through accepting Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. Not only do I go to hell, I live my entire life here without God and without hope in this world. I have no relationship with my creator. I'm separate. I might be very religious. I might be able to give all the answers. I can go through the yeah, I'm a Christian But if I'm not genuinely trusted Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, I have no relationship with God. There's no intimacy there at all. I don't know Him. So number one, I need to trust Jesus Christ as Savior. Number two, I put this down, I must be submissive to the Word of God. God told Joshua in Joshua chapter 1 before they entered the Went to war and entered the promised land, he says, This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night. That thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein, then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, then thou shalt find good success. What is God telling me? He says, Joshua, if you want to be what I've created you to be, if you want to know me and have a relationship with me, You've got to be submissive to the instructions I've given you in your word. Now that's not for salvation. Salvation is when I trust Christ. That's where the relationship is initiated. But as I submit to the Word of God, that relationship develops. And my relationship grows and the intimacy grows. And I learn more of God, and He gets more of me, and becomes sweeter and sweeter and sweeter. Number three, I put this down, be faithful to the church of God. I have people say to me, not not as much as used to, when we lived in Boulder, we really got this. But people would say to me, Oh, I can worship God. I don't have to go to church to worship God. Well, I would hope Christians worship God whether they're at church or not. Go to worship God Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday. But I remind you, God is the one that established the church, not man. This is God's idea. This is the body of Christ. How can I say that I have an intimate I love God with all my heart, soul, mind. We have a great intimate relationship, a growing relationship when I neglect the very thing He's established for us. To grow and develop. I worked very hard and I s I worked very hard and I squeezed a four-year degree into five years At Bible College. I thought it was funnier than that, but that's okay. I'm telling you right now, thirty-seven years I've been going to church, Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night, before I was ever in the ministry When God saved me, put my heart to go to church. I started going to church. I can tell you honestly before God, I have learned more about God in the ministries, Sunday school preaching, teaching, ministries of the local church. than I ever learned in five years of Bible college. I'm grateful for the Bible college. It helped me, there's no doubt. But the church It's established by God to help you and I and be a part of us developing a relationship with God and knowing Him and walking with Him and pleasing Him. This is the body of Christ. When I neglect the local church, I am not neglecting some social club. I am not neglecting some social organization. It is the body of Christ. That God has established. It's not mine. Paul was studying in Sunday school. Paul said, I don't own a church. I'm just a steward. Christ is God's So, how do I know God? One, I need to trust Jesus Christ as my Savior. I need to get that settled. I need to be submissive to the Word of God. I need to be faithful to the Church of God. Submitting to the Word of God includes getting baptized after I'm saved. It's an important step. Reading my Bible. Being faithful to the church, as we said, all these basics, that helps me develop my walk, my relationship with God. The issue is not do you know about God? The issue is the issue is not do you believe facts about God. The issue is do you know God? He obviously exists, can't deny it. But do you know him? Do you have a living, vital, intimate relationship with the God that created us? If not, you can't trust Jesus as Savior. If you've trusted Christ, be submissive to the Word of God. Live for God. Trust Him. Let Him lead you. Do what He says. Follow His instructions. God that relationship would develop. Does this make sense? Let's pray. Father in heaven, if you do exist, and we believe you do, and if you hear me now, and I'm convinced you do, Lord. If that's true, and we're sure it is, Father, we need you to impress in our hearts how important it is that we know you. And that we live our lives in light of your very real existence and your involvement and your plan and will for our lives. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many this morning say, preacher, I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. I trusted Christ according to the Bible. Christ has saved me. There's been an element of changes in my life. I've sensed him working. And I know Jesus Christ as Savior. But my relationship with him, my daily walk with him is not what it ought to be. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. The Spirit of God has stirred in my heart a desire to know Him in a more intimate, more faithful, consistent way, interacting with God and He with me. Is there any like that this morning, preacher? A heart's desire is to have a more intimate relationship with the Lord. How about it? Hands raised. God bless you all around. Of course we will. What kind of Christian won't want to have a relationship With their Savior and God. We want to develop that. Now there's specific areas the Spirit brings to our hearts and minds that we know need to be addressed, that we know are displeasing, that we know God wants. And our old sinful nature just fights that and we come up short, we come up short, and we have to constantly be dealing with to develop this relationship. I wonder if there's some this morning who say, preacher, I'm not sure that I know God. I can't honestly say that I've genuinely trusted Christ as Savior, and I don't have that assurance that when I die my sins are forgiven, I go to heaven, not to hell, that I really know God. I know about him, but I can't honestly say I really know him. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about that. And I need to know that I know Christ as my personality. Any like that by the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I'm very much concerned. That I have established a relationship with Christ. How about it? Any at all? Church members, visitors, anybody. It's very possible to know a lot about God and yet not know God. Father in heaven, you see hands in our hearts. I pray you'd help us put that hunger and desire in our hearts and lives in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.