First Corinthians chapter eight. Thank you for asking me to speak tonight, Pastor. First Corinthians eight I just want to take a minute also, while I have the podium, to just say how grateful I am for the teams we have. Um we got a good group. We got a good group. And you were saying, you know, twenty-five, thirty years, who's gonna be here? I think we got quite a few of them already here maybe. That's what I like to think. That's what I like to think. First Corinthians chapter eight verse one. Now as touching things offered unto idols, we know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffeth up, but charity edifieth. And if any man think that he knoweth anything, he knoweth nothing yet as he ought to know. But if any man love God, the same is known of him. As concerning therefore eating of those things that are offered in sacrifice unto idols, we know that an idol is nothing in the world. And that there is none other God but one, for though there be that are called gods, whether in heaven or in earth, as there be God's many and Lord's many, But to us there is but one God, the Father, of whom are all things, and we in Him, and one Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all things, and we by Him. Howbeit there is not in every man that knowledge. For some, with conscience of the idol unto this hour, eat it as a thing offered unto an idol And their conscience being weak is defiled. But meat commendeth us not to God, for neither if we eat it are we the better, neither if we eat it not are we the worse. But take heed, lest by any means this liberty of yours become a stumbling block to them that are weak. Dear Heavenly Father, thank you again for this day that you've given us, Lord. Lord, I ask that you would speak to our hearts now. Lord, help me as I try to present what you've laid on my heart. Lord, I want to yield my will to yours, Lord, and if there's anything that I'm about to say that's contrary to your word, Lord, please don't let me say it. And if there's something that you would have me to say, that I am not Written, Lord, I ask that you would bring that to my mind. And bless now the service. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. In this chapter, there is obviously an issue of believers that were eating uh meat that were sac that was sacrificed unto idols. And I think it's interesting, it says in verse 1 that we all acknowledge. There's some things that we know. For instance, in verse 4, we know that an idol is nothing. We know that a little statue made out of gold or or wood is is just gold or wood. We know that there is not really any other God. There is one God, and we read that and we know that. So if someone were to take a nice ribeye, medium rare, with uh a little bit of onions and mushrooms on top. And a nice baked potato with sour cream, shredded extra sharp cheddar cheese. And lots of butter, salted sweet cream. And offered it to a piece of wood, does it damage the meat? Well, not really. We know that. That's not really a god or an idol that's being offered to. We know that um there is no other God. We know this. So you see, we all have knowledge that an idol is nothing, and we think that sometimes That we can be pretty smart when it comes to things that we know about Scripture and things that we know about God. But verse 7 it says, Howbeit there is not in every man that knowledge. What it's saying is not everyone knows that an idol is nothing. Some people would actually get highly offended if we were to eat something that was sacrificed, so to say, to an idol. Even though we know that there isn't one, they don't know that, if that makes sense. And because they see us eat something that is offer to what they believe is a an idol or another god, it hurts their conscience, is what the scripture says here, and it's it defiles their mind. And it's there that we really need to be careful. Because we know some things. But if we're not careful, we can let what we know hurt other people. Verse 9 says, take heed. That means be careful. Take heed lest by any means this liberty of yours become a stumbling block to them that are weak. We must be careful because our knowledge can cause someone else to go against their standards and their convictions. And defile their conscience. Now I'm going to share something with you guys tonight. Um I shared a little bit of it Wednesday night with the teens, and and I think the Lord um led me to to to talk about this again tonight. But teams pay attention because it is a little bit different. And you'll see that here. uh very shortly. But I hope we'll all learn something. The first thing if you're if you're a note taker and if you're in Teenings Alive you get points for taking notes, so this is a great time to get points. But um if you're taking notes, the first thing I want everyone to see is that we all have knowledge. How many of you have knowledge of at some level? We have different capacities of knowledge. We have different abilities to retain information. We're all different there, but we all have some knowledge. How many of you know what your first name is? Look, you have knowledge. Now watch this. The Bible says that we all have knowledge. Now if you know that you know something, that means you at least know something. How many of you know the year you were born? The date? How about the time? I don't know the time I was born. No the day. But I don't know the time. But we all have different degrees of knowledge. And you might say, well, Pastor Matt, that just sounds awful silly. But it it carries over to biblical things as well. We all have different degrees of biblical knowledge. Some we all know a different amount. If you understand what I'm saying, how many of you know that there is a Bible? You all have some knowledge, okay? How many of you know how many books are in the Bible? Okay. First man and woman, we know that. Okay? There's different things that we know. But we know that we all have knowledge. Isn't that profound? That is deep. That is deep. We know that we all have knowledge. And that's good. How many of you are glad that you have knowledge? Yes, if we did not have knowledge, how would we know how to eat the steak, right? That would be terrible. But we all have knowledge, and I'm glad we do. And uh in fact, we are instructed to try to get knowledge, to obtain knowledge, to learn. Second Timothy two fifteen Study to show thyself approved unto God a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. It has to deal with studying, learning things, right It's good. John 5. 39 says he's talking to the uh the Pharisees, and he's saying, Search the scriptures, for in them you think you have eternal life, but they are they which testify of me. And he's telling them, search the scriptures. Proverbs 4:5, get wisdom, get understanding. 1 Peter 3. 15, it says, be ready to give an answer. How can you be ready to give an answer to someone if you don't know what you're talking about, right? Knowledge is good. We need to have knowledge. I am for knowledge. I'm not against knowledge. I'm not against learning. And I think we ought to learn things. We ought to know things. One, because Common sense tells you you should try to learn some things, but also because God clearly says we're supposed to. And I think it's wonderful that we have Sunday school. I'll tell you what else has been a real blessing to me is the Bible Institute we have here. That's just phenomenal. I'm learning so much. So many nuggets of information and that's good stuff. We ought to learn. I think um Bible college is very, very important. Um and if you're not sure what God wants you to do, well go to Bible college while you wait. Get a one-year degree While you wait. Knowledge is good. Knowledge is important. I'm not against knowledge. I'm not against learning. I am pro knowledge. Everyone get that. Knowledge is good. So please don't misunderstand me tonight, okay? We all have knowledge, and that is good, but we must be careful, we must take heed, because look at verse 1. We know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffeth up. Knowledge puffeth up. We know what it means to be puffed up. It's one of those things that sounds like what it is. Right? Puffed up. Kind of has the idea of arrogant or prideful or stuck up, if you will. Puffed up. It means you're a know-it-all. Knowledge is good. Get knowledge. All I get and get understanding. But knowledge, if you're not careful, can make you prideful It can make you prideful. Knowledge can make you arrogant. Because you know more than someone else, you can, if you're not careful, if you don't take heed, you can let that swell your head. And now here's the thing. If you know a lot, sometimes you can act like you know a lot, right? And and we have met people that know it all. And the thing is, is when we talk to some people, they really might know what they're talking about every time you talk to them, but the thing is is they know that they know they you know. That they know. That they know what they're talking about. And they have you have this um error, this reputation, or someone can have that reputation of being a no at all. Let me give you an example. Someone I'm very close to. In fact, I'm so close to him, he is my brother. Okay. So my my I have two younger brothers, my older younger brother. Not the one that came here, my other younger brother, anyway. He's in in Bible college right now trying to get knowledge, which is good, which is what we're supposed to do, right? But he just finished his uh freshman year and he called me once and he was really having a hard time because Some of the upperclassmen were really giving him a hard time because he was so involved in the conversations in class and stuff. They would say things to him like, you don't know anything yet, you're a freshman, and stuff like that. And it really bothered him. And that wasn't the majority, in fact it was a very small minority of students there, but what had happened is a couple guys got a few years of knowledge under their belt and it it puffed them up, made them prideful. Knowledge is good, but if you're not careful, if you don't take heed, that knowledge can make you puffed up, can make you prideful. One thing I was thinking about A group of people that were on the earth when Jesus walked the earth, some of the most knowledgeable people ever of the Old Testament, really, were the Pharisees, right? They knew a lot. But they were also a very prideful bunch of people, right? And I think of the story when the the the Jesus told the Pharisee and the And the publican uh went to into the temple and the the Pharisee said, I'm thankful, I'm not like this publican over here. And I was also thinking about in Acts chapter 4, when Peter and John were preaching, and it said that people marveled, they were unlearned and ignorant men, but they took knowledge that they had been with Jesus. Don't ever think that because you don't have the same mental capacity as someone, that God can't use you. God used, and I'm trying to be respectful, because I I honestly believe that Peter and John were way smarter than most of us, but they were perceived as unlearned and ignorant But man, they were used. God used them in a great way. So don't ever feel like, well, God can't use me like someone else. Well, he might use you more. He might use you more. We all have knowledge, and thank God that we do, but we must be careful because knowledge puffeth up. And you might ask the question Well, if I'm supposed to get knowledge, but knowledge puffs up and makes someone arrogant, how do I keep from becoming prideful as I obtain knowledge? Look at verse 2. And if any man think that he knoweth anything, he knoweth nothing yet as he ought to know Now, there might be like I said, we all have all different degrees of knowledge that God has given us You might know more about a certain subject than someone else, but you don't know it the way you ought to know it yet. Right? That's what it says. And you might think, well, compared to, I'm a pretty smart person. I know a lot. But according to God, you really don't know much. And that's a very humbling thing. And and sometimes I think, you know, people the the one reason they can get so puffed up is because they Say, look how smart I am. Well, good. And don't don't misunderstand me. We ought to respect the amount of time and effort people put into learning things. And when someone knows more than you, you can learn from them and should learn from them. But take heed. Be careful. Because knowledge puffeth up. And if you think that you know anything, you know nothing as you ought to know. Which brings me to this point, knowledge should not be our main focus in our Christian walk. One reason I think people become puffed up when they get all the knowledge is because that is what they were worried about to start with. That was the goal, was the knowledge, right? Knowledge has become their idol, their status symbol, maybe, and and knowledge became their primary focus. Now, like I said, don't misunderstand me. If someone puts in the time and they they earn high degrees, we ought to recognize that and respect that and pursue knowledge ourselves, like I said. But God's not going to use somebody more because they have more of a a n capacity of knowledge Which I want to bring this up too. Knowledge puffeth up. Look at verse one. But charity edifieth. Charity edified. Now, edify means what? To build up. Right? And I gave this illustration Wednesday night and I'm going to give it again because it's funny. Right? But look here, knowledge puffs up, charity builds up, puffed up, built up. I I like to lift, right? I like to lift weights and pretty Pretty seriously anyway. But I I go to the the gym every now and then and there's basically two types of guys at the gym. There's guys that are built up, and there's guys that are puffed up. Now you may notice these puffed up individuals out in public. Sometimes they venture out. Now the guys that are built up, they don't need to be puffed up. The guys that are built up, they're just bigger. They eat more, they lift more, they sleep more, they're bigger. Okay? And the work they put in the time, they put in the work, they're built. And then you have puffed up guys flexing imaginary muscles, can't fit through the door because they're imaginary biceps, and they are puffed up. Now these puffed up individuals are trying to give the illusion that they are built up. But everyone can tell by looking at them. They are just puffed up. Right? And it's kind of that way with us sometimes too, I think, when it comes to to s the spiritual things. There's some people that man that they are they are just well known for this reputation of being uh having the character of love and charity. But there's some people that try to flex their knowledge, if you will, try to make themselves look spiritual by how much they know. Right. Puffed up or built up. I don't know about you, but I'd rather be built up. Physically as well. But if charity will build you up and knowledge can puff you up, well let me ask you this. What would you rather be known for? Being knowledgeable or being loving, loving the Lord, loving the kids here, loving the ministry here. Now, let me give you a another example. When me and Courtney, before we were married, I uh wrote her some letters. Several, actually. And um did I write her the letters so she could look at it and go Well, I know that there is this many sentences, this many verbs. I know that this was obviously trifolded and put in an envelope licked just in the center, contrary to popular belief, which says it was licked on both sides in the center. Yeah, I know everything there is to know about this letter. Or did I write her this letter so that she would say, wow, you know what? Matt really loves me. You know what? I love him. Right? Now, because she loved me, she read it more, and she gained knowledge from it. Because she loved me so so much, she read it thousands of times. And probably got to where she knew what I would be thinking. Right? Which is kind of cool when you actually think about it. But she obtained knowledge, not for the sake of obtaining knowledge, but because she's like, I love him. Now, it's no different. God wrote us a letter, right? We have it. He didn't write us the letter simply for the fact of us knowing everything there is to know about the letter. He wrote us a letter because he loves us. He said, Man, you know what? I love them so much, I'm gonna write them a letter and tell them about it. I love them so much I'm gonna write them and tell them How I made a way for them to be safe. I love them so much I'm going to write them a letter of warning them of certain dangers. And you know what happens? We got a hold of it. We started reading the letter. And we started to fall in love with him. And as we love him more, we read it more. And because we want to know more about him, we obtain more knowledge. And we start to memorize things, and we start to learn things, and we start to understand more biblical knowledge, but that wasn't the whole purpose of writing the letter. The purpose of writing the letter was so that we could say, man, he loves me. I'm going to trust in him and I'm going to love him. Right? And then we end up gaining more knowledge. And then we say, you know what? I love him so much. I want to learn so much about him. I'm going to go to school and learn more. Which we should. Because we love him. Now let me ask you this. What is it that you're known for? Now, I know people that are smart. Man, they're so smart. They have so much knowledge that they could use, but they don't. I know people that have gone to Bible college and just go w and had more than just a four year degree, but that's all they've got is knowledge. And I know people that there's no way any college would ever let them in, but man, they have a reputation for loving the Lord. I'll tell you, it it it's more valuable for someone to say he loves those kids. She loves those kids. It's more valuable for someone to say, Man, they've got a heart for the things of God, than someone to say, they know a lot about whatever biblical topic. Does that make sense? Now you can't have both. Knowledge and charity. And we that's one thing. I mean, that is good. The person who penned First Corinthians Paul, he um is a very smart, smart man. In fact, he was so smart he warned us that knowledge can puff up. The thing is, if God has gifted you with knowledge, use it like any other gift. Use it because you love Him. And if God has gifted you with the ability to obtain knowledge, then obtain it. But not for any other reason than you love Him, right? Now There's gonna be I'm I'm not the smartest tool in the tool shed, alright And and I doubt many people will ever say, Wow, Pastor Matt, he was a smart guy. No one will ever say that. But you know what I think if anyone were to to say this, they would say this. You know, Pastor Matt he sure loved those teenagers. Hey, that's worth more to me than any knowledge in the world. Because I love you God soledge puffeth up, charity edifieth. If any man think he knoweth anything, he knoweth nothing yet as he ought to know. Heavenly Father, thank you for this day that you've given us. Help us to understand the purpose of why you've done the things you've done, Lord, and help us to understand that you do everything because you love us. And Lord, we love you too, and help us to just take heed as we try to learn things, Lord, like we should, Lord, but help us to just take heed because Pride can get in the way. Lord, thank you for loving us the way you did. And it's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. And he would say, God spoke to your heart. Anybody tonight? God spoke to your heart. God spoke to my heart. I want the Lord to fill my heart with love for him and for others. And may be good on this Sunday night. We're going into a new week. Just find a place, old outfash altar. Say, Lord, fill me a heart with your love. Love for you and love for others. Father, bless her invitation, I ask. And stir us, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed.