I thought that was a funny joke. Verse 13. We're studying through the book of James. And uh verse 13 through 16 is one segment. If you want to call it that one topic that is addressed through the book of James. And it begins verse thirteen. It says, Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. But every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own loss and enticed. Now get this. Then, when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin. And sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death. Then he makes this final statement in this segment. He says, Do not err, my beloved brethren. I want to take, look at verse 15 tonight, and I'm initially entitled the subject LSD Lust, sin, death. In reality, it is the stages of sin And we're going to see this in Scripture. So let's pray. Ask the Lord to bless. Father in heaven, we thank you for the Word of God. Lord, there's so many wonderful promises in this book that just stirs our heart, encourages us, gets us through tough times. But Lord, you've given us some very stern warnings also. And Lord, we can't prefer one over the other. We need them both. And tonight you've given us very clear warning, very clear instructions on something that is extremely deadly Something extremely dangerous. And I pray you would help me to do justice to the Word of God. I ask, Lord, with all my heart, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. Present my body anew, yield my will. I pray you'd give us something here that we could, that you would lodge in our understanding that in the coming weeks and months and years we would have something to guard against. This uh uh against sin. And so please help us, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. James, I believe, was a no-nonsense Christian I mean he dealt with life to use current terminology. He dealt with life straight up I mean he didn't beat around the bush. He didn't just tie and soft soap things at all. He just said, hey, this is the way it is. This is the way we need to understand it. Now of course everything Uh written here in the books of James is under the inspiration of God, was given by the under the inspiration of God. But the book of James reflects that. We don't get far into the book and we find him dealing with temptation in the sense of hardships and trials, and we spend a good bit of time looking at verses 2 through 12. Where he deals with that aspect of temptations, the hardships of life. Then verse 13, he shifts gear and he addresses a different aspect of temptation, as we've been saying And that is the enticement to do wrong, the the temptation to sin against God, get out of the will of God in our behavior, in our lifestyle. Now we spent a good bit of time last week trying to break down verse number fourteen. By the way, I wanted to apologize for it being very warm and stuffy in here. We're having problems with one of the air conditioners. Or we'll get that fixed this week. So uh if you'll just bear with us and um uh I hope you'll understand, I apologize for that. But we looked at verse fourteen where it says, Every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust. The source of temptation So temptation comes from within. Now, several statements I want to make about temptation before we look into the stages of sin. First of all, and we met we worked on this a good bit, temptation And it's important to understand this. Temptation is when I have a desire, and that desire is presented with an opportunity To be fulfilled out of the will of God. God has given us, many of the desires we have are just in and of themselves. They're good and pure and holy. And they're God given to us. But what Satan wants to do, and uh what the world attempts to get us to do is to get us to fulfill those desires out of the perimeters that God has set up for us. For instance, the desire to succeed in life, the desire to be successful and to acquire wealth and and uh own a house and all those things. Those are good in and of themselves, in their place. We work hard. And we have integrity and we handle our finances with integrity and honor the Lord with our substance. That's a good thing to build up and grow and do with that. There's nothing wrong with that But when we go outside the perimeters of God's will and we embezzle or we steal Or we cheat and lie in business so that I can accomplish that, then that becomes sin. And so temptation is a natural good desire When presented with an opportunity to fulfill it in an ungodly way, temptation takes place. Now we tried to expand on that. Let me say this second of all about temptation. All men are tempted All people are. Nobody is such a strong Christian that they do not have to deal with temptation. The most senior citizen Christian in this church has to deal with temptation just as much as the youngest Christian in this church has to deal with it. We all face temptation. We never get to the point where temptation, not as long as we're in this world Number three, I put this down. Standards and convictions, biblical standards and biblical convictions, help us minimize temptation. If I establish some standards in my life, that's going to keep at bay the opportunities to fulfill desires in an unholy way. Follow what I'm saying There's certain places that if I go into those places, I'm exposing myself to opportunity to fulfill the legitimate desires in an illegitimate way. I'm exposing myself to temptation. If I have some standards convictions about it, I don't put myself in that position. Everybody, does that make sense? Everybody follow what I'm saying? We tried to expand on that last week. Number four, I put this down. God does not tempt us Don't ever say, when you're you have you're being drawn to do something that is out of the will of God, don't ever say it's God tempting you to do that. Satan We'll put opportunities before us to entice us to do wrong Satan, maybe if that opportunity isn't there, he will point, or maybe that opportunity is there. He doesn't necessarily put it there, but he will point it out to me. He'll bring it to mind or whatever. Hey, uh there's an opportunity to fulfill that desire in an ungodly way. And so Satan is very effective at that. But God never lures me out of his will. That looks like to me it makes sense. That to me looks like it'd be obvious. Verse 13 talks about that. Let me I I put this statement down. Just so I want to try and go real quickly through this opening statement. We all have varying areas that we're tempted. We all face temptation, but some people are tempted in some areas in a different way than other people are tempted. You follow what I'm saying? Some person may have a a tendency to be drawn uh to fulfill this desire in an illegitimate way. Another person be drawn over there Another person there. I think people are born with a uh a propensity towards certain sins. Maybe the w with something we inherit, I don't know or uh uh the way we're raised or whatever may prompt us to be drawn up. This is the thing with the sodomites, and we took a heat on that, but this is the thing with the sodomites. Uh their argument is, well, I was born this way Well yeah, and liars were born liars. And some people have a tendency to be adulterous, and some people have a tendency to be kleptomaniacs, and some people have a tendency to uh towards drunkenness. And so just because that natural desire is there does not mean it's okay to fulfill it in an illegitimate way. You follow what I'm saying And so we have varying areas of temptation. What may be a temptation for Dennis wouldn't necessarily be a temptation for me. What might be a temptation for me wouldn't necessarily be much of a temptation for Brother Grant And so we need to understand that. I put this down, and this is important to understand. This introduces our thoughts for this evening. Temptation, in and of itself, is not sin. Temptation is not sin. Here I am. There's an opportunity to fulfill some desire I have. In an ungodly way, that temptation is there, the opportunity is there, I'm being enticed, but that at that point is not sin yet. The temptation itself is not sin. Now that leads us to verse number 14. Every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lusts and enticed. There's the temptation taking place. Then When lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin. LSD Lust Sin, death. The stages of temptation. Stage. Stage number one Stage number one given us here is the conception of sin. Look at verse 15. Then when lust hath conceived It bringeth forth sin. I think we all, for the most part, all of us here tonight, we understand what conception is. It's when the seed and the egg come together and they produce life. Conception. It is when, in this context, when lust hath conceived, here's the desire There's the opportunity to fulfill the desire in an ungodly way. I'm enticed, I'm drawn over out of the perimeters of God's uh will and I'm enticed and I draw over and I take up I take advantage of that an opportunity to fulfill in an ungod ungodly way, I indulge into that opportunity, and lust hath conceived. The desire and the opportunity have come together. And it produces sin. Um, how many people we had years ago, we had an evangelist here, I'm not sure if he's still living. Harold Clayton. Does anybody remember Whitehaired Harold Clayton? That guy was a hoot. Remember him putting the fire out Anybody remember that? And uh Harold Clayton, one of his messages, and for whatever reason this stuck in my mind and uh came to mind when I was preparing this message, he said he was somewhere traveling in an airport Maybe some of you remember this. And he was there in the airport and he went over to have a bookstore there and he went over to the bookstore and uh he was looking for something, maybe a crossword puzzle or whatever, I don't remember exactly what it was, something to uh work on while he was traveling. He says, as he stood there, now he's an older man. He's probably in his mid-late 60s at the time, I would guess. He said, while he was there, he glanced over, and right beside him was a magazine rack. Of course, there were ungodly magazines right there. And he said the thought went through his mind. I could I could indulge in looking at those ungodly magazines. I'm here, nobody would see me, nobody knows me, I'm traveling through. I could do that and I could get away with it. Now there was temptation. Natural desire in and of itself, nothing wrong with it, physical desire. Opportunity to fulfill it in an ungodly way, and he's being enticed What did he do? He said he turned and walked away from it. He did not let temptation and opportunity conceive. And he avoided sin. Now the point he was making in that message was a little bit later somebody came up to him and said, Hey Brother Clayton, I was in the service last night I was watching you coming down the aisle of the uh the the terminal down here and he said So sin takes place when the desire and the unholy opportunity to fulfill that desire come together. A young man, uh follow that illustration a little bit. Perhaps a young man comes into a convenience store. He's there, and there's the magazine rack. And now he has that desire to uh uh to indulge that, he has that opportunity To fulfill that desire in an ungodly way for the conception to take place, and you could apply this to any type of sin, but that opportunity is there. What should he do? Alright, here he is, he's in line, there's the opportunity, uh he sees it, all of a sudden, that desire is being enticed, being drawn over. What should he do? I'll tell you what he should do. The Bible says, flee, youthful lusts. The one thing we do with temptation is we get away from it. We don't try and handle it. We don't try and negotiate with it. We get away from it. We flee from it. We keep the opportunity and the desire as far apart as we possibly can. And so um and so we have him, uh the young man, he should get out of there. But if he gives into it Sin is conceived. When lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin. So that's the first stage. The first stage Desire, opportunity, the first stage of sin is when I give in to that enticement and I take advantage of the opportunity. Whether it's stealing something, telling a lie. Being unfaithful, whatever it may be, I give in to that opportunity and lust hath conceived. I must now get this I must not allow my desires to give in to opportunities to be fulfilled in an ungodly way. I cannot let that happen Much of my energies as a Christian must be put into guarding myself From fulfilling desires in an ungodly way. I must work against that. That's where convictions, that's where I have to put a wall up between desire and unholy opportunity. Now, we cannot isolate ourselves. People have tried this throughout years in church history. Well, I'm just going to so isolate myself And I'll never have any temptation. I'll never have listen, we live in a world, we have a sinful heart, we have a spiritual uh enemy, the devil. We cannot isolate ourselves that mu that much. We have to be in the world, but we've got to work at not being of the world. Follow what I'm saying? And so, number one, you have the conception of sin. Stage number two. You have the birth of sin. Now I thought this was interesting as I was studying this. Look again at verse number 15. Then when lust hath conceived, the two have brought together, it bringeth forth Sin. I got studying that phrase, bringeth forth. You know how that's translated other places in our Bible? Give birth to. In fact, that is the exact same word translated in Matthew and Luke, where it talks about Mary giving birth to Jesus. Exact same word. In fact, it's used throughout the New Testament to refer to giving birth. And so, while I have the desire. The opportunity, I'm enticed, I give in to that enticement, I take it I take I indulge in the opportunity. Sin uh is conceived And uh then uh lust when it has conceived, that lust is conceived, and it bringeth forth, it gives birth to sin. Turn with now here's where I'd like you to turn with me to Genesis chapter 3. I'm going to give you some illustrations. And we've looked at these before, so some of you are going to be familiar with where I'm going with this. But the Bible gives us illustrations all through the Bible as warnings. God gives us illustrations all through the Bible as warnings about how to avoid things that destroy our lives. And in Genesis chapter 3, come back there, and we're just going to go right to verse number 6. This is where Satan is enticing Eve. To fulfill the desire. We mentioned this last week. Was it wrong for Eve to desire to eat fruit? No. God had given her a whole garden full of it. She can freely eat. But Satan entices her to fulfill that desire to eat fruit with the forbidden fruit, the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, and he's enticing her, he's subtle. And she gives in. Now notice verse number six. There's three key words here. And when the woman Saw that the tree was good for fruit. You know what that is? That's opportunity. Oh, that tree is good to eat. Wow. There's opportunity here. And that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired. Ah, there's the desire. Desire plus opportunity is temptation. Now read on. Now question. Let's stop there. She saw it. Here's the opportunity. Eat of this forbidden fruit. She desires, she wants it. What should she, looking back, of course this is easy for us, but looking back, what should she have done at that point? She would have walked away, ran away better. Ran away better. You know it's interesting the wording here and this is an aside. But when Satan comes to her, she says, Can you not eat of any fruit fruit of the tree of the gardens? Can you not eat of any of the trees of the garden? She goes, No, except the only the tree of the knowledge, good and evil. And she says, Neither should we touch it. Now God didn't tell them to touch it. You know what I think? That was a good idea, though, not to touch it Maybe that was this is complete Leatherman speculation. But I'm wondering if maybe her and Adam didn't set up some kind of standard, say, hey, listen, we're just going to stay away from that thing. We're not going to touch it. That's called convictions. That's called standards. And maybe they were trying to put a little wall up, a little distance up, but nevertheless That broke down. She saw it. She desired it. She should have walked away, but let's read on. Treated to be desired, to make one wise, she what? Took of it. Lust, when it hath conceived, gives birth to sin. She saw it, she desired it, she took it, sin is born. Come over to Joshua chapter 7. And again, many of you know where we're going with this. You have Israel is invading the promised land at God's direction. Joshua is now in charge. They've been wandering for 40 years. God has been telling the Israelites for forty years, this promised land is a land flowing with milk and honey. I like what the one little Sunday school kid said. The teacher said, What do you think that land was like flowing with milk and honey? He said, it'd be sticky. And um that's true. But um uh God's been telling him, boy, you're gonna live in houses you didn't build, you're gonna wear clothes you didn't make You're gonna have wealth and you're gonna have uh milk and you're gonna have honey. It's gonna be wonderful. And so they cross and they get in there and they get into the Uh they invade uh Jericho and God says, listen, you're gonna have plenty, I'm putting this in my own words, you're gonna have plenty of opportunity to get the houses and the wealth and all that. But this city here, you don't touch any of the gold, you don't touch any of the silver, don't touch any of the garments, don't take anything. It's all to be used to honor God and sacrifice the Lord. So the desire to have this stuff was fine. But they were not to fulfill that desire in the city of Jericho. Now look at chapter 7, verse number 21. Here's Achan. You know the story. Aiden got in there, he took the gold, silver, Babylonian starment, he hid it. They go to the next city, God's blessing and protection is off of them. They get slaughtered. Joshua comes back, God, you promised we'd win. God says there's sin in the camp, gives them a process to go through. Finally they determine it's it's Achan Now look at Achan's confession, verse twenty. And Achan answered Joshua and said, Indeed, I have sinned against the Lord God of Israel, and thus and thus have I done. Look at this When I saw, there it is again, opportunity. Lo and behold, I come in this house, and there's gold, there's silver, there's a beautiful Babylonian garment. Opportunity. When I saw among the spoils a goodly Babylonish garment, two hundred shekels of silver, a wedge of gold, of fifty shekels weight, then I Coveted. Desire. I wanted it. Is it wrong for him to want gold and silver and garments? No. God had promised they would have that. But not in this fashion. Opportunity, temptation, look what it says, and took them. He gave in to the enticement to fulfill that desire in an ungodly, disobedient way. Boom, sin is born. I took them. Sin was born. One more I want to go to real quickly. 2 Samuel chapter 11. 2 Samuel chapter 11. And we know the story, David and Bathsheba. I'm not going to go into detail for sake of time. I just want to point out the same process And we could go to scores of others. We could look at Samuel. We could look at Ahab. There's scores of illustrations, the same stages of sin. Verse number two, 2 Samuel 11. And it came to pass at eventime that David arose from off his bed, walked upon the roof of the king's house, and from the roof he Saw a woman washing herself. There's opportunity. A beautiful the woman was beautiful to look upon. And David sent and what? Inquired. You know what that means? He's desiring. That desire in and of itself was not wrong. It wasn't wrong for him to be on the roof, but now there's opportunity. Plus the desire. And one David and Satan inquired after the woman. And one said, Is this not Bathsheba, the daughter of Eliam, the wife of Uriah the Hittite? I think God was intervening here. And David sent messengers in what? Hooker. Sin is born. You and I all have legitimate desires. Good and right in and of themselves. God has provided for us to fulfill them in a way that honors Him and is pure and good and holy. Any desire, you name it. Satan wants to entice us and draw us outside of the will of God, outside of the blessings of God, outside of the protection of God, and fulfill those desires in an ungodly way. That temptation in and of itself is not sin. But when I give in to that enticement and I grab that opportunity, then there's a conception that takes place and sin is born. In every one of these three we looked at, Eve, Achan, and David, every one of them, they could have aborted sin. So one time I'm for abortion. It's when we abort sin before it's born. Follow what I'm saying? As soon as I realize I'm being enticed, as soon as I'm realize I'm being drawn away of my own lust I have got to abort that. I must not allow that conception. I need to walk away from that. Eve, Achan, and David could have avoided that sin, aborted that sin by walking away The moment they were being enticed. Now, that's easier said than done. Huh? That's easier said than done. And Satan knows it. So, first stage, conception. Lust when it hath conceived. Second stage is birth of sin. Lust when it conceived, bringeth forth birth sin Now the third and last stage of sin is the birth of death. Look again, come back there to Joshua, or to James with me, if you would. Then when lost hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin. Look at this. And sin, when it is finished, here's the same wording, bringeth forth. Sin gives birth to death. Sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death Now that phrase when it is finished is interesting that God puts it in there. He doesn't say lost where the conceived bringeth forth sin, and sin bringeth forth death. He says, sin when it is finished bringeth forth death The idea there is, is when sin comes to maturity, when sin is carried out to its end. Here's the point. Here's one of the dangerous things about sin. Its consequences very seldom, if ever, are immediate. Very seldom does a person sin and immediately experience the consequences of that sin. Sin is of the nature that I can indulge in it, I can give in to that temptation, give birth to sin, and experience the pleasures of sin for a season. But down the road, at some point, maybe a week, maybe a month, maybe several years, maybe several decades, when that sin is finished, it's going to bring forth death. The consequences of sin, very seldom, if ever, are immediate. And we think we've gotten away from it. David committed adultery. David murdered her husband. And for a year he was convinced he got away with it. But sin wasn't finished yet. Finally, God sends Nathan, you're the man, David, and his son dies. His testimony is scarred. He loses Absalom. He loses Amnon. Pays a heavy, heavy price. Here's a tragic thing. I'm talking to some folks right now, middle, upper years of your life, and you're Experiencing consequences of stupid decisions we made decades ago. Can I get a witness? That sin is still affecting us We're still having to deal with the consequences of sinful decisions we made some cases decades ago. That's why I think our ministry with the young people and children is so important. I tell you this, there's very few, if anybody, in the public schools warning our kids about the consequences of sin when it's finished, right or wrong I'm telling you this, there ain't nobody in Hollywood warning them. There ain't nobody in the rock and roll world warning them. Very few people in the contemporary Christian movement warning them. Somebody better stand up and say, hey, there are tragic, tragic results of sin. Do not err. Because the consequences are horrendous. Sin gives birth to death when it is finished, when it is finished. Consequences of sin are very seldom immediate. Often they're weeks, months, maybe years, even decades down the road. And that phrase, when it is finished, has carries with it this connotation, a repetition. In other words, sin, you engage in sin. You and I engage in sin. We indulge, we give in to that temptation. Conception takes place, it gives birth to sin. I've sinned against God. And when it is finished, when it is carried out to its end, the idea, there's a connotation there of a repetition takes place. What I mean by that is this, and I think this is what's implied here, is Sin has a tendency to reproduce itself. One sin leads to another sin, which leads to another sin, which leads to another sin, which leads to another sin, which leads to a Percent I've talked with many people over the years in the ministry that have made statements very similar to this to me. Preacher, I never thought it would end up like this. I never dreamed I would end up doing this. A person just recently told me, preacher, I never dreamed I would end up this way. Because sin has a repetitive, progressive nature to it. And when that process is done, when it's all said and done, and that sin has not been dealt with, bringeth forth death Bringeth forth death gives birth to death. I put this statement down. Death, get this. Death is the grandchild Of giving in to temptation. I give in to temptation, gives birth to sin. Sin gives birth to death. Do not err, my beloved brethren. Do not err, my beloved brethren. Here's a great thing. If you would, I want to end with this passage. 1 Corinthians chapter 10. Would you turn back there? I know it's really warm in here. I appreciate you bearing with us. First Corinthians chapter ten. And verse number 13. Great verse to highlight in your Bible, great verse to memorize. Notice what it says. 1 Corinthians 10:13. There hath no temptation taken you, but such as is what? Common to man. We all deal with it. The best Christian you know deals with temptation. But God is faithful. Look at this who will not suffer you to be tempted above that you are able, look at this, but will with the temptation also make a way to what? Escape. What's the idea of escaping something? Getting out of there, right? Get out of there. Every time you and I are tempted, this verse tells me that I have an opportunity to get away from that, get out of that thing. I've often said this. I think this is helpful. The very fact that God is allowing me to be tempted is proof that I don't have to give in to it. Because if I could not resist it, if I was unable to escape that or flee from that, God would not suffer me to be tempted in that way. But he's faithful and he knows my weaknesses, he knows my limits, and he says, I am not going to allow Dennis Leatherman to be tempted above the level that he is able to. That tells me Eve could have said no. That tells me Achan could have walked away. David could have come down off of that roof and not given in. And you and I could have said no to that last sin we engaged in. Because God would not love let us be tempted. Every temptation, I put this down, every temptation has an escape hatch. If you ever stay in a motel and you go down the hall and it says here's the escape route in case this place catches on fire. That really doesn't encourage me. But go here and there's a way out. And law requires that every motel has an escape route. And God says every single temptation has an escape route. I can get out of that thing. I can get away from that. So this is what I'm asking us to do. I'm putting myself in this. In the coming days In the coming weeks and months. Let's just put it this way. How about from tonight on, the rest of our lives? Let's decide and let's set up some convictions, some Bible convictions, Bible standards to minimize the amount of temptation I'm exposed to. Let's just decide there are some places I, as a Christian, am not going to go to. Huh? Let's just decide there are some things as a Christian I'm not going to allow into my house There's some people as a Christian I'm not going to hang around, but they drag me down, they hurt me, they're a bad influence on me There's some things I am going to do, there's some things I'm not going to do because I want to minimize the opportunities that my desires have to be fulfilled in an ungodly way. And here's another thing I want to challenge us. I like what Dr. Robinson said. I mentioned this last week. He said if you don't have your own convictions, borrow mine until you get some. You say, well, I don't have any convictions. See me afterward. I got a bunch of them I can share with you Now inevitably, because there's no man that sinneth not, inevitably we break down at point. That means we need to do this. I need to confess and forsake that sin immediately. Immediately. Immediately. Don't let that thing go on because sin has a progressive nature And sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death. Now, understand, we are very clear in understanding. A Christian cannot lose their salvation. But my testimony, sure enough, can die. My fellowship with Lord can be cut off and will be. And God's blessings and protection. And by the way, a little bit later on we find out there is a sin unto death. And so let's keep short accounts with God. Some of us messed up this week. We're sitting here, we've not faced it, we've not dealt with that. We just kind of brush it off, kind of put it away. Listen, you let that thing go, it's going to come back again. It's going to come back bigger. It's going to come back stronger. How about before we go home tonight, say, Lord, I'm going to confess that, I'm going to forsake that, get that out of my life. Better yet, next time, this coming week, if you blow it, don't wait till church. Find a closet, find your bedroom, get on your knees, and confess and forsake it immediately. Amen? Don't go to bed with that thing not being dealt with Do not err, my beloved brethren. This is serious. Don't make a mistake with this. Because it'll destroy you, it'll destroy me, it'll destroy ministries. So number one, let's get some conviction standards up so that our temptation is minimized. Number two, when it does break through, when it does happen, let's deal with it immediately and make it right. In fact, that is part of the Lord's Supper. Every man examining themselves and judging ourselves that we be not judged. Because we sure enough don't want to come to the Lord's Supper with unconfessed, unrepentant sin in our life. There's a tragic consequence for that. The Bible's clear, 1 Corinthians 11. And so as we take part in the Lord's Supper, let's take God's admonition here very seriously. Say ask the Lord search our hearts. God show me. There's some areas there. And I have no doubt some of us, the Holy Spirit, is already pointing out ah, that needs to be dealt with. There it is. You haven't dealt with that. And now's the opportunity. This is the place. Amen? Father in heaven, I hope. God, we just ask your Holy Spirit, challenge us and search us. This is too serious to be wrong on. This is too serious to not. Deal with. And I pray, beginning from the preacher on down, that you would help us to humble ourselves, seek your face, turn. From these sins. Help us to establish, give us the wisdom to establish some real standards, Bible standards and convictions. So that we don't err in this matter. And Lord, when we do mess up, help us to deal with that immediately, make it right, put it behind us, and go forward. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed, not this me and you and God, but how many would say, preacher, God's Holy Spirit is challenging me either to establish convictions or to deal with some areas in my Christian life? Any like that by the uplifted hand Great church, God's Holy Spirit, do we? God bless you, hands all around. Now let's not err on this matter. Let's not take this lightly. God's Spirit has dealt with us. And let's respond to that. Father, bless our invitation. Search our hearts as we go into Lord's Supper, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand again.