Luke chapter number ten. And uh really want to try and get right to the point this evening. I'm going to um not expand on a lot of the things I say, maybe just list some things. This is not the message I initially was going to preach tonight, but um we're gonna let Elijah rest for a little while and uh we'll get back to him. I know the situation is dire, the city is surrounded, the people People are starving, but they're gonna have to wait uh till we get back there and look at Elisha's situation. Grandpa always went on about how things were cheaper in the old days, uh the lower cost of living. He said, when I was a kid, my mom could send me to the store, I'd get a salami, two pints of Six oranges, two loaves of bread, a magazine, and some new blue jeans, all for a dollar. Then Grandpa said sadly, you can't do that anymore. They got those video cameras everywhere you look. The good old days. I'm I'm turned on. Nothing. Alright, praise the Lord anyway. Luke chapter 10, just verse 1 and 2 And after these things the Lord appointed other seventy also, and sent them to, and sent them two and two, before his face, unto every city and place whither he himself would come. Therefore said he unto them, The harvest truly is great, but the laborers are few. Pray ye therefore, the Lord of the harvest, that he would send forth laborers into his harvest. I put down, I titled it, uh, Laborers Needed. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father, as we look in this portion of your word, I ask that you would bless, that you would speak to our hearts God, I ask that you would use me, my body, in the next few moments to speak through me to all of us as a church. I pray, Father, that our faith in you would grow. I pray, God, that our faith would be strengthened in the coming weeks as we open our hearts to your will for us concerning missions. And Lord, as we trust you and step out in faith and obey you, then Lord, we'll see you do great things. I believe that. So please bless now. Use this message, I pray, to prepare our hearts and minds. For uh the challenge we're going to get this week. I yield my body to you. I ask you to fill me with your spirit in Jesus' name. Amen I want to make a few statements about our Lord, just by way of introduction. First thing I noticed is that the Lord Jesus Christ was a man of great emotions. A number of times in the Bible we're told that when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with what? Compassion. That's an emotion. That's why our Lord was a man of great emotion. The Bible says when he looked on Jerusalem A city crowded and crowded with people who are blinded by ignorance and unbelief. The Bible said he wept as he saw that city, lost. Blinded by sin, unbelief, and uh he wept. A man of emotion, great emotion. And I can't help but think that our Lord, I know He hasn't changed. And I can't help but think that our Lord Jesus Christ doesn't look on the great cities and the great nations of our world today with multiplied millions of people lost. Blinded by unbelief, by false doctrine, by ignorance, dying on their way to hell. I can't help but think our Lord still does not weep As he looks in the great multitudes of our world. I thought as Andrew was talking about India and the multiplied millions of billion people And uh how does the Lord see that? So our Lord was a man of great emotion. Our Lord, she read the Gospels, was a man of great confidence Um, he Jesus understood the heart of man greater than anyone else. He knew how sinful our hearts were. He knew how hard a man can become against the things of God. Yet nevertheless, he never grew discouraged. He never gave up in seeking to help folks. The Bible says that he went about doing good. It appears the Lord never got discouraged in seeking to help people. And here's an interesting thing, as you see Jesus looking on the multitudes, you never hear him say something like this, well, they're just so lost it's hopeless. He never says that. You never hear the Lord talk about a hopeless case. You never hear the Lord declare anybody or any city or anyone to be too hard You never hear that. The Lord never declares a group of people that they could not be reached. Now I say this for a reason, and I observe this, uh I think it's significant as I observe this. And that I have heard many people over the years, as perhaps you may have also, say something like this. We live in the last days and people are just so hard you can't reach people with the gospel. I do not believe that the hardness of man's heart is more powerful than the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ Yes, men's hearts are hard. Yes, people are blinded by sin. And yes, people are caught up in false doctrines and wicked false religions. But the gospel of Jesus Christ is the power of God unto salvation. And we must never fall into the trap of thinking that people cannot be reached. Does it matter if it's a country of Kazakhstan blinded by Islam and Russian Orthodoxy, those people can be reached with the gospel Mongolia with its Buddhism and China with its uh Taoism and and uh with its Buddhism, India with its Hinduism You say, how can those people be reached? I'll tell you how, somebody needs to go and tell them the gospel of Jesus Christ. So our Lord Jesus was a man of great confidence. Our Lord was a man also, I put this down, of great focus. Great focus. You know, sometimes he had thousands of people following him. Sometimes in Acts chapter 6, everybody left him but his immediate disciples. Everybody. But regardless of the size of the crowd following him, he stayed focused on his mission. He came to seek and to save that which was lost. If he had 10,000 people following him, seeking and saving that which was lost, he stayed right on course. If he had 12 following him and one of them an imposter, he stayed right on course. Stayed right on course. He was focused Now listen, I believe I speak for all of us when we say we would love to see every pew in this church filled. Amen? We would love to see that. We'd love to have a building for everyone. I'd love to go to church Two services and all that, and I read uh uh read of my other preacher friends that many of them are doing that, and I rejoice with them. But wait a minute. Whether we've got a thousand people or we've got fifteen people, our mission does not change. We are to take the gospel into all the world. We must not lose focus of that. And our Lord was a man of focus. I like this about the Lord Jesus. When he was praised, he didn't get too high. And when he was criticized, he didn't get too low. Now let me just share this with you. If you're going to serve God, you're going to have people praise you sometimes. And thank God for it. But don't get your head too big about it. You're going to serve God, you're going to have people criticize you sometimes. Don't get too discouraged by it. You just stay focused on what God has called you to do. You just stay focused on the mission God has given us. Sometimes our church, people in town love our church. Other times people in town hate our church. Just depends what advertisements I put in the paper. But um uh but you know, we've got to stay focused. And we gotta stay focused. And that's what the Lord Jesus Christ was. Now we look at our text. And uh you would be impressed to know that is one-third of the message down. I want us to notice our text here. First of all, I'm going to get right to it. And again, I just want to list these off for you, and I trust God will use them for you. I want us to notice, first of all the situation that our Lord described here. Notice verse 2 of Luke chapter 10. Therefore said he unto them, the harvest truly is great. Well that's a that's a good situation to be in. Farmers put his harvest out, and by the way, if you didn't catch it this morning, all this decoration is part of the great harvest farming. It's not just up here to break knit kneecaps, um it is here to Convey that to you. But the harvest is great. A farmer has his uh has his uh crops out and uh spring has been good. He's got the seed in. Summer has been good, the rain has been just right, the sun has been just right, and now he's in September, the end of August, September, and the harvest is out there. The harvest is great Now I think what he means by that, first of all, it probably means it's great in number. Great in number. When you plant a wheat field Sam was been living out in uh Illinois for the last two years going to school. He moves to Texas this Friday. We'd appreciate your prayers for him. He's out there now finishing up some classes And I'll get back tomorrow. But Friday he moves to Texas for his internship. And there in Illinois we visit him. You talk about fields Cornfields just, I think, I may be wrong on this, but I believe they were hundreds of acres. One field And you drive down there, you just see them. Indiana was that way. We lived in Indiana. Now stop for a moment and calculate how many grains of corn are there in a hundred-acre cornfield. How many little kernels of corn are there? In there's a few, I would say, yeah. I would suggest it's impossible to calculate the number of greens that are in a field of that size. A field right for harvest. And the Lord says, the harvest is great, great in number. They say that in our world there are we are approaching, if we've not surpassed it, we are approaching seven billion people in our world. I'll be honest with you, I can't calculate that That is beyond my ability to comprehend. That many people. Our world is a world great in harvest of souls It is in they're innumerable. And I'll be honest with you, I don't know how they count that many. How do you know there's seven billion? You can't accurately uh we can't even accurately in the United States, 300 plus million people in the United States. We have no accurate figures, but I know this There are millions and millions and millions and millions and millions and millions of people that need the Lord Jesus Christ. The harvest is great. It is incalculable, calculable how many people there are to reach for Christ. So it's great in number. Let me suggest this. When the Lord said the harvest is great, I believe that there's an element of greatness of danger. And I don't mean danger to us physically, but there's a danger of when the harvest is ripe. There's a danger of losing that harvest. When the farmer says, Oh, the harvest is great. You know what? Time becomes of essence. Time becomes very crucial. That harvest is if the harvest is there. It's great. We if we don't do something, we are in danger of losing that harvest. And for a farmer whose living is dependent upon a harvest, that that is a that's a a devastating thing To lose the harvest. I want to suggest to you, when Jesus talks about the harvest of souls being great, time is crucial. When we were down at Highland Park Baptist Church, Dr. Lee Robertson, great man, a heart for missions. And boy, they would put on a missions conference. Unbelievable. And every year, I don't know if Kathy remembers this, but every year, that great Highland Park Baptist Auditorium seats 6,000 people They would put up front this huge um ticker tape type thing goes across. And at the beginning of missions conference, they would begin at a Sunday morning, it would go all week long and end the next Sunday night, there'd be a hundred plus missionaries there presenting. And Sunday morning when the missions conference began, they would mash a button and that thing would begin ticking off. Souls dying. During that time. And I tell you, you almost became mesmerized as you'd sit in those services and that number would just be growing. and growing and growing and growing. I believe at the time it was eighty-three uh souls a minute passing out into eternity And by the end of the week, that n that number would be astronomical. The people who had died just during that one week of missions conference. I'm telling you, the harvest is great. And that implies a great danger. If you would, uh turn over to John chapter 4. Here you have the story. I'd like you to notice something the Lord said here in John chapter 4, the story where the Lord meets the uh woman at the well, and uh he uh talks to her. She gets saved, lo and behold. And uh a wonderful thing, you know what? When she got saved, she immediately became a missionary. She went back, she became home missionary, she went back to her town, told the folks there uh that um Uh he was that that they got saved. And look what the Lord says in verse 34. Jesus said to them, My meat is to eat, my meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and if it should work. Now look verse 35 Say not ye, there are yet four months, and then cometh harvest. Behold, I say unto you, lift up your eyes. Look on the fields, for they are what? White already to harvest. He said the time is now. Now, the Bible scholars have suggested That when the Lord was saying this, of course he was speaking immediately to his disciples, and when he said to them, Lift up your eyes. The idea here is that they looked up. When he said that, he was indicating for them to look in a specific direction. And he was saying, lift up your eyes and look. And perhaps he pointed off towards town. And here comes this woman who just got saved and bringing the people of the town out to him. And they said they would often wear white because of the heat there where in the Middle East they would wear white turbans and that type of things. And he said, the field is white already unto harvest. And the reference is this people are ready to be saved now. People are ready to be saved now. So there's a great danger if we delay. Uh think of the people in Inner Mongolia that are dying while Brother uh Jacques Van Royan is raising money to get over there. People that are dying. People that are dying. Do you think if he was there right now or been there for some time, you think anybody would have heard the gospel? Maybe anybody would have gotten saved? I think surely some I mean, eventually, plant the seed and water it, folks will be saved. And so the great danger. I see here in this situation great in number, great in danger, and I see great in potential. Now some of you guys are farmers a little bit and uh I got I'm I'm somewhat of a farmer. I have two tomato plants out in the back porch, and so that's kind of a farmer Farmer, but um that farmer looks out on that harvest, that wheat field or that cornfield, whatever it may be, soybeans. He looks at that and boy, it is ripe to harvest. The grain is golden ready and it's just ready to be harvested and he looks out there and he doesn't see plants. What does he see? He sees money in the bank. Right or wrong. That's that heart he's not just out, oh boy, I get to cut down a lot of planes. He goes, no, no, no. That is potential increase. That is income for me. That harvest, if I can get it in, will bring great benefit To myself and my family. Now I want to suggest to you when the Lord Jesus Christ looks out in the multitudes and he says the harvest is great, the Lord Jesus Christ sees great potential. He doesn't just see numbers. Sometimes a soul-winning church will get criticized for numbers. You just have so many. Wait a minute. Lord Jesus Christ is in it for numbers. He's in it for soul saved. The potential there of a soul being saved. I believe with all my heart, as I said, people will be saved when the gospel is preached. And the Lord sees the sit that sees the nations of India and Ireland and Mongolia and Kazakhstan, and He sees thousands and millions of people. And it's not just people. But he sees souls who can find forgiveness of sin and a changed life and the joy of the Lord and a mom and daddy getting saved and a Christian home being established. Some bus kids being picked up and coming in and God working the family and the family gets saved and the boy gets called to preach and serves God. That doesn't, hey, that doesn't just happen in America. That happens in all around the world, wherever the gospel's preached. Potential. Great potential. When souls are saved, good things happen. Lives are changed. The Lord is glorified. Hey, I think it's good for a city, just humanly speaking, for souls to get saved in that city The power got when uh Billy Sunday went through town and held his meetings, when he left town the crime rate was down and church attendance was up. That's good for a town Potential. So the situation the Lord described next is the solution to the situation. The harvest was great, but the what? Laborers were few. So what's the harvest is great? It needs to come in. It's time. What's the solution? Well, we need laborers. Um the labors are few. I think it's interesting. The solution had nothing to do with the field The harvest is great, we gotta get it in. Well, we gotta get a different kind of harvest then. I a little weary uh of preachers constantly jumping from area to area to area to area to area, oh this place is too hard, oh these people are too cold, oh these people this listen, he don't need another field, he needs to get it to get to work. The labors. It had nothing to do with the field, had nothing to do with the equipment. The Lord doesn't say, well, the harvest is great, the combines are few. The uh scythes are few. Nothing wrong with the equipment. Hey, God's given us all the equipment we need. We got it right here. Amen? This is our equipment. So the problem wasn't with the field. The problem isn't with lost people. They're lost. Problem wasn't with the equipment, and it's interesting. The problem wasn't with the weather. He doesn't say the harvest is great, but man, the weather won't clear up. Well, you know, I I appreciate so much Brother Gary Forney, our missionary to the Arctic Circle. What a man. Uh he goes up there, who in the world would want to go up to the Arctic Circle? I mean it's like living in Garrett County Hey, you know what? But the harvest in the Arctic Circle is great. And the weather has nothing to do with it. Souls will get saved. So the weather was nothing. The solution to the problem, the situation was this harvest is great. The solution is we need laborers. Now, what is a laborer? A laborer, first of all, is those who work. Laboring implies working. You know, bringing in a harvest requires effort Um, we got another farm. How many of you guys that ever farmed, how many of y'all ever sat in the front porch drank iced tea and all the crops came in themselves? Just somehow they you put you put a sign up in the barn. All props welcome, y'all come on in. Doesn't work that way, does it? It takes a lot of work to get a crop in to get the harvest in. Bringing a harvest in requires effort. Bringing a harvest in requires inconvenience. I worked on a dairy farm for four years uh as a young man, young teen. And um, you know, when that was that cord came uh in, uh, you didn't just work nine to five. And say, Oh, time's up. Shh, go back home. No, no, no. You stayed out in that field till the crops got in. And there were times we'd be out there with the big lights on the tractor till eleven thirty, twelve, one o'clock in the morning. We had to get the You know what? Man, my favorite show's on tonight. I can't get out there and work on the cry. I'd have gotten fired right away. You know you got to be in convenience. Paul, did you ever stay out late bringing in the harvest? I'm sure you did Uh Jesse probably nah he had Charlie do it. But um That's why Charlie's so bitter about the farm equipment out there is So a laborer is someone who works. It's inconvenient. He said the laborers are few. That's people who work. Dr. Lee Robertson said years ago, 10% of the people in the church do 90% of the work That was in the Highland Park Baptist Church, 10,000 plus members. And so uh, you know, finding labor is difficult. Uh you want to have a you want to have a corn roast, man, you'll pack the place out. You want to go soul winning, you'll have a handful This work. It's inconvenient. But uh nevertheless you're going to get the harvest it. You think it's convenient for uh Brother uh uh Van Royen to take his yuck beautiful wife and young kids and go to Inner Mongolia? I'd say that's a little inconvenient, don't you? I don't think they have Walmarts there. I don't think they have Taco Bell or Wendy's. Isn't that terrible? Inconvenience. Those who labor. What are labors? Labors are those who go out into the field. As I said, the crops aren't going to come to us. We can sit here all day long in our church with our empty pews and s and wait for the unsaved to come in here. I'm telling you, they ain't gonna show up. We got to go out to where they are. I made a decision years ago, probably here five or six years, and I came to the conclusion, now this will show you how bright I am. Five years, I did I came to the conclusion the entire Garrett County is not going to come into our church. You know, I was stunned. Do you know what I determined? I determine if they're not going to come in here to hear the gospel, then we're going to take the gospel out to where they are. And we're going to go out to the whole county. A laborer is someone that has to go out of field. A laborer I put this down, a laborer are those who use the equipment given to them Farmer hires a bunch of laborers. All right, need to get out in that field and bring that harvest in. All right. And they all go straight out walking around the field, trampling it all down. That's not doing anything. You know what I call that you know what that is? That's the equivalent of lifestyle evangelism. I'll just go out and be a good Christian. I'm not going to tell anybody about Christ. I'm not going to try and get them into church. I'm not going to confront them about their soul. I'll just go out and not smoke and not cuss and have a nice haircut and and uh boy you know what that that doesn't do anything You gotta use the equipment. You've got to use the Word of God and bring people to Christ. Don't just go out and walk around. Uh the Larn La Labor doesn't go out there and just pull the props out by the roots with his hand But now you'll destroy it. You know, when we try and win souls using our own philosophies and our own ways, we end up hurting the cause of Christ more than helping. We've got to use the equipment God gave us. By the preaching of the cross, God has chosen to save the lost. The foolishness of preaching the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so, the laborer used the equipment given. Um then laborer are those who stay in the field until it's all done. I'll just go out for a little while. Well, I've got to meet my wife at the restaurant. I've got to quit. Um no, they stay out until it's done. You know who I thought of as I wrote that down? Bob Huffman. In France, brother Jerry and Connie were over there and he's been here. Churches supported him for how many years, Alan? Thirty plus years. I think we were one of the first to take him on. He's been over there. He's gonna die in France. He's lived in France longer than he's lived in the States. You know what he did? He stayed in the field till his job was done God give us some Christians that just stay at it. Till the field is So we have the situation, we have the solution, then the source of the need. Look what he says: the harvest is great, but the labors are few. Oh no, what do we do? Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest. The solution is prayer. Now that doesn't look like to me, it looks like if the labors are great, well then go out and strangle some people and get them to go out in the field and labor. We need uh take hostages and forced labor and put them out there. No, that's not the way God works The Lord says, pray. The beginning and a major part of world missions is prayer. How many people believe our world needs more missionaries? How many people believe that? Desperately. Our country needs more preachers and soul winners and churches. Now I wonder, in light of what the Lord says here, I wonder if the problem isn't the lack of prayer. He says the solution to the problem is prayer. Pray ye therefore. If you're lacking laborers, pray ye therefore. If you don't have any missionaries in Kazakhstan, pray ye therefore, the Lord of the harvest, that he will send forth laborers into the field. The solution is prayer. Apparently the reason laborers are so scarce is because prayer for laborers is scarce. So scarce. What's our motive in prayer? The great harvest. There's people dying and going to hell in India. Oh God, you've got to send someone there. It's our motive to prayer. The focus of our prayer is the Lord. Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest. Hey, missions is God's business. It's not something we come up with. It's not say, hey, I got a great idea. Let's start a missions organization and we'll send people. No, no, no. God came up with it. Go ye therefore into all the world and preach the gospel. God alone can raise up laborers. I'll be honest with you. I thank God for Brother Jerry and Brother Chip. They're out in missions. I thank God for others. Pat involved with Kazakhstan and different James. Praise God and many others involved in things. I can't name everybody But I'll be honest with you, I'd always like to see more people go out into the mission field. Like to see young people give themselves to the cause of the gospel. But I tell you what, I would never want someone to go out in the mission field because I want them to. I would never want any of my children or anyone in this church go to another country with the gospel simply because Brother Leatherman wants them to They've got to go because God calls them to. You know, we come with pretty good ideas for what other people should do for the Lord, don't we? Oh, I know who should go to cottage then. I've got that figured out. Wait a minute. God better call him, not us. Amen? It's not gonna work. A mama called preacher ain't gonna cut it We need God called missionaries. So pray ye the Lord of the harvest. It's his business. Then the subject of our prayer that he would send forth laborers. You know what that tells me? The laborers are here Doesn't say pray therefore, Lord Lord Harvest, that we get more laborers. Church has plenty of laborers to get the job done We just need to get them sent forth. Huh? We just need to get them sent forth. Uh doesn't say, pray therefore the Lord of Harvest that He will raise up more laborers. Pray that he'll send a mail. I believe there's enough saved people on planet Earth to reach this entire planet with the gospel of Jesus Christ We just need God to send us out. Send us out. Send us out. There's enough preacher, there's enough Christians in the United States of America to plant churches in every country on this planet. I'd venture to say there's enough Christians on the east coast of United States of America to get churches on every probably every city on this planet. Think about it. The problem isn't there's no labors, the problem is we need to get sent forth. Get them out there doing. I like the book of Acts. It says that everyone went everywhere preaching the gospel. Good night, no wonder they reached their world. Everybody was a missionary. Then last of all the supply for this great mean Notice what it says. Pray therefore, Lord of Hearth, they'll send forth laborers into the harvest. The supply is God sending them forth. And by the way, God is sending forth laborers. You know, we're going to have in our mission conference three young couples. Now Mike's getting kind of old, but for the most part they're young couples. In their thirties, twenties, and thirties. That is very young. Think about that. How many folks do you know that you grew up with has a wa uh man has a wife, beautiful kids, and says, God's called us to go to a foreign, strange land And we're going to leave our family behind, we're going to leave our country behind, and we're going to go around and ask people to support us, and we're going to move and go for the gospel. Hey, I thank God for the missionaries God is sending. Amen. Sometimes we get blinded by the great need we fail to see the ones that are gone. I want to say this, and uh Helen touched on this, but I want to say this. When these missionary comes mission You know how I view them? As heroes. They're like the, to me, they are like the soldier boys going out in the battlefield. For our safety. And you just think, man, thank God for you. That's the way I view these missionaries. Thank God. God has touched their hearts and sending them out. Thank God. Now, the harvest is great and the labors are few. There's no doubt about it. It's always been that way. Now, what about you and I? I asked myself, what's my role? In reaching this harvest field train, where do I fit in? What's my part? You know what? God shows me. God shows me. Step by step, when I'm totally willing to do whatever he wants me to do, God shows me what to do. I've told it so many times, my wife and I have knelt at the altar down in down in Dominican Republic, when I was at Temple, I said, God, I give myself to go to missions. I'm yours here. Take me and send me. And God said, all right, this is what I want you to do. Do, do, do. Now what about you? Are you willing to ask God to show you and tell you what He wants you to do in reaching His harvest field? If you're sincere, God will show you. God will make it clear. He's not, he don't want everybody to go to Kazakhstan. He didn't want everybody to go to this. Some people have got to pray, some people got to give. But we all need to be exactly what God wants us to be Doing exactly what God wants us to do. That's what this is all about. I'm not asking anybody to do anything other than what God tells you to do. Harvest is great, the labor is a few. Today we were out soul winning. And uh Ed and Charlie dropped me off in one street, and I went up by myself, they went down to McDonald's, and uh I was No, not really. I don't think. There was a McDonald's cup in the tr car though when I got back No. And they dropped me off, I was going up there. And I talked to a few people and really wasn't getting anywhere. I just happened to glance down in the ground. You know what I saw? I saw this little dime stuck down in the dirt on the side of the road And I looked at it and then first I thought was, oh cool, I'll put it in my coin jar. And I put it up and then I made sure it wasn't on anybody's house that I was going up to, that I wasn't stealing their money But as I slipped it in my pocket, and I've told this story so many times, but it just brought back so vividly, and Kathy knows where I'm going with this It's two little girls and we went out to Indianapolis, Bobby and Amy got saved off our buses. Just the ordinariest, naughtyest little twins you ever saw. in your life. The two girls got saved. Amy got saved crying one night. I preached, she came forward, trusted Christ. They got baptized. They sat in missions conference. 1988. A Satan Missions Conference, and unbeknownst to Kathy and I or anyone else, they made a promise to God to give ten cents a week. to missions. I didn't know anything about it, nobody else did. Ten cents to those little girls was like a hundred dollars to Tom. That's a lot of money for those little girls come up with ten cents. Several months went by. We were bringing him in Sunday night to church. Amy and Bobby are in the back, Captain out front, and Amy out of the blue said, it was Amy or Bobby, I forget which one, said, I got my dime. I said, what dime you got? She goes, my dime for faith promise. I said, what are you talking about? She goes, In our missions conference, God put on my heart that I should give a dime every week to Faith Promise Missions. I said, Amy, where do you come up with a dime every week? She says, God gives it to me I said, how does God give it to you? She goes, Sometimes I'm waiting at the bus stop and there'll be one in the dirt on the long side of the road. And I'll pick it up and I'll say, God, there's my dime for missions this week She says, sometimes I'll find it in the hallway at school. She said, sometimes I'll beat up the kid next door and take his. No, she didn't say that. But she did say this. She goes sometimes it gets Saturday and I don't have it. I go out and find a bunch of tin cans. And I go down to the 7 Eleven and put in a little machine it mashes them up till I get ten cents worth of cans. Now listen, the faith of a child. She was what thirteen, maybe, twelve? Faith of a child to have a part in reaching the world for Christ. If she could do that, what can you and I do? Huh? What can you and I do? I'd venture to say most of us can do a whole lot more than what we think we can. Faith, trusting God. Harvest is great. We need less laborers. Let's pray that the Lord of the harvest will send forth laborers. Father, please bless us now. Lord, we've hit this subject hard and we believe we're touching on the your heart, Lord. So I pray that you would stir our hearts from your heart to ours, we ask God. That you would open our eyes and we could see what you could do with us and through us. to reach this world for Christ. Make this our greatest missions conference ever, I pray, Lord. Not just in money and numbers, but in what you do in our lives. And what you do in this world. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, preacher, I want to ask God to challenge my heart and life concerning my role in missions?