James chapter one. We began a few, oh, a month ago or so studying and preaching our way through the book of James. I love the book of James. And And um my favorite book of the Bible is whatever book I'm studying at that time, it seems like, but I do enjoy the book of Jesus James. I think I mentioned this before. I back early on, shortly after I got saved, I got so enamored with the book of James, I decided I was going to memorize the whole book. And uh I got a good ways into it, and then I went off to Bible college and they have you memorizing a lot more than just that. And so I never got the whole book memorized, I got the first chapter or two, and um it has been a great blessing to me James chapter 1. I just want to look at verse 5. I feel maybe David just a tad bit strong here, at least in my ears. The Bible says James chapter 1, verse 5, if any of you lack wisdom. Let him ask of God that giveth to all men liberally, and abradeth not, and it shall be given him. Then he be lack wisdom, then a mask of God who giveth to all men liberately and great authority shall be given him. I just entitled the message, Lacking Wisdom. Let's pray And ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Lord, we're grateful for a good day. This is a special day as we celebrate Easter, Resurrection Sunday. And um uh Lord, we understand Every Lord's Day is a celebration of your resurrection, but this is special. And we're grateful for the folks that have come out this morning and for the visitors we've had. And Lord, for the fellowship we had, the joy that we've had in each other's presence. And now tonight, as we finish out the day in your word And then around your table, I pray you just meet with us again in a special way and draw us near to you. Convict us, Lord, of the areas we need conviction. Lord, encourage and challenge us in the areas we need that. And fill me with your Holy Spirit, I pray. And help us to go out of here tonight, stronger in our faith. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. The early New Testament believers were severely persecuted. It's hard for us to imagine. what these dear believers went through in the early years of the church when it was just getting started. We read through the book of Acts. And we read the history books of how the Roman government and the religious leaders of the day would just so violently persecute the church. They were driven from their homes. Now put yourself in their shoes. Driven from their homes. They were imprisoned unjustly for simply sharing their faith. Many of them beaten Many of them killed. James was killed. The first pastor of the Jerusalem church there was killed. So it was severe. He references that, I think James does in verse number one. He says to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad. I believe that's a reference to these Jewish believers who had been so severely persecuted, had fled Jerusalem, and uh were scattered throughout the Middle East there, uh seeking uh freedom and and seeking to save their lives. Not only was the persecution of the Israeli believers very severe, but here's the thing, and I think he's addressing in this passage, it was prolonged. It wasn't just for a few weeks. It wasn't just for a few months. That hatred and that intensity went on. decade after decade after decade. And um it began, I believe, to wear it then. And I believe that's what he's addressing in verse two and three, as we looked at before. Verse two, three, and four. He says, My brethren, Count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. Remember we pointed out those temptations, these diverse or various temptations, these are hardships, difficulties they were facing because of their faith. He says, count it joy. And then he says, knowing this, the trying of your faith worketh patience. Remember last week? But let patience have her perfect work. Just let that thing carry through. God's allowing this. God is in control, and this is longer than maybe you anticipated, and this is uh harder than you really thought it would be, and it's carrying on. You just be patient, let it work itself out. Then he comes to verse number five. And he says, you that are going through these trials, you that are going through these temptations, and it's dragging on, if you lack wisdom, you ask of God. Sometimes long-term hardships can bring us to our wit's end. My heart goes out sometimes for folks that have intense physical pain And it's unrelenting. And it goes on and on and on and on. And if we're not careful, that can start taking its toll on my ability to think clearly, my ability to make good decisions. And I believe he's addressing that. These people had been under such intense persecution for so long, he was concerned that maybe they were coming to their wit's end. That maybe their ability to make wise decisions was getting foggy, and they needed some wisdom. Now, what is he talking about when he addresses the term wisdom here? What is wisdom? The simple definition of wisdom, somebody that has wisdom simply means to be wise. That's profound, isn't it? What does it mean to be wise? This is my definition, and we could spend series on this. This is my definition of wisdom. The ability to use knowledge correctly. The ability to use the knowledge I've gathered and to use it correctly. A person can have tremendous amounts of knowledge, but have very little wisdom. Now, I think to be wise you have to have a certain amount of knowledge. I have to have something to work with But the wisdom is the ability to take the knowledge that I've been given or that I've achieved or however you obtained it, the knowledge that I have, And to use that in a correct fashion. In Job 28, verse 28, the Bible says this: Behold, the fear of the Lord, that is wisdom. And to depart from evil is understanding. In Psalms 111 and verse 10, in Proverbs 1 and verse 7, in Proverbs 9 and verse 10, it says: the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. And so when I have knowledge, I'm aware of my circumstance, I'm aware of a situation, I have knowledge concerning that. If I fear God, And by that we simply mean I recognize God's authority. I recognize God's wisdom. I recognize God's power. I recognize that He has a plan and a purpose for me. I respect that. Then I use that knowledge I have with God's power and reverence and holiness in mind, and I use it in light of that. You follow what I'm saying? So I cannot act, I cannot use the information I have in a proper way if I don't first understand who and what who God is, what he's like. And have a respect for him because I'm going to use it foolishly. Romans chapter 1 and verse 22 says this: professing themselves to be wise. They became fools. In other words, and that whole chapter is a severe indictment against the human race. And he says, man has gotten to the point, humanity has gotten to the point where we have lots of knowledge, we have lots of information. And we think we really know what we're doing, we think we're really smart because we have all this information and we can repeat all these facts and we've got all this stuff figured out. He says, really, because there's no fear of God They're really not wise at all. They're very foolish. And modern man, an atheistic man, and God rejecting man and proud sinful nature of man has knowledge, but he misappropriates that knowledge. He misapplies it to life. And the Romans tells us he end up worshiping the creation rather than the creator. This is what gets me. You have these tremendous scientists. You have these tremendous researchers, and they can find they find amazing truths out about the world of creation. And they have amazing facts about the universe. And rather than taking that information and understanding the almighty power of God and having a fear of God They misapply it and they end up worshiping the creation and completely missing the fact that there's a creator. I think that's at the root of our modern environmentalist movement. Is a worship of creation, but a foolish rejection of the Creator. And so there's knowledge without wisdom. They end up, and if you go through Romans chapter 1, if you study that chapter out, they end up perverting themselves horrifically Because there's no fear of God before their eyes, and there's no wisdom in their hearts and minds. Thus they take the information they have and they take the facilities they have and rather than li using it for what it was created for and using our bodies, what they were created for, for the glory of God and the advancement of the gospel, they use it to pervert themselves among themselves. And you end up with a horrific situation. And we see that before our very eyes in our country today. Highly educated people doing things that are morally foolish. Doing things that are spiritual suicide. Yet they're so educated. So educated. So, what is wisdom? Wisdom is the ability To take information that God has given me and use it in a correct fashion that God intended it for to use for to be used. Turn with me would in your Bibles to James just a few chapters back. He addresses this worldly wisdom and wisdom from above in chapter three and verse number thirteen. James chapter three, verse thirteen. He asked the question, and we're going to get later on in our as we preach through this book, we're going to get to this and we'll spend a little time on it, but I just want to touch on it right now. Who is a wise man and endued with knowledge among you? Let him show out of a good conversation his works with meekness of wisdom. Now look. But if ye have bitter envying and strife in your hearts, glory not, and lie not against the truth. This wisdom that produced bitterness and strife and envying, this wisdom descendeth not from above, but is earthly, is sensual, is devilish. You could put Romans chapter 1 right there. That's what he's addressing. For where envying and strife is, there is confusion, and every evil work. The confusion there, I think, would include, among other things, sodomy, and that whole distortion of what is pure and good and who and what we are as creatures created by God in his image. And that is earthly wisdom. That is wisdom that takes the information and looks at it and doesn't fear God but applies it to its own selfish ends. And ends up with this confusion and every evil work. But look at verse 17. But the wisdom that is from above, the wisdom that fears God, The wisdom that recognizes God as who he is, as creator and holy and pure and good and just, the wisdom that is above is first pure. Then peaceable, gentle, easy to be entreated, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality, without hypocrisy. And the fruit of righteousness is shown in peace of them that make peace. And so when he says, if any of you lack wisdom, you're going, you you know Christ is your Savior and you're seeking to live for him, and you're Trying to please God with your life, and persecution has come down on you, and hardship for whatever reason has come upon you, and it's dragging on and on and on. And you're at a point where sometimes you think, I don't even know what is right and wrong. I don't even know the right way to respond anymore. God says, listen, you get to that point, if you're lacking wisdom, ask of me. Ask of me. God wisdom is the ability to use knowledge correctly. I think too often uh We have good information, but we fail to factor in God's will for us, and we make bad decisions. Been in the ministry since 1985. That's almost 29 years. Um I I I made my share of bad decisions. But I tell you, I've seen some folks that to me it was so obvious that what they were doing was so foolish. And the decisions they were making were so foolish. And sometimes, you know, you can't make decisions for people. And sometimes I just want to come and say, listen, listen, bow before God. Seek God Think about the consequences of the decisions you're making. Sometimes we have good information, but we make bad decisions. I think King Solomon It's a good example of that. He was at one time the wisest man on earth. He had wisdom that came from above. God gave it to him. But for various reasons, over a period of time, Solomon became a fool. And he perverted himself and he destroyed his life. And he ended so shamefully living in sin. Because he f he had good information, but for whatever reason, he made bad decisions and ended up a fool. Now, I look at James chapter 1 and verse 5. I see first of all I have three quick points, so I'm just going to throw them out here to you. First of all, the possibility of coming up short on wisdom. The possibility of coming up short on wisdom. He says if any of you lack wisdom, the word lack simply means to come short of. It's like when you get to the uh the waiting in line at the store and you get up there and you pull it out and uh you pull your money out and change and it comes to fifteen cents more than what you have in cash We follow, can I get a witness? None of y'all have ever experienced that, huh? I've heard about that. But um uh it's coming up short. It's like, ah man And uh it means to come up short. And he says: if any of you lack wisdom, if any of you are in a situation and you're coming up short, and you're like, man, I'm not sure what to do here. I'm not sure how to respond to this. I'm not sure what the right decision is in this situation. I'm coming up short. He says, if any of you lack that, Fact of the matter is, there's a real possibility of you and I coming up short on wisdom. I found that even the greatest of God's people come up short at times and need the Lord's wisdom and direction. I was reading through the Old Testament kings, looking at some of their lives and some of their reigns. And I found that the most successful kings in the nation of Israel were kings who sought the Lord's wisdom. Were kings who bowed before God and asked God to give them direction as they ruled Israel. Abraham Lincoln made this statement. I like this. And I I believe he's a great great president, no doubt, and I believe he was a Christian. He said this: I have been driven many times to my knees by the overwhelming conviction that I had nowhere else to go. My wisdom and that of all about me seemed insufficient for the day. Abraham Lincoln was saying, I've had situations, you imagine uh uh ruling over a country that's torn apart by civil war. And he said there's many situations where my wisdom came up short. I didn't know what the right answer was. I didn't know what the right decision was. I didn't know what the right response was. I was driven to my knees. Listen, the fact of the matter is, when you and I get to the point where we think we know more than what we really do, we're in trouble. And we need to acknowledge the fact that I need God I need the Lord to give me wisdom. I need the Lord to direct me. Because if any of you lack wisdom. I think it's interesting here. It's not a prayer. He doesn't say they're going through these hardships and these trials. He doesn't say ask God to remove the trial. He doesn't say ask God to remove the persecution. That's what you and I would do. Lord, get the government off my back. Get these people, get my boss off my back. Help them to quit cussing me out at lunchtime when I pray. Help people help the guys My family members quit having giving me a hard time because I'm trying to live for God. That's our prayer. He doesn't say pray that. He says pray that God will give you wisdom in that hardship. When you come up short. Paul did this. He always asked the folks he wrote to, he would write to them and say, Pray that God would help me to speak the word as I ought. You know what he's saying? He's saying, pray to God, give me wisdom. There's a real possibility that we come up short on wisdom. Number two, this is my second thought. He says here, pray for divine wisdom. If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God. Ask of God. The word ask means to beg, to cry out to. I found that through the Bible and throughout history, men of great wisdom were men of great prayer. Men of great wisdom were men of great prayer. Can he lack wisdom? Let him ask of God. How did Solomon get his wisdom? Lord approached him. He said, You want riches? What do you want? Ask of me. Whatever you want, I'll give it to you. And he asked of God for wisdom. I found that great women of wisdom, though they may be humble, though they may not have the world's uh tapestry and Fancy clothes and big expensive homes, but women of great wisdom have been women of great prayer. They knew how to get a hold of God. They humbled themselves before the Lord and they asked the Lord to give them wisdom in dealing with family situation and whatnot. If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God. I found that young people of great wisdom were young people of great prayer. Great prayer. Listen, we've got, in some circles in Christianity, we've got this mixed up. We think young people can't pray. Listen, young people, a 13, 14, 15, 16, 18-year-old, can get a hold of God just as much as an 80-year-old can. And would you agree with me? Our young people need wisdom in this day and age, in the schools. On the jobs. I've always felt like those years 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, in that range, a person is making decisions. That they very possibly can never go back and undo. What direction they go with school, what person they marry, What vocation they commit themselves to, many times decisions are being made that they can never, ever undo. And there must be wisdom. Must seek God's direction. God, what do I do here? I don't know what the future holds I don't know what ten years is. I need to know your will for me. I need you to show me and direct me. What school should I go to? What vocation should I seek? What person should I marry? Listen to me. Can I be real frank for a second? You are a fool if you marry a person simply because they show you attention. That is foolish. You need to seek God's will. You need to look to the Lord for wisdom and direction in knowing who the person is for God. Now, our people know I love them dearly. And we need to pray, and our young people need to pray Our mothers need to pray. Fathers. Our bus workers, our Sunday school teachers, our leaders in our church, grandma and grandpa, we need to pray because we need wisdom. Great men, great women, great young people of wisdom are great men, women, and young people of prayer. Prayer. Prayer. Then if you lack wisdom, let them ask of God. Then we have, last of all, the promise of God's generosity. Let him ask of God who giveth to all men liberally and upgradeth not, and it shall be given unto him. What a promise of God! The word liberally there means to give very generously, lavishly. Any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God. And he gives liberally. He'll pour it out. He will give you wisdom. That word abradeth not that phrase. It has this idea. God won't rebuke you for asking for it When you were young you asked your mom or dad a couple bucks, you know, for something and well you stinking kids on you and they give it to you, but man, they are draping the whole way. Can I get a witness? I've been on both sides of that And uh and he's saying, God's not going to do that. God will give it lavishly to you, God will give it abundantly to you, very liberally he'll give you wisdom, and he's not gonna be griping and rebuking you the whole time he's doing it. The idea I get from this, uh I I Second Corinthians nine seven says this God loveth a cheerful giver. God loves it. A cheerful giver. Why does God love a cheerful giver? Because he has so many needs. And he's so desperate. And when somebody cheerfully gives to him, oh, that helps God so much. No. God doesn't love a cheerful giver because God has any needs. God has no needs. God doesn't need our money to get the gospel into all the world. He set it up in such a way so that that's how it works. He could make money shoot out of the ground like geysers if he wanted to So, why does God love a cheerful giver? Why does the Bible say that? Can I offer a suggestion? I think God loves a cheerful giver because God is a cheerful giver. And that's what this verse is saying. You need wisdom? You need to know what's the right decision, what's the best way to go about this, you need to know how to deal with the circumstance? Ask me! I'd love to tell you, I'd love to give you that wisdom. I'm not going to rebuke you, I'm going to pour it out. That's what he does. God is eager to give us wisdom. God is generous. In giving us wisdom. So James is writing under the inspiration of God to these Jewish believers that are scattered all around. They've been through it. And uh he says, listen, you get to the point, you come up short, you're not sure what to do, you pray, you ask me, I'll give you wisdom. Oh, I'm not gonna rebuke you for it, I'm gonna pour it out. Because that's what I love to do. And God is wisdom. God is wisdom. I read, and you've heard this before, I've no doubt. I think I've used it probably the third Sunday of every other month, the same illustration. But the story goes that uh there was a fella back in the early days of automobiles, and he had bought a Ford And uh lo and behold, it broke down along the road. And he had to fix or repair it daily. And um but uh But anyway, the story goes and I'm assuming it's accurate. This fellow's fort had broken down. He lived up in Michigan, the Detroit area, and his car had broken down. He had the Ford car, he had the hood uh folded up. Remember how they used to fold up? He's down in there working on it. And uh aggravated, frustrated, throwing stuff around, you know, and kicking it and didn't know what to do. Lo and behold, his car pulls up behind and the fellow steps out, walks up, says, You got some problems? And uh he goes, yeah he says, Well can I help you out? I know a little bit about these vehicles and uh can I help you out a little bit The story goes, the guy got mad and says, none of your business. I can handle this myself. And God just went off on him And Henry Ford said, Okay. He went back in his car and drove off. The story goes, the last he saw, the guy was sitting alongside the road. With a broke down car. It's a funny story, but there's a sad application. We have Christians all across this country around the world whose lives are broken down. And they're making stupid decisions, they don't know how to fix it, and they're a mess. And they're going nowhere for God, and they don't have the joy of the Lord, they're frustrated and angry. When God comes along and says, listen, you need wisdom? You know how to fix that? Ask me. I'll help you. I'll give you wisdom. You'll trust me, obey me, do what I say, you can fix that. Let's tonight ask the Lord for wisdom. We don't know as much as we think we do, do we? Okay, I get I I just get over our boys. Your boys aren't as smart as you as you think they are. And um I go and get my Bible out and get my knees and the Lord would say Den. The Lord calls me Den. Um I don't know where that came from. But uh the Lord speak to my heart and said, you know, you don't know as much as you think you do either I say, Lord, I need you to give me wisdom. We're going to go to the Lord's Supper. I can't think of anything more appropriate on the day we celebrate the resurrection of Jesus Christ He paid an unbelievable price for us. We can't even comprehend, as I tried to point out this morning, what our Lord went through when his body was broken, his blood was shed, and he gave his soul as a sacrifice for you and I. And he's the one that freely and gladly will give us wisdom if we'll ask him to lead us and direct us, if we'll trust him and follow in his leadership. He'll help us. So let's pray. Father, I ask now you bless. As we have invitation time before the Lord's Supper, I pray, Holy Spirit, that you would search our hearts. Lord, I pray you'd point out those areas of our life that need attention before we gather around the Lord's table. Convict us. Help us to be honest with ourselves and with you. And I pray this will be a real time of reflection on what you did for us, on what our spiritual condition is, and on your soon coming return, Lord. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to challenge us tonight as we go to the Lord's Supper, maybe bow in an old-fashioned order and just say, Lord, search me and try me. Help me to come to your table, humble, seeking your wisdom, making things right, and claiming his promise of forgiveness. Father, bless our invitation, I ask, in Jesus' name. Let's