The Lord had about three and a half years, most Bible scholars hold to, about three and a half years of what we call his earthly ministry Started when he was about thirty years old and began preaching and uh uh presenting himself as the Messiah and the coming Savior. At times during that ministry, that about three and a half years that he was there preaching and teaching and whatnot, at times he was extremely popular. We read in portions here in the Gospels where people would come to hear the Lord Jesus and come to be with him and see him. They would come by the tens of thousands. Some of these figures of the crowds coming to hear Jesus, see Jesus, are just astronomical by even today's standards. the number of people coming to hear him. Sometimes he was extremely popular. People now their motives for coming were various. Some of them they wanted they had sick family members or they themselves were sick and they wanted to be made well. Uh and uh you know these faith healers today um uh I I just say it, they're phony. If they were legit, they'd be going to the hospitals and they'd be going up and down the aisles and they'd be healing people. This is a don't fall for this. The Lord Jesus Christ was legit. And he would heal people and they would come to be healed themselves and they wanted had loved ones they wanted to be healed. So people came in in droves simply to be healed, to experience the healing power that he had and was displaying. Uh some people came um uh because they had heard of the miracles he had done and and a lot of people came out of curiosity They just simply wanted to see him do something cool. Uh they wanted to see something amazing. It was an entertainment on the part of a lot of the people simply to see what Jesus would do. And to be honest with you, I would love to have seen some of these miracles. What an amazing thing these were. And so I don't fault them. They wanted to come out and they had heard the things. They wanted to see for themselves what was going on. But a lot of people came out because Jesus had answers to their questions. And Jesus was able to give them direction in their life to find, to understand who God is and how to how to know God. and how to have purpose in life. And many, many thousands of these people, tens of thousands, I'm confident, came out of sincere desire That they wanted answers in life. They wanted to know God. And Jesus was able to answer those questions. So at times he was extremely popular. Other times, not so much. In fact, as we progress through the Gospels and the day of his crucifixion gets closer and closer, you find the crowds getting smaller and smaller. In fact, in John chapter 6, there's one point where everybody left them. And he looked at the disciples. He says, Are you guys going to leave also? And of course, Peter gives that great answer, he says, Lord, who do we have to go to? You have the the words of eternal life We have no one else to go to. So sometimes the Lord's ministry was very popular, other times it was not very popular at all, and in fact it became very unpopular. It's interesting When he enters Jerusalem, the whole crowds are yelling, Hallelujah! Glory to God! And one week later, that same crowd is yelling, Crucify Him! Crucify Him! My point is this, we should never measure the success of our ministry by its popularity. Having great crowds is not necessarily a measure of six an indicator of success, and having small crowds is not necessarily an indicator of failure. My success or failure is determined by my obedience to God's word. If a Christian or a ministry, a church is obedient to God's word, then they are successful. We are none of us are ever going to get rewards in heaven for how big our Sunday school class was, but we will be rewarded for how obedient we were to the Lord. Now don't misunderstand what I'm saying. I think we ought to be as big as we can. I ought to reach as many people as we possibly can. We want to pack out our Sunday school classes. We'd like to fill this auditorium up. Be a wonderful thing. Fill this auditorium up two, three, four times a Sunday. We'd love to do that, but that is not the indicator of our success. The success is our obedience to the Lord. And Jesus was successful. He did always those things that pleased his Father, and he fulfilled the mission for which he was incarnated. He died on the cross for our sins and rose again. So, at this point in Luke chapter 5, the Lord is very popular. There's huge crowds coming. In fact, they're so huge. that he comes across Peter and some of the disciples there cleaning their necks and uh in order to accommodate the crowds and be able to speak to them in an effective way He steps out into this little boat, and we'll look at that here in a moment. But this is not the Lord's introduction to Peter. When he comes here, and verse 3 says he entered into one of the ships, which was Simon's. This is not his introduction. Peter and Jesus had already been introduced. Peter knew who Jesus was. Jesus knew who Peter was. They had already met. In John chapter 1, verse 35 to 42, we have where Jesus and Peter are introduced And uh Andrew brings Peter to the Lord Jesus Christ and introduces him there. I believe in John chapter 1 is where we have Peter's salvation. I believe that's where Peter accepts Jesus Christ as his Savior. Now it doesn't expressly say that, but that's my belief. I believe that's the case, and I pick that up from there. Now what happened was, as I understand it, Peter was introduced to Jesus Christ. He understood this is the Messiah, the Christ And uh he believed that in his heart. I believe he accepted Jesus as the Messiah who would eventually give himself for uh his sins and be buried and rise again Probably didn't comprehend all of that at that point, but he understood, he believed uh what he had been told about Christ, and I believe he was saved at that point. But Peter did not follow the Lord Jesus on a permanent basis at that point. He apparently uh hung out with the Lord for a little while, but uh the impression I get in studying this, at some point Peter had come back to his fishing business. That's what he was He was very successful at it. And he didn't follow the Lord on a permanent basis at the moment of his salvation. He resumed his life as a fisherman. Now we're in Luke chapter 5 And the Lord crosses Peter's path again. I do not believe that this was a coincidental meeting. I am convinced that the Lord deliberately was targeting Peter in this event. It wasn't a coincidence that he happened to have this big crowd right where Peter was, right when Peter was there, right when Peter was watching his His next, I believe this was uh was designed by the Lord, deliberately targeting Peter. You see, the Lord was not finished with Peter yet. Peter's salvation was the beginning of a new life of service and a relationship with Jesus Christ. It was not the goal. The goal was not accomplished. Peter saved, now God wants the work in his life. God's not satisfied. Here's what I'm trying to say. God is never satisfied with just saving a soul. He wants to transform the life. And for those of us here who have trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, we praise God for that. Amen? There's no greater thing in the world that can happen than to know that God has forgiven me all my sins, that Jesus is my Savior, that I have a home in heaven. I'll never go to hell Man, what more that is the greatest thing in the world. If you're here this morning and you don't know for sure that when you die you go to heaven and not to hell, I implore you, I plead with you, today trust Jesus Christ as Savior. But that's the beginning. God's not satisfied with just saving our soul. He now wants to change our life and transform our life. He saves us for a purpose. And that purpose is glorious, and he wants to use us for his glory. When we come to the Lord Jesus Christ for salvation, we come just as we are. A sinful wretch. Empty lives. Hellbound. We come to Jesus as we are. That night I trusted Christ as Savior back there outside Philly. And I knelt beside my bed. I was messed up If somebody had come to me and said, Dennis, before you can get saved, you need to clean your life up and you need to straighten up and you need to uh Uh uh get your act together and if you do that then you can accept Jesus as Savior. God will say, if somebody would have told me I had to straighten up before I get saved, I would have threw my hands up in despair. I can't I would have said, I can never be saved because I couldn't straighten myself up. I tried, and I was bound by sin. I was a slave to sin. I was under its dominion. And my whole purpose for accepting Christ as Savior was to be delivered from my sin. So God takes us as we are. Maybe I'm talking to someone this morning, and you'd say, Preacher Jesus Christ would never save me. I've sinned too badly. If you knew how sinful my heart was, if you knew some of the things I've done, if you know the places I've been, if you know the thoughts I've thunk taught If you knew, preacher, if you knew what I really was, you would agree with me, Jesus would never save me. I'm here to tell you you're the exact kind of person he wants to save. He didn't come to call the righteous. He came to call sinners to repentance. Sinners. And so what I'm saying is, are you listening? What I'm saying is We come to Jesus Christ right the way. We are. Sinful wretch. Lost, empty heart, hellbound. And Jesus, all those that come to him, he'll not turn away. And he'll take and save us. But my point is this. Though we come to Jesus Christ as a sinner, we come the way we are. He never leaves us the way we are. 2 Corinthians 5. 17 says this: if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away, behold, all things are become new. So, person comes the Lord Jesus Christ, a sinful wretch, uh lost, said and done things maybe that are unspeakable. Shameful, but we come to Jesus Christ and we accept Him as our Savior, and in so doing, He freely and fully forgives us for all our sins. cleanses us from all unrighteousness, and he makes us a new creature, and then he begins the process of changing our lives. He begins the process of old things, those old lifestyle patterns and those old attitudes and that old way of thinking, that sinful worldly way of thinking, he starts changing the way we think. He starts changing the way we live. He starts taking things out of our life that are so harmful and hurt our spiritual growth. And he starts adding things into our life that develop us and And help us grow in our faith and get stronger in our faith and we know Him a little bit better and we're more like what He wants us to be And that's what he's doing for Peter here. I believe Peter got saved in chapter 1 of John But he didn't grow and he went back to his fishing, and there was nothing wrong in and of itself for him to go back to fishing, but but God had another plan for him. And so the Lord, I believe, again, as I said, deliberately targets him. To bring him to another level of faith. He's targeting Peter to get him to another level of spiritual maturity. Now, I don't know what's going on in your life But I know this, our God is alive. And our God is active. And for those of us that know Jesus Christ as our personal Savior, I am absolutely convinced of this, I assure you. God is working in your life to strengthen your faith, to develop your mature spiritual maturity, to change you and mold you and transform you into the person He wants you to be. I'm talking to some people this morning. God's taking some things out of your life so that I will learn to trust him. Look at him. I'm talking to some others this morning. There are things coming into your life that maybe you would have never chosen for yourself But God is allowing it so that your spiritual life can grow, your understanding of who and what God is can develop, and you can be more effective and more like Christ and more the person that God intends for you to be. And so this isn't a coincidental event where Peter's washing his nets and the Lord Jesus come by this huge crowd. and uh confronts Peter and uses his boat. It's not just a coincidence. It's part of God's plan. God is uh He's working in his light. Now you paid attention when Brother Grant read Uh the scripture here, you know, they launches out in the deep, he tells him to let down his nets. Peter lets down a net singular. And uh, you know the story, they have that great harvest of fish, and they pull it in, their necks break, they fill the boat up, and they get into land. Don't misunderstand the event here. The Lord's not trying to get a boatload of fish. It's not what he's after. He don't need nets, he don't need boats to get fish What he's after is Peter's heart. He's after Peter's life. He's after Peter's devotion. He's after Peter's surrender and Peter's growth. That's what it's all about. And so the Lord is after the heart and life of Peter. He is trying. God is working in our lives. How many folks here you're saved to know it? Say amen. I know this, if that's true, I know this is true. God's working in your life Say, preacher, I'm saved, but I don't sense God working in your life. Then you need to open your spiritual eyes because if you're saved, he is. Um let me throw this in. If you're here this morning, you don't know for sure that when you die you go to heaven, not to hell. If you're not subtle about that, I'm going to tell you this, God's working in your life too. He's trying to get your attention to bring you to the point where you realize how desperately you need Jesus Christ as Savior. Tell you one of the most disconcerting things in my heart and life is when I meet people who are lost, unsaved, they've never been saved, they've never trusted Christ as Savior, they're on their road to a devil's hell, and they care little or nothing about it. Tell ya, that's disturbing. That's disturbing. I um preached to a group of men last evening. And um I used an illustration, I just thought of it now, but uh anybody recognize the name uh I don't know if anybody would or not, a fellow by name of Penn Gillette Does anybody recognize that name? He's part of a very famous magician team, Penn and Teller. Maybe you've recognized that. They're very famous. He is a devout atheist, a hardened devout atheist. He was um uh he was doing a public show or something he was somewhere in public, and this is actually called on video A Christian approached him, and if I remember correctly, approached him and handed him a Bible and began giving the gospel to him Trying to tell him that he needed Christ as Savior, that in if he dies in his sin he's going to go to hell, and Jesus died, suffered hell for him, and rose again. If he'll accept Christ as Savior, he can be saved from hell and he can go to heaven And he gives this count of it that the fellow was very respectful. He was very tactful, but he was very firm and very earnest in witnessing to him. And everyone thought that he would write the guy off and make fun of him, and he made this statement, and I'm not quoting it exactly, I don't have it here in front of me But he made something to this effect. And he uses the word proselyzing, and what he means is witnessing. He says, I don't criticize this fellow for trying to proselylize me But God is trying to get him saved. He doesn't know that terminology. He says, in fact, how he makes this statement. He says, how much would you have to hate a person? To know that they are going to hell and do nothing to warn them and keep them from going to hell. Did you catch that? How much would you have to hate a person to let them go to hell and never speak a word, never do a thing to keep them from going there? I tell you, that guy's got some more spiritual insight than some Christians I know. Then he went on and made this statement. He says, Suppose I was standing in the middle of the road and there's a truck out of control barreling down the road towards me. He said at some point You would jump in front and tackle me to get me out of the way so that truck doesn't hit me and kill me He says, how much more if hell is true, and I'm paraphrasing here, how much more if hell is true, should a Christian do everything they can to keep that person from going to hell? He makes a pretty good point. Now he never did get saved, but I'm telling you, that is a rebuke to you and I. And so if you're here this morning You heard of the sound of my voice, and you don't know for sure that God has forgiven all your sins. You've never accepted Jesus Christ as Savior. I'm here to tell you we love you enough to warn you you need to get saved. You need Jesus Christ as Savior. You need to understand what dire situation you are in. You need to understand how dangerous a situation you are in to die in your sins. And go out into eternity under the judgment of God, when Jesus Christ has paid that judgment for us and all we need to do is accept Him. And so the Lord is, and so uh for the unsaved person, God's working in your life. He's trying to get you. It's not a coincidence you're here this morning. It's not a coincidence you've tuned in to hear this message, however you're hearing it. It's God working and God moving. To bring the unsaved, the lost person away to hell to understand that Jesus Christ can and will save them from sin in hell. So Peter's been saved. This isn't a coincidence. God is God this is a uh a deliberate uh targeting of Peter To get him to another level of faith, to get him to grow and take another step forward. Let me give you three thoughts I got from this passage here that I want to share with you, this whole incident. that uh I trust will help us. First of all, my first thought is this. I want us to notice how Peter responds to the Lord's instructions. He's here, and actually the Lord gives Peter three instructions, three things he tells him to do. And each one of these instructions requires a little bit more faith than the previous instruction. Everyone, he gives Peter three, throughout this event, he gives Peter three different instructions. Everyone requires a little bit more faith. Everyone requires a little bit more effort. Each one is a little bit more inconvenient. But if Peter is going to be the person God saved him to be, if Peter is going to uh have the uh be in the perfect will of God, he has got to be willing to trust the Lord and obey him. Even though it may be inconvenient, even though it may require some effort, even though it may require him to alter his calendar, it may require him to change his plans. If he is going to be the man God intends for him to be, if he is going to be the Christian God intends for him to be, he has got to trust the Lord, obey the Lord, even if it is inconvenient. Now what are these three things the Lord tells them to do? Number one, I see in verse number three, the Lord tells them to thrust out a little from the land. Now we can see obviously what the situation here. There's great crowds. He's down by the sea here. Peter's there. The boats are no doubt. pulled up onto the shore and they're washing their nets and this huge crowd is and I don't know we're not told exactly what the circumstances are but this is the way I picture it in my mind Jesus is there and the people are all around him. I mean just pressing up against him. Thousands, and they go up the side of the hill and along the shore. Maybe some are standing in the water, coming around, just trying to touch him and hear him, and he's trying to speak to them, he's trying to teach them about God, and it's just confusion and it's pressing, and people can't hear. He sees the boat setting there. Again, this is all deliberate, and there's no doubt. And he comes to Peter and he says in verse 3, he says, he entered into one of the ships, which was Simon's And pray him that he would thrust out a little from the land. So he sees the ship, he gets in the little fisher and boat there, and he says, Peter, would you just push this out a little bit? Now that really did not require a whole lot of effort on Peter's part. I mean he's just gone out a little bit, no doubt it was shallow, and all the Lord's wanting is get out a little way so that the people could be there and he could address the crowd in a in a uh uh organized way where everybody can hear the most efficient, the most effective way to communicate to the crowd So he pushes out. I I like this thought. I wrote in my mar my margin of my Bible, I may use it for a title someday, for a message, but when a boat is a pulpit Oh that's pretty good. I th I thought that was more creative than you responded, but I thought y'all would have said, Man, that's great. But when a bo let's try again. When I boat boat is a pulpit. Oh yeah, there we go. That's what I best anticipated But yeah, amen. But uh I heard a preacher say this. He says every pulpit ought to be a fishing boat. I like that. Every pulpit ought to be trying to get people saved, trying to get people saved. So he pushes out, doesn't require a lot of effort. It's not that inconvenient. It doesn't require a whole lot of faith. Just, all right, sure, that's not a problem. I can do that. And the Lord instructs him to step out a little bit, thrust out a little from the land. Then in verse 4, he gives them another instruction. He says, uh now when he had left speaking, he finishes his message, and just using my imagination here, he gives the invitation, the final prayer is said, the whole service is done, so to speak. Now, when he left us speaking, he said to Simon, Aha, now I think this is what this whole thing is about. He's veering in on Simon Peter. And he says, Launch out into the deep. Huh. Now that is uh requires a little more effort. You know, to push out a little away from the land, that's no big deal. You can pull it back in right away when he's done, I can go on with my business. Not a big deal. Now he's saying, Peter, I want you to go out in the deep. I mean out there into the s sea, into this big lake. Watch out there. Now I don't know, but I can imagine Peter thinking, okay, that's going to change my whole afternoon Man, I've got everything put up and he wants me to launch out. It's requiring a little more effort. This is a little bit more investment on Peter's part to do what the Lord is saying. This is not real convenient. In fact, it's a little bit irrational. Impression is this is the middle of the day I don't know what he's wanting to do out in the deep. I know it's not speak to crowds of people. They never hear him. That doesn't make sense. He's got something else in mind. I don't know exactly what the Lord's up to. really doesn't make sense. There ain't nobody out there. There's no sick people. There's no blind people out there. There's no uh lost people out there. There ain't nothing out there. There ain' So the second instruction is a little irrational. It doesn't requires a lot more effort and requires a great deal of faith. You know, I don't know what he's up to, but I'll trust him. Then the last instruction is even more irrational. Look at verse number four. And when he had left speaking, he said to Simon, Launch out into the deep. I can hear Peter saying, uh, Alright, it doesn't make sense. And then he says, and let down your nets for a drought. Put down your nets and you're going to catch a slew of fish. Now that requires a lot of faith. Lord, uh we've been fishing all night and we ain't caught no fishes. It's the middle of the day. There ain't no fish out there Requires great faith. It's the wrong time of the day. I can hear Peter saying that's the wrong location out there. We just spent twelve hours out there. There's no fish there. If we're gonna g if you're gonna go out this time of day, then we gotta go somewhere else, because I ain't there. Well, he doesn't say any of that. He simply trusts God and obeys him. Now, I'm going to come back to this thought. The first one's very simple. Doesn't require a lot of faith, not a lot of effort Just a simple basic thing. The next one requires a little bit more faith. It's a little bit irrational. It's very inconvenient. Then the third one doesn't even make any sense at all. This is ridiculous. Why would we do this? We just washed our nets and you want us to put them back in, get seaweed and everything all over. Redo it all again, Lord, nothing about this makes any sense So there's a progression of effort, there's a progression of irrationality from Peter's perspective. There's a progression of faith required in every one of these. I think there's a principle here The Lord wants us to learn to obey Him in the simple things And when we learn to be obedient in the simple things, then we can exercise faith in the more difficult things. In other words, if I can't be faithful in the little things, how am I going to be faithful in the great things? If Peter couldn't trust the Lord to just thrust out a little bit from the land, there is no way he's going to trust the Lord to go on in the deep and let down nets in the middle of the day after they've been fishing all night in a place where there ain't no fish. But he had to learn to obey the Lord in the simple things first. And if you'll study your Bible carefully, you'll find out that when a person gets saved, as we pointed out at the beginning of the message, when a person gets saved The Lord doesn't leave us the way we are. He begins working in our life, changing our life. How many folks here since you've been saved, you've sensed God working in your life and changing maybe the way you think about things, maybe some of your lifestyle things How many people would testify to that? Since I've been saved, God has made tremendous changes in my life, or at least He's changing things in my life. Hands all around. And so you'll find in the Bible when God saves us, it begins a process of transformation. A process of becoming a new uh of being a new tre creature and old things in the text sense of that verse there in 2 Corinthians 5. 17 is old things are passing away. It's kind of a progressive type things and things are becoming new. I've been saved, it'll be thirty uh see nine two thousand seventy nine. Uh I've been saved a while. Not good enough at math to figure that out on the spot here. And you know what I'm finding out? I'm finding out in my Christian life things are still becoming new. I found I'm you know after all these years it looks like you know all the old's out. You know I keep finding out there's still some old there that needs to get out. And so God begins this process when we accept Jesus Christ as Savior, whether it was a week ago or a decade ago. God begins this process of changes. Now, here's what I was started to say. If you pay attention carefully, the instructions God gives to us when we first get saved are really pretty simple. Really pretty basic. They don't require a whole lot of faith, and they're really not that inconvenient. Let me illustrate what I'm trying to say. When a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, the very first thing God instructs them to do is to be baptized. That is the very first thing that I find in the Scripture. When a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, the very first thing they'll do is is follow him in baptism. I often say this, and I believe with all my heart, the most important thing for a new believer to do is to come out public as a believer in Jesus Christ and follow him in deep water baptism. By the way, there is no other baptism besides deep water baptism. And just be baptized You say, what's the deal about that? What why why is that so significant? Well it it is significant, and that's a testimony that I'm now in Christ and uh and that uh uh uh it's uh it's uh testimony that. But even more than that, it's simply this. I'm learning to trust and obey God. And that's the important thing. As a new believer, as a child of God, a saved person, God says, I want you to do this. It's not real difficult. Some people, you know, is a little afraid of water or whatever. It's a little more of a Effort, somewhat of an effort, but it's you know, it's not that inconvenient, and it's not that difficult. It's not packing up everything and moving to China. So I'm just thrusting out a little bit. I learned to trust God and obey him in a little bit. And I found this. If a Christian is willing to follow, if a saved person gets saved, if they're willing to follow the Lord in baptism, that's the first step and be able to follow the Lord in other areas and in other areas and in other areas. And my experience in thirty five year thirty some years, nineteen eighty five, uh ninety five uh and several years in the ministry Listen, y'all didn't hire me for my mathematical skills, all right? I found that if a person, and I'm not trying to be unkind, I'm just being honest, I found if a person doesn't follow the Lord in baptism, they don't grow in the Lord. I don't learn to follow the Lord and trust the Lord in other areas. And so it's a very simple thing. And he says, just push, just launch out a little. Well just a little, uh thrust out a little from the shore. And so there's some basic things. The Lord tells us when we first get saved. Now God's after Peter. The Lord's not after a boat of fish. Good grief. What's he gonna do with him? Give them away. He's not after the fish. He's after Peter. There's a slew. People are going to need to get saved down the road. He needs a preacher in the book of Acts to preach the gospel. He needs a person to be a part of the establishment of the church. And at some point, Peter has to learn to trust and obey God. And so he thrust out. So one thing for a new belief: God is a plan for your life. God has, God saved you for a reason. There's somebody that God wants to use you to influence for Christ There's somebody on their way to hell that God wants to use you to be a roadblock on their way to hell. But God can't do that until I learn to trust him and obey him. And that's what he's teaching Peter. Just bust out a little from the land. Simple little thing, just follow Lord in baptism. Oh, there's a couple other things the Lord tells us, as a new believer, that really in and of themselves are not that difficult. They want to acquire a lot of faith, a little bit of effort, not a lot. Be faithful to church. Be faithful to church. He says, forsake not be assembling yourselves together. Acts chapter 2. And they uh were fellowship of the do and the doctrine. And I'm not quoting that correctly, but In other words, he's saying, listen, get baptized, be a part of the church. Be faithful, active in the church. Now that requires a little bit of thrusting out from the land. You had to get up and get over there and move the boat and And all that. It requires a little bit. If you're gonna go to church, you gotta get up Sunday morning. Now some of you all get up and just come here and sleep. But um It's alright. I'd rather peach to a pew if somebody's sleeping in it than pew with nobody in it. Because I can holler every now and then or something. But I found if you're going to go to church, you've got to get up and go. If we're going to assemble together, I'm going to have to leave where I'm at and get over to where they are. This is deep, profound stuff here, and it is good stuff. Um you know it requires a little bit of effort, requires a little, all right, I'll do all right, I'll I'll do that. I can do that. Then it's coming back Sunday night. By the way, it's a good idea to go to bed a decent hour Saturday night so you get more out of church Sunday morning. I just threw that in. Um Sunday night, Wednesday night, revival meetings, special things going on, then sometimes we do a fingerprints ministry, you assemble scriptures and say, you know, I'd I'd like to get involved in that And it's all just part of thrusting out from the shore. Just thrust out a little bit from the shore. Learning to trust God, learning to obey, get baptized, go to church. Here's another one. Circle a little effort, not a tremendous amount, a little bit of faith, not but read your Bible every day. Listen, I've never been a part of a church, and I'm not we're not trying to blow our own horn here, it's just a fact I've never been a part of a church that does so much to enable people to read their Bible every single day. We do everything we can except come over to your house, wake you up, sit you down, open the Bible, and put your head on it. And if you need us to, we'll do that. Simple thing. Read your Bible. Every Christian ought to read their Bible every single day. Say, preacher, I get sick of you here and saying every preacher, every Christian ought to read their Bible every day, I'm sick of that. Every time I come here, that's all you say. Well then start reading your Bible every day, and I'll stop saying it That requires a little effort, but it's learning, it's part of my growth, it's part of the Lord changing me and developing. Read my Bible, pray, giving out gospel tracts. I don't know if I could do that. Oh yeah, just launch out a little in the deep. Just if you're scared to give it to a person, lay them around places. Say, preacher, then they'll call up and complain. They call me and complain, so don't worry about it. You follow what I'm saying? There's a progression here. First the Lord says, cuss out a little from the land. That's not a lot of effort. Some big things. God tells us when we get saved, here, here's some things You really need to do. If you're going to be what I say you to be, if you're going to grow and develop some basic things you've got to invest in, you've got to be willing to do, you've got to trust me with. So then the next thing was, as we pointed out, is launch out into the deep. Good grief. Are you kidding, Lord? I've got plans. We're going out to Denny's for lunch. And you want us to go out in the deep? That requires a little more effort. And you know what happens? There comes a point in my Christian life where the Lord says, all right. Now I want you to dedicate your life to me. I want you to be willing to go and do whatever I tell you to do. Now it's not God's will. For everybody to be a pastor, a preacher. I don't know why he chose me. I it wasn't my plan. I was going to be a school teacher. I wanted to be an elementary school teacher. I wanted to work at my level of ability, first grade Where I was comfortable, where I could handle it. And the Lord said, Now you can't even handle that. I'll make you a pastor. You only have to work one day a week But at some point, God wants us to step out as a believer. He wants to step out a little bit in faith and say, here I am, Lord. I'm willing to go the extra mile. I'm willing to go on that mission trip to somewhere and serve you before we invest maybe a couple thousand dollars and be a part of a mission trip and have an impact on a part of this world. I'm willing to get involved in faith promise and actually commit a uh some of my finances, my income to getting missionaries out around the world. It's a little more faith, it's a little more effort on my part, a little more costly on my part But God is working in my heart. God is leading me and directing me. And I want to be what God wants me to be. And I'm willing to step out and trust Him by faith. Watch out. Watch out. Watch out in the deep. And so there's this progression. And then the last is let down the nets, and that makes no sense at all. It's the middle of the day. We've already fished this area. Lord, this is a waste of time. I've cleaned the nets. And the Lord says, trust me. Obey me. And sometimes God comes down and he touches a heart and says, I want you to go to Kazakhstan to be a missionary. And we're like, Lord, that makes no sense. There's no way I could do that. I want you. To get involved in Thursday nights going soul winning on a continual basis, just getting out and visiting. I want you to take a bus route. I want you to start a ministry. I want you to get a prison ministry. I want this and I want you to do this. And God wants us to let down our nets. And actually invest ourselves in the lives of other people. And we say, Lord, I don't have what it takes. This is a waste. There's nothing. You won't get nothing out of me. But it wasn't Peter's ability, it wasn't the day of uh the time of day, and it wasn't the location. It was the power of God that made the difference. And it's not your abilities, it's not my abilities, it's not our gifts, it's not our intellect, it is God that gives the increase. And we yield ourselves and say, Lord, I'll let down the nets. Now I just noticed this when Pastor Grant was reading. I noticed this part before. The Lord told him to let down your nets, plural. Did you catch that? And then Peter let down a net singular. He's trusting God, but I'm not putting them all down. We cleaned them. I'll put one down. Now, praise the Lord, he put one down. But this is what I noticed. I never caught this before. The net singular broke. I'm wondering if he'd have put all those nets down, maybe that net wouldn't have broke. Listen, God's going to do what he's going to do whether we cooperate or not. And how much better it would have been to go ahead and put all the nets down and when he got done, he wouldn't have had a broke net. They'd all still be intact. I don't haven't developed that. That's my next message in the series. Broke nets. I just thought of this. When God starts breaking your nets. That'd be a good come on now. I thought I taught you how to respond. So first of all, Peter's response, the Lord's developing his faith. He gives simple instructions. Good grief. That was my first point. Second of all, Peter recognized the Lord's authority Peter follows the Lord's instructions. A little hesitantly, but he does. I just got a couple minutes. Let me give you these couple last thoughts here. Notice verse number five. And Simon answering said unto him, Master, we have toiled all the night and have taken nothing. Nevertheless, at thy word I will let down the net. I notice the title he uses to address Jesus. He uses the term master. That is a title of authority. Peter is at a very important significant point in his life of faith. He is recognizing that Jesus is not just a Savior, but Jesus is Lord. He is master. He not only died on that cross to save me from sin in hell, but he is master. He is wants to be Lord of my life. And Peter is submitting himself to the authority of Jesus Christ. I tell you what, you and I are on good ground when we start submitting to the authority of Jesus Christ. I am not my own. I've been bought with a price. Therefore, I want to glorify God with my body. Master. Master. I tell you what, we'd have revival in our churches if God's people would start recognizing Jesus Christ as master. You know who the master is of your average American independent fundamental Baptist? You know who the master is? Self I'll do what I want when I want the way I want. We get to the point where it's no longer I that live, but Christ. I'll do what he wants, the way he wants, when he wants. Tell you what, revival comes. Revival comes. And so the title he uses here, Master And that makes all the difference, all the difference. Until I recognize God's authority over my life, I will never grow in faith. I'll never be the Christian God intends for me to be. There's a lot of people serving God, but here's the pr there's a lot of Christians serving God, but here's the problem. They're serving God the way they want to, not the way God says to It's more important I submit to the Lord as my master than I serve him with me in charge. So, first of all, the title he uses Master, then the action he takes, and I'll end with this. I underlined this in my master. We have toiled all the night and have taken nothing. Look at this next phrase. This is important. Nevertheless, at thy word. I will let down the net. Nevertheless, Lord, we've all this, it doesn't make any sense. We've already done all this. We've been through this. It's the wrong time of day. But Lord, Master, if that's what you say to do, then I'll do it. At your word, I'll do it. You know what that is? That's faith. I put in the margin of my Bible, I wrote this word down, worship. You know what Peter's doing there? He's worshiping God. He's recognizing Jesus' authority over him. And he is humbly submitting to that authority by trusting Jesus and obeying him. And that is what worship is. Worship is not going through some motions and doing some ritualistic, oh, cross my heart and hope to die and do all that. That's not worship. Worship is saying, Jesus, you are Lord, you are Master, what you tell me to do, whether it makes sense to me or not, I will humbly trust you and I will obey you and do what you tell me to do. And I believe this is where Peter really begins to grow. This is where Peter is established that he is going to be the Christian God saved him to be. The ultimate act of faith is worshiping God, submitting my will to Him, completely trusting Him. Now I'm talking to some Christians. You've been running the show in your life. You've been calling the shots. You decide what you're going to do, when you're going to do it, how you're going to do it, and where you're going to do it. You've been calling the shots. And as much as God loves you and as much as God's been working in your life, you're really not going to grow spiritually significantly until you get to the point and say, no, at thy word, Lord, I'll do what you say. You become Lord. You are the master. I am the servant. I am um I was listening, I was thinking this morning, getting ready. I wrote out my tithe check and all that this morning. And I got thinking about it. And we're guilty of this. I've got preacher friends guilty of this. We'll say this. You know, give your tithe and best in faith promise and give and it shall be given unto you. And God will pour out and you'll drive big trucks and you'll live in you'll wear expensive clothes and you'll live in fancy condominiums and If you do all this, God's going to do all this for you. Now, listen, I'm the first one to admit God does amazing things for us. But you know, if I give my tithe and I give my faith promise the Lord and the Lord never gives me a tar, paper, shack, I've already got more than I deserve. We're not giving to the Lord, so He'll give us all this stuff. We're giving to the Lord because of what He's already given us. We're operating out of debt. We owe him. My life, my all, I'll never pay back price what he's done for me. How in the world? Should I come and say, alright, I'll give this to you, Lord, and then demand some return. I've already got more than I deserve. Am I making any sense? I don't even know why that doesn't even fit in the message, but We've got to understand. We've got to trust God and yield ourselves, never less it. Thy word God, I'll do what you say, whether I get anything out of it or not. Lord, this is for your glory. You know what you're doing. And so launch out in the deep. The results of Peter's action, the power of God was proven, all these fish. Partnerships were established. The other other people came over and helped. Boy, Peter found out he had friends he didn't know he had. When I got saved, I thought I lost all my friends. You know what I found out when I got saved? I never had any real friends to begin with. I've had I'm uh the friends I have since I've been saved, the partners that that are part of my life now, are ten thousand times more true than the best friends I had before I got saved. And Peter yields to the Lord and he says, I'm going to do what God says, I'm going to yield my life over it. I'm going to obey him and trust him. And suddenly you find people coming into your life that are so precious and dear, and they share your burden, they share your faith. Partnerships are established. The perspective was altered. He says there, he says, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying, Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord. God changed his whole perspective on who he was. Suddenly Peter wasn't the center of his universe anymore. And it's in dying to self and exalting the Lord that we find purpose and blessing. The presence of God produced humility in his life. God knows we could use some humility in our churches. We had used some humility in our homes. And the purpose for his life was elevate. And the Lord says to him, He says, Fear not, from henceforth thou shalt catch men. He says, Peter, you've invested your life in stuff. And getting more fish and having a bigger boat and having nice nets. You've enlisted your whole life in something that when it's all said and done is meaningless. And I've got something far more significant for you to invest in. That is reaching people with the gospel of Jesus Christ, becoming fishers of men. Listen, we've got to work and we've got to make money and we've had to live in this world. But listen, if we invest ourselves in temporary things, what do we have when we stand before God? And God has something greater for your life and my life than just having stuff. It's investing in people's lives. Now, God may not call you to Kazakhstan, may not, the Lord may not call you to the ministry in a in a in a occupational type Role. But God has somebody He wants to use you to reach. It might be a little town, Ter Alda. And just give your life to catch as many people for Christ as you possibly can. And then when I stand before God and my house is rotted away and my car is a heap of rust, I have some souls that I was able to win to Christ. That'll glorify God for all eternity. Am I making any sense? Want you out into the deep. Don't be satisfied where you're at spirit. Trust God, obey Him, let Him lead you and direct you. And it gets more inconvenient, requires a little bit more faith. But I'm telling you, the farther we go, the greater the glory is. The more significant my life becomes And the more I see what God can do, I've got to quit. Father, I ask you to help us, Lord, and challenge us to trust you and obey you in the simple little things, and Lord, then in the great things. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, maybe there's someone here this morning say, Preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved. And there are some things in my life as a Christian I know God wants me to do, and I've been hedging And he's been wanting me to thrust out from the shore a little bit, and I've just been hedging on that. And Preacher, I want to be the Christian God saved me to be. And so there's some areas that I know I need to start trusting Him and obeying Him. Now, I don't know what it is. We could sit down and talk about it, but it's between you and God. You'd say, preacher, right now on my heart and mind, I know there are some things that God is instructing me to do That I'm going to trust him and obey him. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, preacher, yes, I know there are some things there. God bless you, hands all around. We know what