Just one verse. And I really want to say I know I shouldn't say this. I know I shouldn't. I know better than this. But I really just want to try and be brief tonight. And I I really do. How many people believe me? I really look five. Great Verse eighteen By much slothfulness the building decayeth, and through idleness of the hands the house droppeth through. What what's the mental picture you get of this guy's house? It is falling apart. I mean it is a mess The roof's falling in, uh the the house is dropping through, the buildings decayed, and it's all because of what? Two things it says here. All because of two things. What Slothfulness and idleness. And we can put those two together, and we have the subject of laziness. So let's pray and ask the Lord to help us not be lazy. Father in heaven, I thank you for a good day-to-day, good testimonies, and Lord, I'm I I think I speak for our church as a whole that our hearts are full tonight. We look forward to a very, very special week and seeing family we haven't seen for a while, many of us And some of us maybe just be ourselves or maybe a couple folks. But nevertheless, Lord, we believe your presence will be very, will be there for believers especially. I pray that tonight, this one subject here, it's kind of an unpleasant thing, but we want to be right, and so I ask you to help us. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. And with all my heart, Lord, I ask you to fill me with your spirit. And I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Solomon messed up, right? Started out really good, the wisest man in uh uh in human history apart from Lord Jesus, yet he became so foolish. But in spite of the foolish actions he took towards the end of his life, the second half of his life, and the foolish thinking that took over his mind that he could somehow live his life without God That he didn't need the Lord, he didn't need the Bible, that he could find fulfillment, and all the frustration that came with that, and the vexation of spirit, and the emptiness. However, In spite of all that, one thing he, this is my conclusion in reading and studying Ecclesiastes and Proverbs, one thing Solomon did not like. One thing that was intolerant, he was intolerant of, and that was negligence. You read through Proverbs, uh, laziness, idleness You read Proverbs very carefully and read what some of these statements he makes here in Ecclesiastes. And he considered, Solomon considered laziness to be a very serious flaw In the character of a man. Laziness. Laziness. He uses two words in our passage here. He says, by much slothfulness The building decayeth. The word slothfulness there, the literal definition of it, if you look it up, it means to be sluggish. How many people know what sluggish means? If you're sluggish Uh d do you ever have a day where you just feel sluggish? You know, it just feels like uh you feel like a slug and you just can't can't hardly get going. You know, uh I just can't get anything going. Anybody know what I'm talking about at all? Yeah. That's the idea behind this word slothfulness. Just sluggish. The difference is when he uses the term slothfulness here, we may have periods or days when we just feel sluggish and man just hard to get motivated and hard to get What he's talking about here is when that becomes a characteristic of our life. When that becomes the standard operating procedure. is sluggishness. Another definition I looked up and it just was this, to be lazy. Uh a habit? I I thought this was an interesting definition. to be a s uh slothfulness is to have a habit of inactivity. A habit Of inactivity. So he uses the term slothfulness, by much slothfulness, the building decayeth, through idleness of the hands. And the word idleness there, I thought, I kind of had this suspicion when I started studying this. I thought, I'll bet you, now I'm not a betting man, but I said to myself, I'll bet you. That idleness and slothfulness come from the same word. That's what I thought. And they don't. They're two different words, but they're used but they are uh very, very similar in meaning. In fact, if I if I remember correctly, this term idleness is the only time it's used here in the scriptures. Idleness, through idleness. It means to be inactive. How many people say that makes sense? Idle, inactive. Uh it means uh listen to this definition, to have an aversion to labor. Anybody ever know anybody like any of you employers ever hire someone like that? They had an aversion to labor. There was a uh there was a young person. This was a little while ago, and they this was back last summer, somewhere I was giving them a ride, and uh they said, um, man, I can't ever keep a job. I said, and we got talking about it. I said, well what do you mean? He says, all this place he goes, everywhere I go they won't make me work. He was being serious. I said, I think that's the object of having a job. An adversion to labor. How about this definition? A reluctance to be active. Then for that idleness, here's this is one that I thought was interesting. There was kind of like a by a side definition. And different ways it's used. And it was this, get this. To be occupied, listen carefully. To be occupied with trivial or meaningless activity. To be occupied with trivial or meaningless activity. What comes to your mind? Video games, television, uh, computers, what else on stuff on cell phones to be occupied, to be occupied with trivial or meaningless activity So Solomon is saying here, he's saying, Here's a guy, he's slothful, he has idleness of hands, and his house is falling down, the place is in neglect. He's not taking care of it. He's not keeping things up. And it's because of this inactivity, this reluctance to labor, this laziness. Is costing this fellow terribly. Now I have a few thoughts I put together here, ladies and anybody want to take a guess what book we're going to end up in mostly? Proverbs again. My first thought is this: the causes of laziness. What causes laziness? I put this down. Often a sluggard is not some abnormal person. A lot of times a lazy person is just an ordinary person, but they indulge the pleasure of inactivity too much, and it takes over. They indulge the pleasure of inactivity too much, and it takes over. How many people agree with me? It's a pleasure at the end of the day to sit down in a nice soft recliner and just rest a bit. How many people agree with me? That's a pleasure. How many people agree with me? On occasion, maybe Christmas, well, probably not Christmas morning, but on occasion, just sleep in a little bit. Anybody agree with me? That's nice. Just someday I don't have a lot to do. I'm just going to sleep in this morning. Anybody ever do that? Anybody here? Uh two people. I don't believe that for a while. Next week I'm preaching on lying Just sleep in a little bit. And there's nothing wrong with that on a vacation or you got a day off or, you know, I don't know, a rainy, cold, rainy, snowy, wet day. That's kind of a good day Just indulge the pleasure of inactivity. But the danger is when we allow that to take over. When that becomes characteristic of our life. When that becomes, when we become a servant to laziness. And we and that be takes over, as I said. Laziness is a curse. Laziness is a curse. And it leaves us empty, and it leaves us frustrated. I've said this a number of times over the years, and I've Many of you I no doubt will agree with me on this. But if I have a day that I have a day off or whatever and I really don't do any anybody here ever have a day off and you just don't feel like doing nothing. Anybody know what I'm talking about And maybe I'll just kind of sit around, piddle around, and useless activity, meaningless trivial activity. I just not do much. By the end of the day, I am as grouchy as a bear. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Other time I'll have the day off, and man, I've got a lot of work to do out here, and I'll work on this. And by the end of the day, I am dog tired, I am worn out, I've been working all day, and um I'm fulfilled and happy and content. You know what I'm talking about? Laziness is a curse. When laziness takes over, you know what I'm going to find myself doing? When I laziness takes over, you know what I'm going to find myself doing bickering Grouching. My wife sometimes says, you need to find something to do. Laziness is a curse, but work is a blessing. Work is a blessing. You say, come on, preacher, work is a blessing. What kind of crackpot are you? I'm telling you, God designed us to work. We were created to work. These bodies are designed to work, to labor. And when we're not using them, when that's not taking place, when that's not happening, whether it's mental act uh labor or physical labor When we do that, when we fulfill the purpose for what we've created, and we're operating the way we were designed to operate, brings great blessing, brings great fulfillment. I like to accomplish stuff. I like at the end of the day look back and be able to check off stuff I did. Anybody like that here? That's why I like fingerprints. I like the end of the day, we got this many done. I feel like I accomplished something There's fulfillment in work. There's frustration in laziness. So the causes of laziness, I think, are just overindulgence of the pleasures of inactivity. Just letting that take over, letting that that uh uh that take uh take over my life. Number two, I put this down, the characteristics of laziness. The characteristics of laziness. Now we're going to get to Proverbs. This is about when we're going to jump into Proverbs. But let me, before I give the characteristics, let me say there's three types of laziness, I think. The first type is physical laziness. And that is simply the neglect of work, the neglect of my duty. And that's what we comes to mind when we think of laziness. But I think there is also mental laziness. Trying to take shortcuts, not developing our mind. I bounced this off my wife and she agreed with me, so it has to be right. Some people are dumb Right. Some people are dumb because they're lazy They don't take the time or put the effort in to figure stuff out. Right? I think Google has produced mental laziness. Now it can be very helpful, don't misunderstand. I think it's a great tool. It can be very, very helpful. It helped me a couple things, little projects around the house. I Googled up how do you do this and found out But if we're not careful, we can get mentally lazy and become dumb. And there's a third type of laziness: physical laziness, mental laziness. Anyone want to guess my third one? Spiritual laziness. And that is where I neglect my duties as a Christian to develop myself spiritually. Listen, successful Christian life does not just happen. An undisciplined, now get this, an undisciplined, lazy Christian will be a carnal Christian. Too lazy to discipline myself to read the Word of God. Too lazy to discipline myself to do the things that I as a Christian ought to do. Spiritual laziness will kill the church. I think that's a little bit what the Lord referenced when he said to the church at uh was it Laodicea, I would that thou were hot or cold. That because thou art what? Lukewarm. Just lazy, just going along. Not this or that, just apathetic. And laziness will kill a Christian. Laziness will kill us spiritually. So, what are some characteristics of laziness? Come over to Proverbs, and uh we'll start out at Proverbs chapter 10. And I hope you'll follow along with me because we're just going to jump around a bunch of statements. This is all, again, from the pen of uh Solomon, of course, under the inspiration of God. Proverbs chapter 10 and verse 26, we find, first of all, laziness, one of the characteristics of laziness is it is irritating to people around. A lazy person will irritate the people that they are around. Look at chapter 10 and verse number 26. As vinegar to the teeth. Do you ever get that? It's kind of like reminding me, do you ever brush your teeth and then drink orange juice? Ugh, just grit your teeth. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Ugh. That just irritates me So I just don't brush my teeth. As vinegar to the teeth and smoke to the eyes How many people irritate you? You have a campfire, you sit there, and that smoke keeps blowing in your eyes. And then you move to the other side, and lo and behold, that smoke follows you around. How many people that irritate you? Now look, as vinegar to the teeth and as smoke to the eyes, so, look at this, so is the sluggard to them that send him Sluggers, lazy people are irritating. They get on people's nerves A lazy person makes it difficult for other people. If you've got a lazy guy on the job, that means the other guys have to do what? They have to work harder to make up for that lazy guy When I worked at the meat packing plant, we would, we, uh the last couple years I was there, we worked on what was called the boning floor. And we debone the meat. We cut it off the bones and into the different cuts. And that would come along, be hanging on a hook. They'd be in quarters, the two front quarters, shoulder quarters, the hind quarters, and we'd break them things down. And inevitably that sooner or later they'd hire somebody and that guy'd be a lazy bum. And that thing would back up. Man, it would be and the people on this side of them, they'd be waiting, come on, man. And they go on and on and on. Everybody's mad and everybody's irritated. And you just got on everybody's nerves. Lazy people get on people's nerves. They make it difficult for others. They make it unpleasant for other people. Look at chapter 18 and verse number 9. It's amazing how much Proverbs talks about laziness. Proverbs 18 and verse number 9. He also that is slothful in his work is a brother to him that is a what? Great waster. Lazy people cost their business time. They cost their business money. So my first characteristic I see in a book of Proverbs of a lazy person is they're irritating. Number two, I told you this was a great Christmas message. Isn't this a blessing? Look at number two, I put this down. Lazy uh one other characteristic of laziness is they're a slow starter. Slow starter. Look, we're at 18. Come over to 19 and look at verse number 15, chapter 19, verse 15. Slothfulness casteth into a deep sleep, and an idle soul shall suffer hunger. Come over to chapter 26 and verse number 14. Chapter twenty six, verse fourteen As a door turneth upon his hinges. Alright, now picture this in your mind. Here you have a door. Just turns over there, then it turns here. So the slothful upon his what? You know what I think this is this is an ancient way of this is an ancient reference to modern day snooze buttons And ha anybody here have a snoozer that has a little time it keeps going off five minutes later and then five minutes later. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And you hit that thing forty seven times. A slothful person has a hard time getting up, jumping out, and heading out and getting out and getting the job done. Now I'm Maybe I'm confessing a little bit. When I was in Bible college, I would I worked now I'm gonna excuse myself here, alright, so bear with me. I was in school full-time. I had 14 to 16 hours of school a semester, so that's full-time student I worked a full-time job, three o'clock to eleven o'clock in the hospital. Did I ever tell you I worked in the surgery department of the hospital? And then I worked in the ministry, bus ministry all weekend. So I I'm telling you, I I'm justified in my sin of laziness. But I would have to have about four alarm clocks in my alarm in my dormitory, in my apartment. And I because I would sleep through them. I'd turn them off and sleep through them. Anybody know what I'm talking about? So I'd have to put 'em. I'd turn it off and I'd have to put one on that side of the room, one out in the hallway, and one in the bathroom, so I would get up and go and turn them off and actually be out of bed That's terrible. Why did I tell you that? It was terrible. But I think that's the idea here. A lazy person, they have a hard time getting started. They drag out of bed at noon Sleep up all night with trivial, meaningless activity, and then they sleep half the day. What did Benjamin Franklin say? Early duh and early to rise makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise I think Proverbs, I think Solomon referenced that. One fellow said a lot of folks attend the church on Sunday mornings. They can't get out of bed. They attend church at the church of Saint Mattress. So one of the characteristics of a lazy person is they're a slow starter. They're irritating. Let me put this one down. They're full of excuses. Come over to chapter 22 and verse 13. They're full of excuses. Proverbs 22 and verse 13. The slothful man saith, There's a lion without. I shall be slain in the streets. A lazy person can come up with 10,000 reasons why they can't do their job. They'll come up with 10,000 reasons why they can't carry out their responsibilities. There's always an excuse. There's always some lion somewhere that keeps them from doing what they're supposed to do. Look at verse 13. Uh the second part, he says, I shall be slain in the streets. They always assume the worst. Oh, if I do that, oh, it's going to be terrible. They're full of excuses. Number four, I put this one down. A lazy characteristic of laziness, they're a good talker. Chapter 14. Come over to chapter 14. They're a good talker. Boy, they can convince you that they're the greatest things since sliced bread. Chapter 14, verse 23 In all labor there is profit. And God's people said, Amen. It's good to work. All labor there's profit. But the talk of the lips Handeth only to penury. That word penury means poverty, lack. Boy, this guy can talk. He didn't work Not labor, but he talks. Uh he talks a good talk, but he never actually does anything. He never accomplishes anything. He never produces anything. Well, you interview him in a job interview, and man, do you convince this guy is the hardest worker that has ever lived, and boy, he can talk up a sword? And then you hire them and they don't do nothing. It's a good talker. He's a good talker. When I was in college I drove a delivery van uh for a period of time all over North Georgia and Chattanooga and down in towards Atlanta and that whole area there. And one place we get into is a lot of carpet mills One of the places we got into to pick up, there was two guys there. Those were the two laziest men I think I've ever met in my life How they kept their jobs, uh I cannot figure out. Those guys would literally spend an hour and a half, two hours trying to come up with some way to avoid five minutes of work. They had all kinds of schemes and ideas and thoughts how they can get out of stuff. And they could talk and talk and talk, but never really produce anything. Number five, characteristic lasers, seldom follow through. Seldom follow through. How many hunters do we have here tonight? Hunters enjoy hunting or fishing. I do. Look at chapter 12 and verse 27. The slothful man, Proverbs 12, 27, the slothful man roasteth not that which he took in hunting, but the substance of a diligent man is precious. He never follows through. He's got a good start. He got out there and he hunted and he was successful. He he bagged the deer. He got the hunt. He was successful And then he leaves the thing hanging. He doesn't skin it out, he doesn't clean it up, he just lets it go, and next thing you know, the meat's rotten, and the whole thing's gone completely to waste. That's a characteristic of laziness. Laziness. A good start. You know, the the fun part, the exciting part is when you're pulling that trigger and boom, that thing drops, or maybe you follow the blood trail, and oh, there it is. But how often do we say this? Now the work begins. And that's where the lazy man breaks down. And uh what's true in hunting is also true in ministry, is also true in life. Brother James will appreciate this, I think. Man, a guy will work hard, work hard, work hard to get that pretty gal to marry him. Man, he's he's he's successful in the hunt. Well boy, once he's bagged her. And he lets it go to waste. You know what I'm talking about? Somebody, anybody you know what I'm talking about You know, he's so careful and does all that. I want to make that. And man, he wins her over and he gets her to say I do. And then he forgets all about it and all that just lets it go. Am I right, James? Laziness, that's laziness, that's emotional laziness in the marriage. There's laziness in ministry I tell you what the exciting part is. Can I tell you what the most exciting part about ministry for me is? Stand up here preaching the Word of God. Man, I love that. I love it. I go way too long doing it because I like it too much. I tell you when the work begins, it's Monday morning, you get up, then you gotta start working on that next message. You gotta go out and make that visit. You've got to follow up with this, or I'll try and help that person with that. That's where a lot of guys, I I can name you some preachers I know. Boy, they love to get up here and run their mouth. They love to get up here and tell you how it is. But during the week you can't find them. FBI can't find them. Because that's where the work is. That's where the job is. In the ministry, teaching the Sunday school class. Winning souls. You know what the exciting part about winning souls is? And I'm praying, would you pray with me this year that God will raise up more soul winners in our church? Just more folks come on out and help us win souls. And I'll tell you the exciting part is you knock on that door and boy the person's receptive, you get something like this. They say Reacher Letherman, we were just talking about how to be saved, and we were hoping somebody come by and tell us how to get saved. Well, glory! You go and show them from the Bible how to get saved. You walk out on cloud nine. Man, they trust in Christ. But you know what? That's when the work begins. Now you got to go follow them up and work with them and build a relationship with them and try and help them grow. So a lazy that and laziness is to neglect that. We have to be very, very careful. Seldom follow through with their successes. Let me quickly I only got twelve twelve more. Number six, always gets bad breaks One of the characteristics of a lazy person, they always get that bad break. Look at chapter 15 and verse number 19. Is everybody with me still? Are you bearing with me? Verse 19. The way of a slothful man is as a hedge of thorns. What does that mean? Here he is, he's gone down, it's a hedge. Everywhere he goes, he runs into a hedge of thorns. It's just always some reason something come up, a hard time. I always get a bad break. Man, I tried this and I just ran into a hedge of thorns. And I did that and it was a hedge of thorns. And I was going to do this and it was a hedge of thorns. It's a victim mentality. Look at the rest of that verse, verse 19, chapter 15. Look what he says. He says, um The way of the slothful man is a hedge of thorns, but the way of the righteous is made plain. Man, here's a guy that works. He's righteous, he's responsible, he's fulfilling his duties. Man, there ain't no thorns. I work right through it. Yeah, there's thorns there, but we can we can make this play. We can get through this. It's an opportunity. For the lazy man, it's an obstacle. I can't do that. Oh whoa, isn't me everything I try to do, it never works. They only see the thorns. They don't see the opportunities. Can I Under that, I put this down. A lazy person assumes things all the time. They always assume something. Rather than taking the time and effort to check and make sure That things are the way they should be, that things are happening the way they should be. They just assume it's that way, and then when they get there, it's a hedge of thorns You got the money in the bank? Oh, I'm sure it's fine. We got plenty in the bank for that. Well, maybe we ought to check. Lo and behold, a hedge of thorns. Did you lock the door on the car? Yeah, I probably, I'm sure that's fine. And you come out and your stereo's gone, everything's stolen out of the car. Laziness just assumes stuff is going to be okay rather than taking the time of effort. I tell you what I thought about this morning when uh preached in Luke chapter 6, the guy that built his building, he didn't build the build on a rock And he built it on sand and the storms came. What happened to the house? Fell flat What was he doing? He was assuming it's fine. Oh, you can just build you don't need a foundation rock. Who needs that's digging? That's so much work. We'll just it'll be fine. The storm comes and So laziness seems to always get the bad breaks. I like what uh uh setbacks and thorns are a part of life. However, hard work, I I put this down, hard work and good luck go hand in hand. Say good luck. Thomas Jefferson put it this way. I'm a great believer in good luck. The harder I work, the more I have of it. What he was saying was, bad luck is often just the fruit of laziness. Not taking the time and effort. Let me put this last one down. Number seven, uh laziness uh characteristics tend to always uh lack, be in need, and cause shame. Come over to chapter ten. And verse number four. Proverbs ten, verse four. He becometh poor that dealeth with a slack hand. Now, not everybody is poor because they're lazy. Jesus said the poor you'll always have with us. Some people, for whatever reason, it's God's plan and purpose for them to be poor. And God uses them in that capacity And so I'm not trying to disparage poverty across the board. Sometimes it just is what it is for God's wisdom and plan. But I tell you, some people are poor because they're lazy. They could be better off, they could pay the bills, they could have those needs met, but they're just too lazy to do what needs to be done to have the things they need to have. Amen or not. Do you see what he said there? He becometh poor that dealeth with a slack hand. But the hand of the diligent maketh rich. He that gathereth in summer is a wise son, but he that sleepeth in harvest is a son that does what? Causes shame. Nobody is proud. Nobody is proud of their lazy child. Am I right or wrong? Oh, I slept till noon. I didn't do a thing. I don't have a job. I don't pay my bills. If my bed's made, somebody else makes it. If my clothes are clean, it's because somebody else cleaned them. My room is clean, it's because somebody else cleaned it. If my car has gas in it, it's because somebody else put it in it. Well, I'm proud of you, son. Really proud of that. No, a lazy son causes what? Shame. Shame. My last point, and I'm going to end with my last point, is this, number three. The carnality of laziness. Laziness is carnality. And we don't have time. I wish we did. But in Genesis chapter 2 verses 1 through 3. The Bible says that God worked six days And on the seventh day he what? Rested. You know what a lazy person does? They rest seven days. And maybe work one. In Exodus chapter 20, when God is instituting the observance of the Sabbath, he says one of the reasons he gives the Sabbath is because God worked. For six God worked for six days and rested on the Sabbath Can I suggest to you that laziness is ungodliness? Our God is not lazy. Jesus Christ was not lazy. The Holy Spirit of God is not lazy. And if I am lazy, I am unlike God, I am unlike Jesus Christ, and I am unlike the Holy Spirit Laziness is ungodliness. Can I put it this way? Laziness is sin. It's sin. Now let me ask you a question. What do you do with sin? The Bible tells us there's two things we should do with sin. Number one is what? Confess it. God, I am lazy. That is sin. God, I acknowledge it. I agree with you. I am lazy. And what's the second thing we do with sin? We confess it and forsake it. And Lord, I'm going to stop it. Now it may have started out innocent enough, just man, I just sleep in a little bit, and the next day, and then the next day, and the next day. Oh, I'm just going to sit and relax. And soon I find myself sitting and relaxing more and more and more and more and more. Or worse yet, maybe from a child never learned to work. I'm telling you, am I right or wrong? Is there a generation coming up that is absolutely lazy? And they've never been taught, never understood what God designed us to do, to work, to work. Now I'll be honest with you, I'm challenged by this. I'm preparing this. God's convicting me. And maybe others here say, you know, I need to pay attention to this. I need to be careful about this. And so as we go into a Christ Christmas week, maybe we'd want to just come and say, Lord, I want to deal with this. I want to face this. Characteristic in my life. I don't want to be defeated. I want to be a good, strong Christian. Some of us are struggling spiritually because we're lazy. Maybe some are struggling maybe financially because we're not lazy. I don't know. I'm not trying to make judgment on any situation. I'm just saying what the Bible says. But we must face it, we must deal with it. Amen? There's a guy in um West Virginia guy Him and his wife were sitting around. He was whidling. She was knitting. She says, Jeb, I think it's raining out. Yeah. He says, you ought to go out and check. Eh? Just call the dog in, see if he's wet. I thought that was funnier than that. That's laziness. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us. Lord, I joke around a little, but I pray, Lord, you'd help us take this very seriously. And that we would be diligent, active. And Lord, we would fulfill the responsibilities you've given us to do. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if there's some say, preacher, God's Holy Spirit spoken to my heart God's Holy Spirit has challenged me. And uh I I want to be a good Christian. I w I want I want to be right in this area. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, God's Holy Spirit has spoken to me. You know I found sometimes the hardest workers are most tender hearted about something like this. They're the most concerned about it. And maybe just Lord help me to be diligent. To be diligent. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.