Matter of fact, let's let's just go ahead and read a c uh a few verses ahead in order to uh uh get the line of thought. Uh let's start at verse seven. It says, Wherefore, as the the Holy Ghost saith, Today, if you will hear his voice, harden not your heart, as in the provocation of the day of temptation in the wilderness, when your fathers tempted me and proved me and saw my works forty years. Wherefore I was grieved with that generation and said they do uh always err in their heart, and they have not known my ways. So I swear in my wrath, they shall not enter into my rest. Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief in departing from the living God. But exhort one another daily, while it's called today, lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin For we are made partakers of Christ if we hold the beginning of our confidence steadfast in the end. While it is said today, if you will hear his voice, harden it not your heart as in the provocation. For some, when they had heard, did provoke, howbeit not all that came out of Egypt by Moses. But with whom was he grieved forty years? Was it not with them that had sinned, whose carcasses fell in the wilderness? And to whom swear he that they should not enter into the to his rest, but to them that believed not So we see that they could not enter in because of unbelief. Let's pray. Father, once again, Lord, we we're here behind this pulpit. It's a place where the Word of God has been proclaimed faithfully since uh the late sixties. And so Lord, we're we're we're privileged to stand here in this place and have this multitude of people to uh to preach to. And we ask you, Lord, to to fill me and use me. Get uh honor to yourself. Speak to hearts we pray. And I trust Lord that there will not be a hard heart here today that will not hear your voice. But we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. And amen. Former President uh Ronald Reagan. Told this story on himself. It says when he was uh eight or nine years old, his dad took him to a shoe store to have a pair of shoes made. Back when he was a kid, that's the way they did it. They didn't have a a store that you went to and just bought a pair, uh necessarily. So uh the cobbl uh cobbler, the you know, the shoe cobbler asked him, he says, uh square toes. or round toes. Well, he had to think about it. A couple of times over the next few weeks why uh the cobbler would see him and ask him the same question, square or round? And still, Ronald Reagan, a young boy, he couldn't make up his mind. Shortly thereafter, the cobbler saw him and he told him he could uh he could pick up his shoes. Well They went to the store or went to the cobbler to to pick the shoes up and there they were. There's one shoe was round round toes and one shoe was was square So Ronald Reagan said that the the lesson that you have to pick up from this is that if you won't make the decision, then somebody else will. Now it may sound far-fetched from what we're going to preach on today, but the the truth of the matter is, that's exactly the way it is. We're faced with uh with decisions every day. It's just something that uh it's just a natural part of life. And the thing is that uh the decisions we make today we reap tomorrow We we are, you know, the sum total of all the decisions that we make in life is what we'll end up with. That's a legacy that we have. We've heard a lot about legacies here recently, haven't we? And we're not going to dredge up any of those legacy stories, but but the truth of the matter is we all have a legacy to leave And I don't know about you, but I want to leave a legacy for my family. A legacy that that uh speaks well of of not just me, and certainly we want uh our families and our loved ones and our friends and those who know us to think well of us and th and speak well of us But the most important thing is I want a legacy that God will speak to and speak well of And I believe that every born-again Christian feels the same way. They want to leave something behind in this world that doesn't just point to their life. and the things that they've done and that they've accomplished. And uh that's what many people think a legacy is, is well, what what can I leave? And And I I know one fellow that uh that he f feels like his legacy's about ready to go down the tube. But uh that's a another story, isn't it, that I don't want to get into But the point of them I'm getting at is this, that we have a legacy. And the question is, what kind of a legacy? And it's going to depend upon decisions that we make. There's three things that I just want to hit briefly today. And before I do that, let me let me say this. This week this week of meetings. Uh I I hesitate to call the meetings that I have revival meetings. I really do. Because I don't know whether it's going to be a revival meeting or not. If my people who are called by my name, you know, if my people, and that's the big if, isn't it? If my people uh will humble themselves and pray. and seek my face and forsake the wicked ways of that's when God hears and answers our prayers. So the question that uh we need to deal with is is the question that is is uh is put forth here in the verse. It says, Today, if you will hear his voice, harden not your heart. It's Are you willing this week to hear the voice of God? Let me give you four things that you need to bring with you to the services this week. Many of you are are going to lazy out. You're going to find something else that's more important for you. And I I I I don't say that to to to beat you down and give you put a guilt trip on you or anything like that. Although I hope God does, you know, but but I'm not gonna do that But there's some things that those who come, you need to bring with you. And here's here's what you need. First of all, you need to bring an examined heart. This is not the message. This is just four things that that I've thought about that you need to bring with you to the meetings each night. An examined heart. Search me, O God, and and we want God. I want God to search your heart. Is he satisfied? Now I'm not asking if you're satisfied. The truth of the matter is that many Christians are just satisfied with where they are. And where they are is in a mediocre uh type of life that is not producing anything for God. So, first thing, bring an exam into heart. In other words, spend some time before you even get to the service and and let God examine your heart and and see if there be any wicked way there. See if there be something that that you need to change or move or or leave out of your life or bring into your life that's going to make you a better Christian. The second thing is that you need to bring an enthusiastic heart. Please don't walk in with a an old look in your face, you know. And just say, well I'm here. Don't like it, but I'm here and I'm gonna listen to him. I you know, and I just hope he doesn't go past eight o'clock every night. That's all I hope You know, bring an enthusiastic heart and and you know, be excited about uh and encouraged. Listen, God's word should be an encouragement to the heart of every believer Whether he's he's pricking your heart and pointing out your sins so that you can get right, or whether it's something that lifts you up uh to the portals of glory. Uh some sermons are like that, you know. I can remember uh I listened to an R. G. Lee uh when he was uh still alive years ago in an old camp meeting down in Mississippi And uh he preached a meeting that took everyone right to the very portals of glory. And everybody was shouting and running around the building and it got me got almost got me excited and running around the building. I mean it was so good But you need to bring some enthusiasm to the service. And then the third thing is you need to bring an expected heart. Expect God to do something. this week. You know, I I I think we've we've almost come to the place where we we just have a negative attitude about it all. It seems to be an an imposition on our time that we have to come to a revival meeting And it seems like that uh once we get there we say, well, nothing's probably gonna happen anyhow, you know, probably could've stayed home and watched a football game just as had as much fun. But come with an expected heart God, listen, God wants to move in our lives more than we want him to, I'm afraid. But have an expected heart when you walk in, uh expect God to be uh Uh wanting to do something and anticipate him doing something in your heart. And then then finally Bring an expressive heart. I don't know, maybe I'm really stretching the point a little bit. But what I mean is just bring a thankful heart And a and be willing to express it. An amen once in a while, uh might get a better preacher going, you know. Uh it probably would help some. Uh so an Amen or a uh a uh you know, a hallelujah. Just don't say it too loud or it'll scare my wife. And and another thing that I noticed that whenever you say Amen real loud Well it wakes people up and you don't want to disturb anybody. Okay. So those are four things I want you to to think about. And now I wanna I wanna just give you a quick message. I I want to get back and eat too. So um You know, this it's not gonna be long. But I'm looking forward uh to what the Lord's gonna do and and I really mean that. I uh I always come expecting God to do something. And He always does something. Sometimes it's to me and you you folks don't even know anything about it. But anyway, number one Uh let me read that verse again, the verse that I really wanna wanna set on for for a few moments. And it's found there in in uh verse 15. And it's also found up in in in uh the uh verse seven and and eight. Uh let me read verse seven and eight. It says, Wherefore as the Holy Ghost saith, notice that Today, if you will hear his voice, harden not your hearts as in the provocation in the day of the temptation of wilderness. Now we know what the situation was, uh why this uh this verse and what he's speaking about in this verse. We know that Israel had come to the place, uh they'd uh been delivered from Egypt, they'd crossed the the the Red Sea miraculously on the dry ground and drowned the you know Pharaoh's army and all that. And they came to a place where they were getting ready to move into the promised land And this is the place where God had already prepared it. I mean the heathen that were there, uh I mean they had they had uh done everything just right in the land and it was putting forth milk and honey and I I mean when the when the spies came back remember they had these huge clusters of grapes they had to carry them uh between you know between two men on a pole. That's how big that's that's how God had blessed that land. Getting it ready. Isn't that amazing? God had unsaved people preparing the land for the saved And so uh and I and and listen, there's a message in that too. Think about that. Uh God's got stuff prepared for us. The question is, do are we going to claim it? That's that's a big question So but and but they wouldn't claim it. They didn't want to go in because they they looked at the the people and they looked at the walled cities and and so they they just w so as a result, it made God mad. Well, why wouldn't it make him mad Here uh what if your wife had uh prepared a uh beautiful meal and and had every plate and the candles on the s on the table, you know, and the and here's big steaks over here, big baked potatoes and Boy, I tated. Well they got back on. Uh-uh. I digress. I digress. And uh A anyway, uh what if she fixed all that and everything and and uh you finally come up and said, Yeah, I don't I I I think I'll go down to McDonald's and get me some ha you know, a hamburger or something. How would you feel about that Well it I know how she'd feel, I don't know how you'd feel, but she'd feel pretty upset. God felt pretty upset. In other words, and he used the word provoked. I don't know about you, but I've had people provoke me and I wasn't too happy about it. And so that's what he's saying. He said, today, if you'll hear his voice Today. Why do we put things off till tomorrow? God is a God of today. You know that, whoops. There wasn't anything there. I just tripped over my foot. You know that that today, think about that You don't have tomorrow. Tomorrow's not yours. Today you have This moment of today you have this moment. You don't have tomorrow. Boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. We don't know about tomorrow, but we know about today, don't we? We can make a decision today when we might not be able to make a decision tomorrow. Today, if you'll hear his voice. Now that notice the word if there And it's the same word that's used there where it says if my people, you know, this big word there, this little two-letter word if, uh boy, boy, that that takes in a whole bunch, doesn't it? Because it gives you a whole realm of your will to exercise. You see, you have a free will. God didn't didn't make you robots. When he created Adam, he gave Adam and Eve a free will. They chose. They chose to take the fruit. They made that choice. You say, well the devil made them do it. Well I got news for you. They made their own choice on that thing. The temptation was there, the enticement was there, but uh They made the choice. And that's it that's what he's getting at here. And it but it needs to be made today. You're going to make a ch uh choice today. I mean when it comes right down to it, you're going to have to make a choice today. Before you walk out those doors, you will make a choice. You will make a decision today The uh so you first of all you have a decision to make if If my people, and if today, if you will hear his voice. You see, you can hear his voice or not. My wife my wife will say, Don, uh, you need to burn the garbage and uh you need to uh take out the trash and uh And I'll just sit there staring at the TV. She'll say, honey Well, it's more like Don, you know, but but I'm trying to I'm trying to be nice and she says, honey, honey. She knows I'm telling the truth Then I'll be sitting there. Just like some of you. Don't give me that you know smirk. And uh uh I'm in other words, uh you know, I make I have uh how can you say it Um anyway, I hear what I want to hear. And taking out the garbage is one of the things that I want to hear. Well, that's the same thing. You have an opportunity. Now you know, we're gonna give you some stuff from the Word of God here today. But you have the choice. I mean you're the one that's gonna make a choice whether whether you're going to uh hear it or not. Now some of you'll you know you'll you'll walk out those doors and you'll forget 90% of what I have to say. But understand this, you will make a decision. If you decide not to make a decision, you've already made a decision. So you're going to make a decision one way or the other So you have a decision to make, and uh it's important that uh that you make the right ones. Aren't you glad that Jesus made the right decisions? All the way down through the line. Aren't you glad when he was in the Garden of Gethsemane when he prayed this prayer? When he said, Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. But he went farther, didn't he? But uh if not, he said, Not my will, but thine be done. Isn't that something? He made a choice And uh he made a decision to do what the Father willed no matter what. You you need to uh today When the Holy Spirit speaks to your heart, you need to say, not my will, but thine. You see, the Holy Spirit speaks to people's hearts And if we'll hear his voice, then we have an opportunity to make the right choice. But it's important that we be willing to hear his voice. The Holy Spirit's voice is not screaming and yelling. That's one of the reasons I believe that the Lord has the type of music that is popular today. And I believe I believe it's satanic. I'm not going to argue those things, but but I s I think it's satanic. The reason is it's it's so loud that you can't think. And if you can't think, then you the Holy Spirit is drowned out around you. You can't hear the Holy Spirit when there's a bombastic type of music going on. Isn't it funny that you can listen sweet to sound? And when you hear that song where something speaks to your heart, that's the Holy Spirit Or you could uh you know, the the sa the old rugged cross when it sings about something speaks to your heart, that's the Holy Spirit. That's that quiet, that still small voice that's that's active whenever God's glorified. But whenever the flesh is glorified, it's it just overshadows what the Holy Spirit wants to say. A still small voice. And remember this. My spirit shall not always strive with man. And I know that's an Old Testament, but it's bore out in the New Testament also. And understand this. That you cannot, according to John chapter 6 and verse 44, it says this, no man can come to me except the Father which has sent me, draw him. Do you understand that? In other words, you don't make up your mind when you're going to get saved. You don't make up your mind when you come to Christ. No. It's when the Spirit of God speaks to your heart through the Word of God and you feel that conviction in your heart. The prick of the of the Holy Spirit. Remember when when Peter preached uh the great messages there in the in that uh uh early part of Acts? And people were pricked in their heart. That was the Holy Spirit speaking to them. That's when the Spirit of God is speaking to you. That That is the moment. That's why it says today, today, if you'll hear his voice. And when you hear his voice, That's when you need to jump on it and say, yes, I I hear the voice and I I respond to that voice. I make a decision for Jesus Christ. I take it seriously Today she will hear his voice, harden not your heart. In Matthew uh well in uh not only not only a decision to make but you also have a direction to take. Well a direction to take. Think about this. He that is not with me is against me, and he that gathereth not with me scattereth abroad. You know, we don't realize, we've many Christians take a neutral view of Christianity. They they they want to keep this one foot over here in the world, but they wanna they want enough in in in the Lord's work and and enough in Christianity so that they you know they feel feel sorta comfortable I guess that's what the Bible talks about in the book of Revelation, about this lukewarmness that's going to come over the Laodicean age church. And we're living in that time now. Have you found it yourself uh more difficult to stay in tune with God? Have you have you felt that same uh uh Uh how can I say it? That same urge uh to sort of slack off a little bit and uh maybe not read your Bible as much, or not spend as much time in prayer Or maybe it's a it's that that uh attitude, that lac th lackadaisical attitude about soul winning that one time before in earlier years you had a fervor for it. Do you remember that Can you remember those times? Tragically, uh some of decide they're not going to go with the old paths. They're going to go with the new paths that are out there. When I speak of the old paths, I'm talking about the the old spiritual songs and hymns. uh that lift the soul. The old paths that uh still echo the faithful preaching that brings conviction and tears I'm talking about the old paths that leads to a pure and a holy life. The old path that leads to an old rugged cross. An old rugged blood-stained cross of dedication. That's what I'm talking about. And it seems like that the direction that so many Christians want to go is that that uh that direction of uh that path that is just sort of mediocrity. They're satisfied with staying on the on the the uh uh I think it's the east side with the the Gadites and and uh those guys, remember that? Then uh let's see. Do you find yourself this morning? Ask yourself this question. Are you are you still ex About church. How about uh are you still excited about seeing people get saved and and does it bring a shout to your lips whenever someone walks the aisle? Uh you is the uh are you uh experiencing this no longer uh even trying to win people to Christ? Then you must be going down the wrong path. And that's what we're talking about. There is a path. And the Word of God is what lights up that path. Remember the verse of scripture that says it to the words of lamp into my feet, a light into my path A light unto my path, that's the word of God. And it's a lamp unto your feet. Uh in other words the word of God will tell you even where to step Not just light up the path ahead of you, but also point out the steps that you need to take in order to stay on that path. That's the Word of God And one of the first things that it seemed like the devil does is tries to f tries to put a uh an iceberg in your heart towards the Word of God, to where it becomes a drudgery to spend time in the Word Listen, I I even f uh at at times I have to fight it myself. So I know that everybody else is going through the same thing to some degree and another. Some have actually equipped it And my wife, she is faithful. She's into her daily Bible reading uh faithfully. Except when she forgets and then she maybe loses a day or two, but she catches up with it. What I'm saying is we need to stay into the book. I found one thing in my Christian life Probably the same in yours, is that that whenever the Word of God starts taking second place to other things that I have to do uh I start drifting a little bit. And I find that that the warmness towards soul winning and the warmness towards prayer and the warmness towards other spiritual things uh starts uh it starts getting colder and colder. We need a we have a a direction, we we have a decision to make, we have a a path to take, and that's that old path That leads down to righteousness. And not only do we have a a uh decision to make and a d uh direction to take, but we have a a a destiny. Now this A destiny to reap. A destiny. Well, what is a destiny anyway? Well it's it's it's It's it's it's events in our life that are inevitable, that eventually will come to pass. Destiny. And and our destiny is going to determine our legacy I s I I pause so that you'll think about it for a second. I don't know I don't know how you are, but I want I want to leave a legacy for my family I want my kids to respect me. I want the people that I know to respect me and to remember me in a good light But I want God. I want to be able to, with the with the Apostle Paul, you know, I've fought a good fight. I've kept the faith. What a legacy to leave behind. And every one of us are going to leave something behind that that our family is going to either hang on to or be ashamed of. And the question is, what is in your destiny? Understand this. God has a destiny for you. God has a destiny for you. He has a path that he has it already laid out. It's just like the the nation of Israel. When they stood there uh uh at Kadesh Barnea and they looked into the promised land Listen, that was their destiny. God had prepared it for them. God had had had had prepared that place so that when they went in and took over Yeah, you say, well yeah, but they look how many they had to fight battles and all that. Hey, listen, the Christian life is not an easy thing. I uh what Brother Harry said, we're in a warfare This is this is not a time to sit back and and take it easy because we we have a church and we have missions and we can give our money. And we can, you know, we have a good preacher and and we can just sort of sit back and take it easy. I want you to understand that's not the way the Christian life is It's supposed to be a warfare. We're supposed to be good soldiers of the cross. We're supposed to be one who has a desire to please that one who has called us. We want a destiny like the Apostle Paul. We want a legacy like the Apostle Paul. We want to be able to leave behind something that glorifies Jesus Christ. If I be lifted up, I'll draw all men to me. We want something left behind in our life one day that will draw men to Christ. And we get to heaven and we watch the the legacy, our legacy play out before us below on this whole earth before he comes back And we want to be able to to say, you know, boy, I'm I'm glad I'm glad my kids are serving God. I'm glad my grandkids are serving God I'm glad my great grandkids are serving God and my great great grandkids and I'm glad that I influenced my friends for the good. I'm glad that the people that I know and know me as a as a born-again believer that loves God and wants to serve God, I want to leave that kind of a legacy. And that's the kind of a legacy God wants us to have. He has a destiny for us out there And that destiny is a wonderful thing. Just like the promised land was for the nation of Israel. The only problem was they hardened their heart and would not go in. As a result, they all that made those decisions, that generation, died in the wilderness. Hey, listen. If you hear his voice, listen to it. Make the right decision. If the Spirit of God is speaking to you and pointing out the need for salvation, don't say, well, tomorrow? Today. Today is the day of salvation. Now is the appointed time. You need to come today and trust Christ. If you're a Christian here and you're one of those uh guys who've been you know got one foot over here in the world and the other foot in Christianity and you sort of sit back on your laurels and have just taken it easy and and you don't see the the urgency of trying to win people to Christ and you don't feel the necessity of of giving the missions and you don't you know y you're not involved, then today Today, if you'll hear his voice, harden not your heart. Don't provoke God by not taking advantage of the opportunities you have today. Let's bow our heads and close our eyes. I don't know what God's we can do about I know that every day I have to make a new decision. Oh, not to get saved. That was taken care of in 1962. But every day I have to make decisions that determine my destiny and my legacy. What I'm going to leave for my kids. And today you have that decision to make. Am I going to just be a mediocre Christian, a lukewarm, as it uh says there in the book of Revelation? Or am I going to be one that's sold out They will build a legacy to be remembered by those that care about me. Am I going to listen to the Holy Spirit? Confess my sin. Forsake my sin. Have victory over my sin. Am I going to trust Christ as my Savior and be born again? Make those decisions today. Today. Don't harden your heart. Heavenly Father, as we come to this m this uh next few moments, oh God, we we thank you for today. Lord, uh, you know uh As I learned back there in the mountains of uh Colorado, you know, back in September, I realized that that we don't have any promise of tomorrow. But we do have today. Thank you, Lord, for that, and I pray for these who who right now are making decisions, either for you or or to to just be mediocre or whatever their decision. Lord, I pray that they would allow the Holy Spirit to prick their heart. Let them hear If you will hear my voice, God, I pray they will allow you to come into their heart that they might hear the voice of God. Search out what needs to be done. Help them to come to Christ. Help them to get closer to you. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Let's all stand to our people with heads bowed and their eyes closed.