Everything? Miss Nan, did I get everything? She doesn't know. Okay. You have to invite off of the premises. Okay. You cannot stand in uh you can y if you want to stand in the middle of the road out there and wave them down, you can do it, but you cannot, you know, invite 'em as they walk in the door and say, Will you be my visitor? You can't do that. Did I get that, babe? Okay. I don't know what I'd do without her. She keeps me going straight. Say what? Yeah, I think you're right there. All right, we're in the in the book of Luke. If you'll turn with me to the book of Luke, chapter five. In Luke chapter five, uh let's uh we'll start reading verse twelve. And the word of God says And it came to pass, when he was in a certain city, behold a man full of leprosy, who seeing Jesus fell on his face and besought him, saying, Lord, If thou wilt, thou canst make me make me clean. And he put forth his hand and he touched him, saying, I will, be thou clean. And immediately the leprosy departed from him. And he charged him to tell no man, but go and show thyself to the priest, and offer for thy cleansing, according as Moses commanded, for a testimony unto them. But so much the more when there uh a fame abroad, so much the more went there a fame abroad of him. And great multitudes came together to hear and to be healed by him of their infirmities. Our Heavenly Father, we We bow off before you this morning to thank you first of all for just life itself, for your goodness to us and your grace that uh That takes care of such a multitude of problems in our lives and we don't even realize it. We thank you, Lord, for the this portion of Scripture and pray that you'd help us as we endeavor to uh to preach concerning these these verses. Bless our time around your word in a special way. Get honor to yourself. Lord, I pray for especially for that individual who may be here and maybe they don't have the physical leprosy that This uh portion of scripture describes, but nevertheless, they're dying of a leprosy that uh is of the of the soul called sin. And I pray that uh you might speak to that individual and help them to realize that there there is help, there is hope for that it for that person. So I ask your blessings on this portion of the scripture, portion of the service, and we'll praise you for what you accomplish in it in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. In uh chapter five, I'm gonna loosen the pause a little bit here. In chapter five, uh we have uh Uh the Lord has just performed one miracle and uh uh the miracle is just uh he used Peter's boat to go out and uh do some preaching. And when he's finished he told Peter, Sid won't you go over there and throw your nets out and and uh Bring in a great drought of fish, and that's exactly what Peter did. Went over. He obeyed him through the f the nets in. Lo and behold, a great drought of fish run into the net and And uh Peter realized what had taken place. He saw the miracle of the whole thing and realized who it was and he he in verse eight it says when Peter when Simon Peter saw it He fell down at Jesus' knees, saying, Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord. For he was astonished, and all that were with him, the drought of fish which they had taken So then we then we move immediately to this next portion of scripture at verse twelve. Where it says and and there was a uh it came to pass and went in a certain city, behold there was a man Full of leprosy. And we see that here in just those four verses there, we see him performing another miracle, healing this leper. Just uh a touch of the Master's hand was all it took for him to to for the leprosy to flee You receive simply that Jesus is is as much at home on the water as he is on the land. He's a wonderful God that we serve And when he sees this man with the leprosy, he makes this statement, and it's almost uh it's almost superfluous. It's Partly unnecessary to ask the question, but he'd ask him anyway. He says, uh If thou wilt, uh I'm sorry, i it came to pass, behold, a man full of leprosy, who seeing Jesus fell on his face and besought him, saying, Lord, If thou wilt, thou canst make me clean And he put forth his hand and touched him, and saying, I will, be thou clean. It escaped me what I was going to say. I'm sorry about that. First thing we see is a the miserable condition of this leper. As the terrible disease had uh had reached its final stages, and the Bible says he was full of the final stages of leprosy. He was now uh uh the final stages of leprosy is probably one of the the worst things. Seems like that there is the ability to do some healings and medicines that that lepers can take today. But in this day that leprosy was like a uh like a death sentence to those who had it. the Roman Catholic Church way back in uh in those days, uh uh or uh in earlier days than than today, they would uh uh uh give the last rights to people who had leprosy because they were considered dead anyway. And there was other other groups that uh uh that also Also uh you may have to finish this lesson here, Pastor. I don't know The uh anyway, his his his uh uh like sin, this loathsome malady uh may work slowly, but it's uh it uh a c is uh but its course is irresistible and deadly. It poisons the blood and it uh and so the whole physical being becomes polluted Sin affects the heart out of which uh are the issues of life in the early stages, and I guess this is what I was talking about before, in the early stages of the Church of Rome uh they regard lepers as as dead and uh had the f the the last right set over them There was a law at one time in France that such shall be disinherited. As though they were dead. So this was a a a disease that was uh miserable. Uh people that had it usually the bones have rotted out of the of their of their body and and their their flesh just became a kind of a mass and without any uh I guess with a lot of pain and so forth. And then ears would drop off and those you know, it was a terrible, terrible disease. The amazing thing to me is that that when Jesus saw him, he had compassion on him and and uh there was a uh the f the first thing that he did when he the guy asked him Uh he reached out his hand to touch him. Now back in the Old Testament why uh lepers were uh told to say unclean, unclean when people even came close to him. And for him to just reach out and touch him, uh gave an indication that here was a here was somebody that was uh had a power that was beyond the natural thing. The uh Seeing Jesus was will will never fail to awaken hope in the darkened, sin-cursed heart He had doubtless heard of Christ's mighty works without ever uttering a prayer. But now those dull and despairing eyes suddenly brighten with a new light as they gaze upon the living person of the merciful wonder worker. And he believed the report. The Bible says that faith has a way of turning into sight. What a contrast is here between the man full of compassion and the man full of leprosy, between a seeking savior and a seeking sinner. So it is when the when the heart of great need meets him who is the only one that can fill that need. I look at the humble position. The Bible says in uh in verse 12, he says he fell on his face, seeing the face of God always Always makes us uh hide our own. It is the outward expression of a deep inward conviction. I think over in the book of Isaiah, where uh Isaiah met the Lord. And in those verses, he says, and then said I, Woe is me, for I am undone, because I am a man of unseen lips. And I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for mine eyes have seen the king of uh the king, the Lord of hosts Over there in the in the book of Luke, the Apostle Peter, or Peter at that time, Simon, uh, when he saw the the miracle work. He fell down on his face and said, Depart from me, for I'm a sinful man, O Lord. I like what it says back in the book of Job. In the book of Job it talks about uh uh I believe uh see where is the verses on that one? Uh Job forty-two, verses five and six. He says, I have heard of thee by the hearing of the ear, but now mine eyes see it thee. Wherefore I pour myself And repent in dust and ashes. The result of meeting Jesus face to face was an immediate feeling of humility. and uh and worthlessness. I don't know whether you have uh that spiritual disease that we uh equate to leprosy and this and sin for us today. But if you have that uh if you have that that problem Bible says we're that we're dead in trespasses and sin. That individual who's never been born again by the Spirit of God has that uh has that malady. Is uh uh According to the scripture, is already condemned. He that believeth in him is not condemned, but he that believeth not is condemned already because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God So there uh there's a problem if you've never trusted Christ as your Savior. You only have one destination There's only two places to go uh after death. It's a place called uh heaven. Place that one day I'd I'd like to be there and according to the scriptures and according to uh what I did back in nineteen sixty two, uh he already has a birth for me. He has a place for me to uh stretch out when I get there. Place of rest and quiet. Uh I don't think there's any deer up there though, to nothing like that, but that's that's alright. But uh the important thing is that uh that God that God has made a way for us to come back, for man to come back. Ever since uh Adam had sinned in the garden, man has been under the curse of sin. But uh just like this man here in in Luke chapter five. uh there's hope that's out there. So if you're here tonight and you d have a you have a sin problem Uh God knows what the answer is for it. And we'll find out as we go through these verses, hopefully. There's an earnest petition here. Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean. The prayer of this poor outcast was more to the point than that of Peter, the disciple, back in verse 8 This prayer reveals, number one, a knowledge of the character of Christ. Out of this knowledge, there springs up an intelligent faith in his power. If thou wilt, thou canst, thou canst. Is anything too hard for the Lord Genesis chapter 18 and verse 4, it talks about to doubt his divinity and almightiness. is to knock at an un at a locked door. He that cometh to God, Book of Hebrews He that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. The petition brings out also the one burnt, burning desire of the leper to be made clean. I I don't know um I don't know about you. Whenever sickness is racking your body and pain is uh is uh uh a constant visitor to your door. And when problems are are over your head, uh it's good to know That there's a God that can answer prayer. Good to know that there's someone out there that you can have faith in, that hope is still on the throne. The one burning desire of the leper is to be made clean. He frankly confesses his need and pleads for personal cleansing. It was the work of the high priest of old. To make atonement for those who had had leprosy. The people might be clean from all their sin before the Lord. If we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Instant and perfect salvation. Notice he put forth his hand and he touched him Saying, I will, be thou clean. And immediately the leprosy departed from him Every miracle is linked onto the I will of Jesus Christ Before the critics can eliminate the miraculous from the Bible, they must turn out the eye wills of the Son of God. These few words of our Lord are weighed with precious meaning. First of all, is the atoning touch. He touched him The holiness of God comes into contact with man in all his defilements, but the holy one Like the light which shineth in darkness, is not in any way defiled by the touch. He who bore our sins was no sinner. Never, as never man spake like this man, so never man touched like this man. All the resources of the Godhead are in the touch of Christ. See his assuring word when he says, I will. Be thou clean. With his healing touch comes his word of assurance. We are saved by his blood and assured by his word. His touch of love is accompanied with his word of power. He speaks, and it's done. Then there is the complete deliverance. Immediately, the leprosy departed from him Where the leprosy went is not troubling him anymore. Where your sin goes when God forgives it, is uh of no worry to you have been who have been born again. Where God's back is. You know, He's hides the sin behind your back And in the deepest part of the ocean, it need not concern us, since they have departed from us through the almighty grace of God. Then there's a special commission. He says, Go and show thyself to the priest and offer. This is simply showing himself to the priest and offering according as Moses commanded. He was bearing testimony unto them that Jesus Christ Came not to set aside the law, but to fulfill it. The work of Christ can stand the minutest inspection Not only of the law and of the prophets, but also of the world and the devil. Go show thyself. If so be that thyself hath experienced his perfect cleansing from the power of sin, every saved soul should be a testimony to him. There's a lot packed in those those four verses. But there's a lot packed into his touch, and it's it's as real today as it was then. He is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. I trust it's something in these verses of Rapstered uh something within your being. Maybe you're here and maybe you uh as we've described. Consider yourself a a spiritual leper. That is, you've never been born again, and therefore you have the curse of sin. It may be that uh uh maybe you're you are a Christian, you've trusted Christ, but you know that there's things still in your life that uh need to be dealt with. Maybe there's some places you go that you shouldn't go anymore. Maybe there's some things you say you need to you need to clean out your your your uh vocal cords Maybe that there's uh just some things in your life that just need uh uh to change and you know that Then today, why don't you allow this one? This one who performed a miracle for Simon Peter that brought him to his knees. Or perhaps this this leprous man that uh saw that uh he was dealing with the Son of God and fell to his feet hell fell to his knees in order to be cleansed. If you're here today and you need that cleansing, then my prayer is that you would come and allow him to do the work. Our Father, as we approach this moment of time, this time when the Spirit of God does a work. uh in people's hearts. I pray that you would uh take the the words from these stumbling lips And penetrate that that that old hard heart that does not want to yield to the Spirit of God and help them To come be saved if that be the need, or perhaps to confess that sin, that it might be cleansed. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen and amen. Let's all stand to our feet with our heads bowed and their eyes closed. The pianists are going to play through us a couple of verses of invitation. With our heads bowed and their eyes closed, let me ask this question. I realize it's a little bit unusual service, but uh I wonder if there's someone here that'd say, Brother Williams, by the uplifted hand, Brother Williams, would you please, would you pray for me because I have a need that God has spoken to me about and I need to act upon that need. Would you slip your hand up and uh just uh slip it up and take it back down? Father, we ask for you to do a work here in Jesus' name. Amen and amen. As the pianist begins to play, if God has spoken to your heart and there's