So um well uh be a blessing. Amen. Well I appreciate your pastor and um appreciate this church. Um it's different when you have children. Um when we were on deputation, we didn't have any children, but we would go into churches and uh maybe not know a whole lot about them beforehand and we'd come out and we'd be like That wasn't so good. Um and uh but that'd be okay 'cause we're grown ups, you know, we can handle that kind of stuff. But when you get kids it it's just not that way. You go into church and you come out afterward and uh your son's like, Daddy, I didn't I didn't like that music and And you know, this is going out worldwide, but I'm going to say this anyway. You know, a week later he says, Daddy, you know that church we were in with the bad music? I said, uh-huh. He said, the one that supports us? I said, uh-huh. He says, I wish they didn't support us You know, I can't take 'em back. You understand that. You know, um, 'cause I have to explain to my kids. Um but it's good to come to a place that doesn't change. It's good to come to a place with the same music and the same Bible and the same everything that was ten years ago. And uh we're blessed as missionaries, my wife and I, our family Because so many of our churches are the same as they've always been. I appreciate your pastor. I appreciate his stand. I appreciate that he doesn't change. Because God doesn't change. Amen. And we've still got to stand. The church is the pillar and ground of the truth. And if if we don't stand for the truth, nobody else will. I'm all for boycotts. If you want to boycott this or boycott that, but they aren't the pillar and ground of the truth, whoever it is. We are. We're the pillar and ground of the truth, and if we don't stand for the truth, who will? And so I appreciate a church This church that stands for the truth, and we come back, we know what we're coming back to, and I appreciate you standing for the truth. Because it's not always easy. And so I appreciate that. If you would open your Bibles to John chapter number six. John chapter number six. Let's stand tonight if you have your Bibles and you're able to stand tonight. I appreciate if you stand. The reading of God's Word. I appreciate you being here tonight. I wasn't sure how many people would come back after the Sunday school lesson this morning. And so I appreciate you coming back. You said, you know, it couldn't get much worse in the Sunday school lesson, so We'll come back. It's got to be better than that. So I appreciate you being back tonight. And uh it's just a blessing to be here tonight and uh open up God's Word. John chapter 6, verse number 5, When Jesus then lifted up his eyes and saw a great company come unto him, he saith unto Philip, When shall we buy bread that these may eat And this he said to prove him, for he himself knew what he would do. Philip answered him, Two hundred pennies worth of bread is not sufficient for them, that every one of them may take a little. One of his disciples Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, saith unto him, There is a lad here which hath five barley loaves and two small fishes, but what are they among so many? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, Lord, we thank you tonight for your word. We thank you tonight for meeting with us. Lord, we thank you for your spirit, Lord, that you've given to us, Lord, that Lord dwells in our hearts. We thank you, Lord, that we're sealed by the Holy Spirit of God into the day of redemption. We thank you for your precious blood that was shed, Father. Lord, that will cleanse us from every sin, every stain. And Lord, we thank you for your uh Lord message for us tonight. I plead with you that you'd fill me with your spirit, anoint me with your power. Lord, I plead with you tonight To do work in our hearts and our lives. Lord, I pray, Father, Lord of the harvest that you would send forth laborers into the harvest, Lord If there's one here tonight that's not saved, that you would save them. If there's one here tonight that hasn't surrendered their life, that they might do that tonight. And I pray, Lord, even if you would call someone. Send them into the harvest field tonight. Lord, teach us this simple truth tonight and break our hearts for the need around the world. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. As we come to the passage tonight, uh the Lord Jesus Christ has been preaching there on a hillside and A great company has come to hear him preach and uh five thousand men plus women and children. There's a huge uh multitude that's come there to hear him preach and uh to hear what he had to say. And we know that happened many times. The Lord Jesus would preach and they would gather to hear him. And for the multitude would come out to hear the Lord Jesus Christ preach and maybe he preached for an hour or two hours or three hours, I don't know. I can't imagine uh leaving during that time if the Lord Jesus Christ is teaching. Uh they said never a man spake like this man spake and The Lord Jesus Christ preaching and teaching things and the word became flesh, speaking to the people. That day. I can't imagine that it was boring in any way, uh way, shape, or form as the Lord Jesus Christ is preaching to them. And he gets done preaching and the message is done, but the people don't leave. The people stick around and he doesn't say really why they're staying. Um they surely weren't anticipating being fed because they had never seen that miracle before. This is that miracle. The disciples had never seen that miracle before. And so I don't know that they anticipated being fed, but they were all hungry. They'd been there for a while. And so here they are on the mountainside. They're hungry. And the Lord Jesus looks at his disciples and he says, we need to feed this multitude, 5,000 plus people on the side of a hill. Now, I want you to think about that in terms of logistics. Let's say you had a big day here at the church, and pastor said we're pushing for 500 to come. That'd be a good day, wouldn't it? Good day. Everybody bring food, bring a covered dish for you and another family. And so you're working the night before and you've made the casserole and you've made the uh the uh Yes. I'm so full. We we ate at lunch and I'm so full from the ice cream preacher I can't even think tonight. Um I didn't get a nap either. I was too full to sleep. Uh my wife says, I don't understand that. She rolled over and went to sleep. And um And so you make the food and you bring it in and there's all the food in the uh eating area over there. My brain is not working tonight. All the food's over there and you come and People start coming in and you've got 500 and they're bringing out chairs in here and somebody comes to preacher and they say, Preacher, there's more people coming. Can you imagine if you had 5,000 people show up? How exciting And terrifying that would be. How would you feed 5,000 people in Oakland, Maryland Are you gonna call Kentucky Fried Chicken? I don't know how far but you'd have to call a lot of 'em to feed five thousand people. In our day and age of technology when you can get on the internet How would you come up with enough food to feed 10,000 people? I don't even know where you get that kind of food in this day and time where they I mean the bread shops had food but five thousand plus people It's a nightmare scenario, and the disciples look at all those people and they say, two hundred penny worth of bread, that's not going to go very far, and even if we had money, where would we get bread for all these people One of the disciples simply looks at the Lord and says, Lord, why don't we just send them away? Now, that wouldn't have been the end of the world for these people because they hadn't been there necessarily long enough to die before they got home. But you understand today, when we talk about the multitude today, and we think about all the people around the world, God has called us to go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. And you know, sometimes we can be like those disciples and we can say, seven billion people, why don't we just send them away? We can't send them away. Because if they go away, they don't just go somewhere else and get some food. If they go away, they don't just go away hungry, they go away into an eternity in a lake of fire. Because if they don't get the bread of life They don't get the bread of life. There is no other way. Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life. There is no other way. And unlike the disciples, we have lots of food. Because you see, I can go out and take the gospel to one person, and he can receive Jesus Christ, but I still have the same amount of gospel. And I can go out and give the gospel to another person, to another person, to another person. I can give it out all day long and come back and still have the same amount of gospel. There's plenty to go around. The problem today isn't a lack of food. The problem today is a lack of workers. The problem today is a lack of resources to get the gospel to the uttermost parts of the world. I heard someone say this, and I believe it's probably true, that if every born-again child of God did everything God told them to do, we could reach the world. The disciples look at the multitude and they see uh insurmountable problem And it was impossible with man, but with God all things are possible. The Lord looked at the multitude and he saw an opportunity. Because the Lord knew what he would do. That's what it says in the passage. The Lord knew the multitude would be there. The Lord knew they wouldn't have enough food. But the Bible says the Lord did this to prove him, and to prove the disciples, and to teach them something. And if we could tonight, maybe teach us something because there was someone else in the story. The Lord is there, the multitude is there, the disciples are there. But in verse 9, it says there's someone else there. It says there is a a lad here. And I want to preach tonight for a few minutes on this little lad that I believe can teach us some things. The first thing I would like to say about the lad is this. He was there. That's deep, isn't it? But you see, it says there's a lad here, but understand, there's 10,000 people there. He could have been on the other side of the multitude. I mean, preaching's done, and you know what little boys like to do when the preaching's done? They like to play. But this little lad had other ideas. He didn't run off to play with his friends. He didn't run off to go home. He didn't run off to do a hundred other things. He made a conscious choice to get just as close to Jesus as he possibly could And I can imagine that when the preaching started, he was maybe in the back and he heard, but he couldn't hear real good, so he's making his way up through the multitude. And as he hears the preaching, it's closer and closer and closer until he gets just, you know, little kids will do, he pushes up, and he's just right there, and Jesus is right there preaching. He wanted to get closer and closer and closer until he was just as close as he could possibly be. They didn't go get the lad. They said, there's a lad here. He's right here. The Lord is talking to the disciple. And there's a lad here. Well, that was by choice. If we're going to be used of God, we're going to have to be close to the Lord. Brother, can you turn me down a little bit? I am way loud. We're going to have to get as close to the Lord as we can possibly be. And can I say this tonight? You and I are as close to the Lord as we want to be. He says, draw nigh unto me, and I will draw nigh unto you. If we're not close to the Lord tonight, it's not his fault. In fact, tonight the Lord in heaven waits for each one of us to get closer. And to get closer. And to get closer. I think of the Apostle Paul been saved for a number of years. He said that I may know him. And the power of his resurrection. Even after all these years, the Apostle Paul said, I want to know him better. This little boy Made a conscious choice to get just as close to Jesus as he could be And unfortunately, so many times in our lives, we're not as close to Jesus as we could be because we've allowed things to pull us away. You know, if you have friends that criticize your church, that's not helping you get closer to Jesus. If you have people who criticize your pastor, that's not going to help you get closer to Jesus. You know, I've never had anybody call me and complain about my pastor. Ever. That'd be a bad idea. You might as well call up and complain about my wife. That'd just be a bad idea because I would not respond well to that. I know I'm in the ministry and all, but that would not go well. Because I love my pastor. And I love my church, and I love my wife, and I am not going to handle somebody criticizing those things that I love. Amen. If you want to be close to Jesus, you need to be close to people that are going to help you get closer to Jesus See, this little boy wasn't worried about all those other things. He wasn't worried about all that was going on. He said, I'm going to get close to Jesus and get as close as I can. Because maybe, just maybe. There's more. See, he'd heard the preaching. Everybody'd heard the preaching, but he wanted more He wanted more. And can I say this? He was going to get more. He wanted more. He wanted to get just as close as he could. And if we're not careful in our daily lives, we allow things in our life that pull us away from the Lord. How close are you tonight to the Lord? Because you see, if he's on the other side of the multitude, he wouldn't have been able to be used because he wasn't there. And tonight, if we want God to use us, we've got to be close enough to hear him and to hear his voice. Number one, he was as close to Jesus as he could be, but number two, he was paying attention. He wasn't just there, he was paying attention to what was going on. paying attention to the conversation between Jesus and the disciples and talking about food. And he he heard the need for food, but he wouldn't have heard that if he wasn't paying attention. And sometimes you have to work to pay attention. I think of this little boy as he got up close and he's listening to what's going on. That's the most important thing in the world to him. And sometimes it's hard for little boys to pay attention. I know I've got one. We had a service one night, and We're preaching in all of our buildings there uh have tile along the wall and we don't have a lot of wildlife where we're at, but the one thing we have is lizards. And uh one night um a lizard came in and he visited us, he's right up there on the wall. And while I'm preaching, I'm sure it was a great message and all, but Jesus or that um but Joshua wasn't paying attention to the message. There's a lizard on the wall. And he's locked in on the lizard. He's paying attention to the lizard. And as soon as the message got done, he said, Daddy, could you get me the lizard? Well of course. What kind of dad would I be if I didn't get the lizards for him? So I go and knock it off the wall and the tile's there or f or the floors there are tile and so the little lizards fall on the tile and they run like this but they can't go because the tile is so slick. So you can reach down and pick them up and so I hand it to Joshua and he carries a lizard over. There's a group of ladies, you know, just talking Like ladies do. And Joshua, of course, he's excited about the lizard, so he goes up, the ladies, and he says, Look Yeah. And the ladies go, ah, they scream, you know, you can hear it, and they're like, Pastor, what did you do? I said, He's my son. I had to get the lizard for it. You know, sometimes it's work to pay attention. But if we want to be used of God, it's not enough just to be close. You know, sometimes you come to church and in his effort to pay attention Amen. Amen. Sometimes the message is boring. I've preached some boring messages. And you've got to work to pay attention. But can I say this? It's worth it if you can pay attention. And this little boy would have missed out if he hadn't been paying attention. Number one, he was close to Jesus. Number two, he was paying attention. But number three. This little boy had a choice to make because he's sitting there and he has not much. He doesn't have much. I doubt he has any money, but he's got a little lunch, five loaves and two fishes Now it wasn't much, but it was all he had. And he has a choice to make. Now, if he gives his lunch to Jesus, he doesn't have anything to eat You say, oh, but we know but he didn't. He didn't know the story. He's sitting there with a lunch and he's going to give it to Jesus, and he's got a lunch. He said, That's my lunch. If I give that I don't have anything to eat. He's willing to go hungry so Jesus can have his lunch. He was willing to give up temporary comfort for eternal rewards. Now you say, preacher, what do you mean eternal rewards? What kind of eternal reward did he get? He's in the book He's right there, the lead. When you get to heaven, you can talk to Abraham, you can talk to Moses, and you know who you're going to be able to talk to, the lead And when you walk up to him, you say, Who are you, my friend? He says, I'm the lad, and you'll know who he's talking about. Because he's in every gospel. This miracle is in every gospel. This little lad made it in every gospel. Now you say, did he know that? No, he didn't. He didn't understand it. But he's willing to give up something temporary because the Lord asked him for it. You know everything we have is temporary. It's all temporary. That's why every year you you buy new electronics and a new cell and a new phone and a new computer and everything you buy new things because they wear out. It's all temporary. I remember the first time I got an iPod touch. I was like, an iPod touch? We'd never seen these Things before. Nobody could play with it. Nobody could touch it. Do you know where it is today? It's in a drawer because it's obsolete. It doesn't work anymore. Everything we have is temporary. But how often do we live for the temporary? How often is that which is temporary the most important to us? This little boy said, I'm hungry and I'd like to eat my lunch. But you can't eat your lunch and give it to Jesus too. You can either eat it or you can give it. It's a choice we have to make, like this little boy made We talk about missions. And this morning we talked about warfare and missions. And you know one of the things the devil does to us? He gets us to focus on the temporary, the here and now. And what we have, instead of what's on the other side, what's eternal, what's really important. Missionaries are running around this country trying to get to the mission field, trying to raise more support so they can get over to the field and tell somebody how they can go to heaven. They leave their families. And I don't I I I want you to understand tonight, being a missionary is a sacrifice. And I know some ma some missionaries say, Oh, it's not a sacrifice. That's not true tonight. It is a sacrifice. We don't get to see our parents. Our parents don't get to see our grandkids, not just for us But it's for our families who don't get to see us. We live in another country. You say, Do you love America? I love America. You said, Where would you personally, physically like to live? I'd rather live in America. Because it's easy here. We have nice roads. Hey, our bad roads, our good roads in Brazil. There's one road every time, every time I drove on that road, preacher, I blew out a tire. He said, why'd you bought a tire? Because I hit a pothole. Because I was swerving from another pothole. Because I was swerving from another pothole. The third one got me every time. You know, those missionaries that grew up down there, they're experts. They can slal them back and forth, and the semi's coming at them, whoop, and they keep going to slalom, and they don't blow out their tires, but I did We have two lane interstates. Two lane. We don't have that in Brazil I don't want you to think tonight it's a sacrifice, but you know it's worth it. It's worth it because of what he gave for us. Now this little boy didn't know all that was going to happen. He didn't know that Jesus was going to die for him on a cross. All he knew was that this man was special. He didn't even understand maybe what all that was going on and who he was, that he was the Son of God. I don't know what he understood, but the man who had just preached to him said We need food. And the little boys said, do I keep my food or do I give it to Jesus And that's the choice we have tonight. Everything you have, you can keep it, and it's yours. You can use it. Or you can give it to Jesus. You say if I give it to Jesus, I don't have it anymore. That's right. It's not yours anymore, it's his I can imagine there's a little boy beside him, you know. And he says, What are you doing? He said, I'm going to give my lunch to Jesus. Well, if you do that, you're not going to have anything to eat. He said, Would you share yours with me? He said, you're not getting my lunch. You're just going to be out. You're going to go hungry. Because the Bible doesn't say this, but I've got to believe that he wasn't the only one there with lunch. You're telling me 5,000 men and none of them brought food? You're telling me 5,000 women and none of those women packed a lunch? None of the other little boys had any food. I can't believe that tonight. I believe some other people had food there that day. And that's important. Because the only one who gave their lunch was this little boy. He's the only one. And he has a choice to make. Does he keep his lunch and does he eat it? Or does he give it to Jesus? Because I'm going to tell you the truth, little boys like to eat. And I'm going to tell you, when the disciples said it's not much, the little boy is probably saying, Amen. It's not much. And he's probably thinking five loaves and two fishes, he's probably thinking, this isn't even enough to fill me up. I'm probably going to go hungry. Let me tell you something. You can keep what you have, but it's never going to be enough It's never going to be enough. You've got a 401k and you say, when's your 401k going to be enough? You know how? When it's going to be enough? Never! Somebody's got three million dollars in retirement. You said, is that enough? No, I need four million. It's just never going to be enough. No matter how much you have. So can I tell you tonight you might as well just give it to him. You might as well say, Lord, here's all that I have. It's yours. Because as long as I have it, it's never enough. Little boy says, this is probably never gonna fill me up. I'm gonna give my lunch to the Lord. So I can see the little boy he's wrestling with the decision. And he finally says, Lord, here's my lunch. Now they didn't take it from him. They didn't tell him to give the lunch. The little boy freely gave what he had. He said, Lord, here's my lunch. That's all I have. The disciple took it and he looked at it. He turned his nose up. He said, Well, it's not much. I don't even know what we're going to do with this, son. But I'll give it to the Lord. The disciple says, Lord, there's a lunch here, but it's not much. And you know, sometimes the devil tells us, well, you know, what you have isn't much. And you know he's right. My life isn't much. When I surrender to the Lord as an eighteen-year-old man in the Marine Corps You know, if you'd have told me back then you'll be a missionary one day, I said, there is no way. I'm from North Carolina. You know what they speak in Brazil? Portuguese I'm just gonna tell you that to humanly speaking, that didn't make a lot of sense to me for six months. I didn't understand anything. John 3, 16, for Kideus amoun munu jitamanede, ki deus fi uniginitu Para que todo aquele que não creina o parece, mas tenha vida eterna. I didn't understand it either. For six months I didn't understand a thing. I talk about paying attention. I would focus for like the first five minutes of the message and then I'm gone. I'm I'm looking, I'm smiling, but I don't understand a thing in the message Because it was foreign language to me. I'm from North Carolina. But I said, Lord, it's not much. But Lord, it's yours. Lord, it's yours. Because as long as it's ours, it will never be much. As long as it's ours, God is not going to use it. I want you to hear me tonight. The Lord didn't use anybody else's lunch that day but his. Because he gave it. As long as it's yours, because it's not his, you haven't given it to him. But when you bring it down, when you step out and you come down to an altar and you say, Lord, here's me, everything I have, my life, my family, everything is yours, and you give it to him, he can use it But he's not going to use it until you give it to him. We've got to consciously say, Lord, here is all that I have. We thus says that if one died for all, then we're all dead. That they which live should not henceforth live unto themselves, but unto him. Who died for us? You say, but isn't it already all it's all his And so, in a sense, tonight, if you don't give him what's his I can see people they say, I wish God would use my life. Well, if you'd give it to him, he would. As long as it's your life. It's yours to use, but it's never going to be much. You know, no matter how many times you cut up five loaves and two fishes, it's still five loaves and two fishes It's like a little boy, you know, his mom gave him a piece of chicken and he said, Mom, I'd like two pieces of chicken. So she cut it up for him. She said, Would you like three pieces? He said, No, two will be fine You know, that's what we try and do with our life. We try and cut it up and divide it and make it go further. Instead of just giving our lives to Him. You know, because when that little boy gave Jesus his lunch, that's when it got good. I mean, here he is, he's just got a lunch I mean it's ev it's fun what he's eaten every day, loaves and fishes, he eat it every day. But today the lunch was different because today he gave the lunch to Jesus. And I can see him as he gives the lunch to the Lord. And he watches the Lord as the Lord breaks the bread, the fishes, and he prays over them. And he begins to put it in the baskets. Now they they had everybody sit down in companies of 50, and everybody sits down. Everybody said, why are we sitting down? Well then the disciples come by with a basket. And this is where it gets good. Because they come by with a basket, and he knows what that's his lunch. So they come by and they say, How much can I have? Can I have the five loaves and two fishes? He said, No, son, you can have as much as you want. He's like, that's a good deal. I gave up five loaves and two fishes, and I get as much as I want. So I can see him taking some And he eats and he eats and he eats and he eats. And now he's eaten some and he's kind of full, but he wants some more. And the disciple comes by. He said, Sir, uh, can I have he said, Son, as much as you want. You can have as much as you want See, what we think is if we give it all to Jesus, we're not going to have anything. But if we give it to Him, you know how much we have? As much as we want. We're never going to outgive God. We're never going to give him more than he's going to give back to us. We're never going to give more than the Lord gives back to us. The Lord is not unrighteous to forget your work and labor of love. And I can see this little boy sitting there just smiling. And then he looks at his friend. And his friend's eating, you know. He says, You know what you're eating? He says, what? He says you're eating my lunch. And his friend says, Well, I guess I am. You know everybody brought food that day, you know what they ate? They ate his lunch. They ate his lunch. They all got to eat because he gave his lunch. It only took one little boy and one little lunch to feed ten thousand people. People. So what does it matter if I give to faith promise? It's not much. I mean, I give to faith promise, but you know I couldn't give much more. But you know if everybody gave a lunch I mean how much is a lunch? I mean five dollars, ten dollars? You eat out and you say ten dollars, but you know if everybody gave a lunch, you could support another missionary. I mean if everybody gave two lunches, you could support other missionaries. Now y'all support us and we're thankful for your support, but I'm going to tell you tonight, there's other missionaries that your pastor'd love to support There's other missionaries you'd love to support. And it may be just as much as giving another lunch per month or per week to support another missionary. You say it's not much. Well, neither one is He said that if I give my lunch, I'll go hungry. I beg to disagree. You know, this little boy didn't understand. And we look at him and we say, well, he didn't he didn't understand. But we do understand. Because we have the whole word of God. We understand. And I'm imagining when he's sitting there eating, preacher, and he's sitting there and he's full, he's not thinking, I wish I hadn't given my lunch to Jesus. He's thinking, I'm sure glad I gave my lunch to Jesus. And I'll tell you tonight, everybody that's ever given their life to Jesus. It's glad they did. You know, I bet if you walked up to him ten years later and said, son, what do you do you regret giving your lunch to Jesus? He said, oh no. That's the best day of my life. You walk up to him in heaven and say, son, do you regret giving your lunch to Jesus? He said, oh no, that's the best day of my life. The best day of your life is when you get born again, when you get saved. But the second greatest day of your life, spiritually speaking, is when you give your life to Jesus and say, Lord, it's all yours. Everything's yours. Everything. My kids, my home, my car. Everything I have, Lord, is yours, and you can do whatever you want with my life. Because I'm going to tell you, you give it all to Jesus and you'll have more than enough. But that's not the best part of the story The best part of the story I think is I believe at some point and you don't have to agree with this, that's fine. But I believe at some point it dawned on him. After he'd eaten a little bit and he's full, it dawned on him what was happening. And he turned around and he sees all those people. And they're all eating. And they're all eating his lunch. And he says, that's my lunch! You're eating my lunch! That's my lunch! Can you imagine a little boy that fed all those people because he gave his lunch to Jesus? Now on this side of eternity, you may not know where the mission's money and all the things and all this happened, but one day God's going to pull back the curtain. And God's going to show us all of our labor and all of our work and all the fruit and all the reward that we've given for eternity. And it's not just going to be people eating, it's going to be souls. Souls that have come to Christ because we've given, because you've given. And it may be tonight you're discouraged and you say, I've labored and I've given and I've sacrificed, but you know it doesn't seem like much. The Bible says, your labor is not in vain in the Lord And every little bit that we give goes to reach people with the gospel. And I believe one day he'll pull back the curtain. And show us all the souls that have come to Christ because of what we've given. One day there was a man out passing out tracks and he came by and there was a car there and he stuck a track on the windshield of the car. And he went on, didn't think anything about it. Well, the man who owned the car came and picked up the track off the windshield and he put it in his car and he drove on, didn't think anything else about it. Well later on he was cleaning out his car and he picked up that track and he read that track. He got saved from that track. Then he went to church. In fact, uh just two days ago I talked to the man who dealt with him at the altar. And he came to church and he got in church and he surrendered his life and God called him to the mission field. And he went to Brazil. Today he's a missionary in Brazil because one man laid a track on his windshield And that man has been working in Brazil for many, many years. To me, one of the premier missionaries in Brazil, just doing a great work in Brazil. But can you imagine one day the man who laid that track on his windshield is going to get to heaven? And the Lord's going to pull back the curtain. He's going to see all those people. He's going to begin to weep. He said, Lord, I don't understand. I've never even been to Brazil. He said, no, but you left a track. You left a track. And because of that track, this man got saved. And friends, that's your lunch. That's your lunch. That's your life. And for everybody here tonight that's saved and you've given your life to the Lord One day the curtain will open and he'll say, There's your lunch. There's your life. But you know There's gonna be some that get to heaven. They're safe And they'll say, Lord, uh, where's where's my lunch? Where's my life? Say you never you never gave it to me. Maybe they were able to do a little bit here and there, but they never gave him their lunch. But I'm going to tell you, when it was all said and done that day, one boy walked home on Cloud 9. And he says, I sure am glad I gave my lunch to Jesus. But you know, I've got to believe there were others who said, Well, I missed out. You know, I'd have given my lunch to Jesus. If I'd have been there, I'd have given my lunch to Jesus. You know, some of us might get to heaven and say, you know, I wish I'd given my lunch to Jesus. And I say tonight it's not too late. You have a chance tonight to say, Lord, here's my life. You'd have a chance tonight to come down to an old-fashioned altar and lay your life and everything you have on an altar and say, Lord, it's yours. It's yours. It's yours. It's not too late to give your life and everything you have to him too Tonight. I don't know what God will do in your life and how He'll use you or He'll call you to the mission field or what He'll call you to do, but can I say this tonight? We owe it to Him. To give him our lives. Let's pray, Heavenly Father, Lord, we thank you tonight, Lord, for your word. Father, we thank you for your sacrifice for us. Father, we see tonight the miracle that you did. Heavenly Father, this little boy gave his lunch to you, and you took his lunch and you fed five thousand men, plus women and children. Lord, you fed a multitude. Lord, our lives aren't much. But Lord You can do so much more with our lives than we can. And Lord, there is a world tonight lost in need. Lord, in need. Father, they're hungry. The bread of life. And Lord, I pray that tonight you'd stir hearts that that Lord, if there's someone here Lord, they've sit here and they've listened to this and Lord, they've never done that. They've never given you their life. But Lord, tonight might be the night. Lord, that they would give their life to you and surrender their life to you. Lord, I pray that somebody tonight, someone Would be like that little boy and say, Lord, here's my life, here's my lunch. Lord, I plead with you. Lord, there's such a great need. I pray, Lord, tonight that hearts would be tender, that we might respond, Lord, whatever you've done in any heart tonight. Lord, whatever you've done, Lord, that Lord, we might be tender to that. We might respond. Lord, like that little boy. Lord, that we give our lives to you Lord of souls hang in the balance. Oh Heavenly Father, would you make us tonight willing to give all that we have? Lord, help us to see tonight that what we have isn't much. Lord, but when we give it to you, Lord, you can feed the multitude. Lord, work in our hearts tonight during the invitation, Lord, that each person here tonight, whatever you've spoken to them about, Lord, tonight, they would make a decision. Lord, it may be that some tonight they might give up a lunch or two and say, I'm going to give more to missions Maybe there's some here tonight they've been sacrificing, Lord. Lord, and you spoke into their hearts tonight. Lord, that they might go beyond. Oh Father, work in our hearts tonight, with heads bowed and eyes closed. How many can say, Well, preacher, praise God, I know this. I know I'm saved. I've been born again. There's a time in my life where I receive Jesus Christ as my Savior. Would you slip your hand up tonight? I know I'm saved. I've been born again. Thank you. You can put them down. Is there somebody here tonight you say, preacher, I I'm not sure if I'm saved, but I would like to know. I would like to know I'm saved. The Bible says these things are written unto you. that believe on the name of the Son of God, that you may know that you have eternal life. You say, I don't know, preacher, but I would like to know. Please pray for me. Would you flip your hand up tonight? Is there somebody like that tonight? I'm not sure I'm saved, but I would like to know. Somebody like that tonight. Is there someone tonight you say, preacher, the story of the little boy, challenge me tonight? And tonight I want to give my life, everything, to the Lord. I want to do that tonight. Would you slip your hand up tonight? Who would say that tonight? I want to give everything to the Lord. I see that hand. I see that hand. Another one up here in front. I want to give everything to the Lord. Tonight, I want to surrender. Heavenly Father, Lord, I thank you for these hands that have gone up tonight, these hands of surrender that want to give everything to you. Father, I pray, Lord, tonight, that those, Lord, you've dealt with, that they would come tonight and make a decision. Precision during the invitation time. Let's stand tonight as the pianos plays. Lord spoken to your heart