And also to Second Kings. I have uh quite a bit, I think, by introduction, and then the message won't be very long at all, really. But um a lot of background, I guess. You could call it that. We got to go to uh an air show yesterday just because well I'm a nerd. And uh it was fun. There's nothing like feeling the ground shake when those jets are flying over. I love it. I love it. And uh the only thing that's more fun than that is actually flying. But um I digress. Were you all waiting for a punchline? Do you all think that was a joke? Because it wasn't. It wasn't. I was just telling you what I did. So I have sunburn. Did anyone did anyone catch that? I got a little and if you pull my hair back you can see how very um turn I am. It's fun. It's good. And um Anyway, I'm not going to take time to read everything here just because it's a lot. We're going to be looking at the life of Hezekiah a little bit this morning. The Bible says a good bit about him. He's mentioned several times throughout the Bible, but if you really want to get a good study of his life, you can write these passages down if you want. But 2 Kings chapters 16 through 20 gives a lot of details about Hezekiah and his life. 2 Chronicles chapters 28 and through chapters 32. And Isaiah talks a lot about neighbor friends, Isaiah, in chapters 36 through 39 see a lot about Hezekiah there. Uh most of our time will probably be in Isaiah in 2 Kings, but um just a fascinating king this guy was, Hezekiah. Before I talk too much about his life, again, just by way of introduction, by way of background, his his dad was, of course, king before him, King Ahaz. And you can read about him in 2 Kings chapter 16 if you want to go there with me. We'll look at him a little bit He was not a good guy. Hezekiah's dad, King Ahaz, he was not a good guy. And we see where he became king in 2 Kings 16, verse 1. Um in the seventeenth year of Apika, the son of Romalia, again apologize for these guys' names pronunciation. I feel bad for them. They couldn't spell their name until fifth grade. It's terrible. Um the he b uh king of Judah uh began to reign. Ahaz son Jotham king of Judah began to reign. So he was twenty years old Twenty years old was Ahaz when he began to reign. And and and chapter sixteen just pretty much lists off all the evil things that he did. I mean everything you can think of. I won't again read all of it, but if you look at verse uh thirty uh verse three, excuse me He walked in the way of the uh uh in the king of Israel made a son to pass through the fire. That's child sacrifice is what that is. He And if you think about this a little bit, I try to put myself in people's shoes. Um if they fit again. Sorry, same joke, didn't work. Um I if you're putting yourself in Hezekiah's shoes and his dad killed his son, that would make him your brother, right? I mean that's just anyway, imagine what he grew up around, Hezekiah. So verse 3 again, Ahaz, uh what he was doing here made his son pass through the fire according to the abominations of the heathen The Lord cast out from before the children of Israel, verse four, he sacrificed burnt incense to the high places on the hills under every green tree. And um he makes an alliance um with with um Syrians, with Syria and uh with the Assyrians there as well. He um he he everything that could go wrong he He did. Everything he could do wrong, he did. He instituted, uh reinstituted, I should say, all the pagan worship things that went with that. And uh what sticks out a lot to me, if let's look at verse let's look at verse 10. King Ahaz went to Damascus to meet that guy, King of Assyria, and saw an altar that was in Damascus. King Ahaz sent to Eurijah the priest the fashion of the altar and the pattern of it according to the workmanship thereof, and Eurijah the priest built an altar according to all that King Ahaz had sent from Damascus So he is going to these other nations and mimicking their altars. He's he's going over there. We like their altar better. We're gonna make one just like theirs. I want it to be fashioned the same way as the one in Damascus I mean he's mimicking the other nation's idolatry on purpose. It wasn't like he just slipped into it. I mean it was a conscious decision. You can see this. Yeah, and he i it talks more about some of the awful things he did um there while he was king. And then we get to the end of that chapter and we see where Hezekiah uh comes on the scene here. Verse 28 has slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David, and Hezekiah his son reigned in his stead. And so if you look at King Ahaz, he was very, very wicked. And this was the situation that Hezekiah inherited. Again, I I try to look at things from his perspective. Can you imagine growing up in that household, watching your parents sacrifice your children? And all the other stuff that went with it, all the other pagan worships and watching your father purposely submerge the nation into idolatry and not just idolatry but mimicking the exact idolatry from Damascus and things like that. I think it had an impact on him And and and I think that he from a young age when he was seeing these things, again I'm just kind of imagining here, but I can picture him saying When I'm king, there is no way I'm going to do this. I can just picture that. And when when we get to his life, we see where it says he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord. Chapter 18 In uh 2 Kings, I believe it is. We'll go back and forth probably from 2 Kings to Isaiah just to let you know. But uh verse number 3 And he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord. And we see almost it almost the the exact opposite of what his dad did is what he did. Almost the exact opposite. So if his dad built up an altar, he tore it down. If his dad uh instituted or reinstituted child sacrifice, he got rid of it. I mean he he per on purpose went against all the evil that was done. And he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord. And we can keep reading here And again, I won't read all of it just because there's a lot here. I would encourage you to go home and read those chapters that I gave you at the beginning. Pretty cool study, pretty fascinating. Verse 3, he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord. Verse 4, he removed the high places, break the images, cut down the groves, break in pieces the brazen serpent that Moses had made. For unto the days the children of Israel did burn incense to it, called it in the Hushtan, and he trusted in the Lord God of Israel, so that after him was none like him among all the kings of Judah That's a compliment. That's pretty cool. Verse 6: For he claimed to the Lord and departed not from following him, but kept his commandments which the Lord commanded Moses. The Lord was with him, and he prospered with this whoever he went forth. He rebelled against the king of his chariot, which by the way was a right thing to do because it His daddy got him in that mess in a pagan kind of way and was when all the evil that went along with that. So he's purposely doing a a hard thing, but a necessary thing, separating from those evil alliances That his uh his dad, King Ahaz, had got him into. King Hezekai was an awesome king, a great start, but it wasn't just a great start. In the middle of his life, and even towards the end of his life, we see his faith demonstrated in just awesome ways. Again, just because of I mean it would it would take our whole time just to read all these chapters. I won't But I can summarize. If we go to Isaiah chapter uh thirty-seven, we'll probably be in Isaiah from here on out, but We can see, this is recorded in those other passages as well, but we can see how he handled the threat of annihilation. And when he was threatened um by the Assyrians, how he handled that. And so you know, s you you know the whole s the story there. If not, I'll just sum up very quickly. In chapter 37, he gets a letter from Sennacherib, and he sends a messenger to deliver it, basically taunting Hezekiah and taunting Israel. threatening them to not trust in God. Who do you think do you think God's going to save you? I mean again I'm summarizing. But he gets this letter. Look at verse number 10. Thus shall thus speak to Hezekiah King of chapter 37, Isaiah, I'm sorry. Thus shall ye speak to Hezekiah King of Judah, saying, Let not thy God in whom thou trustest deceive thee. He's taunting him. Saying, Jerusalem shall not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria. Behold, thou hast heard what the kings of the Assyrians have done to all the lands of destroying them utterly, and now and shalt thou be delivered? Have the gods of the nations delivered them from my fathers, which have destroyed Gosin and Har and Haran and Revsah and the children of Eden. And he goes on. Verse 13, where is the king of Hamath, the king of Arfad, the king of the city of Saratim, Henna and Iva? Again I apologize for these pronunciations. And Hezekiah received the letter from the Lord and the messenger and read it, and Hezekiah went to the house of the Lord and spread it before the Lord. He didn't just start out right when he was faced with crisis in the middle of his life. He handles it right. And uh someone I think we should learn a lot from is Hezekiah. I'm I'm I'm I'm primarily I I speak to the kids, the teenagers, so I guess my my brain's hardwired that way, but you'll just have to excuse me this morning. Because I feel like Here's what we see a lot of a great starts, but that's it. Um I I came from a huge youth group and there's there's It's not all negative, but um there is a there is several of us preacher boys, and I don't know of of many that are actually doing it Good starts. We see uh very often we grow up in in in church, we go through master clubs and youth group and all those things, and then we uh graduate and It's kind of like the the peak of our spirituality is when we're eighteen. Um and that's not always the case, and I'm I'm looking at Austin, man, I have so much respect for him. Rachel and and and there's others. I'm not I risk I can't name all of the ones. I'm just thinking of some off the top of my head that I'm I'm looking at. And I praise God for that, but how many times do we see the opposite of great starts and then that's kind of it? What I like about Hezekiah wasn't just a great start when he's uh has um crisis come up in his life. He remembers who to go to. And and of course, rest of the story again, go home and read it. Awesome, what God does. He delivers them from that army. He prays and he seeks God and God answers his prayer. And he wipes out the the invading army there. Pretty cool stuff. And um verse 17 actually, well verses 15 through Oh, verse 20, you can see his prayer to God in that crisis. But then later on in life, in chapter 38 We see Hezekiah um is faced with another crisis at the end of his life. He's sick. And verse well let me just read some here. Verse uh number one, chapter thirty-eight, in those days, Hezekiah And Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amos, came and said unto him, Thus saith the Lord, set thine house in order, for thou shalt die and not live. So now he's faced with physical death. He's faced his health, he's sick. And what does he do? He goes to God. Same thing when the nation was under attack and he was a threat there and he faced that major crisis. Now when it's a personal Crisis, his health, he goes to the same source. Started out the way he started out, the way he was in the middle of his life, and the way he was at the end of his life. Towards the end of his life here. We see he goes to the Lord for everything that he needs, whether it's a national need, a personal need. At the start of his life, and then here before he dies, he goes to the Lord, and you can see his faith demonstrated here. You can again you can see his prayer I I I hope you go home and read these prayers that he does, that he that he when he talks to the Lord. But both before um uh the Lord saves them from the invading army, here when he has helped is on the line. I urge you to go home and read these prayers. In verse 2, Hezekiah turned his face towards the wall and prayed on the Lord. And long story short, the Lord answers that prayer Gives him fifteen more years to live. Verse five Go and say to Hezekiah, Thus saith the Lord, the God of David thy father, I have heard thy prayer, I've seen thy tears, which by the way, in that night And though God hears our prayers and sees our tears. That's just, by the way. And behold, I will add unto thy days fifteen years. That's kind of cool. If I knew for a fact I was going to live for 15 years, what would that do? God gave me 15 years. And he told me it was fifteen years. How would I how would that change the way I live? Maybe I'd be more bold in my witness. Maybe I'd get a little more relaxed, like oh no matter what happens. I don't I don't know Um I would hope that it would empower me to do um more of what God wants me to do. And uh he he he God told me only fifteen more years. So we can see I I really like I really like Hezekiah. I really like him. Um he did man, he he brought a national revival back or to to to Israel. And he led the nation back to the Lord. He really did. A phenomenal guy. Someone we look up to. And it was great. One thing though that I like about the Bible is, you know, well there's a lot of things. But you know that man didn't write this because that would have been the end of it. You do know what I'm talking about? If it was one of our heroes, we wouldn't include chapter thirty-nine. What I read a little bit ago But God does include it. And I I like that because it it it shows us that w n no one's perfect, even our heroes. And uh but we can learn a lot from his life, both with the good things he did and what we read here in chapter 39. So, chapter 39, what happened? This is after the Lord answers his prayer, after he says you're going to get fifteen more years. So now the threat's over, the Assyrians are gone, the army was destroyed, the threat of my life is over, and God said he's going to give me fifteen more years. Uh verse number one. And I have no clue how to pronounce the name. I just roll with it. You know what I'm talking about? Verse 1, at that time Merodak Baladin, the son of Baladin, king of Babylon, sent letters and a present to Hezekiah, for he had heard that he was sick. What what do we know about Babylon? What what good do we know about Babylon? Well it it what what did they do? uh is in terms of their worship. They were pagan, right? It was idolatry. It was in everything that goes along with that. We know that it's not good. Babylon's not good. And we so go back to this verse, sent letters of verse 2. And Hezekiah was glad of them. When the king of Babylon sent letters and a gift, verse 2, Hezekiah was glad of them and showed them the house of his precious things. I think that was a mistake. Now he couldn't see the future. He couldn't look forward into the book of Daniel and see what was happening in the future, right? We find out that he's told the future here in a little bit. But he did know that Babylon was not the right kind of company. He did know that Babylon was an idol uh idolatrous people. Let me keep reading. I already read this, but we'll read it again. He showed them his precious things, the spices, precious ointment, all mat matter uh uh uh or all his house of armor From every point of view, this is a bad move. From a military point of view, it's a bad move. He's showing him the house of his armor to someone who's going to be your enemy. That's not a you don't do that And all that was found in his treasures, treasuries, uh there is nothing in the in his house, nor in all his dominion. So he wasn't just giving them a house tour, a house tour like, hey, you know, check out the place, let's have a barbecue, which would have been bad enough by the way. He's showing them the whole dominion. I I can't help but think this was a a lot of intel was collected on this trip. It had to have been. A lot of information was collected by the enemy on this trip. They didn't even need to send spies though. He's like, y'all come on in. Everything that he had worked for his whole life to eradicate from his dominion, he just brought into his dominion. He cut down the altars, he cut down the groves, he even busted up the brazen serpent that the children of Israel were worshiping. He He got rid of that. He took care of business. When they were faced with crisis, he sought the Lord. His health was on the line. He sought the Lord. Everything he had worked for, he just led in the front door. Let's keep reading. Then, oh it even says at the end of verse 3, Nor in all his dominion the Hezekiah showed them not everything. So just in case you're wondering, I wonder if they saw this, I wonder if this they did. Verse 3, then came Isaiah the prophet unto King Hezekiah and said to him, What said these men? Again, put yourself in that perspective. See the picture. What said these men? I can see him just pointing at them. What are these guys saying? What said these men, right? And where are they from? What said these men? From whence came thee unto thee? And Hezekiah said, They are come from a far country unto me, even from Babylon. Is he saying that like he's excited maybe? Hey these guys, they're from Babylon. Yeah, big stuff. Verse 4, then said he, What have they seen? What have they seen in thy house? And Hezekiah answered and said, All that is in my house have they seen. There is nothing among my treasure that I have not showed them. Then said Isaiah to Hezekiah, Boy, he gets blunt here, doesn't he? Which we need that sometimes. Hear the word of the Lord of hosts, behold, the day has come that all that is in thy house, everything that you just showed them. All your spices, all your stuff that you that you're admiring, everything you just showed them, and that which thy fathers have laid up in store unto this day. Shall be carried to Babylon. And the enemy is going to take everything that you just showed him. Nothing shall be left, saith the Lord. And of thy sons. By the way, this doesn't just affect you, your kids. Remember, uh remember Hezekiah, you were so upset with the way your dad treated his kids, he killed them. Now because of what you've let in, verse eight or verse seven, and thy sons the issue from thee, which shall be that shall be get, shall they take away And shall be eunuchs in the palace of the king of Babylon. And I like his response. I don't know that I would respond this way. But this is another reason I like Hezekiah, because when he's confronted and he's his punishment, you want to call it that, is is dealt out. He understands. Verse 8, then said Hezekiah to Isaiah, Good is the word of the Lord. You're right. I messed up. Good is the word of the Lord. Which he which thou has spoken. He said, Moreover, for there shall be peace and truth in my days. You're right. I shouldn't have done this. And that that's kind of the The summary there. If you look at his whole life, uh we look up to him, and I think we should look up to him. I really do. He's a good king. And by the way, he still had the reputation that there would never be a king like him after him Good game, good guy. Sometimes good guys do dumb things. This is true. But what makes Hezekiah, I think, a little different. Is when he's confront it kind of reminds me of David. When he's confronted with that sin, he owns it. He owns up to it. So there's some things I think we can learn, and I don't even think I'm going to go necessarily in order here But there this decision that he made at the end of his life here, after he got his health restored, after the Lord gave him fifteen more years, this decision he made to let Babylon in And not just let them in, but show them everything. I think there are some problems with this decision. And and and I'm going to explain those very briefly here, but one I think is I think there is an element of pride to what he did. Maybe it was because he knew I'm invincible. For fifteen years I'm invincible. Maybe that was it, I don't know. I'm just speculating a little bit there. I can let Babylon in because they can't touch me. I mean he lived for fifteen years. Maybe that was his attitude, I don't know. Maybe he looked at everything that he had accomplished through his life and thought I'm gonna show this thing off. I don't know. I don't know exactly the thoughts he was thinking, but I think there is a little bit of pride to this because when he was showing his house and all of his dominion and his armor and everything to the Babylonians. He never we don't see where he gave credit to the Lord for everything that he had built up. You know, it was my house. It's what I did. Look what I've accomplished. So I think there's a little bit of pride to that. Also, I think the glaring problem with what he did was who his alliance was with. who his friends were, his new friends, they were the w I mean there was the world is how we would put it. They were worldly. They were as Babylon. They didn't worship God. He was bringing someone into his house that did not go along with his house rules. That did not believe what they believed, did not go along with it, and and he made a poor choice of friends, I believe. He made he made his future enemy his friend. That's what he did. You know, and I I can't help but think when you fast forward a few Um well about a hundred years or so I guess you fast forward to where the handwriting on the wall, remember that story, and they're bringing out all the vessels and everything. Stuff they had taken from What he had showed 'em. You see how that works? He showed 'em the He showed them the kingdom, he showed 'em the dominion. They're taking stuff from his house and from the house of the Lord to get drunk at that party where they're mocking God and all that. And you th the handwriting's on the wall, that's in Daniel, you you're familiar with that. But I'm grateful That he owned up to it, like I said. I'm grateful at the end of that um he recognized that the Lord is right. Good is the word of the Lord. Moreover There shall be peace and truth in my days. He knew that there would still be continue to be peace, but he also said, There's not just going to be peace, there's going to be truth from now on in my days. That's good So I think there it was a mistake, I don't think I know it was a mistake to let Babylon in and see everything. So here's what I'm going to do. I've got in the next probably ten minutes, then I'll be done. I've got just a few points. And here's I'm not going to tell you the conclusion before I give you the points. I don't want to start well and do well halfway through, and that's it. I don't want to quit as I get older. And I don't want you to. I don't think God wants us to do that. Here's some things I'm seeing here just by way of application. And again, I'm used to talking to kids and teenagers, so if it sounds a little silly, just bear with me. A thousand rights in your young adulthood and childhood don't don't excuse sloppy behavior as we get older. It doesn't excuse a thousand rights don't excuse a wrong. I'm telling you, we can like I mention we can grow up in master clubs, we can go through youth group go off to to Bible college somewhere even and and and real get involved in a ministry. Serve in the choir or bus ministry, go soul wedding, do all these things. And then all of a sudden We can kind of get relaxed a little bit and think I've kind of made it. In fact, look what I've built up. And if we're not careful, that'll get us. And some s r rebellion against God, pride, uh it's always gonna be wrong, no matter the stage of life. Just like it's wrong for a teenager to rebel against God, it's wrong for someone who's not a teenager, someone who's 95 to rebel against God. It doesn't matter. It's a s it's you don't do it It's i and if you do, the consequences are there. In fact, I would make the argument the consequences are are harsher the later in life you go. If a 12-year-old rebels, the consequences are not the same. Who was affected here besides Hezekiah? His kids And even though he died 15 years later, his kids were the ones that were made eunuchs in the king's court in Babylon. His actions affected his children. And as we get older, the responsibility becomes, I believe, greater, and the consequences can become harsher. But at the same time, if we're not careful, we can be very tempted to say, well, you know what? I've done pretty good. I can relax a little bit. In fact, I can let a little bit of Babylon into my home. And it'll be fine. I can let a little bit of Babylon into my my phone. And it'll be fine because look at everything I've done. Look I I've served the Lord since I was five. I mean I I've done all these things and I've I've I grew went through the programs, I've led people to the Lord. I'm a bus captain. I'm I I can let a I can handle a little bit of Babylon and it's fine. But it's not I I can handle a little bit of them coming into my living room on on my TV. And I can handle it. But but you can't. If we let Babylon in, the end result is Babylon's gonna take us. We let the world into our home. Next thing you know it, the world is what has control over us. Just like the kid and and if it doesn't over us, it will affect our children. Maybe they're the ones that are going to be controlled and owned by the world. We cannot let Babylon in. And as we get older and older and older, I say we get older. I'm not, by the way. Depending on who you talk to. Um Gen Gen Alpha and Gen Z are like, Bro, you remember nine eleven? And I'm like, Bro, yeah I do. Okay, I was nine, but yeah, I remember it, okay? Um and so then if I talk to someone else, they're like, oh you're just a kid. It's very confusing. The best way I know how to explain it, Ms. Courtney, I mean we talk about this is in your 30s, you're old enough to start thinking about retirement, but too young to put anything into it. That's it. Anyway. Um I got distracted there. But as we get older, we can have that mentality of I did all that. I went soul winning as a teen. I I I ran a bus route. I worked I uh I did the thing. I went on missions trips while I was in youth group, so I'm good. Why stop? Why why? I tell the teens this we don't just have teen soul winning. We have visitation every Thursday night. Why stop? If we're not careful, we can get that mentality. And I believe one reason is because, the same with him, I believe is because of pride. Pride will bring destruction regardless of who's prideful or how old they are. First the Corinthians ten twelve, let him that thinketh he standeth, take heed lest he fall. James 4. 6, God resisteth the proud, giveth grace to the humble. In proverbs 16:18, pride goes before destruction, haughty spirit before a fall, even if you're in the last fifteen years of your life. No one is immune to temptation. No one is immune to to the temptation of, I'm good now Even a great king like Hezekiah, one of our heroes. Next point I want to make would be this a poor alliance can be very costly. When I ally myself with Babylon, it's gonna be expensive. So expensive I'll lose all my wealth and my kids and the kingdom. It's expensive to make the wrong alliances. Making the wrong and now I am going to talk to younger people for a little bit, but everyone else can listen. It's fine. Making bad relationship choices, it's going to mess you up. It's going to hurt I guess that doesn't just apply to young people. That applies to everyone. Making bad alliances has consequences. When you make Make make no friendship with the world, okay? Uh or with the angry man and with the furious man thou shalt not go. That makes sense, right? Uh friendship with the world is enmity with God. We understand these things. When I make a tight pact with someone who is openly an idolatrous nation that's going to affect my nation. If I get into a tight relationship with someone who refuses Christ, they understand, but they reject it. What do you think that's going to do to me? If I on purpose enter into a relationship with someone that rejects Christ And suppose everything works out the way you want it to, and you get happily married. It won't be happily married, by the way. Where are your kids going to go to church? Are they going to go to church? These are things to think about. One parent raises them an eight as one parent raises a child as an atheist, the other parent raises them to go to church. Who whose side are we picking? Defecting that. You see how this works out. Again, like I said, I'm talking to young people, that everyone could probably listen, it'd be fine. Poor alliances hurt. You bring the world into your home and it's going to hurt. You bring Babylon into your heart and Babylon will take your heart. And it will affect your future. He didn't know the future yet, like I said, but he knew what Babylon was He knew their pagan lifestyle and all that went along with it. And what he worked hard his whole life to eradicate, he just brought into his home. And again, younger people, listen to me, please. You have worked hard, your parents have worked hard, they've invested in you, they've invested prayers in you, time, money, effort. to get you in services, to get you in church, to get you through master clubs, to send you on trips, and they've invested so much into you. You've invested, you've put time and effort, you've studied the verses, you've worked hard, you've done the you've done the thing. Work so hard to keep your heart pure before God, only to bring a piece of Babylon into your heart. I promise you what will happen is Babylon will take your heart. Please guard your heart. Keep your heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. Please guard it. Please keep it. A poor choice can be costly. But the good news is, and I'm going to be done here pretty quick, like I said, when we're confronted, maybe it's possible that right now the Lord is dealing with you about a piece of Babylon that's in your home. Piece of Babylon that's in your heart. And the Lord's dealing with you about it. Maybe that you had that great start and now later on you're just kind of getting a little more relaxed. Letting some things in that you know you shouldn't be. And you're letting these things in. And God's dealing with you about something specific. The good news is, is now that He's confronted you about it, you have the opportunity to do what Hezekiah did. Verse 8, then said Hezekiah to Isaiah, good is the word of the Lord. You have that opportunity now to say, you know what? That's right. I'm going to fix it. Didn't preserve all the consequences, but you know what it preserved is his name. He's still referred to as one of the greatest kings, and there was no one after him like him. We still look up to him, which we should And we have that opportunity when the Lord confronts us, when the Holy Spirit puts his finger on something in our life, hey, you're letting a little bit of this in, you need to tighten up a little bit. You know what? God, you're right And I believe that's what invitations are for. God, you're right. I'm going, good is the word of the Lord. I'm going to fix this thing now. And like I said, the whole point of this is to say this. I don't want to be, nor do I think any of you want to be someone who starts out well and that's it. I want to finish well. I want to be well here through my mid-adult life, early mid-adult life. When I get later on in life, I want I don't want to say, oh well, it's fine now. I can let Babel on and now I did the thing. I mean look what I did. I brought the whole nation back to God. We got rid of all the stuff. It's fine now. We can do a little bit. I don't want to do that. I don't want to do that I want to send I I I I I wrote some names of people here down of great examples. I think about Daniel. As a kid, all purposed in his heart. And then everything that came up through life, he would seek God, seek God, and he finished the way he started. Think about Job. Think about Daniel. I think about Paul. I have run my race, finished my course. Fought the fight. Might have got that out of order. You know what I'm talking about. I want to finish doing the thing that God called me to do at the start. Paul finished doing the thing God called him to do at the start. I can't help but think about this past week. We we lost a friend of America this past week. Charlie was doing the thing God called him to do at the end. He was. He was doing the thing God called him to do. That's awesome. I want to be that, Paul, Daniel. And I want to be Hezekiah in the way that if something is brought to my attention God's right. I need to get this right. I've let Babylon into my home. I've let Babylon into my heart. Before this gets worse, I'm going to say good is the word of the Lord and I'm going to get it right. I didn't really preach on a specific thing, sin, or anything like that at all today, other than this. Don't stop Don't quit. I don't know who needs to hear that this morning. Maybe I do. Don't quit. You started strong. You've been strong your whole life. Finish strong And let's not let Babylon into the thing that people have worked so hard, including you, have worked so hard to keep Babylon out. Don't let him in. Heads bowed and eyes closed. I don't want Babylon in my home. I don't want Babylon in my heart. I don't. But that means that as I move forward in life, I have got to guard, I've got to work extra hard to not get lazy, not get casual with it. I I don't know how to ask this other than this. Is there someone that says, you know what, Pastor Matt? Without getting detailed or descriptive, and again no one's looking around, it's just me, but is there anyone that says, Pastor Matt, could you pray for me? Because I can see some areas in my life where I've let I've let Babylon in. I've let the idolatrous nation that hates God into my heart a little bit. Or in my home maybe, I'll know. Yeah, we don't have to get specific. You say there's something God's dealing with me about with me about. And I need to get it right. I need to say good is the word of the Lord and get it right with him. If that's you, could you raise your hand? By the way my hand's up, I'm thinking of something specific. Could you pray for me, Pastor Matt? You raise your hand. I promise you. I'll pray for you right now actually. Is there anyone here that doesn't know Christ as your Savior? I didn't preach on that specifically, but it'd be hard to not mention that. Anyone here says, you know, if I died today, I don't even know if I'd go to heaven, but I'm concerned about that. Could you raise your hand? Anyone here like like that? I'm not sure I'm saved. I'm not sure my sins are forgiven, but I'm concerned about them. Heavenly Father, I thank you for the the day you gave us as we get ready to go to the invitation here, Lord. You put things on our mind, you put things on our heart, you put things on my heart. There's some areas where I need to get Babylon out of my heart And so I pray you help me with that, Lord. I pray you'd help us just to be responsive to what it is you've spoken to us about this morning. And it's in Jesus' name. As we stand to our feet.