Amen. If you have your Bibles, why don't we look at the book of Esther, chapter one? A couple weeks ago, I was doing my uh devotions. And as I was reading through the devotions The words struck out here, and it said, The Lord stirred up the spirit. The Lord stirred up the spirit. And I went back and I said, Who did he stir up again? And it was King Cyrus. Cyrus, the king of Persia. And then we find out that When he stirred up the God stirred up the heart of Cyrus, he stirred up his people. To go and do a work. And we'll read verses one through eleven. I'm not a good reader. But and a couple of these names here I will mess up. And um so that keeps me humble. In Ezra in Ezra chapter one We'll read one through eleven, the whole chapter. Ezra. It's right before Nehemiah. In the Jewish Bible that's one book, I think. Only God will stir our hearts, huh? For a work. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you, Lord, for the opportunity. Lord, I thank you for the opportunity tonight. Lord, I pray that you would be with me. Give me the words to say to encourage your people. To do a great work for you. Lord, at Mountain Lake, Lord, I pray that you would rise up More workers and laborers. Go out in the field and Lord, you've called some to stay. And those that stay, Lord, that they would be about your business. Lord, we ask you that you would help. Help us to understand and see the scriptures tonight. About this great work that has been done. Lord, I pray that you'd help us. In Jesus' name. Amen. We're fixing to read a story of how God stirred the hearts of this king of Persia, Cyrus. And God put it in his heart to build a temple in Jerusalem. God put it in his heart to build a temple in Jerusalem. Now he is a he is the king of Persia. And we will read here with verse one. Now in the first year of Cyrus, king of Persia, that the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah might be fulfilled. The Lord stirred up the spirit of this king here, Cyrus. Cyrus king of Persia. Yet he made a proclamation unto all his kingdom and put it also in writing, saying You know a man is serious when he puts it in writing, doesn't he? What he's saying is, uh mark it down, put it down, and here it says in verse 2. Thus said uh s in verse uh yeah in verse two here. Thus said Cyrus, King of Persia, the Lord God of heaven, have given me all the kingdom of the earth, and have charged me to build him a house at Jerusalem, which is in Jud Judah. Who is there among you of all his people? There was a question he was asking. His God be with him and let him go up to Jerusalem that is in Judah and build the house of the Lord. God of Israel. He is the God which is in Jerusalem. And verse 4. And whosoever remaineth in that place uh where he sojourned, let the men of the his place help him with silver, with gold, with goods, and with beast, besides the free will offering for the house of God that is in Jerusalem. Verse 5. Then rose up chief of the fathers of Judah and Benjamin, the priest and the Levites, with all those whose spirit God raised. To go up to build the house of the Lord, which is in Jerusalem. And all they that were about them strengthened their hands with vessels of silver, with gold, with goods, and with beasts, and with precious things, besides all that were willing will with And besides all that were willingly offered. I wonder if they gave him any Romans. It could have been in Romans. Verse 7. Also Cyrus the king brought forth the vessels of the house of the Lord. And you know, uh Sire, you know, Cyrus he chipped in too. He said, Well, there's some other stuff we need to get over there And Cyrus the king brought forth the vessels of the house of the Lord, which Nebuchadnezzar had brought forth out of Jerusalem, and he put them in the the house of his gods, even those Did Cyrus, king of Persia, bring forth by the hand of now how would you like to have a treasure named this guy? Mira Dash. The treasure. You have a treasure brother here. He doesn't have that strange name like that, does he? A little bit Charlie. Charlie. Carlos. Okay. But it's not what the Lord wanted, okay? We always need a good treasure. If the teen goes says what the preacher says go write a check, then they go write a check, right? And then it says and numbered them with uh there's another name, Shaz uh Shazba uh Bazaar. Okay Chasbazar, the priest of Judah. And this is the the number of them, thirty charges of gold, a th thousand charges of silver, nine hundred and uh twenty knives Um thirty basins of gold, silver basins of a second sort, four hundred and ten, and the vessels a thousand. And all the vessels of gold and silver were five thousand and four hundred. And and all these things. Uh Shazab uh Bazar uh bring up with them of the captivity that were brought up from Babylon unto Jerusalem. It's an interesting thing here. Here we see that the Lord stirred up one man. It was King Cyrus. And King Cyrus was stirred up. And oh that God would stir us up to do a work. Amen. We need to be stirred up to do a work. There's a great work to do. Do you have a work that God has for you to do? Have you ever asked the Lord to do a great work in your heart and Him to use you to do a great work At night, sometimes my family goes to bed. I beg God, I say, God, please, let me let me open up a distribution center in Bangladesh. And I want to go into Pakistan. I want to do Central America first. I mean we have several different countries that we want to reach in Central America. Mexico is North America. And then the Central America, we got Guatemala and Honduras, Panama. We got Nicaragua and Costa Rica. And El Salvador. There's four more there's four more countries that we can reach together. That we can reach together. And I I want to do it. And then we'll go to Bangladesh. How's that? How many of you ever heard of Bangladesh? Oh good. Yeah. Bangladesh used to be West Eastern Pakistan. In nineteen seventy one they had a uh it used to be part of Pakistan, but in the middle of that is India. And and the eastern Pakistan had a revolution and they won their independence in nineteen seventy one. And then um the the The this country, Bangladesh, is about the size, a little bit smaller than the the state of Georgia. And they have a they have a hundred and seventy million people. In other country. Did you know there's 195 countries in the world? And Canada has 39 million. But Mexico has 130 million. Mexico is number ten in population of the world. And then Russia has a hundred and forty a hundred and forty-four million, maybe a hundred and forty-three million now. They're number nine and number eight is Bangladesh. It's a country that you can go and you can do a work. Maybe someone here will go Bangladesh, everybody. Well I I have a desire to just start. I wouldn't want to live there, but just get the ball a rolling. Just get somebody to I want to s say here In verse 1, here the Bible says that Cyrus, God called Cyrus and spoke to his heart and stirred his heart up. One man, one man to do a work. And what was that work to do? To go to Jerusalem and to build a temple. But here we see that first here's an uh something that is interesting. And it says that the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah might be fulfilled. Jeremiah was vindicated. Jeremiah was in Jerusalem and he said to the people, he says, if you don't repent and get right with God, you're going to spend 70 years over there in captivity. They didn't believe it. But it happened And here he was vindicated. And even Jeremiah wrote letters to them. He says, We might as well just uh Stay over there because it's going to be seventy years. Might as well go ahead and let your children marry and don't listen to the false prophets. It's going to be 70 years It's gonna be seventy years. Sometimes we the people of God will be vindicated. We will be vindicated We'll say to America, if you don't turn back to God, if you don't uh repent of your wickedness, God will judge our nation. And we will be vindicated And we will be rewarded for our stand that we have taken for the gospel and for this precious book that we have, the Word of God. Cyrus. He was ashamed of God. You know, I I do not know if Cyrus was saved or not. All I know is what the Bible says here. He did speak very well of God. And he wasn't ashamed of God If he was not saved, he's got more um uh you know he he's to be more praised than we are sometimes But he wasn't ashamed. He said, I'll make a proclamation and I'll write it down. I want to go on record and say that God gave me all these things. It is God. He said, God has given me all the kingdoms, God has given me all of the authority that I have here. It comes from the God of heaven, the God of Jerusalem, and not Palestine or the Gaza Strip. Amen. In Mexico there was a man across the street, he said that he was telling me, and they worshiped Mary It's a it's the country that worship Mary more than anything. And he said, you see that thumb there? He said, I stuck it in the meat cleaver. He was a uh he was uh worked in the meat store. He said, and Mary saved me. I said He just stole the the glory of God. God did that, not Mary. Well, I want to tell you we need to give God the glory, don't we? We need to work hard and be humble. It's God that gives us the power. It's God that gives us these things. It's God that gives us the we say, well I worked to this, I made this. God gave you the health and the strength and the mind to go to work and to get it. So if we do anything for God, because it is God who gets the glory and it belongs to Him. God gave Cyrus the work I wrote this down last night in the hotel. The work starts with one, but must be finished by many. God will put in the heart of someone a vision, a burden, and it starts with one man. And then God will raise up some uh some people. Will help him get it done. Somebody started this church. Somebody had a a vision to start the radio. And uh had a vision to to start the scriptures and get the scriptures around the world. And then the members rise up. And get together and get it done. Cyrus rose, God rose and stirred his heart to do a work. And then he said, uh who will go over and do the work? And then God said Then he said, And God will and God He's your God and He will be with you. I preached the message one time. Um with all the sayings that God was with him. God was with them. And when we see that, when God is with him, God is with us, we'll have no problem. You know, we see that um God raised up um uh Cyrus the king here to do a work, but it was the It was God's people that went to Jerusalem and rose up the priest and the Benjamites. They went over there and they did the work and they started the temple, but it wasn't finished. Zerub, they said Zerubbabel over there, a politician. And then he didn't he he did he built the temple. But it wasn't the the the people was not totally restored. And then uh Ezra Ezra went over there, the priest And then uh put some order. And then Nehemiah went. Nehemiah, great man of God There's a lot of lessons from Nehemiah that we can learn for ourselves. And then Nehemiah went over there, carried many people with him to build the wall. And one day, Nehemiah, he was uh he was the king's cupbearer in Persia. And one man came back from Jerusalem and he said, Hey, how's it going? How's it going over there? He says, terrible. The walls are all broken down. He was worried about the future. And Nehemiah says, oh, you got such a burden. There's a lesson. We need to get a burden about the things of God instead of things of it doesn't matter. What would it matter if we eat steak or balloon in this life? Nothing. But what would matter is what we've done for God One of the things important to us is getting our kids saved. I mean, we're more worried about getting them into Dollywood and getting them into the kingdom of God. Amen. Getting their kids right with gone. Well I tell you we we we we need to do a work. So Nehemiah, there's a there's a lesson here. Nehemiah, what's the first thing he does? He goes and prays. We didn't be a men of prayer. We need to have the calls God causes. Calls f for things for the go for God And then we are to be a minute prayer. Men of prayer. We need to pray for everything. Everything. He went and prayed and asked God, could I go? Could I go? And there's another thing. Nehemiah was a layman. You don't have to be a pastor, a preacher, or a missionary to go somewhere in the parts of the world and get something done. Nehemiah was a layman. He worked for the king. I don't know why someone here couldn't get up an evangelistic team and go to Bangladesh and Because in Bangladesh that's um it they they have uh uh freedom of religion. The Constitution says you can convert anybody you want. They have the old British Constitution Now 90% of them are are Muslims and uh the there's be some radical Muslims that could kill you. But it's nothing new to Paul. He's always suffering. But but most of them are liberal there, uh Muslims, and there's uh nine percent Hindu and uh there's half percent Catholic and half percent Christian. There's not a lot of work going on. Well I I I pray that God would put a stir some hearts for Bangladesh. And some men will go, like Nehemiah. They don't have to live there. They can come back. They can get just get the the ball going. Just like Cyrus. He said, hey, God put in my heart to build a temple. Did he go? No. God's people did. And they went and built it. But he funded it. Well anyway, God told Cyrus exactly what to do. He said, I want you to build me a temple in Jerusalem. And Cyrus said, I'm going to build a house for the God of heaven, for the God of Jerusalem, and he's the real God. That's what Cyrus said. He's the real God. We need to realize we need to do something for God, the God of heaven, the God of Jerusalem And you know, if we want to do something for the Lord, we need to be close to the Lord. Sometimes we're too far from the Lord to hear Him call. And to stir our hearts. And to stir our lives. Oh, there's a great work. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church has done more than you can imagine of getting these gospels around the world. But I want to challenge you tonight. There's a great work to do. Ask God to give you even greater works that you've have done from this point and on. Oh I tell you, there's some great things, and God's giving you a great leader, and God will put it in his heart, and you guys will rise up and you'll get it done. It's just his ideas, I guess. Why not? What are you going to do with your life? I mean what are they else better to do than to serve God and get the gospel out? I mean We only have one life to live. We only got a window of time that we can work. I was noticing the Kazakhstan. I think, man, can you imagine the heart? Somebody got a burden. They even put a map on the back. To get Kazakhstan. Oh, there's so many countries, there's so many things to do. And uh, you know, it's not about us, right? It's not about you. It's about the things of God. Amen. It's a thing about the things of God. We only have one life to live, so why not live it for the Lord? Now, Cyrus said, Who is there among you that will go? And Cyrus said, God will be with him. Your God will be with you. But go by faith. Go and serve the God of Israel and build him a temple. Oh, it won't be easy. But it'd be great rewards in heaven. Sometimes it's not easy for for us to do these things. It's time, effort, sacrifice. Oh, I tell you, you can do a hundred thousand. You can do it. Pastor said, Well you come and help me we'll do it. Amen. I tell you what, we'll get Brother Lee's church to come over and help. What do you think? No, no Hundred and one. You can do it. Right, Jaime, we can do it, right? Then he says God raised up Cyrus, stirred his heart. I want you to build me a temple. And then Cyrus says, Who will go and build the temple? And God rose up in verse 6, he says, and they were uh In verse 5, it says, Then rose up the chief of the fathers of Judah, Benjamin, and the priest and the Levites, with all of them whose spirit God had raised, to go up and to build the house of the Lord which is in Jerusalem. There were some that went. And there might be some here that God is calling you to go, to plan a church, to do a work in a foreign country. But here's the thing Verse 4, and whosoever remaineth in any place where he sojourneth, let the men of his place help him. With what? Silver, with gold, and with goods. And verse number six, and all they that were about them, they were about ready to go, strengthened their hands. with vessels of silver, with gold, with goods, with beasts, with precious things, besides all that were willingly offered. It's a free will offering. Nobody's going to force you to do anything. But those that stay So everybody's supposed to be embalmed. There's someone that gets a burden and a vision for a work. Then God raises up a group to go. And then there's some that stay. But you know what? They all received the same reward. I remember in Ziglag. David says, You guys stay here. We're gonna go get our wives and other stuff. But stay with this stuff. So when they got their wiser back and they came back, there was a little riffraff. You ever had a riffraff in church? Amen. We're in Mexico. We have riffraffs. And they said, well they didn't go with us and they didn't fight with us. They don't get they don't deserve anything. David says, No, they do. They stayed. They're part of us. We're all in this together. I had a cousin in Vietnam. Uh he didn't go to war because he couldn't go to war. Because he had a mom that was was uh ailing and he was taking care of her and he has a wife and kids and he's the only one that had a job and he's the only one that didn't and he didn't have no other family. So he had to stay And he supported the war. Some some have to stay. Is what I'm saying. But we're all be involved. Find your place in world missions, find your place in the work that God has for this church, and God and you will be blessed. God will bless you and your family and you'll have joy. You think there's joy out in the world, you got another thing coming. I was thinking as the preacher says, Well, what better place to be? Oh, in church. I don't want to be in jail, do you? I've been there. Been three months I got saved in jail when I was sixteen years old. I don't want to go back. Because I want to do a work for God. Amen. Oh I so desire I just so desire my kids to do a work for God. I won't I j I I I hope they do one day. I don't know how they're gonna turn up but We'll find out. You guys are gonna do a good job, right? You guys gonna be all right? Turn out good, hopefully. Okay. Bibles for the nations. I mean my whole heart and desire. Oh God's putting my work, in my heart, and I thank God it's God has rose up this church to help me to do that. We're co-labours together. And don't stop. There's a work to be done. There's nothing to do out there. It's all to do with the Lord. Amen. You want the excitement? You young guys want some excitement? Older fellows want to let's go to Bangladesh, amen Amen. The pastor would be really he's ready to go. Lee you can't get Lee Bowman to do nothing. He's too scared to go out of the can he won't even go to Maryland barley. Because he can't bring his gun. I'll just bring the Lord. Amen. I hope he's not listening. He's already listening to this. I'm just kidding, Brother Lee, okay? Don't tell him either if he didn't listen to it. He probably isn't listening to it. He said, I'll get you, brother Wheeler. We can hear him now. Did you know also King Cyrus? He said, oh, by the way, there's some gold and silver vessels that are God's In storage. Let's bring them out and give them uh put them back in the temple. Amen. Some of you might have some of that stored back and it's supposed to be in the church, amen. You can bring that next Sunday, I mean. And some buy some Bibles or something, you know what I mean? Yeah. So Sai you know I found out a long time ago, if you're going to do anything for the Lord And you want some people to help you, if they're not willing to give themselves, give something, uh they probably won't be good. for that work. If they're not willing to put in some money themselves or some time themselves, it's better to find someone else to do that So Cyrus, God's called me do the work, and by the way, I'm going to give to you. And he says, remember that guy's name? I can't remember Myth Rathad or something like that. The treasure he says, the treasure, hey, go get it some money out of the treasure too. And he added that. Sometimes we had may have to get it out of the out of the church bank account and put it towards the work. Amen. That building out there doesn't come up by itself, amen. It comes up by God's people. Amen. And it's for work. And uh this church here has supported us. uh and we'll be able to start a camp down there we see many people get saved. And man you you've got this radio station out there. Somebody got a a burden for the radio station. They got a vision and then somebody uh had to build those towers out there and some people got together and we're behind you. Let's get it done. And now look how many people was listening to the gospel It's there. And then there's scriptures. But what's next? I don't know. There'll be something to see. Amen. I drove up and I said, hey, there's a new building. Amen. What's next? I don't know. Pray that God will give you a greater work than you've done uh before. And why not? We're all going to die. Amen We got a f so many years to live, so why not do some great works for God? Amen? And so I want to challenge you tonight. Do the work. Do the work. There's a work to be done. And God wants to use this church, his people. to go and to give their life and their their resources. Thank you. Let's bow our heads together. And we heard