If you have your Bibles this evening, I'd like you to take them and turn to the book of 2 Timothy, chapter number 3. The book of 2 Timothy, chapter 3. I'm going to read two verses of Scripture. And then I'll pray and bring the message the Lord has laid upon my heart for tonight. In 2 Timothy chapter 3, verse number 13. Evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived. But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned, and hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them. Let's bow our hearts together in a word of prayer. Father, I thank you this evening. For the privilege of being in this church, for the fellowship that we've enjoyed and the songs that we've been able to sing We thank you for the blessed book, the Word of God. That's a lamp to our feet and a guide to our footsteps. And I pray tonight, Lord, as we open up this blessed book, the Holy Spirit would lead us and direct us, help us to accomplish that which you have purposed to do. I'm thankful, Lord, that you've touched my foot and things are progressing. And I pray, Lord, that you'd touch my voice and enable me to bring this message. That it might bring honor and glory to your name. Defeat the devil. Drive him back. Give us liberty and freedom in the pulpit tonight. And I'll thank you for what you do because we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. I want to bring a message from this portion of Scripture tonight on the subject remaining faithful in days of spiritual decline. It seems like our faith is constantly being put to the test in these days in which we live. As I look at this passage of Scripture, the Apostle Paul said that seducers, liars, deceivers are going to mount and increase in numbers as we approach the coming again. of the Lord Jesus Christ. The chaos that is present in this world is a test to our faith. In addition to that, I believe that the compromise that is so prevalent in the church today is a challenge to our faith. I believe as we progress and get closer to the Lord, it's apparent to me that there are so many Christians that have lost their desire and passion to see people come to know Christ as their personal Savior. It seems to me as we get closer to the coming of the Lord that we've settled down in such a pattern of living that holiness is not on our mind and it's not evident in our life. It seems to me as I look at this day in which we are living that there's fewer and fewer Christians that really have an honest and sincere desire To follow this book and align with this book and do what God has said in this book to his honor and to his glory. It's the time and season that we are living in. I believe as I survey the situation, it's becoming more and more apparent that the world is creeping into the church rather than the church getting out and influencing this world. God never meant for the world to influence the church. He never meant for us to adopt its standards and its way of life and its way of living. The Lord never meant for the church to be influenced in its music or its message or any of its activities. The world is not to be influencing the church. But the church is to be a testimony and a witness to this world of the saving keeping power of our Lord and Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. So our faith is put to the test with all of this chaos and with all of this corruption and all of the things that are occurring. And so Paul says in this passage of Scripture very clearly Irregardless of the deceivers and the liars and the deception, and those that are so living that way of life, continue thou in the things which thou hast learned. It's clear from that passage of Scripture that you and I are not to give up, we're not to abandon the ship, we're certainly not to turn away from the Word of God. But we need to turn to the Lord and allow him to work in and through our life that we might be a constant witness to this world. As I read this passage of Scripture, Paul certainly reminds us that these are the last days. He refers to it in verse number one as a perilous day, a difficult day, a hard day, day of great trouble and trial and persecution. And I believe the closer we get to the coming of the Lord, we are going to be persecuted. That persecution might not be as prevalent and we're not aware of it as much in our country as it is in many other countries. But it's coming here as well. Paul tells us in this passage of Scripture that these are defiling days. Beginning at verse number two through verse number nine, he unfolds for us things that are morally corrupt and people are adapting as their present lifestyle. He tells us in this passage of Scripture that Deception is going to be very prevalent prior to the coming again of the Lord Jesus Christ. Declining days. Demanding days that calls for you and I to continue on in the things of the Lord. I believe I want to challenge you tonight. Not to buckle under the pressure that is being put upon us. I want to challenge you this evening, not to forsake the tried and the proven path. That is so apparent in the Word of God. I want to challenge you this evening never to abandon the assignment that God has given to us to go into all the world. And reach the loss for the Lord Jesus Christ. So Paul very clearly throughout this book of 1 and 2 Timothy reminds us of the importance of holding fast. Holding fast. Don't abandon the ship. Don't give up. Don't turn the tide away from it. Hold fast to the things that God has showed you. Not only do we need to hold fast, but we need to be strong. Good soldiers of the cross need to be built up and strengthened by the truth of the Word of God. And in this passage of Scripture, continuing on. Don't get lazy in these days in which we live. Don't get weary in these days in which we live. Don't get disturbed and upset and want to throw in the towel. But continue on in the things. That God has showed us. Why? Because this is a day of spiritual decline. The numbers that want to stand true and faithful to the Lord are declining. They're declining. And we need to make sure that we hold the line. There's going to be a great departure in these days in which we live. The Bible tells us in 1 Timothy 4 and in verse number 1, now the Spirit speaketh expressly. That is, the Spirit is going to speak very clearly, unmistakably He's going to give you a message that is easy to understand. The Spirit speaketh expressly that in the latter times some shall depart from the faith I I I I want you to notice that word some. I don't want to be included in that number. I don't want Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church to be included in that number I don't want the people that have embraced the cross of Christ and have believed the Savior for salvation. I don't want them to be in that number. But Paul said there are going to be those, some, that are going to depart from the faith and give heed to seducing spirits and doctrines of devils. We see that happening today. It's going to be a day of great departure. It's going to be a day when some will abandon the faith. It's going to be a day when some are going to give in. To deceiving spirits and doctrines that are contrary to the word of the living God. We can see that happening today. There are those that accept false religion and embrace that. I don't think I've ever been so impressed as I was going through the land of Mexico and to see the stronghold that Catholicism has upon those people They bow down to an image that can't do a thing for them. They give their allegiance, they give their money, they give everything that they have To a statue that means nothing, that has no eyes to see, no ears to hear, no tongue to speak, no hand to offer any comfort, and that's what they bow down to in a false religion. That's not only true in Mexico, but it's true in other parts of the world. Man-made images That are nothing more than tools of the devil to send people to a Christless eternity. That's the day in which we're living. When that's going to flourish. When that's going to be in abundance. So people are accepting false religions as their way to heaven. Think of the great growth that Islam is having all around the world. And don't mistake it. The Islamic religion wants to take world dominion. They want to rule the world And if you don't bow down and accept their religion, they're ready to take our lives. False Bibles are being accepted today. A preacher announced that I'm a an old-fashioned King James Totent preacher, and I plan to stay there too. I don't want to be influenced by the the trend of our day when men are passing off a fake Bible that takes the name of Jesus out of it. I don't want a totem Bible that has weakened the message of the cross of Jesus Christ. I don't want a totem Bible that gives hope to people that that has no hope whatsoever. False Bibles are being accepted today. If you were to take a survey throughout this community, you would find church after church after church after church. That have accepted the false Bibles and translations of Scripture that do not align with the Word of God. We're going to be pressured to abandon that position. We're going to be under the gun. We already are looked at as being odd and weary and they just don't want to have anything to do with us because of our position on the Bible. God said, I don't want my word tampered with. I don't want you to take anything from my word. I don't want you to add anything to my word. It's preserved and kept intact, and you and I can be confident. If I thought one word could be taken out of that book, then any word could be taken out. Many of them don't get any further than Genesis 1-1. In the beginning God, and they're ready to shut the door right there. So we have false religions that are flourishing, and we have false Bibles that are being promoted. And we have a false salvation that is being proclaimed. Jesus said, I'm the way, the truth, the life, no man. No man comes to the Father but by me. Don't mistake that. There's not a Catholic way to heaven and a Baptist way to heaven and a Methodist way to heaven and a Presbyterian way to heaven and a Lutheran way to heaven And an Islamic way to have it, there is one way, and it's the Jesus way. And he said, There is no other salvation in any other name given among men whereby we must be saved Our day is the day of deception and spiritual decline. Not only is it a time of spiritual decline. But it's a time that we're going nigh to the coming again of the Savior. I feel a shout coming on right now. When I think about Jesus coming again, I get excited. I I I I'm ready to when he toots, I'm scootin'. This world has nothing to offer to me, and nothing to offer to you if you get get serious about it. Jesus is coming again. We are living in the hour, the day, when it could happen at any moment. There's no sign to be fulfilled. There's no prophecy to be discovered. There's no new manuscripts that's going to reveal something differently. He said, I'm coming again. If I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself that where I am, there he may be also The angels declared that, the scriptures confirmed that, Jesus promised that, and I'm ready to check out. In the book of 1 Peter, chapter number 4, and in verse number 7, the Bible said, But the end of all things is at hand. Be ye therefore sober and watch unto prayer. Now notice the insight that Peter had in this passage of Scripture. He said, the end of all things is at hand. Well, if it was close in his day, how much closer are we in our day? When he talks about the end, he's talking about the consummation of it all. He's talking about the fulfillment Of the prophecies that God has given to us in His Word. He's talking about a goal that is going to be achieved when Jesus comes again. Well, there's another word that you find in there. But the end of all things is at hand. And when he talks about being at hand, he's talking about it being ever so near. It's about to be accomplished. It's about to be had. It's about to occur. And we need to be ready for that. And so Peter not only has some insight to give to us, but he's got some instruction too. In light of that, in light of the fact that the coming of the Lord is at hand, the coming of the Lord is near, the coming of the Lord is imminent, here's what you ought to do. Number one, he said, you better be sober We're not talking about alcoholic beverages here. Let me just throw that in. God's people don't drink. They don't drink socially? Hello? I was reading not too long ago of a a church that is sir serving beer in their Sunday school hour because people will feel more comfortable when they come to what they call the house of the Lord. I call that a den of iniquity. I call that the height of deception. Peter said you better be sober, and that word sober means we need to exercise self-control in this day in which we live. If we believe that Jesus is coming again. Sober up, church. And that sobering experience is that you and I are going to exercise self-control. We're going to get a handle on things. Not only does it mean to to exercise self-control, but I believe it also means to curb your passions. Don't let them run wild and and and go off in in a variety of directions. He means for you and I to establish Clear thinking and sensible thinking as we approach that day of the Lord's coming. And then he says not only to be sober, but to be watchful. That word watchful there means to be alert. Wake up, church. Don't go to sleep. Don't get weary. Don't develop a DMI, but to be wide awake, to be alert, and to be a person that is observing what's happening in the day in which we live. And then he says prayerfully. You and I are to be sober, we are to be awake, and we are to be prayerful. Do you know what prayer does? When you and I pray, we are tapping into the very resources of our God. We're getting what he is able to do. I I've never understood why prayer, prayer meeting And and exercising prayer among the people of God is so neglected. When we pray, we're inviting God into the very situation and circumstances of our life. And we're going to receive what he is capable of doing. And he tells me, God tells me, God tells you, nothing. Oh, I feel a shout coming on right now. Nothing is impossible with me. You and I ought to be staggering at the promises of God. So excited about what He has promised and what He's capable of doing. And as we approach that coming of the Lord, there ought to be such a sober, watchful, prayerful attitude on the people of God that things begin to happen that wouldn't happen any other way. So the question is, how can we remain faithful during these days of spiritual decline? The first thing that I would say to you, And I say to myself as well: if we're going to remain faithful in these days of spiritual decline, then we need to stay fervent in the Word of God. Don't neglect your Bible. Don't avoid your Bible. Don't turn from the Word of God But turn to the Bible. Stay in the Word of God. Avail yourself of every opportunity that you have to get into this book called the Bible. You need to do it personally in the privacy of your home. You need to avail yourself of the availability of the church and what the church offers. I love to, when I'm traveling, I love to listen to to some good messages. I love to listen to some good Christian music. Availing ourselves of what God has given to us so that we might stay fervent in these days in which we live. You'll never be able to do that if you vacate the Word of God. This book is a lamp to our feet and a guide to our footsteps. The Bible is so important to us. We're saved by the word of God. The Bible tells us in the book of James, chapter 1, and verse number 18: Of his own will beget he us with The word of truth. That word begat there means to be born again. We have been born into the family of God as a result of our contact. With the Word of God. It has persuaded us, and the Holy Spirit has used that word to convince us our need of a Savior. We're saved. That's how important the Bible is. The Bible is important because we are to live by the Word. Jesus said man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God. I love bread, do you? D keeps telling me I'm about to be reduced to bread and water. That's all I'm allowed to eat. I said, well, if that's the case, I want to go over to that house that we were the other day and uh get their bread. What's that place called? Corn Cornish Manor, where they've got good bread over there So I'll eat their bread and drink their water. But man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word, every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God. In other words, if we put a high premium on our eating, We ought to put a higher premium on the Word of God. We ought to be doers of the Word. Don't just sit there and listen to it and hear it and go out and say, well, that was nice. Do something with it. God didn't give us the Word of God just to entertain us. He's given us the word so that we can align with it, so we can walk in its truths, so we can make sure that our life is conformed to what he's commanded us to do. That's the purpose of the Bible. The Bible is so important to us because that's how we grow. I would be tremendously discouraged and disappointed. I met their little baby If I come back in June and that critter, that well, that little fella is still the same size. Acting the same way? How old is he now? Three months. So when I get back, he's gonna be six months He ought to be sowing show show spent all this money on the foot, now my mouth doesn't want to work. He ought to be showing some signs of physical growth when I come back again. And you'd have every reason to be concerned if that was not happening. The same thing is true spiritually. There are people that have professed to know the Lord and have done that for year after year after year after year, but they don't seem to ever grow up They don't seem to show any spiritual maturity. When they ought to be teachers of the Word of God, they have need that somebody else teach them more and more and more. And you know what the problem is? We never put into practice what God shows us in His Word. His newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the word. Why? So that they can grow. They can grow. The Bible is so important to us because that's how our faith is increased. If you're having difficulty with your faith, it's because you're weak in the Word. Faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. Our faith is increased as we study and as we claim. You know, our faith is increased when we go back into the Old Testament and see what God was able to do. Our our faith is increased when we began to uh surf the pages of the New Testament and and see the hand of God and the blessing that He poured out upon His people and the great things that He was able to accomplish Our faith is increased. If God did it for them, God can do it for us. We defend ourselves from Satan's attack with the Word of God. Paul was outlining in Ephesians chapter six the battle that we're in, that we wrestle against principalities and rulers of darkness and All of these wicked things and devices that Satan has raised up. He said to put on the whole armor of God. And one of the things that he said we need is the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. You can quote Scripture, speak Scripture, and Satan has to bow down before you. That's the power of the word He's driven back and prevented from doing what he wants to do when the word is spoken So if you want to stay fervent in these days of spiritual decline, you need to stay in the Word of God. The second thing that I would say to you is that you need to fa stay faithful to the church. Stay faithful to the church. There's all kinds of things that vie for our attention and want to capture us and detour us and distract us and keep us away from the house of the Lord. I've never seen a day when it's so common among professing Christians to lay out a church on a Sunday night, or to lay out a church on a Wednesday night, or to lay out a church in revival meetings. But that's the day in which we live. But if you you want to stay on course, if you want to make sure that your life is walking in obedience to the Lord. And you're able to stand in these days of spiritual decline and be fervent and be faithful and to be on fire, then it becomes necessary that you stay faithful to the church. It's alarming me to me to see the the trend of church attendance today. There are many churches that that report that forty to sixty percent of their people Are inactive. Less than 10% of the people actually in any given church are the ones that carry the load. I know that's not true here. But I think we could increase it. We could increase that percentage. area of spiritual dropout when it comes to the church are those who just attend and never do anything. Now I'm going to do a little picking now. You never do anything. People that just come and sit and soak and sour and get up and go out those doors and never Assign themselves to anything in the church. They don't serve, they don't give They don't invite others, and they are the candidate for spiritual dropouts in the house of the Lord. Well, I guess I'm gonna have to say amen to that myself. I'm not getting much help tonight, preacher. Dropouts. You can look across this congregation tonight, and I've already brought it up to the preacher. And I said, we're so-and-so. Well, they don't come much anymore. Spiritual dropout. We're so-and-so. They they they were so faith. Well, they got a burr in their saddle and they rode off in their mule. What happened to so-and-so? Well, they went to a church that was more contemporary and more to their liking. I don't know about you, but I I wanna I want to be in a church where my toes get tramped on. Well not tonight, but I want to go to a church where where where the pressure's on, where where I get squeezed every once in a while, when when I'm confronted with a need that needs to change in my life. I want to be a part of a church that we can sing the praises of the Lord and not be embarrassed because we get a little excited or a little emotional over the songs that we're singing. I w I want to go to a church where the pulpit is hot and the people don't interfere with what is being preached from that pulpit. If I I could tonight, I'd just take a little trip around the altar and back up this way and say that's off limits to any church member. God communicates to the preacher what he wants them to preach. And if you don't have a preacher that's getting his message from the Lord, then you need to get rid of him and get someone that does. But I know this man. I've heard him preach, and I understand where he stands. And that's forbidden territory for the deacons. That's forbidding territory for church members. It's forbidding territory to try to tell them what to preach and how to preach it. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church does not pass out suggestions on what you'd like to hear. You don't have a suggestion box, do you? No, no. If you did, I'd go get it right now and take care of that. I want to go to a church where the Spirit has the liberty to move and accomplish what he wants to accomplish. That we we're not set down in in such a pattern that if it changes, everybody gets upset But how common it is, how common it is. We know when we're to stand, we know when where to sit down, we know when where to go out, we know when the service ought to be over I I've been in some churches where the preacher said, I I don't care how long you preach, but we're leaving at twelve. That's no problem if that's when the Lord wants that over with. You need to stay faithful to the church. People that drop out, spiritual dropouts, are individuals that just don't do anything whatsoever. You're a candidate for a spiritual dropout. The most important place in this town is the church, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Is this being broadcast in any way? Good. This is the place to be. This is where the gospel is preached. You come to Mountain Lake Baptist Church, you're going to hear the Word of God You come to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, you're going to be amongst people that love God. You come to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, you're going to be amongst the people that care for one another. Oh, I know we josh with each other and we poke at each other. But the truth of the matter is we love each other. This is the most important place in town. Why? Because it's the pillar and ground of truth. And you need to keep it that way. This is the most important place in town because the church was established by Christ. It belongs to Him. He shed his blood for the church. This place is important because we are to be committed to the functions of this church. Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is. You joined this church, there was a covenant. You agreed to live by that covenant. And one of the aspects of that covenant is that I will faithfully support the activities of this church. You want to remain faithful in these days of spiritual decline, then you need to stay connected to the church. The church is the power of God to stand against the gates of hell. And Satan is on the rampage in these days in which we live. There's not a one of us that would deny that tonight. It's alarming to see what he's doing. The lives that he's destroying, the homes that are being ruined by satanic lies and deception. Nations that are crumbling under the hand and the fist and the movement of the devil himself. If he had his way, he would do everything in his power to dethrone God That's his plan. But thankfully, he won't accomplish that. If the devil had his way today, he would gam every soul and send them to a crisis eternity. If the devil had his way tonight, he would discourage you and me from serving the Lord Do everything in his power to dilute this book called the Bible. Believe me, he's doing a pretty good job at that. It is amazing to me the number of so-called fundamental churches that are caving in to the lies of the devil. I I I get I I get so alarmed when I hear a church got a new pastor You gotta go check it out. You gotta go find out whether that man stands where you stand. You gotta go check it out and make sure that he's preaching the truth of the Word of God. The devil will do everything in his power to defile this world with moral corruption and religious deception. So if you want to stay faithful, In days of spiritual decline, you're going to have to stay connected to the church and you're going to have to stay fervent in the Word of God. The third thing I'd say, and we'll go home. You need to stay faultless, though surrounded by corruption. In the book of Second Timothy Chapter number two, the book of 2 Timothy, chapter 2, beginning with verse number 19. 2 Timothy 2, 19. Nevertheless, the foundation of God standeth sure having this seal, the Lord knoweth them that are his. Now let me just stop there for a moment and say this. The devil knows who's saved, who's lost, and I'm thankful the Lord does too. He knows whether you're really in or whether you're on the outside. He knows whether you've been born again or whether you've just made a religious profession and you've never truly been born again by the Spirit of the living God. He knows, He understands. And that's that that foundation is sure because he's put his seal of approval upon us I know whom I've believed, and am persuaded that he's able to keep that which I've committed unto him against that day. Are you standing true and faithful to the Lord? If the world gets worse, there ought to be such a distance between the world and the people of God that it's noticeable, that it's recognizable. And yet I see the world goes that way, we just take a step closer and a step closer and a step closer and a step closer. We justify that everything is okay because there's a marginal difference between what the world believes and what the world lives and where we are. But the worse the world gets, we should still be where we ought to be. Would you agree with me this evening, things that maybe ten, fifteen years ago would have never been accepted or tolerated or being accepted and tolerated by the church today? There are notable individuals today that are siding with the fact that there's nothing wrong with homosexuality. I'm talking about preachers that once stood for the faith. And yet God's word says it's an abomination. Abomination You and I are to be characterized by holiness. Living a life of purity, becoming more like Jesus every day. And do you know how that happens? We press toward the mark of the prize of the high calling of God. That is in Christ Jesus. We're not going to be distracted. We're not going to be detoured. We're not going to fall to the line of deception. We're just going to keep pressing on. Pressing on to become more like Jesus every day. As you look at your life, Would you say you're more like Jesus today than you were a month ago? A year ago? Five years ago? Ten years ago? Is there a progressive becoming more like Jesus every day? These are days of spiritual decline. But the light shines brightest in the darkest hour. Let your light shine. Let's stand for prayer. Every head is bowed and every eye is closed and I want to challenge you this evening to stay in the battle. To stay firm and committed. Don't be fooled by the devil's lies. Don't cave in to the pressure that can come from family and friends. Don't dip the flag. Hold it high. Hold it high If there's any area of your life that you know is not in alignment with the Word of God, you need to get it straightened out and get it straightened out now. If your light is not shining as bright as it ought to, you need to bow before God and ask Him to help you. To be a testimony, to be a light in this world of darkness and moral decay. Do you become a little bit slack in your church attendance, a little bit slack in your devotion to the Word of God? You've lost your passion to see people saved. You've allowed the world to influence you in such a way that you've adapted some of its standards and I would encourage you to get it right tonight. Get back on course. We're going to have a word of prayer and pianist will play, and if God has spoken to you in some way, I'd invite you to join us at the altar tonight. Let's follow the leading of the Lord. Father, we thank you for thy precious word that's a lamp to our feet and a guide to our footsteps. Thankful, Lord, for the truth that we find in your word. How it can strengthen us and bolster our faith and deepen our commitment. To what you desire for us. Pray the Holy Spirit would sweep across this auditorium. Do a mighty work in each of our hearts tonight, Lord, that would enable us to become more like Jesus than what we were yesterday. Speak to hearts tonight. All her heads are bound and her eyes are closed, and the pianist is playing.