Thank you so much, preacher. It's uh just has been such a blessing to be with you these days. I thank God for the fact that he hadn't kicked me to the curb yet. He's still letting me serve him and I enjoy every minute of it. And um, you know, i it's getting older is not for sissies. And um uh you have to enjoy it because you can't change it. You know, you can regret it all you want to and all that kind of stuff, but uh it's either get old or die. And uh so I know this that somewhere as I get older I am gonna die, so I'm gonna enjoy from here to there And I do enjoy it. I I love life. I love living it. I love what God has me doing. I can't imagine doing anything else. Uh I there's a variety of things I can do with carpenter by trade. I could go into the building trades. Uh I worked on the funeral and if you drop dead I could take care of you know the equipment and uh there's a variety of things I can do, but God called me and put me into the ministry And it's been a wonderful, wonderful venture. But uh as I've gotten older, just certain things take place in your life. You can't really control it. You just have to try to figure out what to do. But I gotta tell this on me. I I have to do this. I mean if you can't joke with yourself you might as well hang it up. Yesterday morning I get up and shower and and dress and I I go to get me a good cup of coffee And uh uh McDonald's generally has a halfway decent cup of coffee and so between here and McDonald's, I think to myself, uh the preacher gives me his truck to drive these days and And I think this it is so quiet and tranquil. And I haven't heard of this peaceful in forever. And uh I started to say, man, Maryland really probably needs to be the place I live. I I just haven't been anywhere where it's this quiet and tranquil. I get to cr I get to the McDonald's and I go up to the little girl and uh I see her lips move and uh I say excuse me and She speaks up and I go to turn my hearing aids up and I don't have them in. That's the reason it was so quiet and tranquil. I didn't have my hearing aids in So I had to explain to her. And uh I said, sweetheart, I I hate to tell you this, I said, but I wear hearing aids. I'm not deaf, I'm just hard of hearing, but I left my hearing aids uh in the room where I'm staying and I said, You're gonna have to speak up. She said, Not a problem, sir, not a problem. Uh so anyway, uh I used to be able to have the excuse and say, I can't hear you but And now I have these things plugged in my ear. And you know it's really interesting because I've worn 'em now for a year or so and and um I uh I couldn't hear thunder. And I didn't realize how deaf I was until I got my hearing aids and my wife, I I'd watch television and no one would stay in the room with me. And uh I I I just figured, well, they don't like Westerns. And uh so after I got my hearing aids, my wife started coming into the family room. And one night we're sitting there, it's just she and I, and we're sitting there and she says, um, Honey, can I ask you a question? I said, sure. She said, uh, can you hear the television? I said, oh yeah, I hear it very well. She said, that's amazing to me. I said, well, she said, I can't hear it. And uh I said, I want to try an experiment. And she said, All right. So I took my hearing aids out. And I turned the TV up to where I could hear it. Then I put my hearing aids back in. Now I understood why everybody left the room. I wanted to leave the room too, so I'd better turn it down. But I I just thought that was kinda amusing. I I thought boy it's so quiet, so tranquil, it's just so peaceful. Didn't have a hearing aids in. So anyway Two prayer requests I have very quickly for you. A dear, dear friend of mine that has been a preacher of my friend of mine for about 42, 43 years, by the name of Dr. Meyer Geiler. out of uh Marietta, Ohio, uh Marietta Bible Center Church, good friend, doctor about 82 years of age. He suffered a heart attack on Monday. He's in the hospital. And still pastoring, still preaching. And would you just try to pray for him, if you would please? And I I know he would appreciate you doing that. And then have a nephew. that fell off of a three-story building last night and he's in the hospital. No internal injuries. How he escaped that I don't know, but did mangle one of his legs and had all kinds of compound fractures. Things of that nature. His name is Jacob Gilbert. I appreciate you praying for him. He's a young man that made a profession of faith under my ministry but haven't seen any development. really in his life, and that's great concern to me. You see, uh birth is life and life always produces the evidence that it's alive. And I just firmly believe that. Now, I want to thank the pastor for entrusting me with you and with his pulpit. uh to pastoring for forty-four years, I don't take that lightly because there's several times in my ministry that I had to straighten out what an evangelist came in messed up And I'm serious about that. So when uh when a brother asks me to come in and hold a meeting, that's very special to me, and it's I treat it very, very carefully I want him to not only like me when I leave, I want him to love me when I leave. And I want him to be thankful that uh he brought me here. And and I don't say that with any tongue or cheek. I I seriously mean that. I I hope that I may not have given you a full meal But I pray that I've given you something each service that you can say, I can chew on that. I can chew on that. And something that hopefully that has benefited your life. So, preacher, thank you for the opportunity and privilege of being here. And uh his sweet wife, I thank her for her kindness and gentleness. towards me. Church, thank you for putting up with me. There have been good crowds every night and I appreciate that so very, very, very much And I don't take that for granted. Uh I wish we could sit down and get to know each other a lot better. You may not want that, but I I sure would like that And especially not that I wouldn't care all of you, but there's some of you that we just kinda like Anna Green Gables, you know, we have a kindred spirit And I just kinda like to sit around and kind of see how your heart beats. And but I want to ask you if you would please uh I fly out of here tomorrow. The preacher takes me over to Pittsburgh and my flight leaves at 11. Uh they've got me going to LaGuardia to go to Cincinnati. And they had that coming over here but it never did develop and it took me to Atlanta to get here. So no no no telling where I'll go tomorrow to get home. But uh just pray to have a good flight and that God allow me to be joined back with a little white-headed grandma in Cincinnati, if you would. Then pray for my ministry that God has given me. Would you please Uh if you have a prayer list, put put our name on there. And uh as you come across from time to time, just pray for me and uh That God would use me, I'd stay tender to his call in my life and and allow something to happen as a result. of doing what I believe God has called me to do. And I believe I do believe that this is more than my choice. I believe that God has me exactly doing you know, I and I'm going to get to our scripture. You can turn to Psalm 1578 if you would please and that's where the scripture is going to be. As you turn there, I know pastors that have stayed too long. And they've stayed there for their benefit and security, and they beat a church to death and just about mangle it and then somebody after they die, somebody comes in and has to try to pump life back into it. And so I p I prayed that God would keep me cognizant of uh my timing in my life. And uh it was one of the hardest, if not the hardest, decision ever made was to stand before my people that love me and I love them. Maybe I'm saved under our ministry. Miracle after miracle sprinkled all of that large auditorium for God put back together what the devil tried to tear apart and for me to stand on a Sunday morning and let them know that their preacher was retiring Couldn't hardly get through that. Hardest thing they ever had to do on a ministry scale. But uh anyway, after I did it, now that I've entered into evangelism, God gives me indicators Week after week, you did right. You did right. And the church I left is just it's just booming. It's just going. My associate pastor is now the pastor. And he's a young man, 33 years of age, and taking over that size of a ministry, but God's unable he's just an unusual young man. But pray for us if you would please My wife doesn't know you, but she says she loves you. And the reason she loves you is you've been good to me these days. So thank you so very much. All right. Take your Bible and turn with me to Psalm 78 And uh for those of you that keep notes, for those of you that want titles or whatever, I want to preach to you on this subject. Let me tell you a story. And hopefully you'll see that. Perhaps within our text, it's not the title within our text, but there's emphases to that in what I'm getting ready to read. And then by the help of the Holy Spirit we will develop what I believe God would have us give you. So stand with me if you would please. And let's read. And we're going to read Psalm 78 and we're going to read down through verse 8. Psalm 78, verses 1 through 8, and then we will Make our prayer, and then you can be seated, and I will deliver what I believe God has on my heart. Give ear, O my people, to my law. Incline your ears to the words of my mouth. I will open my mouth in a parable. I will utter dark sayings of old, which we have heard and known, and our fathers have told us. We would not hide them from their children, showing to the generation to come the praises of the Lord and his strength and his wonderful works that he has done. For he established a testimony in Jacob and appointed a law in Israel, which he commanded our fathers that they should make them known to their children. That the generation to come might know them, even the children which should be born, who should arise and declare them to their children, that they might set their hope in God and not forget the works of God But keep his commandments, and might not be as their fathers, a stubborn and rebellious generation, a generation that set not their heart aright, and whose spirit was not steadfast. With God. Father, we want to thank you for the privilege of being here these days. This precious church has been so good to me and kind to me and complimentary. Bless them, I pray, for having your servant here these days. Lord, I pray you breathe upon the pastor and his leadership, Brother Grant and his leadership with youth and other things that He'll be doing his sweet family. Dear God, I pray, bring a true, honest to goodness, heaven sent Holy Spirit revival into the heart of each and every one here. Father, it'll be a joy to stand back and watch God do what only God can do. Now, Father, we can thank you for yesterday, but That's gone and that's passed and it is now embedded in our minds as nothing more than a memory. But tonight's brand new, unused territory, unmarked. And Father, we are yet to establish your message, your word, in the minds and the heart of this people. Father, enable me, I pray, clean me of myself, and fill me with your Spirit That you would enable me tonight to declare what I believe is such a vital message to the minds and the hearts of this people. Father, as you do it, our praise and thanksgiving is given to thee. Lord, thank you so much for who you are and what you are. What you mean to us, but dear God, what we mean to you. So we thank you for it in advance. Christ's name we ask it. Amen. God bless you, and you may be seated. I want you to notice in our text, and we'll we'll touch on this, probably duplicate it just a little bit. But he says in verse 2, he uses an interesting word that generally is tied to the New Testament only. But in truth it is here within the Old Testament and This is a psalm, not of David, but of Asaph. And I want you to notice verse 2, he uses the word parable. Now, if I were to ask probably even young children here tonight for one of them to give me a definition of the word parable, they could do it. It's a very simple word, and we tie it to this, an earthly story with a heavenly truth. You'd be accurate in that. That's that's not a bad definition. But I want to tie to it that it is a specific story to be told. It's not just something out there. It is not once upon a time. It's not that. It is something that is life-changing, future-changing, and even eternal changing. A parable. A parable. It's a story. It is an important story. It is absolutely of necessity. That not only it be told, but it be told continuously. We're going to see that in just a moment But I want you to notice that he uses another phrase in verse 2 that is an interesting phrase, or at least it was, when I tripped across it in my Bible reading. Look what he says in verse 2. I will utter dark sayings of old. Isn't that an interesting frame? Or at least it is to me. I will utter dark sayings. Now, if you and I would kind of think of dark sayings, we probably kind of think that's eerie. Spooky ghost stories, but that's not what it means. It means a story that I was not there To behold it. I was not there to understand it. So it is a story that someone experienced It's mystery to me, but they bring it to light. That's what Asap has here. He has a generation of people, several generations of people, as a matter of fact, that Was not back in the times of the slavery of the children of Israel in Egypt. And finally, when God brought them through by Moses' leadership, brought them out of Egypt, putting them in the land of wandering, and then on into the land of Canaan, they were not there. They did not experience it. But here he says, it's a parable, it's a story, it's important that you understand it. And it depends on how you count this, and I've read different accounts on it, but It is very possible that you can read through here and he is saying it needs to go to at least the fifth generation. Now, when do you get out of the fifth generation? You don't. Because the fifth generation always is coming. So you're never to stop the story. Now, let me uh kind of tell you a little bit about me. You you kind of think you maybe you've learned to know me that Uh I was raised on a farm. I'm kind of a country kid. I'm long winded. I know that. And uh but at this age it's hard to stop a train that's still moving and uh I understand all that But let me tell you kind of some interesting stories about me, about my background, about my family. I'm the youngest of eight children, raised on a farm in southwestern Ohio. My brother just recently purchased the old farmplace from the rest of his of his siblings and uh he lives adjacent to the farm and That's where we were all raised, all eight of us, mom and dad, and my grandfather. It's not so much that that I want you to understand, although I am going to come back to a little point that is kind of amusing But my grandfather on my mother's side was many years senior to my grandmother, and it was really a marriage of convenience. Because a serious illness came through Kentucky at that time, and my grandfather's first wife and two children died in that illness. That left him with three children without a mother. So somewhere he got connected with my grandmother, which was about 17, 18 years, his junior And for whatever reason, she consented to marry my grandfather and to take care of his three children. And then she bore five more children by him, my mother being one of them. But he was the sheriff of Jackson County, Kentucky. Matter of fact, you can Google him and he'll come up. You can even find a picture of him. I never knew him. He died way before I was ever born. But I used to sit at the feet of my grandmother, literally, just for her to tell me stories. And it wasn't just me alone, it was many of my siblings, and she was a little skinny woman, about that big And uh she delighted in telling the stories of her husband. Somewhere along the line, that attachment of convenience became a love relationship. She loved my grandfather. She used to talk about when he was a younger man he had coal black hair and a red handlebar mustache. By the time I ever saw his picture, they both matched. But she would tell me stories about him arresting people that were very, very interesting, and I'll not go into that tonight, but See, I wasn't there. That was a dark thing to me. It had to be told to me for me to understand who my grandfather was on my mother's side. And do you know what I've done? I've sat my five sons down through the process of years, and I have told them the story of my grandfather My grandmother was very ill as a little child, and she was raised by her grandfather, who was a medical doctor. But he was, now listen to this, he was a turkey rancher. Never heard of it. But my grandmother would talk about the turkey drives that they had. Can you imagine trying to herd turkeys? I don't really know how to do it, but they would always find some group of trees so the turkeys can roost at night and then somehow they'd get them out of the roost in the morning and they would take them into market. I don't know how they did those things, but obviously they did. I buried my grandmother when she was almost ninety-nine. Switch over the aisle to my father's side of the family. I never knew his mother. She was a very heavyset lady. She weighed 311 pounds. That's by his description, although instead of saying she was fat or heavy, he said she was fleshy. I never knew or I wished I had, but I did know my dad's dad. As a very, very, very young man And I think this is interesting, especially when we're in 2015, to go back many years ago and to find out that my dad's dad drove a stagecoach for Wells Fargo in the state of Illinois as a young man. That almost doesn't relate because we we don't think that that's within the realm of our generations, that's way back out west, cowboys and Indians. But he too is recorded. After he left Wells Fargo for whatever reason, he met my grandmother. They moved into Kentucky. And there he lived for many years, and when they finally came to the state of Ohio, they came to the state of Ohio on a Conestoga wagon with a milk cow tied to the back of it. Now I wasn't there. I didn't experience any of that. I didn't know any of that. But the reason I know that is my father. In the evenings, we had no television. We only had an old Phil Cole upright radio, and we listened on Friday and Saturday nights to the old radio programs of gangbusters. Lulabelle and Scotty, the thin man, the fat man, who knows what evil lurks in the heart of men The shadow moles. Now, and uh you know some of you were there. And on Friday night we we never had the privilege of soft drinks and candy and ice cream and things of that, except on Friday night, my mother and father would see to it that we got a couple dips of ice cream, M Ms And a soft drink to drink. There were so many of us that we started arguing over who had more of what color of an MM. So my older sisters would sit down on the table, dump the whole bag of MMs out, and they would sort of colors by numbers so we younger children wouldn't argue over who had more of what At night, there was eight of us children, mom and dad, in five rooms and a path, P A T H. And we slept somewhat like cordwood in those three bedrooms upstairs in that old farm house. And here's what would happen. Someone would start, one of the children would start, and they would say this. Good night, Mom and Dad. Forgive me for being mean. Mom and dad would go back. Good night, children. You're forgiven. So all of us, we used to say, good night, mom and dad. Forgive us for being mean, and mom and dad would repeat the same thing for eight children. Finally, somebody got the idea of ditto So one would start it, good night, mom and dad. Forgive us for being mean. And the next one would holler, same. Same, it would go through the next seven children. Then mom and dad got wives to where they would wait till all eight sames were there And our mother and dad from their bedroom would speak loudly. Good night, children. You're forgiven. And we love you dearly. See, I did experience that. I experienced getting up at five o'clock in the morning and having to help milk cows. I I experienced that. I hated cows. I resisted to drink milk. I drank it under protest. Because I know what work it was to get it. I know what it was to churn butter. And we can go on. I also know what it is to clean stalls. And the story goes on. Now, my children can come and they can tell you those same stories. They weren't there, they didn't experience it, but how do they know it? I told them. One of my daughters-in-law is a Cajun girl from the Bayous of Louisiana. And I told her some time back she's a phenomenal cook. And I told her, I said, Holly, sweetheart, her name was Holly Metrogene. That's about as about as Cajun as you can get. And I told her, I said, honey, you don't even have to put your food in the oven to cook it. The spices you put in it does a pretty good job of it She came to me after she'd been married to my son for a little while, and she's a sweet girl, and we love her dearly. And uh she sat with me one day and all of my daughters-in-law call us mom and dad and she said, Dad said, can I ask a question of you? And I said, Sweet, you can ask whatever you want. She said, would you tell me about your family? Because when she came to the family, my dad was gone and my mother died shortly after they got married. Would you tell me about your childhood? Would you tell me how you're raised? So you're one of the dead? I told her the parable. Of dark things. You can ask Holly tonight, can you tell me much about your in-laws? She knows as well as my children. She was not there. You see, preacher, where's this going? It's going to this text. We are to tell the story. There is a devastating thing in the realm of not just fundamentalism, but in the realm of religion itself. And that is, we are failing to tell the story. And I'm not talking about telling the story out there. I'm telling you to sit down with your family and tell them the story. We're going to get into it. You're probably wishing I would. But I want us to look at several things. There's four things that I want us to look at out of this text. Four. Number one, I want you to look at verses one, two, and three. I'm not going to reread this text because it would just linger on. You heard it, now you can read it yourself. But here's the first point that I want to give you, and that is this, we are under a divine directive Under a divine directive. Look what it says. Give ear, O my people, to my law, incline ears to the words of my mouth. Let's look at that just for a moment, if you would please. Give ear. What does he mean to give ear? Listen. Listen. How many of you can relate to this as a parent? As a grandparent, I I love this pew of boys. It brings back so many memories. Matter of fact, they get bigger but they never grow up. Isn't that exciting? But how many of you can relate to this? You're talking to a child and they're not looking at you. They're everywhere, their body's there, but you know their mind is galaxies away. And finally, you just look at them and you get them by the chin and lift it up and say, Are you listening to me? You know they're not. And here's what I've done. I'm not very smart, but I I can figure some things out on the level of a child and that's about where I am. But I've had them say, Oh yes, yes, yes, Dad, I I I'm I'm listening. All right, tell me what did I just tell you? Uh uh then they get to be like porky pig. But e b-b-b- you know that they can't tell you they're confused, they don't know what you just said ASAP says this, that we are under a divine directive to give ear. What I have to tell you is life. Changing. Not only is it life changing, it's eternal changing. I have a story that you must hear. But now, wait a minute. You've got to know the story to tell it. And I'm afraid that a lot of people don't know the story. Well-meaning people, religious people, church people, but they don't know the story. I would sit with my father, I wish you knew him, and I miss him. He's been out of my life for so many years. So many. But he was such a wise man and I I miss him. But I remember, I mean, un until he passed away, there was times I I would go to him and I'd say, Dad, Tell me. And I would tell him what I wanted to know. Tell me about this or that. And he would tell me the story. I wanted to know. See, that's somewhat what Paul means when he's instructing Timothy in 2 Timothy chapter 2. When he says, Study to show thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, but rightly dividing the word of truth. You know what he is saying? He is saying, Through that study you're saying, Father, tell me the story. Tell me who you are, tell me what you are, tell me the story Our churches, now listen to me, and this is a crucial statement. I don't say it unkindly, but it's a crucial statement. Our churches will never rise any higher than the spiritual character of its people. It's an impossibility. And one of the reasons that our churches are failing numerically and spiritually is because they have failed to tell the story. And a lot of the reason I'm suspicious that they're failing to tell the story is they don't know it. See, you cannot give what you do not have. It's kind of like a full brush man that's bald headed trying to sound brushes. It doesn't work. Because he's never had to use one. Give me somebody that has a thick head of hair that has had to use the product, now I'll listen to you. Let somebody that has expressed through the character of their walk that you can tell they've been with God. Let them tell me the story. And that's what I wanted in my dad, and that's what my father gave me. He made Jesus look so good to me. Can I tell you a funny little story I told it to Brother Grant and the preacher today? I have two sisters, they're both home with the Lord, that never were married. One died one week before her wedding. The other one never had any desire to ever be married and and she was of right character. She just had no desire to ever be married, never in her heart, she never had any one. She lived with mom and dad until she died at the age of 58. But she was a funny woman. Her greatest little companion was a Pekingese dog. I don't know whether she loved the dog, but she really liked the dog. She treated that dog almost, almost like a human. My dad was such a funny little man. Uh he loved to tempt it. And he would wait till my sister fed the dog and the dog didn't want you around the food dish, so that's when my dad would make sure he went out there and he would drive that dog nuts. And every once in a while he couldn't move fast enough and the dog would bite him and he just he said, Well, I deserved that. He wouldn't get mad at the dog, he'd I just deserve that. But my sister would feed that dog like she is preparing food for a human being. That dog did not know what dog food was. It looked at it as some strange thing, I suppose, if it ever saw it. And what my sister did, listen, she had a plastic plate that had the divisions, the dividers in it And she would feed that dog a meat, a vegetable, and a dessert or a salad, and that dog ate it. I mean it licked that plate clean. One day I was visiting mom and dad and my sister lived with them and she was fixing She was fixing the dish of food for the dog, and I was sitting at the table, and she was just preparing this like a gourmet chef for this crazy little Peganese dog. The more I looked at that, and I had not eaten, I looked at my sister, her name was Donna Rose, and I caught her Rosie. I said, Rosie. Will you do me a favor? And she said, what is it? I said, fix me a plate just like that. She said, that's the dog's food. I said, I don't care. That looks good and I'm hungry. I said, fix me a plate just like the dogs. Now I'm going to tell you what kind of meat it was. It's a human food, but many, many people don't eat it. And if you found out what it really was You probably wouldn't need it. It's Brunschweiger. Some of you know what Brunschweiger is. Do you know what it is? It's basically unborn calf. They make like a pate out of it. Pate for a dog. And my sister finally complied. And I ate it, although I did find out I don't like brunchweiger. But the point I'm trying to make is this. She made it look desirable. Where I wanted it. The point being As people observe you and your supposed testimony of your love of the Lord Jesus, do you make him wanted? Do you make him desirable? Do you make him be presented in such a way that someone can say, I want him. I want what you have. We're failing. Let me tell you a story. Give ear, he says. And then not only does it say give ear and listen, he says, but incline your ear Now I'm not going to spend as much time on that except to give you what he's meaning. When he says give ear, he says, you're to yield to what I have to say, you're to submit to what it is telling. Incline your ear. Alright, I'm hearing. Now I'm willing to do. Then he goes on and he says, I'm reminding you this is a story of dark things. What is our dark sayings? It's this that our fathers told us. Let me tell you about the Egyptian enslavement. Let me tell you about the hardships for 400 years. Let me tell you of the greatness of God's mercy to move upon the heart of Moses and to lead them out. 40 years of wandering, finally to be led into the promised land. Let me tell you a story. I don't mean to be unkind, and I don't want to present it in such a way that you would be offended by it, but what if someone came to you and said, Can you tell me the story? Can you take the Bible and show me the story? How many people can't? I think one of the great tragedies of the pastor, and some of your pastor and others here may be able to recognize this, for people to come up to me and say, Pastor Uh, would you come and witness to my husband or my children? I don't know they're saved or not. And I'm not trying to be unkind, but uh many times I say, have have you talked to them? Or I can't talk to my family. My dear friend, there's a problem when you can talk to the next door neighbor easier than you can your child. Well, no why? Because I have a story. And it's for your benefit. And I want to tell you, so we are under a divine objective. Secondly, I want you to look at verse 4. We will not hide them from their children, showing to the generation to come the praise of God and his strength and his wonderful works they have done. Not only am I under a divine directive, but we have a divine duty. Now, here's the thing. When I was working my way through Bible college, I worked for National Cash Register Company. Went to school at night in those days, and then later I switched over to day classes and finished my degree work there. But um I was a machinist for the National Cash Razor's Company, a lathe operator, steel lathe. Now, they didn't just hire me, put me on his feet, and say, figure it out They had a job setter that his primary job was to teach me how to operate that machine, set it up. so I could run it and if I had problems, he was always there to help figure it out. Do you think that God just saves us and then Throws us out in the mix of things and say, you figure it out? Not on your life. He's a good daddy. And I want you to see something here in verse 4. Verse 4 reveals to us The fact that I'm to tell what I have been told. What have you been told? He said, Well, nobody's told me anything. Learn from this message tonight. Your responsibility. But I want you to see something else. What am I to tell? Here it is. He reveals three things that we're to tell. He shows it right there in that verse. Look what he says. First of all, I'm to talk about the praises of God. That's singing. Has God given you a song? Schofield, he did me. He gave me a song. And if you're here and you have heard the story, he gave you one too. Let the redeemed of the Lord say so. I have something to tell you. I have a story. Let me sing it to you. Then look at the second thing is not only the praises of God, but the strength of God. There's no circumstance that comes into our life that is greater than He. You can trust Him. You can rest in Him. You can believe in Him. What a mighty God we serve. Ye are in his hand, and he is in his father's hand, and nothing No man, no circumstance, nothing in life had the ability to pluck you out. That's shouting time. A clean hanky and a clean aisle will work on that one. Just make sure you're going the same direction. But notice the third thing he says here is the wonderful works of God. Preacher, here's a good testimony meeting. Preacher, take five minutes. Now you have more to say than this, but in five minutes, tell me the wonderful works of God in your life. He gets done. Brother, are you a saved man? Do you know Christ? Do you have a story? Tell me the wonderful works of Christ in your life. Do you have any? Oh my. Great is thy faithfulness. Morning by morning, new, new mercies I see. I don't have to rely on yesterday. God gave me a brand new package today. Count your many blessings. See what God hath done. The wonderful works of God. But see, my dear friend, you have got to experience the relationship and you have got to hunger for that relationship because someone sat down and said, let me tell you a story. Goes way back hundreds of years, thousands of years. Let me tell you a story. Do you know why you're here as a redeemed person tonight? Because someone knew the story. And it was real. It wasn't a myth, it wasn't once upon a time, it was I was there when it happened. And I ought to know. Change my life. It'll change your life. I don't know who you're tonight. I don't know where you're at. I don't want to know what you're going through. But let me tell you something. He's able. Let me tell you the story. Have you ever seen the impossible saved? Well I have. I love it when I was impossible, although I won the bad person in the sense of society. I was a young kid, but God saved me. There was a birth taking place in the back seat of my daddy's car coming home from church one Sunday night. I desired heaven and not hell, and by simple childlike faith I asked Jesus to save me and you know what happened? He did. But some man can come down the pike and live like a hell in himself and a first cousin to the devil and have a a life that stinks Do you realize it took as much of God's grace to save a little boy in the backseat of a car as it did the worst of sinners? Yeah. Let me tell you a story. I don't know these this young couple, but I've watched them. They've been here every service. Every service. I'm excited for them. Four precious boys. Hey kids. Tell them the story. There sits the potential of tomorrow's generation. But they've got to have the story They've got to have it. They've got to have it in mama. They've got to have it in daddy. They've got to see the reality that's more than just something said. It's a life It's a life. This thing of don't don't do as I do, do as I say, doesn't work. It doesn't work. Then let's look at a third thing. Verses five and six. For we establish a testimony in Jacob and appointed law in Israel which he commanded our fathers that they should make them known to their children That the generation to come might know them, even the children which should be born, who should arise and declare them to their children. The third thing is we have a divine decalogue And I just use that word because I needed another word with a D, and all that means is this. We're under a divine law. Run under a divine law. See, laws are to be kept, not ignored. God's law is to be kept, not ignored. See He says here that he hath established a testimony. But in verse five He has commanded it. He established a testimony in Jacob and appointed a law. Laws are to be obeyed. That is a command. It's not a choice. There's consequences if I make it a choice. Isn't it amazing how many people get mad at police officers when they break the law? The audacity that you'd stop and give me a ticket. What do you mean? Yeah, I was going 70 and a 35, but so what? You broke the law. Why are you getting mad at him? He's doing his job. The law was not given for our redemption, it was given for revelation. That in the law we might see our wickedness and our condition. And Dr. Law says this, I cannot redeem you, I cannot save you, but I can take you to the one that can and introduce me to Dr. Grace. Jesus paid it all. And all to him I owe sin had left a crimson stain. But he washed it white as snow. Let me tell you a story. We're under divine law. And under that divine law It's to go from generation to generation to generation. I don't know whether I just told this to preach or you, and if I told it to you, I'm going to repeat it and just sit back and wait till I get done and I'll go to my next point. My daddy was just a precious man. Sixth-grade education, but had a phenomenal mind on him. He had oceans of common sense. My little girl was 17 when I met her. I was 18. It didn't take me long to know what God had led me to. I asked her to marry me. Took her a week to answer me. I left her standing in the middle of mom and dad's living room floor having said nothing to me. I asked her to marry me one Sunday night. She just looked at me Seriously, you could ask her. She never said she didn't even tell me goodbye. She just stood there. She never answered me until the next week. And um you know, I I I watched my wife with my children, our children. Faithful. You know, she just says, that's wrong, dude. Don't do that. I've seen her over and over again, set a little blonde-headed boy down and say. You're not to do that. But let me tell you why you're not to do that. Over and over, her patients were kind of you know what she's doing? Telling a story. Now I'm going to ask you something tonight. What are you passing on to the next generation? See, we're under a divine law that says from generation to generation, from this one to the next one to the next one. Just carry it on until the trumpet sounds and the shout is made, we're under a divine mall. What are you giving to your children? What are you giving to the next generation? Not so much in verbal instruction as into Life, living, walk to deceive the story revealed in you. Revealing you. I buried a little man, one of the sweetest men in my church, just before I came here. Last week, last Thursday, as a matter of fact. And um he was a nationally known wood carver. And his his carvings were themed, and he got into making walking canes. I wish you could have seen him. Unbelievable. One of his walking canes brought sixty thousand dollars. A walking can. That would cripple me. I would need the cane. But it was a phenomenal, the detail Bible theme. He had three children, two daughters and a son, still alive. But the Borders was nearly ninety-two years of age, ninety-one. As we stood at the casket, I heard this From a wife that where they had been married nearly sixty-seven years. She looked at me and she looked they're just a really small stature of people and she looked up at me and she said, Pastor, sixty-seven years. He was Is real. Two daughters and a son, close to my age. All of them said, Dad was so pure. He was so right. And they said this. We're here because of him. You know what they're saying? He told the story. As I look into the face of my five boys, I have one that's a pastor, one that's an engineer, one's a tool and die maker, one's a carpenter, and one of uh Is a supervisor for Valen Oil. But all of them, thank God, are in church. Serving the Lord. Honoring Christ. And I don't know of anyone I'd rather hear preach than my son that's a preacher. I'm not praying about me, but you know where it started? Not with me. Not with my dad. I'll go back to Forrest his father. He told the story. My father was faithful to tell the story. By God's help and the Holy Spirit's enablement, I've tried my best to tell the story. And I've watched my sons with my 19 grandchildren. Tell the story. What a great obligation we have. Tell the story We're not turned there because of time, but if you take notes in Deuteronomy chapter 6, verses 4 through 9, it talks about fastening to the doorpost of the house. Talk about the Word of God in the house, out of the house. Make it as a front look between thine eyes. What he is saying is Don't let it die. Keep it going. Keep it going. Keep it going. A constant reminder. The story. Now let's look at the last point. We are given a divine doxology. By the way, isn't it interesting songs we don't like, songs we do like, and songs that we apply incorrectly to certain things? See, I happen to love the doxology. I love it. So many independent fundamentalists think it comes from the liberal. And and at the close of many of my services I would sing, I would have everyone sing Praise God from whom all blessings flow. Praise him all creatures here below. I'd have him say, and I got an unsigned note. Do you ever get any of those? One of my ashers brought it and somebody dropped it in their offering plate and excuse me, I'm just gonna tell you what it is. Here's what it says, and it was a woman's handwriting. I'm an expert And this individual said this, have we now become liberal and joined the ranks of the Methodists and the Lutherans? And the list went on. So you know what I felt led to do? I preached a message on why we're to sing, the doxology. It was great. It was wonderful. I took that little course and I tore it apart. Praise. That'll preach. Praise God. That's another great message. Praise God from whom all blessings flow. Isn't that biblical? Tell me what part of the doxology we should not be seeing. It all honors God. It brings him to the forefront. It draws our attention to the story. We have a doxology. We have a song to sing. Now Proverbs 22, 6 says, Train up a child the way he should go when he's old, he'll not depart from it. It's an interesting verse. And I've had people say, I've seen that fail. If you read it within the Hebrew context, here's what he's saying. You train a child in the way he should go, that truth will never leave him. He may turn his back, he may walk away from the truth, but the truth will never forsake him. It's in there. It's in there. Train up a child. But how do you train when you don't know the lesson? How can you train in the talent you do not have? How do you tell the story that you do not know? Are you getting it? You understand what I'm trying to say here? Family? We have a phenomenal responsibility. Give me your ear. Listen to what I have to say. Give it to the future generations. It's life redeeming. And it's eternal changing the story. But let me give you something here. Fathers, provoke not your children to wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. Honor thy father and thy mother, for this is the first promise. First commandment was promised that it may be well with thee and thou mayest live long on the earth. Anybody know what reference that is? Ephesians chapter 6, verses 1 through 4. Fathers provoke not. Leadership is put squarely upon the dad. Now that does not negate the responsibility of a God to the mother. As a matter of fact, if you look historically under Jewish law, Deuteronomy 6 of the fastening to the truth of God's law on the doorpost was given to the mother It's interesting, isn't it? But there's three positive goals, and I've got to read them. Three positive goals that are expressed. Look at verse 7. That they might set their hope in God and not forget the works of God, but keep his commandments. First of all, it's our duty as parents to train our children that they set their hope in God. My hope is built on nothing less than. Than Jesus' blood and his righteousness, that blessed hope See, there is no other way but Jesus. If you really believe that, why aren't we telling the story I can't answer that question. Only you can answer that question concerning yourself But I can answer for me, when I failed to tell the story, it's because I'd taken my mind and my eye off of it and placed it elsewhere. And then that became the priority of my life. Secondly, it is our duty as parents to so train our children that they don't forget the works of God, the Word of God. But see, they've got to see the proof of the evidence in our life. No other way. Number three, it is our duty as a parent To so train our children that they keep his commandments. You know what keeping his commandments is is obedience. Disobedience is worse than what? Witchcraft. That's the Bible. There's a verse in here that says that. Disobedience is worse than dip than witchcraft. See, people used to say this to me. They they got kinda get to know me and they'd say, Well, I bet you were a mean little kid. I don't know why they would think that That's that's really that's really disappointing and damaging. I'll suffer for life over over that statement But I let them know this not true. I learned early that obedience was far better than disobedience. My father convinced me of that. And my mother reinforced it. My father knew how to straighten you out to bend you over. I used that term before. In church, here said Dad Me Mom, and then my brother next to me up to my older sister on that end, eight of us. My mother never paddled. She did strange discipline. Her discipline at church was this. She would reach around and she would get the hair on the small of your neck and pull it. That'll put you on Hallelujah Street real quick. You don't have to stop and think very long. I know what mom means. And if it was twice, wait till you get home. Not her. She would take you by the arm and say, Dad, he needs a whipping. My dad never questioned it. Mom said it. Man, I can remember those days. I still hurt from that. I think I think that's what warped my personality. No, that's what gave me some character if I have any Obedience. See, if you teach your children obedience to God, you'll never have any trouble with them obeying you. But now I want to reverse refer back to verse 5. And I'm almost done, honestly, for he established a testimony. Have you ever heard someone make this statement? If you're not careful and you don't straighten up, you're going to lose your testimony. Have you ever heard anyone say that? It's an incorrect statement. You are never without a testimony. You just simply exchange it for another. But you're never without a testimony. You either have a right one or a wrong one. You have a good one or a bad one. That's how people know you. They know you by your testimony because your testimony reveals your character. And the true character of an individual is not what you are in public, but what you are in private. And you know what that is. So you know what you are. He established a testimony. Here's the kickoff or the final point on this revival meeting. It's the families all over this place, young families. especially. And even grandparents, this pew of young kids, moms and dads all over this place would simply say, We're going to check our testimony. And it's going to start with us looking into how well do we tell the story? How well. I'm going to tell you something that changed my life as a as a pastor and as a daddy. When I was a young preacher and only had two sons at that time, Tony and Todd, my wife and I were married three years before God gave us our first boy. And then four years before our second boy came, and then something just the stars got aligned right and the three just they were there. But one day I looked on my appointment book and I had a preacher's son made appointment to come to see me. I was a young preacher, just a young preacher. Wasn't a pastor, I was an assistant pastor, youth director. And here this young man came in. He was about 16 years of age. A broken young man and a troubled young man I knew his family. He broke down, he wept, he cried, and but he said this: he said, My life is a wreck. And he said, I've done things that I would be embarrassed to even mention. And I'm broken to know that God knows. But he made this statement. He said, Brother Green, he was in a pastor's house. He said, Brother Green, I've always had a preacher, but I've never had a dad. A father was so busy about life concerning others, he had no time for his own. When that young man left my office, literally physically, I was broken and I got on my knees and I said, Dear God, with your help. I'll never put others before my home. Never. When I went to Pastor Grace Baptist Church or Grace Historical Church, I met with over nearly four or five hours with the pulpit committee before I was called to come pastor that church. At the end of that long period of time, they asked me, they said, Where does your family fit into your ministry? I said, they don't fit into my ministry. They are my ministry. And I will not win yours to lose mine. But if I'm able to win mine, there's a good chance I can reach yours. What do you have in front of your home? What do you have as the priority of your life? Money? Job? Hobby? What is it? By this message you know what it should be. The story. What's your testimony? I had a young girl come into my office many years ago and She said, Pastor said, I love you. I said, well, I love you too, sweetheart. She was one of about three or four children. She said, I'm troubled about something and said, I've really battled on whether to tell you I've fought this for months. So but my father is one of your deacons. I said, I know he is. I said, he's a he's a good man. And as soon as I said that, she said, No, he's not. I said, excuse me. He said, no, he's not. See, he's a hypocrite. He said, he eats you for lunch every Sunday What's your testimony? What do your children know the truth of what and who you are? The story defines that. Or the lack of story defines that. Now, I want to show you something in verse 8. Put your shoes back on and we're going to go. Look what it says in verse 8. As we are to keep his commandments, it says, and might not be as their fathers. A stubborn and rebellious generation, a generation that set not their heart aright, and whose spirit was not steadfast with God. I want to give you a wonderful fact tonight. Wonderful. And listen to me. You say, but I wasn't raised in a Christian home. I wasn't raised with a godly father or a godly mother. Or I was raised in a split home, a divided home. Well, I wasn't even raised in a home. Circumstances, whatever. And I've had people say, I really can't help what I am because of where I came from. That's a choice This verse eight indicates to me that regardless of what the past was, you can change the present. You can change the present. Well, I I'm just like my father. Well, that could be good or bad. And if it's bad, are you accepting it, or do you say, with all the resistance and God's help in my life, I'm the generation, I am the generation that's going to change it And it's going to be the story. You can do that tonight. You can do that tonight. Dear people, if we do not reach into the generation of our homes and our families, tomorrow's gone. Tomorrow is gone. How do you choose to end this meeting? Let me tell you a story, and then we'll be going home. There was a young man by the name of William Borden. Some of you probably know the story. William Borden was the youngest son of the the Bordens, the Milk Company. Multi, multi-multi, multi-millionaires. He was in line for the inheritance of the Borden money One day this young man heard the story. He got saved. And not only did he get saved, the gospel burned itself into his heart, and it began burden for people over there. He told his father that he was going to be a missionary. His father told him, he said, I'll disinherit you. You'll nit you'll get no money from me. No money. But the call of God was upon him so mightily and the story was so real and life changing, he went. 25 years of age, contracted disease and died on the mission field. Broke. When he died, they went through his meager things and they found his Bible. And they opened it up and he had written this in his Bible. No reserve, no retreat, no regret. You know what allowed him to say that? The story. Now before I close, I'm not going to do it, but I want you to look at verse 1 again. Will you read it to yourself just very quickly? Now I have this question, and it demands a response. What are you going to do with it? Father, I love you. Thank you for the sweetness and tenderness of this people. May your truth find a place to burn and embed itself in their heart Salvage families and homes, save souls. Dear God, made your story. Be moving in our heart. Christ's name, Pastor. Be here tonight out of business with God. Outspoke our hearts. Let's do business with God. Let's find a place at all. You have to do a little discussion. We could do a do a little work there if you all it's fine. It's not meet here tonight, but we have our stories, right? That testimony clear. Father, bless our invitation, I ask now. Help us, Lord, we trust you, obey you. Let's stay together. His about eyes are closed. Jennifer's going to play limitation in. Let's not leave tonight without doing business with God. How about it? How about families? Mom and Dad, the kids together kneel and say, we want our home to be a testimony. God's grace and God's goodness, God's power. Maybe the kids are grown and moved out, but as an individual, I want to kneel before God and God, I want you to take me and give me a story, give me a testimony.