Let's turn to, I want you to, we're going to go back to Nehemiah chapter 2, but I want to go to Matthew chapter 28. And I I I saw and read that your mission conference is coming up. Amen. Praise the Lord for that. And I hope you're already praying what the Lord will have you to do. to reach the world with the gospel. And I want to share the Great Commission. Most of us have heard this So many times. You'll probably hear it next month during the missing conference. But look, I want to share with you something, and then we're going to go back to Nehemiah chapter 2. In Matthew chapter 28, look in verse number 17. It says, and when they saw him, they worshiped him, but some doubted. And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. Amen. Let's pray. Dear Lord, our Heavenly Father, thank you for this time. Thank you for this church. I ask that you would bless them. And Lord, just be with them. And Lord, what a blessing they are to my family and my ministry. Lord, I just pray now that you would have your way with these words. These are your words, not mine. Hide me behind the cross. Give me the boldness and the courage to share it the way you'd want And I pray each one of us in the sound of my voice would not only just open their ears, but open their heart to receive your word. You will speak to each one of us tonight. Some of us differently, but you will speak to each one of us, and I pray that our hearts are open to receive it, and then that we would respond and apply it to our lives. And we ask all these things in Christ's name. Amen. If you have your Bibles or you flip back to if you haven't already, flip back to Nehemiah chapter 2. Is this mine, Pastor? Okay. Nehemiah chapter 2. I want to preach to you tonight. Let us rise up and build. If you look at Nehemiah chapter 2, look at verse 17. It says, Then said I, Nehemiah, is speaking, he said, unto them, speaking to the people Ye see the distress that we are in, how Jerusalem lieth waste, and the gates thereof are burned with fire. Come let us build up the wall of Jerusalem So we build up the wall of Jerusalem that we be no more a reproach. And then in verse 18 he says, Then I told them of the hand of my God which was good upon me, as also the king's words that he had spoken unto me. As we see here, Nehemiah is talking to the people. Now we were back up to chapter number one. Uh in the beginning of the book of Nehemiah we see the people come. Now Nehemiah's in captivity and we see the uh some some of the uh child uh Israelites have escaped and they've gone back to Jerusalem and the walls destroyed, the city's destroyed, the gates are the gates are on fire. There's things going on there. And they go to Nehemiah. They get to Nehemiah and get the message to Nehemiah and the report to him. And as we look at chapter number one, right after Nehemiah gets a report We see Nehemiah what he does. He's a man of God. Nehemiah is in captivity, but he has favor with the king. He's the cupbearer. So many times through God's word we see men of God that are in situations that God is using them uh in a mighty way in in a in a position that probably most of us wouldn't want to be in. Amen. You think of Joseph. Look what Joseph went through And all the time Joseph was being used of God, and even at the end, Joseph said, Hey, you meant this for evil, but God did it for good. And so here we see Nehemiah the same way. And Nehemiah, look what Nehemiah is, a man of God. Nehemiah goes and it says in verse number 4, chapter 1, and it came to pass when I heard these words that I sat down and wept. And mourned certain days and fasted and prayed before the God of heaven. Nehemiah here is I want to talk to you tonight on this. Let us rise up and build, as I said. And we're going to get into the people here, but let's look at Nehemiah. Nehemiah's in captivity, and Nehemiah hears the report, and he goes directly to God, and he's burdened. Number one, we need to have a burden. Too many Christians today don't have a burden. They had the knowledge But they don't have a burden. They don't have a burden for the lost. Look at what Nehemiah did. He wept and he fasted and he prayed. Now, a lot of us pray, but how many of us truly weep for the condition of the world that we're in? The condition of lost people. Back in Luke chapter 19, 41, the Bible says Jesus is entering into Jerusalem to go to the cross, and he says he beheld and stopped and wept over the city. He wept over the city because of the condition of the city, because of the condition of the people. Here we see Nehemiah weeping because of the condition of the wall, the condition of what's going on. We look around today, folks. We should have a burden. We should have a burden that we can change. We can change this country I truly believe we as Christians, if we stand up in love for what's right and start voicing it and preaching it and living it. We can make a difference. We can change. We can change some things. See, I truly believe either the rapture is going to happen or a great revival. Amen? It has to be one of the two because of the condition of the of, especially of America. But we see Nehemiah here is weeping and he mourned. And he fasted and prayed because of the condition and the report that he got. We we see that Nehemiah, Nehemiah, like I said, is the cupbearer. We go back to chapter 2. The king then sees Nehemiah, his countenance is different. And the king goes and says, What's the matter, Nehemiah? Why are you different? You're not the same. Nehemiah tells the king, and it even says that the queen was sitting there. He tells them what's going on. Now, here again, remember, he's in captivity. He's a cupbearer for the king. And here the king, he asked the king if he could go to rebuild the wall and see it. And the king said, well, how long will it be? And the king allowed him to go, because Nehemiah had favor of the king Nehemiah had favor of the king because he was a man of God. Because he was true to God and God allowed that to happen. And and then the king says, Hey, you're gonna need some supplies, so I'm gonna write you a letter to give to to the one that has all the supplies, and he even he was an enemy And and Nehemiah takes it. And Nehemiah now goes to Jerusalem and he goes by himself and inspects the condition of the wall. And he comes back, and now he's here where it says in verse 17 our text, it says, Then said I unto them Ye see the distress that we are in, how Jerusalem lieth waste, the gates thereof are burned with fire. Come and let us build up the wall of Jerusalem, that we be no more a reproach Then I told them of the hand of my God which was good upon me. See what Nehemiah does? He tells the people the condition of the wall and what he sees, which say as well. He says, let us build it. But before he goes any further, he turns back and praises God for what God did. See, we need to do what God wants us to do. And we need to give God all the praise for it. It's not about us. Nothing we do in any ministry. We have some workers over with the teens tonight. And they're uh praying they're doing a great job and the teens are growing in Christ. But those leaders over there could do nothing without God. And they need to glorify God that God did anything in the teens. Same with the Master Club. See, we need we need to get our right perspective. We need to have a weeping, mourning, fasting, praying condition in our heart for the lost, and then we need to praise God and say, God, I am glad I this is a command. The Great Commission is a command. But we shouldn't look at it as a command. We should look at it as an honor and a privilege. God has allowed us to stay here. On this wicked earth to tell others what God did in us. You heard my wife's Testimony when I was here in December. You heard my wife's testimony just a couple of weeks ago out of her mouth on the video from Brother Micah. It's what it takes. Laying out tracks. Can you imagine? She she told us, and we we're we're praying and hoping that somebody in this church gave her the track, Amen. I'm hearing some stories about Esther's restaurant and truck drivers stopping there. But can you imagine if she never finds out for real who gave her that track? And that person goes and meets Jesus one day if he hasn't already or she hasn't. And I picture this conversation Somebody says, you know, Lord, I handed out tracts. I handed out tracts. It just seemed like nothing ever happened. So I stopped. And the Lord opens up the windows and says, Look what your track did. One track. As I said last time, one track. Laid on a table, a waitress got saved. A couple months later, the husband got saved. The children are saved. One by one, our grandchildren are getting saved. We have twelve with one on the way. Amen. That's new too since the last time I'm here. We'll have our thirteenth in September. But then all the ministries we did here in America. And then God called us to Guyana. Thousands. Because you you can't stop at the ones we led to the Lord. The ones that we saw a life change. We can't stop there. Because they went out and led people to the Lord. And they led people to the Lord. But it could be tri tri uh back to that track. See, we got we gotta build. Let us rise up and build. Let's stop saying, oh, I can't Let's stop saying, oh, I used to. Let's do it. Let's rise up and build. Look what it says in 18 in the second part. It says, and they said, Let us rise up and build. Okay, Nehemiah's talking to the people, and now they come to this part of the verse, and they turn and say, Okay, Nehemiah. You're the man of God. You're the vision. You have the vision. You have the plan. We're behind you. We're behind you. Let us rise up and build. They said, let us rise up and build. So we see Nehemiah's burden and we see the people's desire. They said, Let us rise up and build. Well we we need to build churches. We need to build the kingdom of God. We have the foundation, we have the cornerstone, and that's Jesus Christ. But we have to have number one, we need to be praying for pastors and missionaries to be called and answer the call and stay on the field and stay in the churches. There's so many churches in America that needs pastors. There are so many missionaries coming off the field more than going on the field. Why is that? We're going to get to that shortly. Why is it? You know, I I was I I I called a pastor last summer I was told to call this pastor. He wanted to talk to me and he would have me in. And when I called him, he said, Brother Boltz, he goes Please just give me a call later in the year or next year. He goes, we're really busy right now. He goes, uh we have uh he goes, my church is growing. And we have all these ministries going on and me and my assistant are are busy doing that. And then this church from another town came and they were going to close their doors. unless we took it over and we as a church decided to take it over. So me and my assistant pastor are going back and forth To both these services, running this, and we're running vacation Bible schools, we're doing all this, so we're really busy. So of course I asked if I could help in any way, and he said, no, you know, we're good, just keep us in prayer. But he started to talk to me. And he said I interviewed four young men right out of Bible college. And and he goes, I I liked all four young men. They had a good st uh background and I I liked all four of them. We started talking uh about you know all the benefits. Start talking about all the all the ministries that we do and he says all four of them said That's too busy of a schedule for us. And he walked out and didn't take the position. See, we're not call people aren't answering the call anymore. They're doing it for other reasons. No, it's a call. And I truly believe when you get saved, every Christian is called to do four things. And when you're faithful with those four things, God's going to call you to bigger things. And we should all want to be called to bigger things. Those four things is prayer. Getting into his word, being faithful to the local church, and being a soul winner. See, let us rise and build. Let us rise and build. We have shepherds that are in leading churches that God is giving plans to. We need to get behind them. And build with them in unity. You have missionaries come in. You know, I don't want to get anybody upset. But if I would go down to Guyana and sit on the pew every week and do absolutely nothing, and that's what I would write in my newsletter, what would you say? Think about that. You know, you're praying that we reach Guyana and your other missionaries reach the their part of the world for you. Because that's where we're called to go, and you partner with us. But could I tell you, I talk to a lot of missionaries, and we all pray for our supporting churches to continue to grow. Why? Number one, we're supposed to do it. And number two, if our churches don't grow We might not be able to stay on the field. We might not be able to stay. You know, uh I I had all my support. I was in Guyana and when I came back with the boys we lost our support And as we lost our support, I started last May to start raising my support. I'm going into new churches, and a lot of times when I'm in new churches, one of the biggest questions either from the pastor or somebody. Are you asking your old churches that supported you before to support you? And I said, yes. I had said I have a coup I have several of them that are supporting me now that I'm going back to the field I said, but could I tell you something that's very bothering, very sad? Some churches no longer exist. Some churches have lost so many members that they can't support missionaries. Some churches have gone so wayward I wouldn't want their support. Because they don't stand for the truth anymore. See, together we need to build. We have the leaders, the shepherds, but we need Could I say the flock to follow behind in unity and build also? And look what it says. Verse 18, it says, so we see Nehemiah's burden and leadership, but then we see the people saying, Let us rise and build their desire. But then we also see their preparation. So they strengthen their hands for this good work. Are we building a good work? The kingdom of God is a great work. Amen. Through the local church we're building. Now let's go back to Matthew chapter 28. Let us build. Let us build together. Let us reach the world. Let us reach this area with the gospel of Jesus Christ. But let us build together and reach the world. We need to have the burden. We need to have the desire to do it, the burden and the heart to do it. The compassion to do it, the love to do it. But then we need to know what we're doing. And it's real simple. It's right in the Great Commission. It says right there in verse 18. And Jesus came and spake, all power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. Now keep your finger right there and go back to Acts. Chapter one. Acts chapter one, look what it says in verse number eight It says, but ye shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you. And keep your finger there and go back to Matthew chapter 28. So now we see Jesus tells his disciples, all power is given to me. But then when we get to the account in Acts, the power is that same power is now given to us through the Holy Spirit. When we get saved, the Holy Spirit comes in us. We are now a temple to the Holy Spirit. When you walk out of here tonight You might walk out of here with your husband, your wife, your children, your grandchildren. You might walk out of here by yourself or so you think. But every one of us, if you have Jesus Christ as your Savior, when you walk out that door. You're not alone. The Holy Spirit is with you. The Holy Spirit never leaves you, never forsakes you. It's always there. The question is, are we utilizing the power? Are we allowing the Holy Spirit to lead us and guide us? To give us the strength to do what Jesus commanded us to do. Or are we just letting it stay in our Soul and heart just dwell in there, probably weeping, because he wants to do something great through you. Again, allow Jesus, allow Jesus God to work in you. So then he can work through you. It's all about him. So we see this. But then back in Matthew chapter 28, it says, go ye therefore and teach. All nations. We're supposed to teach. In Acts 1. 8 it says, you shall be a witness. It doesn't say you're going to be a witness. You could be a witness. If you choose to be a witness, you'll be one that says, you shall be a witness. What kind of witness are you tonight? Not here. See, we come here to get encouragement. We come here to get lifted up To get through the rest of the week. The question is, how's your witness out there? Do you live one way in here and one way out there? Or do you live the same no matter where you're at? See, the Bible says you're going to be a witness. And then it says, Go ye therefore and teach all nations. So that teaches the gospel. Share the gospel. Give them a track. Start somewhere. Now just hand them a track. Eventually, God's going to give you the power and the strength and the conviction that you're going to open your mouth. It comes natural. Trust me, the hardest thing I had once I became a Christian Let's just go soul winning. Really was. I'll be honest. I'll be honest. It it was a while. The church we were at didn't go on a regular basis. They went soul winning and finally the pastor said, Brother Ray, you want to go out soul winning with me? I was like, wow, yeah, I'll go with you. And I enjoyed it. Did I see anybody get saved? Did we share the message? Yeah, but we hung a lot on the doors. But we did get to share, but we didn't see anybody get saved. See, we just need to be faithful. We need to be faithful. Just keep on going. You might never talk to anybody, but God's going to bring somebody in here because of your faithfulness going out, sharing the gospel. Giving those tracks out, somebody's gonna come in here. My my daughter and uh when we were down at Hope Children's Home as house parents, the teens would go out Wednesday night soul winning with the church And my daughter and one of her friends went out and when we got to church they were all excited. They said we invited this guy and he said he's coming to this Sunday. We can't wait to see him come So we we sort of you know say, oh you know, that's good. Hopefully he shows Sunday comes and they're waiting at the door and after church they we were driving home on the bus and they said to we're you know we're so upset that he said he was going to come, he promised us, and he didn't come And I said, did you see what happened in church? I said, there were six visitors and two salvations. You know why that happened? And they're like, no. I said, because you were out Wednesday Sharing the gospel, inviting people to church. And God brought the ones that needed to come. But you were faithful going out. That's what we need to do. See, we need to get out of our mindset that we do the saving. We live in America and we want success. We need to see something happen or we're not doing it anymore. We need to see the income. We need to see the the benefits happen. But what we need to do is just be faithful. If you go out and share the message, that's all God asked us to do. Really is. The Bible says he does the increase. We need to water we need to plant and we need to water. But then look at the rest of this. In Matthew chapter 28 it says It says that baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. At least somebody to the Lord, tell them about baptism. Tell them about the local church. That's where they need to come to get baptized. But now look at this. Then I'll be done. Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you. That's discipleship. And I and going around, I truly believe There's people out there saved today truly accepted Christ as Savior and are wandering out there because they were never told what was next When we're in Guyana, when somebody gets saved, we ask them to join a 12-week discipleship class. Most of them do. And when I'm down there, we continually go. Twelve weeks, doing the next one. Discipling them of the local church and how to live and what to do. And we go through that. We also teach them how to soul win. We put them through a soul winning class. So we can teach them how to soul win. One of the things I learned very quickly when you lead somebody when you're talking to a Hindu, you always need to ask the question: Do you realize if you accept Christ? As your Savior, there are no other gods. Because the first Hindu I led to the Lord, and the same with my wife, they said, Oh, now we can put Jesus on the altar with all our other gods. It's not how it works But then what we do is if somebody comes, as we're building the church, for the first year, my wife and my two daughters never were in a service up front. They were doing junior church, they were doing nursery, they were doing Sunday school. As people got saved and discipled and I saw them growing, they would come to me and say, we would like to do this and We'd put them in a training position and then once my wife got somebody ready to go, they turned it over and she went and did something else. It took about a year until we had it covered that they could come out front once in a while. But the thing is, this discipleship is so important. When you leave somebody to the Lord, it's your responsibility to disciple To teach them how to live. A lot of Christians don't want to teach them how to live because they don't live that way. According to the Bible. Too many people like to want the Bible to change to the way they want to live. not change their life to the way the Bible says to live. So we see this discipleship class. And then when I when somebody comes up and when they want to serve it as a uh in the church uh we put 'em through another discipleship class, the same one. And they're always saying, Well, why must we go through the same one? It's like now I'm gonna ch I want you to listen on how to teach The discipleship class. Because we want you to teach it. Now I will be honest, they haven't been so faithful, but they're doing it. They're discipling But they don't run it one in twelve week and then start a twelve week one back, but they they do run it. But they're you know they're being they're very good. They're very faithful, they're very obedient, and they want to see people's lives changed. But that's what we're all supposed to do. To let us rise and build Strengthen. How do you strengthen? Get closer to God. Get closer to God. That's how you strengthen your hands. Will you have opposition? You will. What did Jesus say when the Satan came and tempted him? It is written Now what do you say the last time? It is written in my Lord I'll serve. My God I'll serve. See, how do you get closer to God? Get in his book. Get in his word. Pray. Be faithful. Be encouraged by each other. We've got to stop tearing each other down. Let's encourage each other. Lift each other up. Go out soul-winning. God will get you closer. That's how we do it. Serve. Be busy for the Lord. You know, the Bible says in Hebrews we're supposed to come and not forsake the assembly. more when the day approaches. I believe the day is approaching. We should be in church more. We should be around believers more. We should be with each other more. Why? Because it's easy to fall in that wicked world. You're seeing great Christians, great men of God that have fallen into temptation. Because they're not being encouraged. They're not being together enough. So when uh I'll close with this and then I'm done. When I went through my deputation the first time, I would call and call and call. It's a proven fact. A missionary has to call a hundred churches. To get ten responses to get one meeting. It's true. I know that. And back where uh when I did it the first time, boy, I could fill Sunday nights and Wednesday nights just like that. Sunday mornings Pastors would say, oh, I I don't want to give up my pulpit. You know, come Sunday night, come Wednesday night, unless it was a missing conference or a special meeting. This time I called pastor because I didn't have anybody else that would book. You know why? I don't have enough people. We don't have Wednesday nights anymore. We don't have Sunday nights anymore. I have very few people on Sunday nights. It comes Sunday morning, that's the best chance to get exposed. Isn't that a shame? In Guyana's altogether different. Most of the time my Sunday morning is the least attended. Sunday night and Wednesday nights are more people. Because a lot of people work Sunday mornings at the market. But they come. See, let us build. We have a great work to build. Not just a good work. We have a great work. It starts right here. It starts right here at your local church. But then it goes and expands through the world as you do your part in worldwide missions. Are you doing your part? Will you strengthen your hand and build with us? We can accomplish much with more hands. Let's pray. Dear Lord our Heavenly Father, thank you for this time. As I turn this invitation over to Pastor, I just pray you'd work in the hearts, continue to work, and I pray that they would now respond to you. And we thank you, and we ask all these things in Christ's name. Amen.