I'm I'm I'm gonna read just a few verses here again. I'm gonna read verse 13 and 17. He already read eleven through eighteen. We'll be we'll be going really through the first few chapters here this morning, um but before we get started I'll read verse 13 and 17 one more time here. Verse 13, and this is Nehemiah talking. He said, And I went out by night. by the gate of the valley even before the dragon well and and into the dung port and viewed the walls of Jerusalem. Which were broken down, and the gates thereof were consumed with fire. Go to verse 17. Then said I unto them, You see the distress that we are in. How Jerusalem lieth wait waste, and the gates thereof are burned up with fire. Come and let us build up the wall of Jerusalem, that we be no more a reproach. And um that's not that last phrase there really stuck out to me this morning. I've been studying this for for weeks now, but that last phrase really this morning uh stuck out to me that we'd be no more reproach. I don't want to be a reproach. And um we're going to look at this this morning, and the the title is Let's Build a Wall. Uh let's pray in the end the message this morning. Lord, we thank you again for the day that you gave us, Lord. Lord, it always is just kind of a little um humbling, Lord, to try to preach your word. Lord, I feel so inadequate, but Lord, I ask that you would just take over the service this morning and You would use your word to bring conviction where it's needed, Lord. Hide me behind you and speak to all of our hearts, Lord. And um Lord, help us to not just learn things this morning, but to apply your word to our hearts, Lord. And it's in Jesus' name. Amen. So Nehemiah, it's one of my favorite books. I love it. Um I just got done uh with the book of Judges again. That's one of my favorites. Whatever book I'm reading at the time I think is my favorite. Um I like I like the book of of of Nehemiah and and I can't wait to meet him one day It's going to be exciting. But uh j just to review here real quickly, you know the story. Nehemiah uh he's he's the king's cupbearer. They're in exile and um in chapter one here He hears about the state that Jerusalem is is in. In verse 2, he hears from Hananai. He comes and gives a report basically of what's going on. in Jerusalem. And now Nehemiah, he was the king's uh cupbearer. He was a a a servant there of the king. And I think it was awesome though is um the testimony that Nehemiah had. Chapter two it mentions that he had never been sad before in his presence. And that's that's Pretty incredible to to to not even be living in your homeland, be someone else's slave and but to still not have a a sad countenance. That's pretty impressive. But anyway, back to chapter one here. In verse two, he gets this message. Verse three, and they said unto me, the remnant that are left of the captivity there in the province are in great affliction and reproach. The wall of Jerusalem also is broken down, the gates thereof are burned with fire. So this is the report that Nehemiah gets of home. And uh it breaks his heart, obviously. It breaks his heart. Um the people are in great affliction. I I mean, I wouldn't want my people to be in great affliction. I can only imagine how Nehemiah is feeling And uh they're in great refliction, a reproach. And then the not only the mental in the f uh state of the of the city, but physically as well. The walls are are are burnt down and the gates are burnt up with fire and It's just a mess. Verse 4 of chapter 1, it came to pass when I heard these words that I sat down and wept. Well, that makes sense. And mourned certain days and fasted I think that phrase there, certain days is interesting. I underline that. He mourned certain days and fasted. He had dedicated days, I believe, set aside there to fasting and praying, and it paid off. We'll see that here in just a little bit. But he prayed. And and if you see affliction in your nation and you see that there's your nation is becoming over approached, I think it only makes sense that you take time to fast over it. I think it only makes sense that we take time to to seek God over that And that's what Nehemiah, of course, was doing. And then the rest of chapter one, he's praying there to the Lord with his petition. And then we get to chapter two, and it came to pass Uh in the month Nisan, in the twentieth year of Artaxerxes the king, that the wine was before him, and I took up the wine and gave it unto the king. Now I had not been s um I had not been before sad in his presence Can I say this too? If you have a burden, the world's going to recognize it. Someone's going to recognize it. He's got such a burden for the kids, and we see that. That's evident When we talk to him, he's got a burden for that. You talk to the bus captains, they have a burden for their their bus routes. If you have a burden that God's put there, it'll be evident. It'll be evident. That's just a a by the way. But um you've never been sad before in his presence. Now I think this is real interesting. I just kind of want to mention this. Um This if you if you do the math there, but from when he got the news, um to to uh in um chapter one verse one It gives the month there at Chislu. And then chapter 2, verse 1, it's the month Nisan. If you do the math there, it's actually seven months before chapter 2 takes place. That's a lot of praying and fasting. I think a lot of times, and this is just another by the way, I guess, but I think a lot of times we pray and ask God to do something once or twice. If there's something that you've been praying for and God hasn't answered it yet, keep praying. I mean I'm thinking I'm thinking maybe you've been praying for someone in your family for a long time. Someone needs to be saved. And keep praying. Keep praying. Um you're praying for God to work out some heartache or some situation. And like like Nehemiah was here. That was a very s Stressful thing. That's bad news to hear what's going on when the gates are burnt up with fire, the walls are broken down, the people are in great affliction. He didn't just pray once or twice. He had a set appointed days, certain days it said, and for a long time he actually prayed and fasted before God uh answered his prayer. So um keep praying. Keep praying. But we we look here now In uh verse two of chapter two, wherefore the king said unto me, Why is thy countenance sad, seeing thou art not sick? This is nothing else but sorrow of heart, then was I sore afraid. And then if you keep reading here He um the king he verse 3 said unto the king, let the king live forever, why should not my countenance be sad? And let me ask that question too, why should we not be Sad. Why should we not be worried? When we see the state that the things are go the direction things are going, we see the state the nation's in, why should we not be concerned? Why should we not have a burden I think a lot of times we we have just the opposite feeling. Why should I worry about it? Why should you not worry about it? Why should you not be praying? Why should you not be seeking the Lord to intervene? Anyway So um just to just so I don't have to read the whole chapter, the king not only uh gives him permission to go back and rebuild the wall there But man, he he gives him the materials, he gives them a a letter of passport there, he gives him an armed armed guard. It's pretty awesome. And a lot of times when God answers that prayer, he answers it in ways that we won't even imagine So that's exciting. So anyway, he goes back to Jerusalem. He gets permission there from the king. And again, not just permission, but the king actually funds the project And um verse 10 of chapter 2, uh we see the opposition right away. These guys sand ballot Tobiah. Um and uh of course there's also Geshem in there, they're they're grieved. That someone wants to do something for the Lord, you're gonna have that. But what I want to focus on this morning for the next half hour or so is um It is not necessarily the finished product of the built wall, but what happens before that, the order of uh that the events took place Yeah, understand if you want to if you want to build a wall around Jerusalem, you don't just build it. You take plans You take inventory, you survey. You know, we didn't just show up one day with lumber and there's a building over there. That was a long process before the ground was even moved, before dirt even moved. That was a long process And I want to kind of talk about that a little bit this morning. Yeah, we need to build a wall, but let's examine it. Let's think about it Verses um eleven through fifteen here of chapter two, Nehemiah took a walk around the city at night, and he surveyed The project. He took a little survey. He took a little inventory. Verse 11. So I came to Jerusalem and was there three days. And I arose in the night, and I and some few men with me, neither told I any man. But my God had put it in my heart to do at Jerusalem, neither was there any beast with me save the beast that I rode upon, and I went out by night. To the gate of the valley, even before the dragon well and the dungport viewed the walls of Jerusalem, which were broken down, and the gates thereof were consumed with fire. Then I went on the gate of the fountain in the king's pool, but there was no place for the beast that was under me to pass. The the wall was in such a mess, the city was in such a mess that there wasn't even room for his animal to pass through. You know what I'm saying? He was he was he was riding his donkey, there wasn't even room for it to get through Then went verse 15, then went I up at night and by the brook and viewed the wall. He's viewing not he didn't just go and look and say, oh, there's a wall, we need to fix it. He went to every area specifically. You follow what I'm saying? He didn't just look out from a distance and say, oh, that's bad, we need to fix it. He walked around and viewed each point. He viewed each port, each wall, each gate, each well Viewed it all. He didn't just stand back and say, yes, somebody needs to do something. He went to every point to view what need to be done at that point. He viewed the wall. Now when I think about a wall, what's a wall made for? For things to not get through. Right? So the people on the inside can't get out, and the people on the outside can't get in Now, we also think that he viewed the gates. What are the gates for? Same thing, but not exactly to keep things in and out, but to let certain things in and out. To control what comes into the city, control what goes out of the city. Sometimes we need to close the gate, sometimes we need to lock the gate, but if the gate is burnt down, then anything's coming and going. Right? Makes sense. So he's viewing all of these things individually. He viewed the walls, viewed the gates, he viewed the ports, again, where commerce was going in and out. And he was viewing not just the wall, but he was viewing what was coming into the city. Viewing what was going out of the city. You follow me? We'll apply this all here in just a minute. Just stay with me. And then in verse 17 and 18, he gives a speech. Then said I unto them, You see the distress that we are in. And I can almost see him saying it like that. Y'all see the problem. You see the distress that we are in. And he he mentions it. How Jerusalem lieth waste. They were in Jerusalem. They could see it. It's almost like his hands are out like this. Like you see this. You see this problem. Jerusalem's lying waste. You can see this. How Jerusalem might waste, and the gates thereof are burned up with fire. Come, let us build up the wall of Jerusalem. Let's do something about it. See, I I like Nehemiah because he didn't just stand off the distance or just you know back from back from the king's palace say, Yeah that's really bad. I wish someone would do something about it. He went there But he didn't just go there. He went to each gate, each port, viewed the walls, viewed everything, got the people together and said, You see this, right? So let's do something about it Let's build up the wall. Let's build up the wall. He says at the end of verse 17, that we be no more a reproach. You know what he's saying? This is embarrassing. Let's fix this. He's not just saying somebody needs to fix it. He's saying let's fix it. I'll start it. I'll do it. Okay, let's keep going. Verse three, or excuse me, number then the third thing they begin construction. Verse 18. Then I told them of the hand of my God which was good upon me, and the king's words that he had spoken unto me, and they said, Let us rise up. And build. You know what they said? Good idea. Let's do something. He said, let's do something. They said, okay, let's do it. So they strengthened their hands for this good work. What was the good work? Rebuilding the wall, fixing the gates, fixing the ports, the ones that were mentioned. And if you read through Nehemiah, different people had specific tasks. It wasn't just, hey, someone go fix the city. You do this, you do this, I'll do this. Let's actually take steps. Kinda cool. Um and then in chapter four, verse six, it says the people were determined to work. The people had a mind uh to work They were resolved. Once they surveyed the city, once they took a walk around the walls, they saw the problems, they saw what needed to be repaired, they saw what needed to just be rebuilt. They went and did their different they they were assigned different tasks and then they did it. They actually did the work that they had uh surveyed that need to be done. And they were resolved. All kinds of things came up. Again, this this isn't the whole point of the message, but you know what happened with uh Sand Ballot and Tobiah and they were making fun of them and Um as they were building they were calling out to him and the one guy said, Yeah, if a fox goes up against that wall it'll come down. That's I don't know I don't know what that accomplishes, right? Like I don't I I mean I guess they're trying to make 'em feel like the wall's bad. I don't know. I I think I kinda wanna would have chuckled a little bit, but Anyway, so they're making fun of them and um even to the point where they have hire an army to come against them and so then they have to wear a s uh wear their sword on one side and then they're taking turns. You y'all remember all that? There's a lot of A lot of opposition, but they built the wall really quick. And people didn't like it, but they didn't they did it anyway. And don't want to get too far ahead of myself, but if you decide you're going to do something about it, people aren't going to like it, but so what? Do it anyway. Do what God calls you to do. Anyway, let's keep going. They had a mind to work. They were resolved. They didn't give in to peer pressure. They didn't give in to attacks from other people. They didn't give in to threats. One of the things that happened is they came with a letter accusing him saying, oh, you're trying to rise up against the king. It was the king that funded the project. So there's these false accusations. You're going to have that too, by the way. But I like the story of Nehemiah. Against all those oppositions, they built the wall. So he sees it, he hears about the problem, he goes and surveys the problem, views everything in detail, every individual, gate, port, well, sees it. Says, all right, you see it. Let's do something about it. They assign different tasks. They build the wall very quickly. It's great. Okay? Opposition, but they built the wall. They built the gates. And it's not just a story, it happened. It was awesome. I can't wait to meet Nehemiah, one of my heroes. Anyway, how do we apply that to us? And I think you're already starting to see some of it. I've got um Three three points this morning. Three applications, I guess you you could say. The first application is this. I think it's about time we take a walk around the city. I think it's about time we take a little inventory and take a little survey. We talk a lot about Problems. We thought, oh man, we got the problems in the country. Sure, let's go look at them. Let's survey a minute. Let's take a little walk around the city and see what the problems are. Okay, so where is the damage? What is the cause of the damage? Where are the weak points? Why did this happen? You you follow me That's what Nehemiah was doing. He was walking around the city. He didn't just stand off from afar and say, Oh, that's a mess. I wish somebody would fix it. No, no, no. Let's actually go take a look. Let's take a walk around our city for a minute. Let's take a walk around our home for a minute. Are you with me? Why do we just say, oh, my home's a wreck? Alright, why? I think we need to take a little survey. Oh man, we just, you know, my spouse and I, we just never get along anymore. And man, the kids that won't do this and that, and it's just, it's just, you should see, it's just chaos. Alright, let's take a little inventory. Why? Let's examine this for a minute. Let's take a walk around our home. Let's take a walk around our marriage for a minute I think we need to survey the marriage, not just stand off from afar and say, oh, this is horrible. My marriage is terrible. Why? Why? There's only two people in the marriage. So this should be pretty easy to survey. I don't want to get hung up on this one that one point. But we need to take a walk around and take inventory, see what the problem is. It could be me. Possibly. I need to keep moving. Let's keep going. Let's take a walk around our marriage. Let's take a walk around. How about me personally? I'm saying just my relationship with God. I need to take survey for a minute. I need to take inventory. Where am I weak? Where are the weak points in my wall? Where do I need a little extra defense? Today's Father's Day, right? Dads, let's take a inventory around our home Okay, there's certain walls that need to be there. We are not crossing that wall. We're not going through that wall. There's certain gates that need to be there. I will let this in. I won't let this in. I'll allow this to go out of my home, but I will not allow this to go out of my home. There's certain walls, there's certain gates, there's certain ports That we really need to take a good hard look at. Why is the city in such a mess? Well, look at the walls and the gates. Let's look at it for a minute. Let's take a survey around our home. Let's take a survey around our life personally. I need to look for my weak points. We're very, very quick to point out someone else's weak points. I have weak points. What are they? Nanya. But there there's there's certain points I have in my life where I'm weak. I need to build up a little stronger wall there I need to make sure that those gates don't get burnt up. If they are burnt up, I need to fix them. There are certain areas in my life where I'm more easily tempted. Where I need to make sure there is a good defense there, a good strong wall there, that that that nothing can get in or out. D does this make sense? I need to take personal inventory Before I can even get to walking around the wall of my town, my city, my country, I need to walk around my walls. I need to survey my own heart What am I letting into my mind? What am I letting into my heart? The reason Jerusalem was in the state it was in is because there was no wall. Maybe the reason that a lot of us are having the problems we're having is because we just have no filter. We don't control what we watch. We don't control what we listen to. We don't control what we scroll through. Just whatever comes up. There's no wall. There's no discipline. There's no filter. And then we wonder, well, how did this happen? It's because your walls are broke down. What do you need to fix? Now, again, we don't want to stand on the outside and say, oh yes, we need to fix these walls. We need to actually take steps to do it. So not just, oh yeah, I need to build a wall in that area. No, no, what are you going to do to build the wall in the area? So if you know that you have a problem with Oh pick something. With what you're watching on TV. Oh for just picking something. Why not build up a wall and take that channel away? Just a suggestion. Everyone has their own weak points, I get it. But what steps are you going to take? There's a there's a weak point in the wall of my marriage. So what am I gonna do? Are you actually gonna Pray with your spouse and read the Bible with your spouse and go to the Lord with your spouse, or you're just going to say, oh, there's a problem. I wish it would get fixed. Does this make sense? We need to actually take the steps. I think one problem that we have, and this could be applied individually, in the home, or on the grand scale, the whole country, we like to talk about the problem without taking steps. steps to fix the problem. We like to talk about how the walls are broken down. We like to talk about how the gates are burnt up without actually taking the steps to fix them. My marriage is erect. I keep talking about that. I don't know why. My marriage is erect. Have you prayed for your spouse recently? Have you prayed for yourself lately, saying, Lord, help me to be a good spouse? Do something. Don't just sit back and oh you get the point. Alright. We need to take personal inventory. We need to take a walk around our city. We need to look for our own weak points Where are we easily broken? Where do we easily give in to temptation? Where do we uh easily fall? What areas of our lives do we need to put up a wall? We need to see what areas need work. The whole point, and I mentioned this already, I'm going to just buzz through this, the whole point of the wall and gate is to protect what's inside. You know what I think? A lot of times, especially when we're younger, we look at rules as a bad thing, right? We look at walls like, oh, that's horrible. I want to go outside. The wall's there to protect what's inside. Right? And young people just for a minute listen to me. The reason that there are walls isn't so you can't have fun, but to protect you from what's outside. So that's important. Rather than saying, oh man, I can't go through these walls and trying to knock down the walls that mom and dad have put up, why don't you be thankful that they're protecting you from the army outside? So there's that. We we we we need to start taking a personal inventory, though, is what I want to say. And especially dad's today, we need to take a personal inventory of our home. Why is that relationship broken? Why is there a problem there? What can I do? I think a good thing we could do is what Nehemiah did in chapter 1. A little prayer and fasting might help. Seeking the Lord on this will go a long way into rebuilding that wall, into rebuilding that gate. I think it's about time we take a walk around our home, our city, our schools, our towns. And also our nation. There's a lot of wickedness in our nation. And there's more and more coming in. Why? Because we let the walls fall down. We let the gates burn up. And then we sit and talk about it without trying to fix it. Now, God has to do it. Don't misunderstand me. God's the one that has to do it. But sitting around talking about it isn't going to fix anything. Sit around talking about isn't going to fix a thing. The reason there is so much wickedness in our country is because we have neglected the walls. We've neglected the walls of our homes. We've neglected the walls of our churches. Why is it that churches Our churches are ordaining sodomites. What is up with that? Churches. W why is it that when we go to a church, it looks an awful lot like a rock concert or a nightclub? Why is it that we have professors at Christian colleges? My fingers are going to get sore from doing this so much. Why is it that we have people that claim to be Christian that will deny the Bible? You know what we've done? We've let the walls go, and the world has just crept right in. Why wouldn't they? We left the gate down, or up, however it went. We let it go. We let the gate go, we let the wall go, and then we wonder, man, how did the church get so carnal and so worldly? We let the gates of our homes go and we say, Man, how did this end up happening? We let the the gates of and the walls of the country go and we say, How did so much wickedness get in here? Well have you taken a walk around the walls lately? Now I don't want to just talk about it. What can we do about it? Man, we've we we we've we've let we've let the the walls go in our nation and we've just let people get into office and whatever. Well why don't we vote someone else in? I mean Why don't we go soul winning? We talk about how wicked the country is. When's the last time you actually witness to somebody? When's the last time you actually said no that's wrong? Can't pick on you for a minute, Vern? Is that cool? You're all winning back, but that's fine So uh w we let the wall of the rainbow go. This bothers me. That's ours, right? The rainbow's ours. That's in Genesis. I love the shirt he wears taking back the rainbow and it's got the arc on it and Genesis on it. And he had someone um in the store somewhere um point it out, say thanks for wearing that. Why do we just give that wall up? So now we're scared of rainbows? God gave us that. I mean come on. But that's just one example. Let's take it back. Let's fix the wall. I want to keep going here. It's how we build up the walls, how we build up some of the walls and gates. Now, you've surveyed, hopefully, over the past few minutes, you've taken personal inventory, you've surveyed. Where are you week at? Where is your home week at? Where is the school week at? Where is the town week at? Where does the work need to be done? Now that you see that, this morning, let's make a conscious decision to work on it. Not just to say, oh yeah, I have a problem Make the decision, this is the steps I'm going to take to work on it. If it's again, if it's I keep going back to marriage, I don't know why. But if that you say my marriage is weak because of this. What are you going to do about it? I feel like the spirituality in my home isn't there. I see it's because we haven't been doing family devotions. So you can start today. You can start that today. You can make the decision, okay, this is what I'm going to do. If all we do is just sit and talk about the problems without actually making decisions then the decisions won't be made. I think that makes sense. If we don't decide to do anything, then we're not gonna do anything. Are you content with your walls being in the state they're in? Are you content with your home being the way it is? Then don't do anything. But if you're bothered by it, and you've taken a walk around and you see the state that it's in, why don't we do something about it? I would suggest starting immediately. Start today. If your own personal life is lacking in a certain area and you say, this is where I'm weak, My prayer life is weak. Okay, then you can pray. Starting at invitation, maybe. You say, well, this is where I'm weak in my life, and I realize it's because I haven't been in the Word of God. Okay, so read your Bible today. Let's dec let's let's start immediately. Don't wait, don't wait. What if Nehemia would have done that? Oh wow, this is a big problem. Alright, let's go back to Persia and think about this. No, he did something about it. And he encouraged everyone else to do the same as well, which uh this is a by the way, if someone does decide they're going to start rebuilding their walls, don't don't be a sand ballad or to buy and start making fun of them for trying to get things right. Don't don't do that. Like if if you see someone's actually trying to take steps into fixing their home or their marriage or their country or Don't be a downer on that. Don't don't try to discourage that because you don't have the guts to do something about it your own self. So anyway. Um we need to start immediately. We need to build strong defenses. A wall is a big thing. It's not a gate, it's not a fence. If I want to get through a gate or a fence, it's not that hard to do. A wall is tougher to get through. So, if I know that I have a problem, if I have a weak point in my life, that wall needs to be strong. Not just the little thing to check the box. I hope that makes sense. Again, this is everyone has their own weak points, right? We don't all have the same weak points. So I don't know how the Holy Spirit's dealing with you right now, but you do I don't know what your weak point is, but just a little token, oh yeah, check the box, I put up a fence. That doesn't work. They need to be strong walls. Strong walls. So um anyway. Barriers are for protection. We talked about that. Now, some of this isn't going to be fun. I just want to mention this very briefly. I'm towards the end here of my notes. When we take a survey of our home, our country. our own personal life. And we see some of the problems. Some are not exactly pleasant to fix, but they need to be fixed. You might have had a pretty big fight with your spouse. I keep going back to marriage, I don't know why. That's okay And it might not exactly be an easy thing to swallow your pride. It might feel kind of like, ugh, I don't want to do this. I wonder how they felt when they were repairing the dung gate. A little messy, not fun. Some parts were not exactly pleasant, but they needed to be done. There are certain things as we survey our own life that we just don't want to do. But they need to be done The longer you go, the harder it's gonna be to fix it You go ten years without opening the Bible in your living room, it's going to be real hard to do it. But do it anyway. You go five or six years without praying with your spouse or your kids. It's going to be hard to do it. But do it anyway. There's parts of the wall that are not easy to fix, and the longer that it went uh unattended, the worse it was. There's parts of the gate, there's certain ports that were just not not pleasant But they needed to be done. And if you want your home strong again, you want those walls strong again, you're gonna have to get a little uncomfortable. Stand firm. That's my last point. Stand firm. Once they had everything done, once they had the plan in place and they started working, they stood their ground. Even when the insults came, even when the persecution came, even when the the the threat of an invasion came, the false accusations, oh you're trying to go against the king. He's the one that sent him there. I always just thought that was funny. But anyway. Once you make up your mind, we are going to start today. Stand firm on that. Don't give up. Don't quit. As soon as a little opposition comes, what are you going to- Oh, okay, well, never mind. I guess we'll go back to the way things were with the walls all broken down. No, stand firm. Stand firm. Hold the wall, be consistent. Now, wrapping things up here, I'm just about done. Are you gonna even address the weak points? I think maybe we might be a little too scared to take inventory because we know how bad things are. We know that we haven't had any defenses. So we don't really want to take a walk around our city because we know how bad it is and we don't want to admit it. Well, if I ignore the problem, that doesn't mean it's not there I've gotta take a walk around. I've gotta take a little survey. Are you going to take the survey and then are you gonna address it and point it out? And if you it it this is interesting, looking at at chapter one. Um look at verse again thirteen, and went up by night by the gate of the valley, the dragon well, the dung port, viewed the walls. Um viewed the gates, um, the gate of the fountain, the king's pool. He's naming specific things. Are you going through your life saying, yeah, that's my weak point? Anger. Bitterness. That's my weak point. My spiritual life. Yeah, I have a hard time reading my Bible every day. I have a hard time in my prayer life. That's my weak point. Or whatever yours is. Are you going to point it out? Are you going to address it? And then are we going to take action to fix it? Alright, that's my weak point. Prayer life, so I'm gonna set an alarm on my phone every day. Pray. That's okay, by the way. I'm gonna set an alarm on my phone every day. Read your Bible. That's okay. Or this is my weak point at home. So I'm going to take these steps. This is the weak point in our nation. There's wicked people everywhere. So I'm going to take steps to lead souls to Christ. Gonna carry tracks with me. Alright, I think we understand it. This is what I'm going to do to fix it. Don't give in to the people that are against it. And don't you be the one that's against it. Like I was saying, if someone wants to get things right, You you better let them. Don't don't speak out against them because you you didn't have the backbone to get things right yourself. Okay. Alright, heads bowed, eyes closed. No one look around for just a moment. Actually, if you could just uh stand to your feet. We'll have invitation here in just a second. Um I should have mentioned this more. Um but if you don't know the Lord is your Savior, you have no defense at all. I mean if you died right now and you're not saved, hell's where you go. That's not good. But you can go to heaven. You trust Christ as your Savior. He died for our sins. We trust in him. We go to heaven. And that is security. To know for sure. I don't know how God spoke to your heart tonight, but if there is someone here, I should have asked this question before I had you stand, but that's okay. If there's someone here to say, you know what, that's me, I'm not sure I'm saved, could you raise your hand? Just raise your hand and put it back down. We just want to pray for you. Let me say, you know what, Pastor Matt, take an inventory. I see some things that I need to fix. I see some walls I need to fix. Some gates maybe. Could you slip your hand up? My hand's up. Amen. Great message, great message. I know God speaked our hearts. He spoke to