Uh Proverbs chapter ten. Did I say twelve? I said ten? Well it's verse twelve. Verse 12. And then we'll go to right over to 1 Peter. Proverbs 10, 12. Hatred stirreth up stripes. Hatred stirth up stripes. But love covereth all sins. Hatred stirreth up stripes, but love Covers all since that word all it means all. That word love it means love. How about that? Hatred stirs up strife. But love covers all sins. We could apply that to ourselves personally, couldn't we? Think of all of our sins. And the love of Christ covered up all of them. It's pretty awesome. We'll pray and then we'll go to 1 Peter here. And the title is Let's Just Love Each Other. Let's just love each other. Lord, I thank you for this day. It's been just a good day to be here in your house. And um Lord, we thank you especially tonight for Miss Mabel and the blessing she's been to this church. And um Lord, she she sure has meant a lot to all of us. Lord, we pray you'd now be with this service that you would bless your your word, Lord, you would use your word and use it to speak to us, bring conviction where it's needed, encouragement where it's needed as well. Lord, and if there's If there's any um anything in our life that needs to be corrected, I pray that your Holy Spirit would point it out. If there's anything I'm going to say that goes against your word, I pray that you would Keep me from saying it and that you would bless the service tonight. It's in Jesus' name. Amen. Let me put this on. I forgot to do this. Usually I do this right away. Sorry about that, Jamie. But um he's another one of the ones that we wouldn't have buses working if it wasn't for him. We're always running after a bus in the shop or something like that. So there's just a lot of people. That do a lot of things. Go to 1 Peter, if you're not there already, chapter 4. I'm going to read verses 1 through 9. Verse 1, for as much then as Christ hath suffered for us in the flesh, is this do I need to slide this down, Jamie? Is it good? Okay. For as much then as Christ has suffered for us in the flesh, arm yourselves likewise with the same mind For that he that has suffered in the flesh hath ceased from sin, but he no longer shall live the rest of his time in the flesh to the lust of men, but to the will of God. For the time past of our life many suffi uh suffice us to have wrought The will of the Gentiles, when we walked in lasciviousness, lust, excess of wine, revelings, banquetings Abominable idolatries, wherein they think it strange that you run not with them to the same excess of riot, speaking evil of you. Anyone ever go through that like when this this is a by the way, like this is a side note. You people live in that kind of lifestyle and then you don't and they're like, man, what's wrong with you? Verse 5. Who shall give an account to him that is ready to judge the quick and the dead? For this cause was the gospel preached. Also to them that are dead, that they might be judged according to man in the flesh, but live according to God in the Spirit. But the end of all things is at hand Be therefore sober, and watch unto prayer. And above all things, have fervent charity among yourselves, for charity shall cover the multitude of sins. It sounds like a verse we just read, doesn't it? Verse 9, use hospitality one to another. Without grudging. The one to another, does that refer those outside of the church or inside of the church? Inside. Talking to each other. The title is just Let's Just Love Each Other. Um and I'll get to that here in a minute. Of course, um Pastors mentioned this before. He did the series through 1 Peter and um the the the the and perse he's mentioned he mentions this often, but the persecution that the church was going through is just intense, right? And they're scattered abroad because of it. Um there was just intense persecution that's referenced some here. And um and even in this passage, but Verse three and four we see the world was not only persecuting them, but but they just thought they were weird. Anyone just said you ever have that? People just think you're weird. Right? I'll never forget this. There is a guy I worked with It was when one of the Jurassic Park movies was was coming out and there was it was in in the TV there work was in the background and was playing ad for it. And it was just like this dinosaur that went across the screen. I'm like, man, that's awesome. That's cool. Dinosaurs. I mean dinosaurs are cool, right? And he's like, wait a minute, you I thought you were a Christian. And I'm like, Yeah? He's like, You believe in dinosaurs? So I was like, yes, yes. But anyway, so they just think they just think we're weird, you know what I mean? It's like, whoa. So anyway. Yeah, then then in in in in verse uh four it talks about how they think it's we're just strange. Then they speak evil of you. You know, and we kind of expect that. You know, people speak evil of us because we're we're You know, the world if we're friends with the world, we're enmity with God. I mean we're not on the same team, so we'd expect the opposing team to speak evil of us. I mean that makes sense. And um Now Peter is uh is stressing the importance of while you're in this persecution and while you have these people that think you're just weird, right? And this world's against you and they're out to get you, they're you're they're your enemy, and so on. There's a certain way we should live in the world. Right? There's a certain way we should live. And that makes sense. And he mentions some things here, like verse 6 For this cause was the gospel preached. One thing that just makes sense for a Christian to do is to spread the gospel. That would be strange if I was a Christian and accepted Christ as my Savior, I'm saved from hell have a home in heaven and I didn't think to tell anyone about it. It'd be a little weird, right? At least it should be weird. And so uh th indeed one of the main points of being a Christian is proclaiming the gospel Uh it's kind of the whole reason we're left here. So when Jesus went up into heaven, he left the disciples here to go out and uh spread the gospel. So um then again in verse 6. He says we should live according to the Spirit. Again, I think this is this is uh just it makes sense. For this cause was the gospel priest also to them that are dead, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the Spirit. We ought to just live according to God in the Spirit. That means what God says we should just do it. Um part of being a Christian is spreading the gospel and doing what God says That's just part of it. Well we talked a lot about that this morning. Just do what God says, you know. M Moses he said, speak to it, don't hit it. And You know, maybe people thought he'd be weird or something. But again, you would see here at Peter where people think they're weird. So that kind of actually goes together. But um but just do what God says. Just do what God says. Live according to God in the Spirit. If you're not living according to God's word, you're not living like a Christian Doesn't mean you're not one. You can be a Christian and not live like one. You know, shame on us when we do that. But we can live like a uh non-believer and be a believer. Um Anyway, so we ought to let God guide our lives. We ought to let the Bible guide our lives. If someone gives you advice and it's clearly against God's word, then you go with God's word and not with what other people say. That just makes sense. That's what Christians do. Then verse 7, he says to But the end of all things is hand, be ye therefore sober. Sober. No, normally it's we associate being sober with you know not being intoxicated or drunk or something like that. But it's more than just that. It's having control over your mind. Part of being a Christian is doing what God says and things like that and spreading the gospel, but it's also controlling your mind. That's just part of being a Christian. We ought to have discipline over what we think about. We ought to have discipline over our mind. You know, guard our mind by guarding our ears, guard our mind by guarding our eyes, and so on. And that just makes sense. But then the fourth thing he gives here, verse 8, he says, and above all things. Now, what does that mean? Above all things. Yeah. Like number one. Like this stands out. Like like of all the attributes of a Christian, this should stick out. Yeah, Christians should spread the gospel. Yeah, Christians should uh think soberly and have control of their mind and live according to the Bible. But above all, thanks, have fervent charity among yourselves. Among yourselves. This me um and and then he set me says another thing here. He says watching under uh under prayer, and we uh Christians ought to be prayerful, but uh he says above all things Above all things, this means this is the highest and the most important in the list that he's giving. I got thr four points, and I'll go through them pretty quick. I'll give them to you all right now up front and then we'll go back through them. Point one is the command. Two is the reason for the command, three is the result of the command, and then four is Result of rejecting the command. My contacts are getting slightly outdated, and so this one's getting a little blurry. So if you see me, that's what's going on. I should have brought my glasses tonight, but whatever. So point number one is the command. Verse 8, what are we supposed to do as Christians? Have charity for each other. How much? Fervent. What is we could go through this. What does charity mean? You can learn a lot just by going through it, getting a dictionary and seeing what each what each word means. What does charity mean? It means to have an acting love one towards another. See, a lot of times people will take 1 Corinthians 13, the love chapter, and then the newer versions won't say charity, they'll say love. It's not the exact same thing Now in Proverbs we saw love covers all sins, and here we see charity does. Charity is a form of love, but specifically it's an acting love. It's acting it out, it's putting it into motion That is the love I'm supposed to have for you. That's the love you're supposed to have for each other. Charity Charity is an is love put into action. Okay, it's one thing for me to say I love my wife. And then never act like it. It's another thing to say and act like it. Do you follow me? We should act like it. And not just to get along. Not just act like we get along. We should act like we really do love each other. Love involves sacrifice. Love involves putting the other before ourselves. Love involves caring more about each other's needs than our own needs. Charity is love in action. Now, again, he's not addressing, should we love lost people, care about their souls, and have compassion on the lost? Absolutely. But the love that we have for each other should be something different and special. Yes, I have compassion on the lost. I want to see him saved. I have an amazing burden I guess you should say burden for our country, especially younger people. And I want to see him saved, absolutely. But the love that I'm supposed to have excuse me A voice crack. Did you see that? It just did again. We might be really quick tonight. So um the love we're supposed to have for each other is something sp is something that should be fervent. Should be intense. Now that's hard to do if you don't it's it's hard for me to love Evan and Isaac the way I should if I don't love my wife the way I should. Right? One, she's my wife, but two, she's part of the church, isn't she? Wouldn't that be a little hypocritical of me? I'm just I'm just mentioning some things. It'd be hard for me to have a fervent charity towards The rest of the church, but well maybe not this group or this person. Like I love the uh I love the whole church. I love everyone, I give my life for the church Except for the grams. I just you're just the first person that made eye contact, so that's that's what you get. Except except man, I I that they just oh I have a hard time with them. Not really, okay? This is an example, this is an illustration. Of course we love them But wouldn't that be kind of hypocritical? Can I love the church the way I'm supposed to if I don't love the church? It doesn't make sense. Fervent charity. What does fervent mean? It means intense, means to heat it up. It means intense. I said that, didn't I? But we're to have a fervent charity acting out, verse 8, among yourselves. That's the command. The direction of this is not pointed towards a lost world. Remember 1 John 2, he says, love not the world. I shouldn't love The world, the way I I love the church. Does that make sense? Now of course we should have compassion on a lost world. But the point is it should be Should be different. Intense. Passionate. You know, our society has twisted that word love A and and if I would say that I should have an intense, fervent passion towards y you know, Nate You know, some some people in the world might say, man, that's weird, you know. But it's not weird. It's a command. You know when you when you when you love someone, you care about their life. You care about their things. And I tell I told you this before. I hate fishing. I hate it. I hate it. I like to eat them. That's about it. If I want to go look at the water, I'll go look at the water. You know? And if I w Anyway. But you know what I would love to do sometime? Go fish him with you. I mean, we could do something else too. But the p um but the point is is I uh because I care about him and I I value his friendship and I value him as a member of the church, he's my b he's my brother in Christ We're gonna be living together for millions of years and then some. You know what I mean? It makes sense that I would treat him like my brother And even you know you do stuff for your family that y y you know what I mean? Like I'll watch a Hallmark movie, you follow me? Like I I mean I I'll do it. I'll do it. If that's what if that's what they want to watch, I'll suffer through it and and lo you you get the point. Of course some of the newer ones are getting weird, but that's besides the point. That's a different message. That's how I'm supposed to love each other. That's how we're supposed to love each other. The it says in verse nine, use hospitality one to another, without grudging I'm not supposed to be grudging in my love for the church. You're not supposed to be grudging in your love for the church. Amongst ourselves, we're supposed to have a fervent charity. That doesn't mean Well, if they need help. No We can be passionate about each other and we should be, about each other's families, hobbies, helping each other in God's word, encouraging each other. It's a command. And now uh Matthew Henry said, it is not enough for a Christian. It's not enough for Christians not to bear hatred or to have ordinary respect for one another. They must love one another deeply and wholeheartedly. You know, if I'm tolerating, that's not the command. If I'm well, I'll get along. That's not the command. We're not supposed to just get along. Well, I'll be nice to them when I see them, but that's it. Fervent charity amongst yourselves. Charity is hospitable. What does that mean, hospitables? Help me out. What does it mean if you're if you have hospitality? What does that mean? Welcoming! Hey! I didn't even think of that. But yeah, yeah, welcoming. Welcoming. Something else that a hospitable person would do. Feed you. Amen. Amen. And we will have the invitation right there, sir. Amen. They're welcoming. They'll give you your needs, if they'll help you with your needs. They'll feed you if you need it. What else? What's that? Take you in. Yeah. You need somewhere to stay. You need yeah, take you in. Absolutely. Yes, make you feel wanted. Yeah. Towards each other. Amongst ourselves. Nate spends all of his money on bass boats and he and he has you know loses everything he has. I'll say I told you so. And then I'll say, Well you come on in, brother. Right? That's the way it should be. And he's not buying a bass boat. Praise the board But I hate fishing, have I told you that? I like e that's uh we've been through this already, haven't we? I like eating them. And I'll I'll even cook 'em for ya. But i i if I want to go stand and look at the water, I'll go stand and look at the water. There's that. But if you want me to go with you, I would love to. So we'll bring snacks. Charity is hospitable, it's not grudging. Okay, so what's the reason for the command? Why, why? Is it just because we all need to be like, oh yay, we love each other Why? Why should I love you? Why should you love me? Why should we love each other? He says, above all having fervent charity among yourselves, for This is the reason. Charity shall cover the multitude of sins. Um could you go back to the uh Proverbs 40, 12? Probably we'll get there and don't read it right now, but in a minute we'll we'll read it just so we get the exact wording. But but but the reason here Love, charity, covers a multitude of sins. If you love someone, you don't uncover their sins. Right? I can't wait to tell you what everybody's sin is. It's called gossip. That's not love. That's not charity. No, no, uh uh it's not that you're taking sin and you're being sneaky, ooh, well we're going to cover up all these sins and we'll be sneaky. That's not what this is talking about. It's not publishing sins. Love covers a multitude of sins. If you love someone, you don't publish it. You don't gossip about it. It also has the idea of this: love overlooks faults. Why should we love each other? Why should we have this fervent charity towards each other? Because it overlooks each other's faults the same way. Our faults were overlooked. Not that they were overlooked I should rephrase that. They weren't overlooked, but they are now when God looks at us, he doesn't see our sins, he sees the righteousness of Christ. Why don't we look at each other that way? Rather than nitpicking every little thing that each other does wrong. And I'm talking to myself right now. When Christ sees me, he doesn't see my filth and my sin anymore. Sees Jesus Christ and his righteousness. Why don't we view each other like that, okay? Love each other. But also kind of has this idea. Love will uh keep you from sin. Uh that was just a note I had written down. It's a love covers multitude of sin, charity covered multitude of sin. Um love will keep you from sin. And I you know There's opportunities that I had to sin in my life and I didn't because what comes to my mind? What will mom and dad think? Right? That's uh oh Because of their love for me, I think about it, I thought about it You know, if we love each other, we don't want to br let each other down, right? And what would that the church that uh that we love, what would that happen if I did this? Right? Or because I love God, I won't do this. Or because I love my other church members, I won't do this. Because I love my wife, I won't do this. You follow me? Love will keep you from sin. It will. Love will cause someone else to turn from sin. There's a lot of people that have been loved right on the right path. This is patience and love and patience and love and praying for them and working with them and telling them you love them and brings them back to where they're supposed to be. Love covers a multitude of sins. Charity covers a multitude of sins. We'll get to you in just a minute, Evan. Don't if if I if I overlook you here in the next three or four minutes, just kind of wave at me, okay? Okay. Love covered our sins, didn't it? You know what? Romans five eight. God commendeth his love toward us. While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us back up. Scarcely for a righteous man will one die yet peradventure for a good man, some would dare to die. But while we were sinners God commendeth his love toward us and while we were yet sinners. Christ died for us And if I want to be a Christian and I want to be Christ-like, that means I'm supposed to love you and you're supposed to love each other to the point of giving your life for someone That's tough. I don't know. That's I mean I like uh uh on Wednesday nights after I'm done I always t tell the teens like hey I love you guys And I like to think that that that I'd take a bullet form. I don't know if I'd be quick enough. Yeah. That'd be kind of funny to watch. Well, it wouldn't be funny to watch, but it'd be never mind. God loves you. Christ loves you. And we ought each other. Evan, go ahead. Yeah. Twelve. Verse twelve. Okay, so the opposite of love is Hatred. Love covers sin. What does hatred do? Stirs up strife. If you're stirring it up, that means it wasn't already stirred up. Love forgives and moves on with life. Love says, I forgive you, we're going to work together, keep going. I've wronged you, you wronged me. We love each other, though. And we're going to move forward. Hatred keeps stirring up. And what does it stir up? What's strife? What's strife? What is it? Discord. It's fighting. It's contention. It's I don't want to be around you. You don't want to be around me. And if you do, I'll make sure you don't. Strife, contention. How does that get stirred up? What was the verse? Hatred. I can't remember the reference. If you know it, say it. Only by pride comes contention. What's that reference? Does anyone know? That's okay. I don't either. It's fine. I'm just the assistant. Huh? Thirteen ten. Hatred that stirs up strife comes from pride. Pride is me loving me more than me loving you. This is like first grade stuff. Like like they can comprehend this in the flyers, I'm pretty sure But man, it's a big deal, isn't it? Families fighting with each other, one family fighting with another family, church members fighting with each are one church fighting with another church? Why? Why? Hatred just does nothing but stir up strife, and pride brings contention I don't want contention. You don't want contention. If you do, you're weird. Fighting's exhausting. Charity says, you know what, we love each other. Evan stole my Bible. How dare you? He stole my Bible. But you know what? We love each other. So I forgive him. We'll overlook this. Charity will cover that sin. And we're going to move on together. Hatred says, he stole my Bible, I'll steal his car. And if he tries to steal mine, I'll blow it up after he does, right? Oh yeah, it gets worse, it escalates. Silly illustration, I'm sorry. Hatred stirs up strife Could it be the reason there is so much contention and strife in your home is because there's not a fervent charity towards each other? Because there's pride? Could it be that there's so much fighting in your marriage is because there's pride Well, it's not my fault. Whoa. Love says, let's work together, whether it was my fault or not, and we're going to move on. Hatred wants to keep stirring it up. Well, he did this to me, well, she did this to me, and I'll never forget this. Stop stirring up the strife. Love each other like we're supposed to, and move on. Love coverage. I'm glad God doesn't do that to us twelve years later after you're saved. Oh well, you know. Remember when you did that, Matt? Well, I can forgive the rest, but I'm not gonna get over that one. Whew! That'd be bad. That'd be rough. Alright, I'm moving on. Um the reason if i if if we do what we're supposed to do, above all, there'll be less strife. If we do what we're supposed to do and have a fervent charity one towards another, more people will get saved. I have this written down. I don't know if this is the right reference. John chapter 13. I think it is. John chapter 13. Verse thirty four. Yeah, this is it, this is right, that's what I wanted. If we if we love each other the way we're supposed to Well, I'll just read it. Verse 34: A new commandment I give unto you that you love one another as I have loved you. As I have loved you, how much did he love me? As I have loved you, that ye also love one another. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another. Go back to chapter four of First Peter and we go through that list we talked about at the beginning. You know, when you're living in a world that's against God and there's sin and there's persecution and there's you know, people just m think you're weird if you don't do what they do and What should we do? We should preach the gospel. We should give an account of the gospel. We should be ready for that. We should leave live according to God and be led by the Spirit. And we ought to think clearly, be sober. By this will all men know that you're my disciples if you share the gospel. No. By this will all men know you're my disciples if you think soberly. The most important thing here on his list, above all things, fervent charity, this is how people are going to know who the Christians are. The love we have for each other. So if I don't love my family, both my family, my church family, if I don't love my family the way that I'm supposed to. Who's gonna know I'm a Christian? I'll have to tell 'em. And they'll go, oh, okay. By this shall all men know that you're my disciples. If you have love one to another, the church is supposed to love each other. The church is supposed to have a fervent charity for each other. Strife. Hatred stirs up strife. Pride brings contention If we want to operate the way we're supposed to, we've got to put the pride on the shelf. Never mind. Burn it. Get rid of it. Gotta die to self and esteem each other more than ourselves and have a fervent Intense charity among ourselves. Why? Because charity covers a multitude of sins Now, that word charity is most famous in what chapter of the Bible? Let's go there, First Corinthians thirteen. You can you you can tithe, you can give to admissions, you can drive the bus, teach a Sunday school class. Be on staff, you can you you you you can do it all. But if you don't love each other Worthless. Verse 1 Though I speak with the tongue of men and of angels and have not charity, become a sounding brass and tinkling symbol. Though I have the gift of prophecies, I understand all mysteries, all knowledge. That would be impressive. Though I have all faith so that I could move mountains, have not charity. I am really something. Nothing. He says, I am nothing. Wouldn't that be awful to live your whole live your whole life for God? Live your whole life for God And say, it's nothing. You never no you never did get along. You always hated each other. You couldn't talk to someone in church without it being about someone else. Well you understand I went to I went to this school and I've got these degrees and I have all knowledge. So About cherry Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and evil speaking be put away from me with all malice. Ephesians 4. 32, be kind one to another. Tenderhearted. Forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake have Forgiven you. We are to have a fervent love for each other. Why? It covers a multitude of sins. If we obey Less strife, better testimony, people will come to church or come to Christ or have a stronger church. If you reject that. You're nothing. And that's not me saying it. You're nothing. I'm nothing. You'll have more drama, you'll have more bitterness, you'll have more pride, you'll have more contentions, and it'll be contention, contention, contention, contention. I think it would be a lot There. I'm done, you can close your Bibles. I think it'd be a lot better And and it shouldn't be a weird thing to say I love you The world makes it weird. Whatever. Randy, I love you. That's a good thing. Look at someone and say it. I love you. Yes. Hey, there you go. That was good. She did it. Love you. Derek, I love you, buddy Right on. Brother Kurt, he comes for our youth conference. I talked to him on the phone a few days ago. At the end of every phone call, he's like, hey, listen, brother, I'll love you, buddy. And he just said it just that way. I'll love you, buddy. You know Brother Kurt. I can just see him going like that when he says it. Holly buddy. And I would say, back at you, bro It's weird. But we love each other. Alright? We love each other. And you we should. We should. With all that in mind. Remember that command and and when you go home, when you get in the car to go home, love each other. You get home to your family. Love each other. Well, I just no. Love each other. Someone in church is having a hard time with something. Oh, they're just getting what they deserve. No! Stop it! Love each other. Alright? Heads bowed, eyes closed, no one looking around. We'll have an invitation here in just a second. A couple questions. Question one is how we say, you know what? To be honest with myself and with you, Pastor Matt, I have not been showing a fervent charity towards everyone in the church. God's dealing with me about it. It might even be your old family. God's dealing with me about it. Could you pray for me? Could you raise your hand? And my hand's up. I have not, I need to work on that. We all do. And if you're and if there's someone here, you can put your hands down. I won't ask for a hand raised on this one, but there's someone here you've not accepted Christ as your Savior. If there's someone listening and you haven't man, God loves you He loves you. It's a shame that people will harm themselves and people will be down on themselves and even go to the point of taking their own life because they feel like no one loves them because it's not true. God loves them. God loves you. So much that he gave his son for you. And that's how we're supposed to love each other. Kind of sacrificial love. Lord, I pray that you would bless now this invitation. I pray that we would have this fervent charity one towards another. Lord, you said that's how people will know that we're your disciple. I pray we take it seriously for that reason. It's in Jesus' name.