Thank you girls. Excellent job. Turn your Bibles, please, to Second Corinthians. I gotta get my mic off Second Corinthians chapter number three. I'm glad James is using the right Bible anyway. No, he's doing a good job. I failed to recognize Josh and Jess Capin. And we're glad you guys are here. Amen. Josh is going to be on my softball team, I think. And we're glad they're out. I've I'm sorry for overlooking them. A little bit strong, I think, fellas, on the sound. Let's read together verse number 17. Would you? Now the Lord is that Spirit, and where the Spirit the Lord is, there is liberty. I think we can do better than that. Let's try that again, okay? Hold on a second. Are we good? Alright. Let's try it again. All together now. Now the Lord is that spirit, and where the spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty. I want to speak this morning on our nation's birthday on the subject of liberty. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless our time in his word. Father, as we look into your word now, our hearts are grateful for what's already transpired this morning God, the music has stirred my heart and my love for my country anew. And Lord, we ask now that you would use your word to stir our hearts and love you and rejoice in you and trust you. God, make this an hour of spiritual growth. Lord, we pray perhaps some are with us that do not have the assurance of sins forgiven home in heaven. I pray this morning would be the day of salvation. Lord, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. I ask God with all my heart that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, that you would speak through me To every one of our hearts, open our minds, and uh let your will be done now, we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Now we say this often, but the fact of the matter is you do not have to be around Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church very long to realize that we as a church and as individuals love our country. We love the United States of America. We make no apologies for being flag waving, red-blooded, commie hating, freedom loving uh red, white, and blue patriots. We don't apologize for that. And for all her faults, we still believe the United States of America is the greatest country in the world We believe that the United States of America is the greatest force for good in the world, apart from the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And lest you wonder, I'm convinced our military is the greatest force for good around the world, apart from the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. One of the greatest things that can happen to a country is to be conquered by the United States of America. After the United States of America conquers a country, that country's uh Freedoms are greater, their economy is stronger, their standing in the world is better. It's done nothing but good for the countries of the world when the United States has won a war. So we believe the United States of America is the greatest force for good. We believe that the United States of America is the greatest defender of liberty around the world. A nation wants to be set free, they look to the United States. Nation wants to establish liberty in their country, they look to the United States. I believe the United States is the greatest promoter of prosperity. in the world. Now, you can say what you want, but this world depends on the produce America sends from our shores. Uh I I'm a little bit tired of folks criticize America as saying we use more fuel and we use more um uh uh Energy, we use more energy than all the other countries of the world combined. That may be true, but we produce more than all the other countries of the world produce also And so I believe America is a promoter of prosperity around the world. I believe America is the greatest giver to the needy uh around the world. Uh when a tragedy strikes, when Haiti is hit by a earthquake and there's total devastation uh beyond our ability to imagine. Who is the first country to show up with aid and help and resources and doctors? I tell you this, it's not the communist countries. They don't show up first. Uh it's not the Muslim countries. Come on now. They they they're not sending out aid to other countries helping them. It's not the uh socialist countries. Who shows up? It's the good old US of A. Without fail. United States of America is the greatest giver around the world. I believe America is the greatest country in the world We don't apologize for that. We thank God for it. We're humbled by it. Now think about this. Of all the places in the world you and I could have been born, God allowed us to be born in the United States of America. What a privilege. What an honor. What a blessing of God. Now, as we think about the United States on July 4th, 2010, the 234th birthday of our country What is the greatest concept in the American ideal? Whole, you know, the American form of government, our form of government was a was an experiment. 234 years ago. What is the greatest concept out of this whole thinking of the American way of government and American way of life? I believe it is this. And I believe it's found in our verse. That of liberty. Liberty. Liberty is the birthright of every man, every person Liberty is a birthright. We are born with the right to be free. Liberty. Freedom. Is the inalienable right of every man regardless of his financial standing Our concept of freedom in the United States of America is every man is free, whether he lives under on a on whether he sleeps on a a burlap bag under a bridge or he has a multi-million dollar mansion, those men are equally free under the United States of America. That concept. And that is a God-given right Um freedom, regardless of a person's parentage. They may come from noble parentage, they may uh family may come from the lineage of kings Or they may have an unknown heritage. Nevertheless, both are equally free. Have equal liberty in the United States of America. Let me say this: regardless of the color of a man's skin. He's free in the United States of America. Now, he may not own one square foot of land, but God has created him to be free. God has designed mankind to live free. Liberty It's the greatest concept of any country in all the world. And it's a key concept of the United States of America. Liberty. Now, here's the thing. Liberty is only found In the principles of Scripture. True liberty. True liberty. Now, if you'll study very carefully, and you can see it unfolding before our very eyes. The farther a country or a society gets from biblical principles, the more it loses its liberty. Listen, if I haven't made it clear by now, I don't know what to do. We love our country. But I'll tell you, our country's losing liberties. We're losing our freedoms. I like I read this question here not long ago. I like the question, when's the last time a law was passed that increased your freedoms? When's the last time a law was passed that increased your liberty and my liberty? It's being chipped away, chipped away, chipped away, chipped away. What is the rust what's the root cause? I'll tell you why I believe, because we are getting farther and farther and farther away from scriptural principles. The farther we get from the principles and the truths presented in God's Word. The farther we get from freedom. Look with me at verse number 17 of 2 Corinthians chapter 3. Now the Lord is that Spirit. Look at this. And where the Spirit of the Lord is There is liberty. Where the Spirit of God has freedom. Where the Spirit of God reigns. and is has a free reign. That is where freedom is. You restrict the Spirit of God. You restrict freedom. You quench the Spirit of God, you quench freedom. You grieve the Spirit of God, you sacrifice freedom. It is the presence of God, as He as we follow the principles of Scripture, that brings freedom. To any people where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom. Now, our forefathers recognize this. Uh let me read to you some things that absolutely fascinate me, and I tell you My feeling is these ought to be read in every high school and every history class in every school in the United States of America Our forefathers understood that our freedom is dependent upon our submission to the principles of Scripture and the presence of God in our lives and our country. Listen to what our first president, when he uh here's a couple questions. Our first president, George Washington, when he took the oath of office, what did he put his hand upon? A Bible. Do you know what President George Washington's very first official act of president was? He took the Bible, he kissed it And they had a two-hour worship service in the Congress of the United States of America. Very first thing. I'm telling you, they recognize the fact that where the Spirit of the Lord is, there's liberty. Without the presence and principles of God, there's no liberty. They determined right from the very beginning that every session of Congress was to be opened in prayer. They hired chaplains. To lead the Congress spiritually and in prayer. They paid the chaplains with tax dollars. Chaplains to this day. To lead the Congress and to lead in prayer. Sounds to me like they wanted God in our government. Sounds to me. 1956, our Congress decided that the phrase, in God we trust, would be put on all of our money. Sounds like they want God in our country. In seventeen seventy-six, listen to this. In seventeen seventy-six, eleven of the thirteen colonies required That a person had to be a Christian ineligible to be eligible to run for political office You had to be. You couldn't run for office unless you came to claim to be a Christian. Eleven of the thirteen original colonies. In seventeen seventy-six, the Continental Congress. Now think about that. Seventeen seventy-six. What year did I just say? The Continental Congress voted to spend three hundred thousand dollars, seventeen seventy-six. $300,000 to purchase Bibles for distribution throughout the nation. What are they teaching that in our schools? 94% of the ratings of the Founding Fathers of the United States contain quotations directly from the Holy Scriptures. The state constitutions of every state in the United States of America mention God. Every one of them. The famous liberty bell in Philadelphia has part of Leviticus 25, verse 10 inscribed on it: proclaim liberty throughout all the land unto all the inhabitants thereof. Part of the scriptures of Proverbs chapter 14 verse 34 is inscribed, listen to this, above the Los Angeles City Hall. Los Angeles, California, above the city hall door, it says this, righteousness exalteth a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people. How about that? Sounds like to me our our founding fathers recognized the importance of God in our freedoms, in our country to maintain our freedoms. Part of the an image of Moses carrying the tablets of God's law faces the Speaker of the House of Representatives. Entering uh Whenever a president enters office, his oath of office he takes with his right hand on the Bible and concludes, so help me God. The Supreme Court begins each of its sessions with the phrase: God save the United States of America and this honorable court. The first vice president and second president of the United States of America, John Adams, in 1798 wrote, our Constitution, listen to this. Our Constitution was made only for a moral and religious people. It is wholly inadequate to govern any other. President Thomas Jefferson wrote, listen to this, Thomas Jefferson, I tremble for my country when I reflect that God is just and his justice cannot sleep forever. John Quincy Adam, our sixth president, said, No book in the world deserves to be so unceasingly studied and so profoundly meditated upon as the Bible. The Christian writings and pronouncements of Abraham Lincoln could fill an entire book. Theodore Roosevelt, America's 26th president, wrote this. In this actual world, a churchless community, a community where men have abandoned and scoffed at or ignored their religious needs, is a community on the rapid downgrade. It's a president said that. Woodrow Wilson, our twenty-eighth president, Governor of New Jersey, said America was born a Christian nation America was born to exemplify that devotion to the elements of righteousness which are derived from the revelation of the Holy Scriptures. 1911 he said it. Calvin Coolidge, our 30th president, said this about our founding fathers They were intent upon establishing a Christian Commonwealth in accordance with the principles of self-government. They were inspired body of men. It is said that God sifted the nations that he might send choice grain into the wilderness. Who can fail to see the hand of destiny? Who can doubt that this has been guided by a divine providence? Speaking of the United States of America. Franklin Roosevelt prayed this prayer on D-Day. First radio hookup around the country, I believe, June 6, 1944. Our troops were storming the beaches of Normandy This is what Franklin Roosevelt prayed. Almighty God, with thy blessing we shall prevail over unholy forces of our enemy. Help us to conquer the apostles of greed and racial arrogance. Let us to the saving of our country. Thy will be done, Almighty God. Amen. Well, how would you like to hear a president now pray something like that? Harry Truman, who by the way was not a believer. Harry Truman, our 33rd president, said this. If men and nations would live by the principles of the ancient prophets and the teachings of the Sermon on the Mound, problems which seemed so difficult would soon disappear. Gerald Ford quoted a nineteen fifty-five speech by Dwight by Dwight Eisenhower on uh December fifth, nineteen seventy-four, said this without God There could be no American form of government or American way of life. Recognition of the supreme being is first the most basic expression of Americanism. Thus the founding fathers of America saw it, and thus, with God's help, it will continue to be. How many people say notice how many people would say the American way of life is changing? How many people has changed in your lifetime? You know why? Because America is getting farther and farther from God. We cannot have the American way of life as it was established without God. The farther we get from God, the farther we get from the presence of God and the Holy Spirit in our country and our lives, the more ungodly we get, the harder we get. Listen to what President Ronald Reagan said. If we ever forget that we are one nation under God, then we will be one nation gone under. George Bush was asked to name the philosopher that had the greatest influence on his life. This was Daddy, George Bush Daddy. I think it was George W. Bush. This is the son. Who's the greatest philosopher that had the greatest influence on his life? His answer was Christ, because he changed my heart. I'm telling you, it is the principles of Scripture, it is the principles of God's Word and the Holy Spirit that has given our country the liberty it has. Where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty. And where the Spirit of God is removed, there is loss of liberty. Listen, modern America may mock the Bible. They may mock the God of the Bible. They may try and declare that we are not a Christian nation. They may try and remove God from all of our precepts. and all of our principles, but it is the true God. It is the principles given in his word that has given the people of this country their liberty and their freedoms. The more we remove them from our country, the more we realize that we are losing our freedoms. We are losing our freedoms. What's the answer to our country's needs What's the answer? Is it different politicians? Hey, I'm all for voting the bums out. I'm all for it. But wait a minute, that's not the solution Uh how do we turn do we need a we need a better economy? We need a different type of economy, we need to change capitalism, so that's not the answer. You know what the answer is? We need a revival of Almighty God in this country of ours. And where does that begin? That begins in the church begins in the house of God. We can sit here and complain all day long about the politicians. If we're not right with God, we're part of the problem. Amen? If I'm living in disobedience to Almighty God, I'm just as much a part of the deterioration of the United States of America as any liberal, as any Christ-denying, uh thieving, uh dishonest politician you can find. Look at 2 Corinthians chapter 3 with me, verse 17. Now the Lord is that Spirit, and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty. The greatest liberty of all is a liberty that only a true child of God enjoys. Spiritual liberty, eternal liberty. Now, what is the liberty he's talking about here in 2 Corinthians 3, verse 17? I don't believe he's necessarily, although the application is, I don't believe he's necessarily speaking of political liberty or the liberty of citizens. He's speaking here of the liberty of the soul. The liberty of the spirit. Now, to be the liberty has the idea of being free. Everybody wants to be free. We are created to be free. But there's a misconception of what this freedom is. Let me say the liberty, spiritual liberty being spoken of here is number one, is the liberty from the prison of sin. Liberty from the prison or the bondage of sin. Now, when I say that, when I talk about the bondage of sin, are you with me? When I talk about the bondage of sin, there are some people, under the sound of my voice right now, you know immediately what I'm talking about. You know what it's like. You know what I mean when I'm referencing the bondage of sin. To be a slave to sin, to want to be free from sin's destruction and sin's uh uh uh Prison bars and want to be free from that sin. I want it out of my life. I don't want to live this way. I don't want to be that kind of person. I want to be free That's the liberty being spoken of here. You have your Bibles. Keep your place here. I'd like you to turn not far away to the book of Romans. And Romans chapter 6. And I'd really like you to turn there and notice this. I'm going to read a fairly extended portion of Scripture. But it's speaking of the liberty from the prison of sin. Romans chapter 6. Now I'm going to begin reading in verse 6. Now you just follow along as we go. Alright? Now bear with me. It's going to be okay. Knowing this, Romans 6, verse 6, knowing this, that our old man is crucified with him. Now there's some doctrinal stuff going on here, but just follow, bear with me. That the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin. For he that is dead is freed from sin. Now, if we be dead with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him. Knowing that Christ being raised from the dead dieth no more. Death hath no more dominion over him. For he that died, he died unto sin once. But then he liveth, he liveth unto God. Now look at this Likewise, reckon ye also yourselves. That word reckon means to consider to be true. Reckon ye also yourselves to be dead unto sin But alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal bodies, that ye should obey it in the lust thereof Who's somebody says, I want to be free, I want to live in sin, be free to live in sin. Listen, you're not free to live in sin. You are in bondage to sin. Look what he says That he should obey it, sin. Sin becomes a taskmaster. Sin takes over. You say, oh What I'm doing's not that big a deal, what I'm doing's not that wrong. It's just a little thing. I know the Bible says that. I know I'm to obey my parents I know the scripture says this and God wants that, but hey, this isn't that big a deal. I'm free. I can do what I want. Brother, that freedom lasts a very short time. And that sin takes over. And I tell you, I meet with people all the time. Who said, made some stupid decisions, and here I am. My life is in bondage. I'm stuck in a situation I can't get out of. I'm trapped by these sins that I can't seem to break. Listen to me. Listen, you're not enjoying sin. You are becoming enslaved to sin You fill in the blank. Uh uh freedom from the bondage of sin. I don't believe he'll mind me saying this. Uh brother Frock told me how many years ago Twenty-three years ago today, he was delivered from the sin of liquor. You know for take that somebody takes, oh man, this is cool, we're going to party, we're gonna and take that drink, you know what they're doing? They're just putting a bar up. Take another drink, another bar, another bar. Next thing you know, they're bound in sin. God says we can be set free from that. We don't have to serve sin. Let's read on. Look what it says here Let not sin therefore, verse 12, reign in your mortal body, that you should obey it in the lust thereof, neither yield you your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin, but yield yourselves unto God as those that are alive from the dead. Your members as instruments of righteousness unto God. For sin shall not have dominion over you. For ye are not under the law, but under grace. What then? Shall we sin because we're not under the law, but under grace? God forbid Know ye not that to whom ye yield your servants to obey, his servants ye are to whom you obey? Say, well, it's my body, I can do what I want with it. If I would enjoy the pleasures of the flesh, I can do it. You know what? You become a prisoner to the pleasures of the flesh. And I'm telling you, our country is filled, and I hate to say this, but our churches are being filled with people who are slaves to sexual sins. Amen. They can't they got it in their head, they got it on their TV, they got it everywhere, and they cannot be set free, and they become bound to it. And all that sin has to do is just say Hey, come on, and everything has dropped and they go running. And I'm telling you, I am talking to people who are miserable because their lives are eat up with the ungodly perversion of that which is good and has become bound to you. His look what he says. Know ye not that to whom ye yield your servants to obey? His servants ye are whom ye obey, whether of sin unto death. Or of obedience unto righteousness. Read on. But God be thanked that ye were the servants of sin. But ye have obeyed from the heart that form of doctrine which has delivered you. You know what? You don't have to live that way. You don't have to live in disobedience to God and the scriptures. You don't have to live with a perverted mind. You don't have to live as a slave to pot and liquor. You don't have to live as a slave to money And selfishness and anger, bitterness. You don't have to live as a slave on that. The Spirit of God can come in your life and set you at liberty That's what he's talking about. Look what it says here in verse number 18. Being then made free from sin, you became the servants of righteousness I speak after the manner of men because of the firmity of your flesh, for as ye have yielded your members' servants to uncleanness and to iniquity unto iniquity, even so now yield your members' servants to righteousness unto holiness. Liberty from the prison of sin. Christian liberty. Now I'm talking to Christians at this point. And boy, I tell you, this is an ungodly teaching going around. It's this. Christian liberty is the liberty to commit sin. Paul addressed it there in Romans 6. And it's this way: hey, I'm saved by grace. So therefore, I'm not under the law. I can go and do whatever I want, and it doesn't matter. And you completely misunderstand what salvation is. You completely misunderstand what liberty is. Liberty, Christian liberty, isn't the freedom to sin. Salvation by grace is not salvation so that I can go and sin. It is salvation from sin. It is liberty from disobedience to God. I don't have to live in disobedience. I don't have to live in sin. I can live in obedience to God. I can live a life that is pleasing to God. Liberty from the prison of sin. I was saved May 7th, 1979. I did not get saved. I did not trust Christ because I was scared of dying and going to hell. You've heard me say this before. I was not concerned about hell at all. That night I bowed by my bed and called out to Christ for his salvation. That was the last thing from my mind. I had just turned 19 I was not even considering dying. I wasn't planning on dying for a long time. And by the way, I still don't plan on dying for a long time, much to the chagrin of some people. But um I'm being totally honest with you. I was not concerned about hell at that point. You know what I wanted to be saved from? I wanted to be saved from the sin that was destroying me. That was eating my heart and soul alive. I had become and was becoming a person I did not want to be. I was becoming something that I knew was a disaster. I wanted to be good. I wanted to be clean. I wanted to be pure. I wanted to be right. And I could not because I was a slave to sin. Thanks be to God. That night I've been reading my Bible. My daddy'd been witnessing, living the testimony. I've been reading my Bible. That night I and building up, I realized, leading up to that point, that Jesus Christ was my only hope. If Christ didn't save me, there was no hope for me. My life was ruined. My life was destroyed. I would be an animal if Christ didn't come in my life and save me. That night I bowed by my bed and thanks be to God. I called out on Christ. The Spirit of God moved in, and where the Spirit of God is, there's liberty. And I got up that next day, to God be the glory, never touched all that garbage I was in. God took it all away, and God set me free. God set me free. You say, preacher, you're perfect. No, I'm not perfect, but I'm free. Free. Liberty from the bondage of sin. The bondage of sin One of the things I said and thought in the days after I trusted Christ, listen to this. For once in my life, I did something good. For once in my life, I trusted Christ, and for once in my life, I did something that pleased God. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. I wonder how many folks I'm talking to. You're going to go out this week and something that you know is wrong, you know it's wrong, is going to confront you. I wonder if you're free to say Say no to that. Or are you a slave? Some guy comes, puts his arm around you, and tries to violate your body Are you free to say no? You're not doing that to me. I'm a child of God. I'm better than this. Huh? Somebody offers you a beer. Somebody tries to get you to lie. You say, yeah, preach it to the kids. I'm not talking to kids right now. Some woman at work starts flirting with you, some guy in the office. Don't be bound by that sin If you've you need Christ, and if you have Christ, you're free from that garbage. You don't have to be taken over by sin. Come on, somebody talk to me now. Freedom from the prison of sin. You know what America needs? America needs some freedom from the bondage of sin. This nation is bound by sin. We went to Mongolia on a mission trip uh two years ago. We got settled in the m in the motel room. My roommate was uh one of the professors down at Crown College. We got settled in there, he says, I wonder what kind of TV show is on and we had a couple hours until the next thing he flipped it on The very first show that came on in the capital city of Mongolia was MTV. I thought, God have mercy, what does this country think of the United States of America? We're a bunch of perverted, distorted sickos. No wonder they hate us. Look what we're bound by. How do we get our country free from Hollywood and rock and roll and all that? How do we get free from all that? I'll tell you how, the Spirit of God Liberty. Where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom. Let me give you a second thought here. Liberty from the penalty of sin. We're here in Romans chapter 6. Look at the last verse of Romans chapter 6. For the wages of sin is what? Death. Wages. The consequences of my sin is death. Now that word death, it applies to physical death, but that's not what he's talking about there. You read the context. He's talking about spiritual death. Spiritual death. Listen, every one of us here, this body is not us. We're a soul. You are a soul. And you and I, as people, inhabit a body. We're a soul that inhabits a body. And because of our sin, our disobedience to God, we say a lie, we violate one of God's laws, we disobey a command of Scripture We are sinning against Almighty God, and the consequence of that sin, the penalty of that sin, is for my soul to die. Not just my body, my soul. And spiritual death, the death of the soul, if a person dies physically in that condition, is eternity in a place called hell. A literal, actual, eternal place. Hell, the lake of fire. You say, oh brother, don't tell me this church is so so so Ancient. So behind the times, you guys still believe in hell. Well, Jesus does. We do too. God said it, we believe it. Yes, there is a hell. Yes, the punishment for my sin. Boy, if you murder someone, you'll go to hell. Hey, if you tell a lie, you deserve to go to hell. Read Romans chapter 21, verse 8. I mean Revelation 21, verse 8. The wages of sin is death. Literal, eternal, horrible hell. But the Spirit of God can set me free from that penalty. There's not one person sitting in this room this morning that has to die and go to hell. Let me say again, there's not one person sitting in this room this morning that has to die and go to hell. Hey. But there's not one person in this room this morning that's not going to go to hell if they don't trust Christ as Savior. Just being very honest with you. How many people when you go to the doctor, you like the doctor to be straightforward with you? How many people like that? How many people if you go to the doctor and he says and he finds a little lump somewhere You would like for the doctor to say, you know what, we found a little lump somewhere we're concerned about needs attention. How many of you would like for the doctor say that? How many would rather the doctor just not tell you? I want the doctor to tell me. And I want to know if there's something I can do about it. Right? Yeah, we found a lump right between your ears. I want the doctor to tell me about it and I want him to tell me what we can do about it. Hey listen, this morning I'm Dr. Leatherman. The Word of God says there's something wrong. There's sin. You've disobeyed God. Now I don't know about you. I don't want to preach and stand up here. If I'm a sinner, I don't want to tell him I want him to tell me everything Okay, just don't worry about it. I want to tell me, you're a sinner. You need to do something about it. You're gonna die and go to hell if you don't get forgiven for that sin. The penalty of sin. Where the Spirit of the Lord is, there's liberty, free from the penalty of sin. You say, Preacher, I know I've sinned. I've said lies. I've done things. I know it's displeasing to God. I violated the scriptures. I haven't even gonna thought I don't want to go to hell. I don't want to go to hell. What do I do? God can set you free from the penalty of sin. He can save you and I from sin's judgment on our lives. There is no more terrifying fear than that of dying and facing the eternal judgment of God in the lake of fire. I may be talking to someone this morning. You know, you know, if you died now, you know you would go directly to hell. I may be talking to someone this morning in your heart and soul. You know if I die right now, I would split hell wide open, I'd burn in the fires of hell for all eternity. You know that's true. I'm here to tell you Christ can set you free from that. Oh, I don't want to join your church. This church can't set you free from the penalty of sin. This church can't save you from hell. This preacher can't save you from hell. I can pray over you till kingdom comes. But Christ can save you. Christ can forgive your sin. He can come in your life, get that sin out of your life, find forgiveness from the penalty of sin. He can set you free. When a born again, when we're born again, we're free from sin's punishment. I have people on occasion, and I'm thinking of several over the years, folks have said something to me. These are saved people. And people who got saved after they made some bad decisions. You with me? Everybody's still with me? Alright? Hot dogs aren't burning. They'll be alright. They made some horrendous decisions, unchanging decisions. I'll tell you what one of my greatest burdens for our young people is I pray and pray and plead with God. God, don't let our young people make some decisions That they can't undo. Don't let them make some stupid decision they're going to have to live the rest of their life with. Sometimes that happens. And then they get saved. And they're forgiven. But there's consequences to live with. Huh? I'm talking to some folks now, you know what I'm talking about. I'm talking to some folks who are living with consequences, stuff garbage you made before. Am I right or wrong? Sure I am And they say this to me, preacher. I've had a number of people say this to me, preacher, I know God is punishing me for what I did before. As a saved person. I've had a number of them. Preacher, I've made some stupid decisions, I'm being punished for this. Wait a minute. Once you trust Christ as Savior, you are never punished for sin. Because Jesus Christ on that cross was punished for all of our sins. Every sin these hands have ever committed, Jesus Christ was punished for. For. Every word that's ever come off these lips that is displeasing to God, Jesus Christ suffered eternal hell for me. I like to look at it this way, and I'm, and this is scriptural. Jesus Christ took responsibility for my sins. He says, I am responsible for every act of disobedience on the part of Dennis Lederman. I accept responsibility for it, and I will be punished in his place. Isn't that something? Now listen, you can take that lightly if you want, but you don't understand the depravity, you don't understand the horrors of hell To take lightly the fact that Jesus Christ suffered hell for you and I. We just so flippantly and lightly treat that. Where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty. Liberty from the punishment of sin. Christ was punished for me. I like this: there's not one genuine believer in hell. Never make it. Christ set us free from the punishment of sin. Number three, liberty from the product of sin which is guilt. The moment I violate even one of God's laws, I am guilty