I think it was Brother Jerry and was it Dave Heinball, you guys visiting for Bible time? You and Jamie were visiting for Yeah, Ja And uh they were out going down uh Kitts Miller Road there and got into a bunch of trailers back in there, signing up kids to ride the bus to Bible Time. And I came across the Kent family and uh Brother James and the kids were all real small and they started riding a Sunday school bus. Uh came to Biotime, started riding a Sunday school bus, then mom and dad came, dad got saved, and the others got saved and One thing led to another, and lo and behold, God calls James to preach. And uh what an exciting thing that is, and especially for me as a pastor to have somebody in your congregation, God touch their heart and call them to go into ministry. Then God led him down to Bible College, finished up four years, and for the last 19 months, Brother James has been assisting me here and helping in so many ways And I appreciate that so much. I knew the day was going to come when God was going to lead 'em and move 'em on somewhere. Uh I didn't know God was going to use Jessica to do it, but uh She came into his life a year ago, Christmas, a year, uh just a year ago, Christmas, and uh and God's brought those two together. They're getting married, and so I am real happy for James. We're gonna miss him It's not going to be the same without him. I'm going to have to work harder. I won't have anyone to blame and stuff. And uh so uh but uh I'm excited for him and and I'm glad he can preach for us tonight. So let's get our Bibles out. He's gonna preach for us. All right. Well I thank you for that introduction. Um you don't have to worry about this affecting this, Mark. Um I think I got the same thing you had this past weekend, so I think we'll be okay there. Well He basically gave um well I was gonna say, you know, just basically go over my testimony. Most of you know it, but yeah, that's pretty much sums up in a nutshell. Um anybody in here nine. Anybody in here nine years old Nine years old. In fact there we're on. But nine years old, that's how old I was when I first came here to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Um I got saved at the age of ten here. Um the Lord called me there or the Lord worked my heart, I gave my life to him. twelve over a Wildwood Christian Retreat. Some of you might know where that is. Uh I was twelve years old when I dedicated my life to the Lord. Um he called me to preach in my teen years. I didn't yield right away. Um But after a few uh few years of Lord c work on my heart I gave over and it was the best choice I made, you know, to give my life over to the Lord to allow him to Say yes to him. I remember my youth pastor with Brother Chip at the time, you know, he so he he said one time in one of our Sunday schools, I'll never forget, he said it's easier to say no to Satan than it is to say yes to God. You know, that stuck with me, because you know, I could easily say no to Satan, but I had a hard time saying yes to God when he called me to preach, but I was so grateful I did finally say yes. You know, it was a blessing. And you know then of course Bible College, that was a great experience in my life. And the last year and a half has been a tremendous blessing to me being able to work here at the church, actually a little over a year and a half. Yeah, it's been good to meet the teams have been excellent. I really enjoy working with them. They're a blessing to me from you know just doing simple activities here to going to youth conferences. You know, I love seeing God working in the young people's lives You know, that's a blessing to me, you know, not just teenagers, um little children as well. Um, you know, I don't want to point anything out, you know, Brother Mark already did, but I really encourage you, you know, consider driving a bus. You know, I I'm gonna miss driving my bus. That's one of the things I'm really gonna miss. I really I mean if you take over my bus, I promise you, you have a very good bus captain. Miss Connie works really hard You know, you don't have to do anything but drive. Um she does a great job with the children, she does a great job visiting the children, you know. I wish I could get to visit them much as she does, but you know, she gets to interact with them She loves those children. It's just a blessing to be able to be a driver for her. I encourage them, you know, if you take over that route, you got made. It's easy. You gotta be made with Miss Flynn there, but you know You know, it's gonna b you i you may not even you may not even want to talk to your children. I'm sure you will by the time you get into it for a few um weeks or so, but you know, you could do it. I'm sure you could You know, and don't feel bad if you failed the first time. You know, what brother Mark and I went down past her when we uh passed uh when we went to take our driver's test. Uh Mark passed it, I failed it. So, you know, it was a little discouraging, but you know just keep trying, you know, the Lord can use you. I I leave that with all my heart. So pray about it, you know, consider doing that Alrighty. Well that's enough of that. Go ahead and turn to the book of Ecclesiastes. Pastor referred to this in Sunday school Ecclesiastes. As I mentioned, I was just getting over being sick, so I'm feeling great now compared to what I did. But uh if I pause and know my message probably because somewhere in my brain something got stuck. You know, with all that stuck up in there. So give me a minute, it'll get through there, but I'll try to get it out The book of Ecclesiastes. This is a message I was able to speak with the teenagers a while back. The reason why I chose this is because this is what the Lord laid on my heart. There's another one I really wanted to do, but You know, the more I prayed about the more the Lord w just laid this on my heart. This is something that every time I come to this passage, you know. Sometimes I preach to myself. You know, I think that's weird, but sometimes I preach to myself one of the my favorite ones to do is this one right here Because this is something that the Lord spoke to my heart. Pastor mentioned about reading the Bible through any year. I almost made it this year. I would have made it if I wouldn't have been sick last week. Um that really slowed me down just sleeping all the time. But You know, uh one of the books that I got to read because of that is the Book of Ecclesiastes. And I think one of the books that spoke to my heart the most this year was this book as I was doing my devotions. You know, and I want to share with you tonight what the Lord spoke to my heart as I was reading through this passage. We come to the book of Ecclesiastes. I'm going to just read the first three verses to start us off, and then we'll begin. It says in Ecclesiastes chapter number one the words of the preacher, the son of David, King in Jerusalem. Question, who is he speaking of here? Who's who's the author? Solomon, very good. Solomon's the one that wrote the book of Ecclesiastes we find. He goes on verse number two. Vanity of vanities, saith the preacher, Vanity of vanities, all is vanity. What profeth hath a man of all his labor which he taketh under the sun? By way of introduction, I want us to understand that phrase under the sun. If we don't understand that phrase none of the rest of the message will make sense. In fact, the title of my message is Life Under the Sun We look at that pass uh this passage here, the word under I I had the blessed opportunity out in college to be able to hear one of our great Bible scholars teach this passage. The word under the sun there, he is describing a life without God, a life that is from man's perspective. A life under the sun is life here on earth. Not considering spiritual things, not considering things from the Bible, just life here on earth, under the sun. Now I want to look at some principles. I believe if they if you will just take them and listen to them and use them, in fact if I use them, you know, if I I I pray every time I preach this, every time I come to this, that this would just grasp my heart The truth that I get from this. If they would just grasp it, I believe he'll change your viewpoint on sin. I believe he'll change your viewpoint on what God has for you in your life. The idea of life under the sun. I want to look at some principles here. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I thank you so much for being our God, and Lord, I thank you so much for the opportunity to speak. Uh one last time here before I leave. Uh I thank you so much, Lord, for the last nineteen months. Lord, it's been a blessing. And Lord, I thank you so much for this church. It's been a blessing to me since I was nine Lord, I thank you for using it as a cornerstone in my life. And Lord, I pray as I leave, Lord, that you continue to do great things here, Lord, to these people or work in their hearts. And Father, as I give my last message here for a while, Lord, I just pray that you would um Lord, use me. I pray that I'd be out of the way your way, that I would be able to speak here this evening. Lord, I pray that your will be done in Jesus' name. Amen. We come to this passage here. Solomon speaking, and he's given his viewpoint of life under the sun. In fact, he said what it was. Banti of vanities. The word banty there simply means empty. I brought up here with me. Or a glass. You know, I'm gonna have s I have some water up here. I need some water, it's gonna help me with this cold. You know, if I came to this glass and uh and wanted to drink water, I'm not gonna get anything, it's empty. You know, the desire's there, I need it, but there's nothing there, it's empty. And Solomon says, you know, life under the sun is empty What's the characteristic that comes in your mind when you think of Solomon? I don't know about you, but normally the characteristic that comes to my mind is he's the wisest man that ever lived. You know, he's the man that asked God for wisdom Solomon was a very wise man, but he made a very foolish decision, which we're going to find out here in the book of Ecclesiastes. We read the book of Ecclesiastes, Solomon decided that he was going to forsake all that he knew following his father's footsteps, loving the Lord, to choose to live a life under the sun, to choose to live a life from man's perspective. And we come to this passage, this whole book, Solomon's giving to us what he learned from living that lifestyle. Maybe here today and you say, you know what, I don't believe in God. Maybe you're here today and you do believe in God. I think that would be the majority of us here. But you know, there's sometimes I learned this about Christians. We often look at our lives and we say, you know, I believe in God. I'm willing to give things over to Him. But there's little areas that we won't. I think of the play that we had this this past Sunday night. You know, there's no room for the innkeeper in his heart. for Christ. You know, I love how pastors brought into the message. In fact, sometimes we're willing to give it allow him in our heart, but there's certain rooms we don't give to him. You know, when we don't give those areas over to Christ, or when we choose say, you know what, I don't care, I'm gonna do this We are, in a in a, let's see, in the word I'm looking for, in a way, we are saying, I'm doing this through my perspective. I'm doing this under the sun. I'm not doing it through God's way. So maybe you're here and say, no, I'm not a total full blown-out atheist, but that maybe there's an area in your life like that. This is for you as well. Just that little area can be a life under the sun. And Solomon gives us some principles about a life under the sun. I want us to look at those this evening, and I'm going to look at them and follow along as we go through the book of Ecclesiastes. It won't be long I told Doug that I I'm gonna be as long as I can be just to make him like uh but I I won't be long, I won't keep you uh I won't keep you long, I promise. Well let's look at these principles here. The first one I get is this. A life under the sun, there is no purpose. A life under the sun, there is no purpose. Look at me if you would. I'm going to read verses four and down through verse number 11 of chapter number one. In verse number four we read, One generation passeth passeth away, and another generation cometh But the earth abideth forever, the sun also ariseth, and the sun goeth down, and hasteneth to his place, where he arose. The wind goeth toward the south and turneth about unto the north, and whirleth about continually, and the wind returneth again according to his circuits. All the rivers run into the sea Yet the sea is not full. Unto the place from whence the rivers come, thither they return again. All things are full of labor, man cannot utter it, the eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing Let me stop there for a minute. What is he getting at here? Solomon's giving you a perspective for man without God just saying, you know what, I'm not interested in spiritual things. I'm not interested in God's word. I'm just going to live under the sun And he gives us what the perspective is. There's no purpose. For example, verse number four. We read in verse number four and we find that he says, one generation comes and one generation passes. He says there's nothing special about you. He says, you're gonna go, another's gonna come. You know, this generation is gonna go away, another generation's gonna come. He goes on. He says the wind's gonna keep blowing. You know, if well you die today, the sun's still gonna rise tomorrow He says if your whole perspective is focused on you, your whole perspective without God, there's no purpose. You're just like everything else. Time is just going to go on without you. And there's no purpose. Look at verse number nine. The thing that hath been, it is that which shall be, and that which is done is the thing which shall be done, and there is no new thing under the sun. Is there anything new, or I'm sorry, is there anything whereof it may be said, see this is new. It hath been already of old time, which it was before us. There is no remembrance of formal things, neither shall there be any remembrance of the things that are to come, which these that shall come after. He's saying, there's no point. They're not going to remember you. They're not going to remember what's going to come You look at your life and say, there's no point. You know, I I don't think there's any full-blown atheists in here. I know most of you is in here, but you you know you look at this passage and you would say, I got this area in my life, let's just throw music out there for example. You say, okay, I hear preaching on music. I know certain music is wrong, but you know I just like the feel of it. And I'm going to choose to go ahead and go with it, even though I know it's wrong. You're going with your perspective When we live off of our perspective, whether it's music, whether it's you know church attendance, whatever, when we live off our perspective, there is no point. Yeah, you're satisfying yourself. Sure, there's pleasure there. We're gonna look at that a little bit later on. But when your life is over, what does that mean to you? Nothing. What does matter is what God says. What he says. By the way, living a life under sun, there's a lot of people. That is their life. There is no purpose. I think of this tragedy that just happened not too long ago in Connecticut Why would something like that happen? When people see there is no purpose life, why wouldn't it? You know, we look at the idea of evolution that teaches, you know, there you're just nothing more than a evolved life form. There is no purpose. There is no hope for that. And that's the majority of people today. And can I say sadly, that's the majority of Christians. And it's not because, you know, they believe evolution, but they know there's a God. They believe there's a God. But their s life is full of sin or things, maybe even things that aren't sin. And their focus is wrong. They're living from their perspective. They're living under the sun. And their life has no purpose, no meaning. Solomon described it as this: it's empty. It's vanity. I mentioned the idea of the vanity of sin. Many Christians get caught up in sin so easily. Allow it to trip them. Paul described it as a sin which so easily besets us. You know, we must be on guard of that. You know, uh we can easily say, you know, well, you know, it's just an area I'd mess up in. It's just an area I'd trip up in And we take our perspective off our Lord and we put it on the things in our life. And not just sin, also the the idea of just that things are empty in this world. Pastor preached a message not too long ago. I love a quote in that message. And I think it's so true of a lot of Christians today. Not the fact that there's churches full of Christians who are failures. But the fact that there's churches full of Christians who are successful are things that do not matter. It doesn't matter We look here in Solomon says, you know what? What's the point? By the way, there is a point. I'm going to look at it a little bit later on, so I'm not going to just get into it now. There is a purpose to life. God created you for a purpose. God didn't just go, whoops, when in the world Jerry's here. What am I gonna do with that? Or Mark. You know, he didn't do that. He said, You know what? I created him for a reason. I created Mark for a reason. I created he created each and every one of us. He had a plan in mind. How with me my cell phone or at least I thought I did. I lost it while I was driving down the road to get my car unstuck. But it for example, that cell phone of mine, you know, I go to a second grade classroom and decide, hey, we're going to put together for a project, hey, a cell phone. They come together and somehow they actually get it together. You know, that doesn't mean I'm going to go to a second grade classroom looking for a cell phone. Why? That's not their plan. They didn't have a plan for it. It's just, hey, this is our project. Now I'm gonna go to a place where I can get one. Why? Because that's what they planned for that cell phone to do. They had a plan in mind. It was had a design in mind That's the way it is with us. God designed each and every one of us with a plan. He has a plan for your life. You know, I look at Psalm 139, it's hard to look at the God's word and see that there's no plan for you. I looked at Esther. Esther was another book that spoke to my heart this year. I was reading through it. You look at Esther, God had it laid out, planned out, not just with Esther's life, but with each and every one of those Jews. He had a plan for them at that time or that place God has a plan for you. But it when we live our lives like, you know, God doesn't exist, like who cares what he says Then we lose our focus. And it doesn't seem like there's a point. That emptiness. Solomon described it as vanity is in our life. We live a life under Sun number one. We see a life that there's no purpose. Not only is there a life that has no purpose, but also we see a life That there's no pleasure found. I like that there's no pleasure found. Look with me in chapter two if you would, chapter number two Every time I read this chapter, God grant all my heart, because I see this in my life sometimes, I see this in our nation. But this is what Solomon said. He said, I said in my heart, by the way, it started in his heart. It starts in our heart. I said in my heart, Go to now, I will prove thee with mirth. Therefore enjoy pleasure, and behold, this also is vanity. Now he's not saying I'm not saying that pleasure's wrong and he's not saying pleasure's wrong. In fact we were looking at this morning God has pleasure in some things But what Solomon's talking about here, we're gonna look at now. He's not talking about pleasure that you find in living for the Lord He said, You know what? I am just going to live however I want to. We get to verse number two. He said, I said of laughter it is mad, and of mirth, what doth do with it? Why in the world would he say laughter is mad? Why is his pleasure no good? Because where his pleasure is found. We get to verse number three. I sought in my heart to give myself unto wine, yet acquainting my heart with wisdom and to lay hold on folly. He said, You know what I'm going to do? I'm going to go get drunk. I don't care. I'm gonna just drink it up. I'm gonna live it up. I don't care. And by the way, I look in the verse it says this. He had acquainting my heart with wisdom. You know what he's saying there? He's saying, I didn't make this choice because I hit my head and say, you know, I had brain damage. You know, I went I'm not making this decision because of some health problem. He said I had the knowledge, I know what I was doing, but I did it anyways. A lot of times when we sin, it's not because we didn't know we sinned. We know what we were doing, but we choose to flat out transgress against God's law. He said, you know what? I'm gonna get drunk. And then he goes on. He says, and to lay hold on folly. The word folly there has the idea of foolish things, the foolish things of this world. You look at that phrase there, it could be anything. By the way, I studied, and we're going to get to a verse later on, I believe it was just about anything. It wouldn't have surprised me if Solomon practiced sodomy. You know, it's something that's becoming scarcely popular in our day and age. It wouldn't have surprised me if he did that. But he said I'm going to practice their folly. It wouldn't have surprised me if Solomon murdered. I mean even his father did it. Why why can't I? Say, why would you say such things about Solomon? Well, in fact I might go ahead and just read it right now. You get down later on. Well we'll get there soon. But Solomon said, you know what, I'm going to do all these things because I want to Any sin that this in fact he described it as that w good for or that uh that I might see what is what was that good for the sons of men which they should do under the heaven all the days of their lives. Whatever these men, sons of men, by the way, we look at the sons of men, the that last time you see or one of the t first times you see the sons of men mentioned is in Genesis. You know describing the lost. And we see these sons of men, what they choose to do to live their lives, he says, whatever they find pleasure in, that's what I'm going to find pleasure in. Solomon said, I'm going to go after sin to find pleasure. Maybe you're telling you there's a sin in your life. I don't know what it is. And you say, you know what, I like doing this. You know, I know God's word teaches against it. Solomon, and by the way, I'm going to get to this here in a little bit. Solomon's going to tell you, don't It's not worth it. Solomon said I'm going after sin. But a lot of times in Christians' lives, that's not what holds us up. Solomon went after more than sin. He went after things. You go on in verse number four. He said, I made me great works. I build in me houses. I planted me vineyards. How many in here have graduated college? Anybody here besides me and Jess graduated college? Okay, Pat's back there. There's a number of us that graduate. These are accomplishments You know, there's other accomplishments you can look at in your life. You know, some of you teenagers, you got your driver's license. You know, it's a good accomplishment for most of you. Some of you, that's your greatest accomplishment of your life But you look at those accomplishments in your life. He said, I had great works. He accomplished great things. Solomon, you looked at him, the Queen of Sheba looked at him and said, Wow, she was she said a half was not told to me The things that he is able to do. He had great works. He had great homes. He had mansions. He had a palace. He didn't need a home. Read down through verses five through six. You know, he had a great farm. He had a great farm. You know, any vineyard he wanted, any food he wanted, and he had enough water to water it all. You get the verse seven, I got me servants and maidens, and had servants born in my house. Also I had great possessions of great and small cattle above all that were in Jerusalem before me He looked at Solomon and he said, I had servants, and not only did I have servants, get this. You know, I could see him bragging to all the teenagers they're all big, yeah I got a servant. Well he's like, well yeah, I got a servant, and not only do I have servants, I have servants born in my house And then he goes on to say, I have great possessions, not just any possessors, I have the greatest that Jerusalem has to offer. I have it. Anything I want, I can have. Some of you guys are like, yeah, I'd like to have that. You know, maybe that's your life. You know, you uh anything you would ever want, you try to get it. Solomon had that. Verse number eight, I gather me also silver and gold. The riches, their currency. He said, I had all the money I needed. All I ever wanted. Verse number eight again. And the peculiar treasures of kings and of the provinces, great treasures, I got me men singers and women singers, and the delights of the sons of men as musical instruments and that of all sorts. Now try to understand this. What's so significant about that? Well in this day and age they didn't have record players, CD players, tapes. They didn't have that So that's what? If they were to have their music, they had people do it for them. Can I say to you what Solomon's suggesting here though is basically he's saying to us, hey, if I wanted Byron Fox singing for me, I had Byron Fox. But it didn't stop there. Hey, if I wanted Toby keeps singing for me, I had him. Leonard Scar, I had him. You can go down the list. A C D Casting Crowds, whoever you want to put on the list. He said, I had anybody I wanted to sing for me, sing for me. I had all the music I ever wanted. By the way, I'm glad Solomon put that here. Music has an influence in people's lives. You know, be careful of your music. It can influence you. He said, I had all the music I ever wanted. Verse 9. So I was great and increased more than all that were before me. In Jerusalem, also my wisdom remained with me. In other words, I still knew what I was doing. And what sir my eyes desired, here's the verse I was talking about, I kept not from them Any fall he ever wanted, any item he ever wanted, he said, I didn't keep it back for me. That scares me. Can you imagine having that kind of power and saying, you know what, no matter what scent I wanted, no matter what thing I wanted, if I wanted it, I got it. That was their ruler. Someone said that I didn't keep back from whatever I wanted. I withheld not my heart from any joy. For my heart rejoiced in all my labor, and this was my portion of all my labor. Look at Solomon and say, wow, he had it all. Maybe that's you. Maybe you're here today and see there's a sin in my life. I'm not willing to go give it up. You know, Solomon won a I can think of a sin. I want it. I want it in my life. Or maybe it's not a sin. Maybe see, you know what, I'm trying to get that house. I'm trying to get that car. I gotta get to that thousand friend mark on Facebook I gotta have this, I gotta have that. I gotta get riches. Solomon said I had all those things that you are trying to go for. All those things you're trying to get under the sun. I had it. This is what he had to say about verse number 11. Then I looked on all the works that my hands had wrought, and on the labor that I had labored to do, and behold, all was vanity And vexation of spirit, and there was no prophet under the sun. You're here today and you say, you know what, I'm living by my perspective in an area. You know, you're trying to attain what Solomon said he already attained. Solomon said, I've attained to what you're trying to get and listen to me. Listen to the wisest man I ever listened. He said, I did it. And all it was was emptiness. We look at the word many. It's empty. There's nothing there. You're trying to get something out of it, but there's nothing. You can try all you want. What you're trying to attain is not going to get you what you want. Then he says a vexation of spirit. I got my strongest concordance. That broke me. I'm going to try to illustrate for you what that means. I study in high school the idea of a drug add drug add. I did not experience this. I did it with from study. But you know a drug addict when they did those drugs they would the first time they would get what they know is a high or that that feel good feeling because they want uh they would have that But to get that feeling again, they would have to go back to it and go back to it. Eventually they got to a point though where they would go back to it and go back to it where that feeling wasn't there anymore. And they were a slave to their addiction You know, we can see that easily. We know that about a drug. But Salma says that is what sin does to your life. You get involved in that sin. You get involved with those things also. And you say, you know what? That feels great. I like that. I'm glad I have that. But as the Bible teaches in Hebrews 11, verse 25, Moses said he esteemed Christ rather than choose the pleasures of sin for a season. Sin only has a pleasure for a season. And that pleasure, yeah, it's there, but then when that pleasure is gone, why I gotta go back I gotta do it again. I gotta do it again. I gotta do it again. And eventually that pleasure wears off, but the addiction is still there. You can list anything you want. Music. You know, you look at somebody trying to quit alcohol. You look at somebody trying to quit smoking, you'd name the you can name the sin. On anointing goat, all of them the same way. And Solomon describes it. In fact it's defined as this, the word Vexation of spirit. It means feeding, grasping, hunger of spirit. You're hungry for something. Psalm says, I wanted these things to please me, but they wouldn't And I kept going back and going back and going back and I was getting nothing out of it. There was nothing there. There was no profit for me for the things under the sun. Get down to verse number 17, said this. Therefore I hated life, because the work that was wrought under the sun is grievous unto me. For all is vanity and vexation of spirit. Yea, I hated all my labor which I had taken under the sun, because I should leave it unto the man that shall be after me. He says, you're trying to attain what I got. You're a fool. You're trying to live that sin. You're a fool. You're trying to just go after those things. You're a fool. He says, because I've attained there. And let me tell you, there's nothing there. It leaves you hungry. And you want to get out, but you can't. In fact, I love what he said in verse 18. It's so sad, he says, Yea, I hate all my labor which I take under the son, because I should leave it unto the man that shall be after me. Those things which he left behind, others picked up. You know, sure I'm sure others picked up on his wisdom, those good things he did, but a lot of people probably picked up on the wrong he did. He said, others pick that up. He said, that was grievous to me. That it hurt my life, and now it's hurting other lives. Our sin affects others. And Solomon said, You what are you trying to get out of this? The pleasure in these items, the pleasure in this sin, there's nothing there. In fact, you get to chapter number four, he described as this. He said he saw the dead and wished he was that. He didn't want to live anymore. Doesn't that describe our world to the T? People who hate life, people who just want to end it's suicide. They have nothing to live for. But I'm not talking about them, I'm talking about us. By the way, this is Solomon. This is a Christian we're looking at. Somebody who said, you know, I love God. I'm falling after my father, David. And then he ends up like this that he hates his life. Wishes he was dead. Don't say that couldn't be you You look at that little center in your life and say it's nothing that big. When your perspective is under the sun, eventually that's your end result. There is no purpose. There is no hope. There's no purpose. There's no pers there's no pleasure in the things. There's no pleasure in sin. There's another thing I noticed about this. Maybe here tonight, maybe your desire to say, you know what? I'm going to go after it anyways. Sure he says it's going to be empty. Sure it's going to be some pleasure. By the way. There is a place where you can find true pleasure. I always had time to turn to Psalm 1611. God spoke to my heart. I love reading my Bible through. God spoke to my heart in Psalm 1611. You know, when we're in the presence of God, and the presence of God is in our life, in Psalm 1611, we find that the pleasures there are forevermore. It doesn't say that it's like the sins of pleasure, that it's only for a season. He says that pleasure is forevermore. In the presence of our Lord serving him. So there's no pleasure in sin. There's no point to life. What else about living under the sun? Talmud says if you're going to choose to do this, remember there's vanity, remember there's emptiness, remember this also. You will remember God. I I mentioned tonight there's I don't believe there's anybody here that doesn't know Christ. If you do, if you're trying to deny God, you can't. You know, you can try all you want. Look at verse 24. It says there is nothing better for a man than that he should eat and drink, and that he should make his soul enjoy Good in his labor. In other words, he's saying, When I was living my life under the sun by my own view, he said, all that it was to me, might as well just eat, drink, and be merry. I'm just gonna die anyways. Eat, drink, and be merry. But then he goes on, he says, this also I saw that was from the hand of God. He said, I saw something else from the hand of God. He said in verse twenty five, For who can eat or who else can hasten here unto more than I? In verse twenty-six, For God giveth it to a man that is good in his sight, wisdom and knowledge, and joy, but to the center he giveth travail, to gather and to heap up, that he may give to him that is good before God. This also is vanity and vexation of the spirit. He said, This also I saw at the hand of the Lord He saw that God blessed those that did what was right, and God punished those that lived in sin. I've noticed he said, I noticed that. You know, as I mentioned, if you're here today and you don't know God and you're trying to get him out of your mind, you can't. I wish I had time to turn to Romans. Romans chapter number one, where we read of the fact that because of the things that are in this world, in fact I It I do it in just a quote. Go over to Romans. We'll come back here to Ecclesiastes, but go over to Romans. Romans chapter number one, and I'm just gonna read verse eighteen. I'm sorry, eighteen and nineteen. Romans chapter one, verse eighteen. I'll read verse eighteen. It says, For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who hold the truth in righteousness. God's conviction, God's judgment is made known to man. But verse 19, because that which may be known of God is manifest in them. Let me say that again. Because that which may be known All that you can know about God, what you can know about God, that which may be known of God is manifest. The word manifest has the other make clear. It is made very clear. It is made known. You can see it. It is manifest, it is clear. And I love it. It doesn't say it is clear in God's word, although God is clearly seen in his word. It doesn't say it is clearly seen, you know, throughout the things around us. Although it does mention here later on, it is seen clearly throughout creation. It doesn't say he is clearly seen throughout Christians, although Christians are to be the light of this world God says the things that you need to know about God are made clear or clearly seen in them. Inside them. I was down in Pensacola. My last year I was finishing up. The last person I ever witness got to witness to down in Pensacola. I wish it would have gone better. You know, basically he basically chewed us out, he cussed us out He made a statement though I'll never forget. He didn't believe in God, but he said, you know, there has to be, there is a greater force. Basically, what he's saying is there's a God. He just didn't want to say God. But he said, there is a greater force. He said that because of this verse. It is known in him. It is known in each and every one of us. God makes it known that he exists. You can't get away from it that God exists. It doesn't matter how far you try to wall yourself and send, how much you try to deny and lie to yourself, God says you will know that I exist. You will see that I exist. And we come back to the book of Ecclesiastes and we see this, and there is such an important truth. I don't want you to miss it in this passage. Solomon said this in verse 26, for God giveth to man that is good in the sight of wisdom and knowledge and joy, but to the sinner he giveth travail. In other words, those that are good, God bless those that are sin He does he punished. And then at the end he said that this also is vanity and vexation in spirit. Solomon said, this hurt me. This was emptiness to me. This made me hungry. What made him hungry? The fact that he could see that God was judging in his life and in Christians' lives, they had a blessings of God. You're hearing you say, you know what, I want to go after that sin. God says, remember this. You will experience my judgment. You know, we read in Hebrews, whom God loves, he's going to chasten. He will judge your sin. You say, I'm going to just go after the things of this world, you won't forget him. God will make himself known to you. You choose to go down that road, God's going to be still clear to you in your life. Now let me say this. You're here today, you know the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior. You believe that, you are a fool. I love Brother Kurt Skelly. I'm glad he was able to come and speak to our teenagers. He gave an illustration that went along great with this. He was talking about how when he was a child he got a brand new blue bicycle. Very nice bicycle. And he took it to his best friend to show his best friend. And when he was showing his best friend his friend was like, ah it's okay. You know bla he said what do you mean it's just okay? He said it's okay. Black bikes are cool though. So he said he told the story. He went home, he sanded his bike down, he painted it as a flat black. And then he took him back to show it to his friend. And you'll never forget what his friend said. His friend looked at him and said, Why did you do that? Didn't you know I was jealous? You had the coolest bike around Did he say that when he first saw him? No. But in his heart. That's what he was thinking. You know, the world does the same thing to us. You know, we go out on visitation. I don't need that. Oh, we go out there and oh I we try to witness our road. Ah but downside they look at and say, you know what they say about you? And don't miss this. I wish I had that. I wish I had what you had. I wish I had God in my life. Solomon said, I wish I had that. I wanted it. That hurt me. I just wanted what they had. And you as a Christian, you have what this world needs. You know what I think the problem is so many times? I think our light to this world is like a flashlight shoved underwater and the batteries are drowned out. People who are wanting Christ, they want him, but they don't know where to find him. You know, I was gonna if I was going to Burger King You know, I the and the worker was dressed in blue jeans and a t-shirt, just sitting there, you know, I wait and wait and waiting and finally they decided to say, What are you doing? It's like I want an order. It's like, well, I'll I'm here to take your order. It's like what They're not behind the counter, they're not in their place, they're not dressed right. I didn't know that. But you go in there and they're dressed appropriately, they're behind the counter, they're ready to take your order, you know, you know where to find it So many Christians, you know, you look at them, it's like, why can't they see it? You know, the way they dress is important, the way they act is important, where they are at is important. Because people can't see you if you're not there. And Solomon says you need to be something that people want. You are something people want. You're a light to this world. You will remember God if you choose to live a life under the sun. There's a fourth truth I see about living under the sun. This is to the lost. So if you're saved here, this isn't for you. But I cannot overlook this truth. I read this and this spoke to my heart because oftentimes I go out and we witness to people. This comes up all the time. You get the end of chapter number three and verse number twenty, it says this. Chapter 3, verse 20, it says this, all go into one place, all are of the dust, and all turn to dust again. In other words, we're going to die. He said, Well, I got that much from living under the sun. Verse 21, who knoweth the spirit of man that goeth upward and the spirit of the beast that goeth downward to the earth? So the spirit of the beast, pfft, nothing. But the spirit of man goes upward. He knew he was going to stand before God one day. He couldn't get the idea of the fact that God existed. Now get this. If you're lost here today, don't make this mistake. Don't believe this lie under the sun. Verse number 22. Wherefore I perceive That there is nothing better than that man should rejoice in his what? Own works You know, oftentimes, Pastor, when we go out soul and knock on doors and say, You know you're going to heaven? They'll say, I hope so, or yeah, I know. And when we say, Well, how do you know? Well, often do they say? Why why should you go to heaven, you know? What do you think they what often do you get? What's the answer they give you a lot? They hope so, okay. Why do they hope so? Well yeah. But you know what what what makes them think they can get to heaven? They're good enough. Oftentimes that's what I get. They're good enough. Hey, I'm a good person. And Solomon said, here, living under the sun, I know I'm going to die, verse 20. You know my soul's going to go somewhere, verse 21. Here's what I'm going to rejoice in. My own works. That's what I'm going to hope in. You're here today and you're living on a perspective under the sun. In fact, there's a lot of false doctrines out there that'll teach living under the sun that your what hope in heaven is what you do. The Bible teaches completely different. Solomon gave a perspective of under the sun, but we go and we see what Christ had to say. How we can know Christ said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. Ephesians 2. 8. 9, for by grace are ye saved, through faith, that not of yourself is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. There's not any good work you can rejoice in. He gets in the New Testament in Romans, that thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, shalt believe in thy heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. It is through Christ and accepting him alone. There is no hope in rejoicing in works. If you're rejoicing, you're hoping in something good you have done, then you're hoping in something that is just under the sun. It is meaningless. No purpose, no point. We see four things here. O lie under the sun. The idea of good works gets you to heaven. We see the remembrance of God. We see no point, we see no pleasure. What is the conclusion? And this is one we're clear with. What is the conclusion of living under the sun? Solomon gives us a conclusion at the end of chapter number twelve, but before he gets there I want to encourage you to look at chapter 5, verse number 1. Solomon's going to give you a bit of advice. While living under the sun, he did this. He says, he gives us this advice. Keep thy foot when thou goest to the house. of God. The word keep thy foot or the phrase keep thy foot I should say is an interesting phrase. You know, it has the idea of keeping in a straight line, keeping in guard, on guard. In other words, keeping it in line. I love Brother Jam Myers. I'm glad he came and spoke to the teens. He spoke one of the Sunday schools about how we are to what the purpose of church was. And he said so often we come to church And we aren't even ready. We're so f worried about getting dressed up, we're so worried about, you know, getting there, we rush ourselves in there, get there like at the last minute. We make sure all the kids are there and we're all collaborating and we just we're just trying to focus on just doing certain things and our heart is way out of whack. We don't focus. We don't stop and we don't listen to what God has for us. Because we're not prepared. He says, you know what? When you come to the house of God, make sure you are ready. Make sure you're prepared. Make sure you're aligned. Hey, get your focus where it ought to be. Be in God's word that morning. Be ready to go. Have God ready your heart and be open to what God has for you in church Then he goes on, keep that foot when thou goest to the house of God, and be more ready to hear than to give sacrifice to the fools, for they consider not that they do evil. He says, Be ready to hear Thomas says, you know what? You're living under sun. Here's what you need to do. You need to go to the house of God. You need to be ready. And you need to be ready to hear. And the word here doesn't have the idea of oh I there's noise in my ear. The word here has the idea of the comprehend. You understand, you're listening. It's sad to see so many churches with Christians, and they're I believe it, they're Christians, they uh they have accepted Christ, they're saved. But their view of church on how to learn is something like this. They come in, they go to their pew, they sit down, you know, some almost whatever. You know, some of 'em's the clock looker, some of them's a whisperer, you know, talking to their friends, some of them's a note passer. I wish I'm a phone. Can't be the texture in church. You know, that's their perspective. That's their hearing in church. That's what they are hearing. And by the way, so maybe you're not that bad. Okay, good. I'm grateful for that. But you know he didn't say be a hearer or not somebody who doesn't hear. He said rather than a fool that sacrifice. In other words, a sacrifice that is done by a fool. You know, in their time I look at Isaiah, and again it's encouraging to be able to read through and see this. But I read in Isaiah this year. You know, Isaiah God mentioned to them that their sacrifices was eventually just a stench To his natural nostrils, why would God say that about him? It wasn't the fact they were doing it wrong necessarily, it was just their heart wasn't there They were just doing it whatever. They were doing going through the motions. In other words, their sacrifices were foolish sacrifices. It missed the point completely You know, there's so many people, you know, they go to church, you look at them, they look like the ones, you know, that are listening, they're gas getting something, but they're just it goes through them. Listen, each and every Sunday, each and every Wednesday, you know, a pastor gets up and he speaks. He's not doing that just to blow off hot air or so whatever you can miss it. God has given him something to say. He's worked in his heart in a way. And God worked in his heart that way, not just so he can get that, but so that you could get that. That message was designed with you in mind. Now, let me ask you this, and I don't know what it is. What did God speak to about? What was for you tonight? Think about what was for you tonight. Not what was for the person, what was for you. Because there was something in this message, God had it for you. And each and every message, God had something for you. That's why Solomon says, hey, when you go to the house of God, listen up. God's got something for you. There's a message there for you. What are you getting out of it? What did you get out of last week's message? And we wonder what our church why our churches aware are, why are Christians away or why we are so ineffective. Because we miss the message completely. Boy, if we could just get a hold of that and saying, God, I want your message. What's your message for me? What do you have for me? We need to listen up. Let's go to the last chapter of Ecclesiastes. Turn to the last chapter. Chapter 12. There's one. Chapter number twelve. We come to chapter number twelve. The next thing I want us to look at is verse number one. Remember now thy creator. In the days of thy youth, while the evil days come not, nor the years drawn nigh, when thou shalt say I have no pleasure in them Say all that verses for teenagers, for young people. It says for remember that you yeah, you can see it that way. But listen, what about when you were a newborn Christian? A young Christian. I believe that's what he's talking about. Why? He says in the days when you didn't have pleasure in those things, those sins, you know, the times of evil, they weren't there. You ever see a new Christian? It seems like there's no problems there, although there probably is. But everything's just joys to them. It's like, I'm gonna get baptized, I'm gonna go to church, I'm gonna everything's just all great and excited for them. You know, they have that love for their Lord. But then when they get older, all of a sudden the pleasures for their sin they start popping back. He says, hey, before that ever happens, grow. You remember God in your youth. Grow as a Christian. You remember your God. You stick with them. And by the way, I love what he mentioned. Remember thy creator. He didn't say remember thy God, remember Jehovah, remember Adonai. He could have, but he didn't. He said, Thy creator. Remember at the beginning, living under the sun from man's perspective, there is no point. There is no purpose He says, remember thy creator. You were created with a purpose. God has a plan for you. Remember that Don't get your focus on, well it's uh myself, but I'm just a nobody. Don't I mean we're not I'm not saying you know build your self-esteem, have pride in your life. That's what I'm saying, but what I am saying is God doesn't just say oh you're worthless God said, I created you for a reason. And remember that. Don't get bogged down in your sin. Get up and keep going. God says, I have something for you. I want to use you. Don't make it get to the point where you get so hard God has to break you like he did in Jeremiah. He says, I want to use you. I have a plan for you. You say, oh I can't do much. You know, a lot of people think, you know, guess they're not the one up on the pulpit, they're not being used. I love the statistics somebody gave me in college and one of my professors said, you know what? Five percent of the church is on the platform, ninety-five percent is in the pews. Says, you know what, God has a plan for you. You know, a lot of times when I looked at the book of Esther, I focused on Esther, you know, all that she did. And that God did have her there for a planet of a purpose. But you know what? There was a number of Jews in that city. God wanted to fast and to pray in that time. He had a plan for each and every one of them. God has a plan for your life. You know, go to church. Learn something. God has a plan for your life. And then let's wrap this up. The conclusion of the whole matter. Solomon gets the end of his book. In chapter 12, verse 13, he says, let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Get this. If you haven't heard anything all night, you can still wrap it up in this one thought. Solomon's basically saying this, look, I've lived a life as a Christian. I lived my life for myself I lived it any way I wanted to. He said, let me give you the conclusion of why I've come to after doing all that. He says If you're going to fall into that trap of, hey, I'm going to live my life as a sin. I'm going to just go after whatever I want. I'm going to go after things of this world. If that's you says, hey, listen up. I've been there. I got a message for you Here's the conclusion I've come to. Fear God, keep his commandments. Fear God, keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man. God's purpose, plan for you, is to fear Him and obey Him. Almost can see some and crying writing that. Saying, you know what? I wish I wouldn't have left. I wish I wouldn't have gone I wish I would have kept my fear for him. I wish I would have respected him. I wish I wouldn't vote thumb my nose at God and did whatever I wanted to. I wish I would have had a fear and a respect for him like I used to I wish I would have obeyed him. He said that was my purpose in life. I chose to forsake it. Don't miss out on what God has for you. If you're living your life under the sun, you're living a horrible life. Live a life that is above. God has a purpose for you. And you can do that if you'll just obey his word and follow after him. It's your choice. What are you going to do? Father in heaven, I thank you so much. In this passage And Lord, I pray if there's any here that is on the verge of just saying, You know what, I don't care anymore. If there's any here that says, You know what, sin doesn't go out of me. You know, I'm just gonna do it my way. They're gonna go their own way, live under the sun. I pray, Lord, that you would work on their hearts. And that they would say, God, I want to fear you. I want to obey you. With heads bowed and eyes closed. By the way, this happened to the wisest man that ever lived. No doubt it could happen to any one of us. If you're here tonight and say, you know what, Brother James, I want to be one that fulfills God's purpose in my life. I don't know what that consists of. But I don't want my life to be meaningless, no purpose at all. I want to fulfill God's purpose. I want to fear him. I want to obey your com his commandments. If that's you, I want to pray for you In the closing service, is that you can I pray for you? Yes, I see those hands. Anybody else, can I pray for you? Yes. Numbers of hands. Maybe you're here tonight. And you say, you know what? I don't know him. I don't know that God. I don't know how heavens my home. I don't know salvation. I don't know how to get there. You know, Solomon didn't present it very clearly. He presented a vague, the why, many people believe, of just being good enough. You know, God doesn't want you to believe that lie. God wants you to accept his free gift, the Bible calls it, of salvation. If you're today, you don't know heaven's your home, I want to pray for you. I want to pray for you that you can receive that gift. Maybe here today you don't know Christ. If that's you, can I pray for you in the closing prayer? Anybody like that at all? Father, in having you seen the hands. Lord, I pray for those Who said, you know, I want to fear God. I don't want to fall into this trap. I don't want to be somebody that, you know, has no purpose. I want to follow your plan. And Lord, I pray that you help them to fear you and to obey you. Lord, I pray they take care of those little sins from their perspective. And Lord, get your perspective on those things. Lord, bless the invitation we pray in Christ's name. Well Ted's down and I goes, let's stand at our feet. The piano plays when the instruments start playing. I just encourage you, if God's worked in your heart, why don't you come and make that commitment to him that you say You know what? I am going to choose. I'm not going to fall. I'm going to stand. And I'm going to love my Lord. I'm going to follow after Him.