Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes. So if you open your Bible right about to the middle, then turn to the back of your Bible a little bit, you'll get to uh after Psalms, you hit Proverbs Proverbs, then you'll hit Ecclesiastes, chapter number one. I want to just try and give an introductory message tonight. I'm almost embarrassed to say this. But I really want to just try and be to the point and brief. I went way too long this morning. I looked at the clock when I was done preaching. I could not believe what time it was And so you all are very, very patient, very kind. So many people lied to me and said, Preacher, we don't care how long you preach. Liar, liar, pants on fire. I don't believe that for one minute But um nevertheless the Lord's gracious and uh y'all are great. So Ecclesiastes, I just want to read verse one and two Ecclesiastes chapter 1. And like I said, just lay some groundwork. And I think I'm on now. Look at verse 1, Ecclesiastes chapter 1. The words of the preacher. The son of David, king in Jerusalem. All right, here's his words. Vanity of vanity, saith the preacher. Vanity of vanities, all is vanity. Wow How many people agree with me? That kind of flies in the face of what we understand the Bible to teach. You know, vanity of vanity is always vanity, it's all vain, it's all empty, it's all meaningless, it all has no purpose. What in the world is he talking about? I want to lay a little groundwork here. We're going to look at this book and see what what this means. I've just entitled It Life Does Have Purpose. Life does have purpose. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now our time in your word. Help me, Lord, to be respectful, and I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I pray you'd speak to us from this, in my mind, Lord, in some ways strange book of the Bible. I pray you'd help us to understand what you're saying to us, what you're teaching us. And I pray we'd be stronger Christians and better Christians. As a result of what we learned from this study. So I'm asking you to bless. Again, I'm asking you to fill me with your Spirit, Lord, and speak through me. So I present to you anew my body and yield my will. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I'll be the first to admit Ecclesiastes is one of the most challenging books in the Bible to understand exactly what's being taught here. The world likes to take praises out of ecclesiastes. There's two books, I think, my experience has been, my observation, that the world likes to go to to the Bible, one is Revelation. We'll like to take Revelation. They'll make the most distorted movies. out of things that are given in the Revelation and ridiculous songs, rock and roll songs, they'll take a phrase out of Revelation. And Ecclesiastes. The world likes to take phrases out of Ecclesiastes and twist their meaning and use them to some cases blaspheme God. They'll take them out of context. They'll try and justify their behavior, their actions. by using phrases from here. What we do know about the book of Ecclesiastes. Let's start out with that. What do we know about this book? Well we know this. First of all, we know it's given to us by inspiration of God. There's no doubt about it. 2 Timothy 3. 16, all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof. for correction, for instruction righteous, that the man of God may be thoroughly uh furnished and uh unto all good works. So we know this, that God has given to us the book of Ecclesiastes. He has been given to us by inspiration. And thus we can learn from it. When we study the book of Ecclesiastes, you know what's going to happen? We're going to learn some doctrine. We're going to learn some things about God. We're going to learn doctrine. We're going to learn God' Gonna reprove us Some of us. We study this. There's going to be areas of our life where the Spirit of God is going to use the Word of God in Ecclesiastes, and He's going to reprove us. He's going to confront some areas of our life that need to be confronted. And we know this when we study the book of Ecclesiastes, we're going to be corrected. Some areas of our life that maybe we're not deliberately going against God, not deliberately doing wrong, but we're just mistaken. We're incorrect. And God will use ecclesiastes to help correct us, areas of our lives that need correction. I don't know about you, but if I'm wrong in some area, I want God to correct me. I want to be right. I want to uh uh behave and think and act and reason correctly. And so all scriptures given by His Grace of God is prophet doctrine, reproof, for correction instruction and righteousness. You know what else we'll learn from the book of Ecclesiastes? We'll learn what's right. We'll learn how to live our lives in a right way and do what is right. Any book that has God for its author, we can be sure has no error. Any book that has God for its author is going to help us. It's going to strengthen us. It's going to instruct us, as we just said. So We approach this book, Ecclesiastes. One thing we're very certain of, there's no doubt in our minds, this was given to us by inspiration from God. This is God's word to us. Second thing that I know about the book of Ecclesiastes is this. It is possible to be understood. You say, well I've read that through at some point in the past. It just didn't make sense. It didn't didn't seem to mesh with other stuff that's taught in the Bible. And I just don't think it's impossible to understand what in the world God is talking about there. I've heard people say that about revelation. Oh it's too confused. You can't understand what he's talking about. It doesn't make any sense to me Now, granted, it might not be easy to understand what God is saying to us, but we are told by God to study the Word of God. He says, study to show thyself approved unto God. I don't know if it's true in other countries, Brother Ed, but in America I've found, and no doubt I'm guilty of this. to myself to some degree, probably more than I would care to admit, but uh we tend to be a little bit lazy in some areas. We want it to be easy and quit. How many people have a microwave? Whole reason for having that. Oh, it's quick and easy. Stick it in there, boom. How many people get pre-cooked meals? Ever do that? Anybody here ever go through a drive-thru? It's quick, it's easy, I've got time to go home, prepare a meal, we'll just go through, drive-through. Well, I think we carry some of that into our spiritual lives. And I want to be able to read a verse, I want to be able to read a passage and know and understand very simply, very clearly, very easily, without even to rally have to think about it. I want to understand what God is saying, what he's telling me Well, there's some passages like that. John 3. 16 doesn't require a lot of effort to figure out what God is saying, right? You know, I think that might be one of the reasons it's so popular Simple, clear, easy, it's profound. Ecclesiastes is not that way. He says, vanity of vanity, saith the preacher, vanity of vanity, always vanity. What's he talking about? Well, we gotta put a little effort in. We can't understand. We're told in the Bible to study to show ourselves approved unto God. Joshua chapter 1, I referenced it in the message this morning, and then in Psalms chapter 1, we're told to meditate in the Word of God. Meditation is simply taking a passage and thinking it through and thinking it through and hashing it over and giving it some more thought and throughout the day I'm meditating on that, I'm thinking it through I'm digesting it, so to speak. And that requires a little time. That requires a little effort. And so ecclesiastes can be understood. It's given to us by inspiration of God. He tells us it's profitable for doctrine, proof, for corruption, instruction, and righteousness. So we can understand it, though we may need to apply ourselves a little bit. Let me give you, and I've done this before, but I'm going to do it again. Every child of God ought to study the Word of God. Let me give you three tips on studying the Bible. Particularly if you get to a passage where it's hard to understand, it's hard to comprehend what God is saying. First of all, you ought to find out exactly what the words mean It's hard to understand what somebody says if I don't know what the words they're using mean. Right? Somebody's talking to you. How many people here speak Spanish? Nobody. So if somebody came in, and some of y'all do, you know stuff like Taco Bell and Borito. If somebody came up here and started preaching in Spanish, you would have no clue what they were saying because you don't know what the words mean they're using, right? So when I study the Word of God, I ought to know what the words mean. I think every Christian ought to have a Bible and they ought to have a dictionary. Look up words. A good dictionary's uh uh Weber's 1812 dictionary. Daniel Weber's 1812 is the best Bible dictionary you can get. So yeah, don't have a concordance, look up words And so I say, can I I can't even understand this. Yes, you can. Study it, meditate on it. Look up what the word? What does vanity mean? Well, look it up. What exactly does he mean when it says all is vanity? So one thing, the first tip is this, find out what the words mean. If you're not sure, and sometimes even I think I know what it means, I look and I say, oh, there's a different aspect of that than what I thought. That makes sense. The other thing we need ought to do or study the Bible is we ought to study the context. Now I know I'm being a little academic tonight, but learning stuff doesn't hurt us. So I want to look at the context. What's said before and what's said after. Find out what the context is. You know every cult that exists exists because they take passive And they give it meanings that the context does not support So number one, I ought to find out what the words are. Two, look what the context is. Look at the passage before and after. Find out what the context is. And then there's a third step I ought to always do when I'm studying the Bible. And I practice these. preparing my messages. I tried to anyway. The third one is compare scripture with scripture. Other places in the Bible where that is being referred to, what does the Bible say about that? You know, there are passages of scripture, you take them out of context, or you take them even in context sometimes, and it looks like it's teaching. Maybe we can lose our salvation. Say, wow, what does that look like? But then I go to other passages that address salvation. I find out, no, I can't lose my salvation. And so I come back, I look at this, and I study it. I say, oh, okay, I see what he's saying. And so comparing scripture with scripture. Number one, look up the meaning of the words. Find out what the word means. Number two, get the context And number three, compare scripture with scripture. I tell you, I'm giving this is good stuff. What I'm saying is better than how you're reacting to it. And every one of us ought to study the Bible. Say, ah, I'm not that way. Well work on it a little bit. So we can understand uh what Ecclesiastes is teaching us. It's given to us by God by inspiration of God. It's perfect, it's flawless, it's God's Word We can't understand it. We have to ply ourselves a little bit. Here's another reason we can understand it. God has given to us the Holy Spirit to teach us all things. Jesus said in John chapter 16, verse 15, that the Spirit of God will guide you into all truth. If I come to the book of Ecclesiastes and say, all right, God, You laid it on the preacher's heart. You directed the preacher's heart. Your sovereignty. You directed the preacher to preach on Ecclesiastes. So you must have something for me. Holy Spirit of God, I'm looking to you you to guide me into all truth as I read this and study this book in the coming weeks so that you can help me to uh uh so you can correct me, reprove me, and give me instruction in righteousness I can be the Christian you intend for me to be. So you and I, how many folks here? You're saved and you know it. Say amen. I know this. If that's true, then I know this about you. The Holy Spirit of God dwells inside you. Just as much as me or anyone else. And one of the ministries of the Holy Spirit, one of the the one of the activities of the Holy Spirit in my life is to teach me the Word of God. How many people ever read your Bible? And this might be some of you all have been saved for a little while, but how many people ever read your Bible? Maybe you read a verse a hundred times, you read it several times, never gave it much thought, and you read it, and boom Yeah. Say, oh look at that. I think you'll know what I'm talking about. You know what that is? It's the Holy Spirit of God. Leading you into all truth. It's God speaking to you. It's God opening your eyes. It's God showing you something. I had somebody send me a text in the middle of the night last night. They said, this verse has hit me between the eyes. They sent me a little portion of scripture on the text, and I looked at it and it's a great verse. Boom! You know what that was? That was the Holy Spirit of God. And so we come to this book. I'm telling you, if you'll get on board with me, and as we take our little journey through the book of Ecclesiastes in the coming months, There will be times, I have no doubt, unless God has changed, there will be times I have no doubt that God will use a passage from this book and boom hit you between the eyes to use that person's terms. The Holy Spirit will teach us. To apply it to our lives and help us. So we can understand this book. It's It's tough. You look at it and say, what in the world do we say? It sounds like the opposite of what other Bible Bible verses say. But no, the Holy Spirit will teach us. I'll give you a third reason why we can understand this. One, we Need to study it too. We got the Holy Spirit. But we can understand it. And this I uh and I'm not saying this to blow my own horn, but God gives the church teachers Ephesians chapter 4, verse 11. He gives to the church as gifts. Evangelists, pastors, teachers. For the purpose of us growing so that we can serve God. We're not studying the book of Ecclesiastes just so we can know all about Ecclesiastes, no. We're studying the book of Ecclesiastes, so we can be better servants of God. We can be more effective witnesses. We can be more clear testimony of the glory and goodness of God. And God gives to the church, pastors, teachers, our Sunday school teachers, I believe, are gifted by God and given to us to teach our children, as Robin testified. The pastor is, I'm a tremendous gift to you, is what I'm saying. I'm joking, of course. But that's that's how it works. And so we can. I don't know, please ask me. Good grape. I never read it. I can't even say it. What can I get out of that? Well, it's given to us by God. So let me let me give you a few things. One is uh the title. That's just some things about the book. The title. The title Ecclesiastes. What in the world is that? That is actually an English rendition of the Greek translation of the Hebrew word. How about that? Write that in the margin of your Bible. Ekklethea is a Greek word. It comes from, it's associated with the Title Ecclesiastes, it simply means this. It's just the Greek form of the Hebrew word for preacher. Ecclesiastes is simply this, the preacher. It's the title. And so the word preacher is used seven times in twelve chapters. The author of Ecclesiastes refers to himself as the preacher. Leads me to this, or the author is God, of course, the penman, I should say. That leads me to second thought: who is the penman? Who is it? That recorded under God's inspiration the book of Ecclesiastes. Well, the answer is very simple and very clearly given to us. Look at verse 1. The words of the preacher, alright. The son of David! Well, David had a bunch of sons. Who is that? What's the next statement say? King of Jerusalem. Ah! David only had one son. That was King of Jerusalem. Who was that? Solomon. Solomon. Verse 12, I the preacher, was king over Israel in Jerusalem. It's clearly given to us as Solomon. Come back to chapter 12 and verse number 9. Now, we don't have an issue with this, but it's interesting to see how we know this. Chapter 12, verse number 9. And moreover, because the preacher was what? Now, if we know anything about Solomon, we know this. He was wiser. But Jesus said, wiser than any man. And so there's verification that this actually was Solomon, the son of David, king of Jerusalem. He's the only son. He was wise. He still taught the people with knowledge, verse 9 goes on. Yea. He gave good heed and sought out and set in order many what? Proverbs. Good night. We got 31 chapters in the book of Proverbs that were given to us by who? Solomon. So the penman, God's the author, he gave it by inspiration through Solomon, who is the penman here. I want to suggest this to you, and that's significant that it's Solomon. What do we know happened to Solomon in the latter part of his life? Spiritually, what happened to him? He fell. His spiritual life deteriorated rapidly and horribly As Solomon's life wound down, he absolutely blew it. He messed up, and he messed up bad, and for a long time. Now we don't think of Solomon that way, and we don't preach on that, and we don't give that much attention. But the fact of the matter is Solomon messed up morally very, very bad. It is suggested, and I agree, and the more I'm studying this, the more I agree, that this was written late in Solomon's life This was probably as his life was winding down. And I'm coming to the conclusion that the book of Ecclesiastes written by Solomon under the inspiration of God, recording his moral downfall. I believe Ecclesiastes records for you and I the mindset that brought Solomon down spiritually and morally. It was his thinking this way. Now here he is at the end of his life, and he's going back and he's writing, and he's basically saying this, this is how I messed up. This is what happened. And then of course the end of the chapter he says, here's the conclusion. And he gives us a very profound statement at the end of the chapter on the conclusion of the whole matter. And so we look to Ecclesiastes, we find that Solomon is the penman, written no doubt, late in his life, looking back over how he had gone from the wisest to the greatest king, so wealthy, and moral decline, till he ended up in shame. The last thought is this what's the purpose of the book? Why was this given to us? We can go to Romans and we see the purpose of the book is give us doctrine and challenge us. We can go to various books of the Bible, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. It's given to us to record the earthly ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ. Books have different purposes. I believe the purpose of Ecclesiastes is primarily a warning to young people. Much of Proverbs was written to a young man, Solomon, writing to his son. And I believe Ecclesiastes is very similar to that. I want to inject this statement here. The older I get, the more I'm convinced this is the truth. One of the most foolish things a young person can do. is to ignore, or even worse, reject the advice of an older person. Now, I'm not saying that every older person that gives a young person advice, I'm not saying that advice is always good. If it doesn't line up the Word of God, then I don't pay a whole lot of attention to it. But I am saying this. As a young person, I am very, very foolish if I do not stop and pay close attention to what an older person is telling me about life. They've been through it. They know what they're talking about. They've made some decisions that turned out really, really bad. And when they come and say, listen, don't do this, they're not saying it to be hateful. They're not saying it to just uh make your life miserable. They're saying it, hey, I learned a lesson. Don't make the same mistake I did. An older person comes to a young person and says, Listen, you really need to be sure you do this in life and be careful, make sure this takes place. And you just blow that off and you just ignore that. You're a fool. A person's been through it. Maybe they made that decision and it turned out good for them And they saw God's blessings, and the person on this end of life, the older end of life, they are reaping the consequences of the decisions they made when they were your age, young people. And they know the end of the matter, Ecclesiastes. They know how that turns out. Person says, don't pour gasoline in the oil opening of the engine. They're old fogey. They don't know what they're talking about. Go ahead, pour it in. What's going to happen? Kaboom. Now with an engine, so what? But you do that in your life. You can't come back. That's why I appreciate the youth ministry so much. Our teens. Our teenagers are making decisions now that they're going to have to live with the rest of their life. You're eight years old, you make a stupid decision, you can get overcome it, you can get out of it, you know, most for the most part, and it's not gonna cost you the rest of your life. But you're eighteen years old, you make a stupid decision, you gotta live with it for the next fifty years, sixty years. Don't be stupid. Don't be stupid. Listen. Heat advice And so Solomon is writing to young people and he's warning them. He's saying, listen, I made some stupid decisions. I'm paid for it. Don't do the same thing. This is how I was thinking. Don't think this way. So one of the purposes of Ecclesiastes, it's for all of us. I'm not trying to target the young people, it's for all of us, but we learn from Solomon. And God has inspired this for us and preserved us. He says, and we'll look into this in depth, but he says in chapter 1, verse 12 through 14, he said, I pursue knowledge. Look there, look there real quickly, verse 12. I, the preacher, was king over Israel, and I gave my heart to seek out by wisdom concerning all things that were done under heaven. This sort travail hath God given to the sons of men to be exercised thereof. What he's saying here, and we'll go into this in more depth in the future, he's saying, listen, I set out to get great knowledge. I wanted to be smart, I wanted to know everything about everything. He says, Under the sun, it's all vanity. All vanity I've found out, I've I've learned, and some of y'all have learned this, I've learned that some of the smartest people in the world, the most intelligent people in the world, are dumb bunnies. Solomon said, hey, I'm writing this for you because I saw that, I sent out to get learned all knowledge, all wisdom. I want to learn all this stuff. I was going to be educated. I was going to be super smart. This is how it played out. Now is he saying we shouldn't be educated? Is he saying we should uh just be all the knuckleheads and knock Know how to add? No, no, he's not saying that. We're going to see what he's talking about. So he says, I pursue knowledge. Then he says in chapter 2, verse 1 through 3, I pursued pleasures and parties. Look what he said there. I said in my heart, go to now, I will prove thee with mirth. He's talking about life. Therefore enjoy pleasure. Behold, this also is vanity. I said of laughter, it is mad, and of mirth, what do with it? I sought in my heart to give myself to wine, yet acquainted my heart with wisdom to lay hold on folly So I might see what was that good for the sons of men, which they should do under heaven all the ends of all the days of life. He goes down through there. I pursued knowledge and education. I pursued partying and pleasures. Basically, what he's saying here, he's saying, I went out and all I said, eat, drink, and be merry. Live it up! This is the phrase we hear today. At least some of these are dated a little bit. How many people remember this one? Go for the gusto. That's what Solomon said. Just go after it, man. Just do it. If it feels good Do it. That's what Solomon said. I did that. I did that. Partying, fun, pleasure, it's all it was about. Telling you, that's America today. And look at us. Then he says in chapter 2, verse 4 down through 11, he said, I pursue prosperity and materialism. I wanted to own it all. The fanciest car, the biggest house, gigantic bank account. I wanted stuff and lots of it. I wanted money and lots of it. And he pursued all these things. And then he comes down to our two key words: Vanity of Vanity. There's two key words or phrases. One is a word, the other is a phrase. The key word in the book of Ecclesiastes is this. Vanity. Did you see it in verse 2? Four times in one verse he uses the word vanity right at the beginning. Vanity of vanity, saith the preacher. Vanity of vanities. All is vanity. Five times. One verse. Vanity. Vanity. It's used over 30 times throughout the book. Twelve chapters. Over 30 times. Vanity, vanity, vanity. Now remember, he's living for education, he's living for pleasure, he's living for materialism. Vanity, vanity, vanity, vanity, vanity. What does vanity mean? Well, its direct, literal definition is vapor. You've heard this before. You get up, another couple weeks, you'll walk out, give your breath, you'll see this Vapor, right? You can see your breath. Might be the tomorrow here in Garrett County, who knows. And it just appears for a little while, boom. There's nothing to it. You try and grab it, it's nothing to hold on to, you try and put it in a can, doesn't work. It's nothing. There's no substance to it. He says, vanity of vanity, the word is vapor or breath. It's something without substance, something that's very fleeting. It doesn't last. It's something that is short-lived and without lasting benefit. I condensed all the definitions I could find, and I put it into two words: temporary vacuum. And he's talking about life. A life that is lived for knowledge and pleasure and materialism. And he says that life is short-lived without any substance. And we look around us and we see people taking their lives. And we look around us and see people drugging themselves out of their head. And we look around us and we see people by the millions drinking themselves into oblivion and cussing and swearing and angry and frustrated. You know why? Because their life is vain. It's empty. There's no substance. And they got these ridiculous theories. Men saying, I'm a girl. Oh, this is that. I love a man and I love another woman. And they're grasping for anything. You know why? Because they're drowning in emptiness. Their life has no purpose, there's no substance. There's no reality there. It's a vapor. And that's what Solomon is addressing. I live for myself. I live for everything here. And it's all just an empty vacuum. And no wonder we're so angry. No wonder our kids are so angry and so frustrated. There's nothing in here. There's nothing in life. They come up with these insane theories. Trying to find something. There's nothing. Solomon's addressing that. He says, vanity of energy. He's living for all this stuff. And then it brings us to the second phrase. That's used throughout the scripture. And it's used I have it down here. I want to challenge you. Let me give it to you first. Here's the phrase. And this explains the whole book. You'll understand the book of Ecclesiastes if you understand this one phrase Under the sun. I went through, I took a red mar a red pen and I took a marker, a yellow marker, I went through and I underscored, highlighted that little phrase under the sun, under the sun, under the sun, under the sun, under the sun, under the sun. I wanted to take time and go through and have you all do that. Here, but we won't take the time to do that. But I want to challenge you tonight before you go to bed. Doesn't take long. This coming week, get your pen out or a highlighter and go through a book of ecclesiastes. and underscore, highlight some way that little phrase under the sun, and you will understand exactly what Ecclesiastes is all about. What he means when he references under the sun, what he means is this: living my life as if all there is to life. Is what exists under the sun. In other words, living my life as if all that exists in life is what I can see, what I can feel, what I can hear. No God. Nothing beyond the physical realm It's just all physical, it's all material, it's all now, it's all me, it's all stuff under the sun He says, When I live life holy for the immediate, for the material, for myself. It's vain. It's vanity. Under the sun, referring to a life lived for here and now, for the material of complete disregard for my spiritual well-being. A complete disregard for my creator God, a complete disregard about God's plan and purpose for my life. It is all me, mine, here, now, stuff. Independent, living a life independent of God. And that life lived is completely vain Empty, purposeless. If there's no God, as the atheists foolishly tried to insist, then you and I have no purpose to live. Everything is vain. If they're right, they're wrong. Here's the sad thing, we've got people like Solomon did, who lived that way, knowing there is a God. And knowing there is a purpose for their life, but they dis Solomon disregarded it. I'm going to live this way. He says, you know what I found out? It's all vain. It's all me. That's exactly what the prodigal son did. He went out, riotous living. Having a good time, never thinking about the consequences, never thinking about the future, never thinking about God's plan and purpose for his life, and what how'd it work out for him in a pen Talk about Bain. Everything he invested in, everything he invested his life in, everything he spent his time and resources on was completely empty, completely meaningless, got him nowhere. How many people remember the old Wendy's commercial? Where's the beep? You know what this world is saying? You know what this world's saying? Living life without God? Living life with no concern? Spiritual well-being, relationship with their creator. You know what they're saying? Where's the bee? They're jumping off bridges with a rubber band tied to their leg. Now if you've done that, I think you're dumb, but I'm not condemning you But this whole idea of extreme sports in my mind is this: I've got to find something that brings some thrill or something to my life. My life is so empty, I've got to play with death. To find some substance. Now I'm not preaching against all that totally. But that's what Solomon's talking about. That's what the book of Ecclesiastes is about. Where's the beef? I had a roommate in Bible college, Dean Damascus. He got saved out of a similar lifestyle as mine, a little different, but drinking and partying all that. He pastors now in Hazard, Kentucky. I preached for him a couple years ago, a number of years ago, a missions conference. Dean loves being saved. I'm telling you, there's very few people I met in life that are so excited about being saved. He told me before he got saved, he would read his Bible. He'd read Ecclesiastes. And he claimed for himself, as an unsaved man, he claimed for himself Ecclesiastes chapter 1, verse 2. Vanity of vanities, saith the preacher. Vanity of vanities, all is vanity. He said, that was my whole view in life. There's no purpose, there's no reason, there's no substance to anything. Just live it up. Eat, drink, be merry, you're going to die, that's it. God saved them. Turned his life around. Now here's what I want to end with. Come to the chat. That would be a bummer to end right there, huh? Come to the last chapter with me, if you would. Chapter 12. Now we're going to start preaching our way through this. And you pray that God will help me be true to the Word of God. And God will use it. But Solomon, picture this, Solomon, I believe, is the end of his life. He looked back over and how badly he's messed it up. How he's squandered. What God had given to him, and by the way, the depth of his depravity is pretty shocking. And he looks back over and he comes to his senses. Of course, all under the inspiration of God. He's writing to young people. He says this. Look at verse 13. Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. All this I've shown you, the way I was thinking Fair God, keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man. For God shall bring every work into judgment, with every secret thing, whether it be good or whether it be evil. Here's the wisest man in the world behaved in the most foolish ways you can imagine And at the end he says, here's my conclusion, fear God. Keep his commandments. Do what God says. Trust him. Let him have his way. Don't think this way. Trust the Lord. Do you agree with me? This is a fascinating book. I think God's going to help us as we study this. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I pray you would use Our coming series in the Book of Ecclesiastes to challenge us not to buy into the world's thinking. I pray you would reveal to us your word the areas of correction and instruction that we need. The doctrines we need to understand. The reproof we need. And I pray we would be a people of faith in you. We would be a people of meaning and purpose in life. Not morbid, joy-filled, spirit-filled as Jesus promised. But very serious about this thing called life. And not foolishly squandering what you've entrusted us with. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed. I want to say, preacher, God's challenged me this evening. I'm going to ask God in the coming weeks to work in me. Mold me and make me and take away those things in my life that ought not to be, and change the way of thinking that needs change, and add to my life those things I need added. You with me say preacher I'm going to pray and I want the Lord to have his way and help me. Any like that by the uplifted hand. God bless you. I believe the Lord's in this. I believe God's stirring our hearts, and He's helping us look outside of ourselves and look beyond the immediate here and now and understand the bigger picture. And I pray that be true on a daily basis. Is there someone here tonight say, preacher, I'll know for sure when I die I'm going to heaven? Maybe never gave it much thought, not seriously anyway. He just kind of blew it off. And God tonight is saying, hey, you better settle that. You better settle that. Is there someone here tonight say, preacher, pray for me? I'm not sure. My sins are forgiven. I go to heaven, not to hell when I die. I'm concerned about it. I like I need that settled. Is there any like that? this evening. Preacher, pray for me that God will help me with that matter. Father in heaven, you know our hearts, you know where we're at, you know our thinking. Lord help us and change us and challenge us and correct us in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed