139 and verse number 14. If you found that passage, say amen. Alright, that's the majority of folks. If you haven't found it by now, just look intelligently at your Bible And nobody will know that you're not there yet. Look at verse 14. In fact, would you read verse 14 with me altogether? Psalm 139, verse 14. Here we go. Ready? I will praise thee, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Marvelous are thy works. And that my soul knoweth right well. I want to speak this morning. I'm entitled the message Life by Design. Life by Design, not by accident. But by design, life, by design. Let's pray together. Father, we ask you bless now our time in your word. Lord, we're so grateful for these little children, and thank you for the parents, mom and dad. Those that are responsible. Just bless each one as we pray. And now, Lord, we want to look in your word and what you have to say. And I ask that you would open our hearts and minds to your will for each of us. Lord, I have nothing in and of myself that is of any spiritual or eternal value. I have nothing to offer of myself. Lord, your word has lots to offer. And so I yield my will to you. I present my body anew for this time. I pray with all my heart, Lord, that you would fill me with your Spirit, dear God, that you would speak through me and challenge us, encourage, direct us, instruct us. Help us leave here with a cl closer walk with you than we had coming in. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I think Psalm 139, if we had time to read the whole chapter Psalm 139 is one of the most beautiful Psalms, I think, in all of the book of Psalms. Of course, they're all inspired by God, all given to us by God. But there's something special about Psalm 139. It was penned by David. If you look there at that chat above verse 1, has a little title there, a little bit of information about the Psalm. It tells us it was penned by David Most Bible scholars think that Psalm 139 was probably penned by David as a young man, a young boy, up on a mountainside in Israel, somewhere in Israel. And uh God stirred his heart and he broke this down most likely initially as a a Hebrew pro poem became a song in the Jewish culture there. It was given by inspiration of God and is included in the Word of God. But can you imagine A young boy has such a heart for God. Just a young boy has such a heart for God. He's enabled by God to pen down something this profound. Psalm 139 is a powerful, powerful chapter. in the Bible. Perhaps, Psalms 139 is the greatest passage in Scripture on the omniscience of God. Now there's a $24 word for you. The omniscience of God. Now, if you've been in a Bible preaching church much, you've been around very much, you've heard that word before, omniscience. It's a theological term. It simply means this. That God is all knowing. And so if God is all-knowing, that means that God knows what? Everything. And notice if you would, just real quickly, we don't have time to look at all this, but he says in verse 1, uh notice what he says. He says, O Lord, thou hast searched me and what Known me. He says, God, you know me. You know all about me. Look at verse 2. Thou knowest my downsetting and my uprising. God knows when we're up and when we're down He knows when we're busy and when we're relaxing. He goes on, he says, um uh uh thou understandest my thought afar off. How many people here ever had a thought, but you try to communicate that thought And you just could not get across to the person you were talking to. Anybody know what I'm talking about? We never have that problem with God He knows what we're thinking. He knows what's going on in our head. He knows our thoughts are far off. How many folks here are glad that uh not everybody knows all our thoughts Yeah, God does. He says, Thou knowest my thought afar off. Uh he goes on. He says verse three, Thou compass my path and My lying down are acquainted with all my ways. God knows everything about us. He knows what we do, what we don't do, He knows everything about us. Let me put it this way There ain't nothing hid from God He knows everything. Oh, we might hide it from our spouse, might hide it from our parents, might hide it from our kids, might hide it from the preacher. I'd hide it from the congregation, might hide it from the police, I'd hide it from the teacher. But there ain't nothing hid from God. Ain't nothing hid. Nothing And so, and he goes on. Look at verse 4. There is not a word in my mouth, a tongue, but though, O Lord, thou knowest it altogether. I put in margin of my Bible unspoken words. Anybody here ever have to bite your tongue? Yeah, God knows. God knows even what we don't speak. So it's a profound passage on the omniscience of God. God is all-knowing. Then it's a profound passage on the omnipresence of God. There's another big one. You've been around Bible preaching very much. You've heard that term, the omnipresence of God The omnipresence of God. That simply means that God is everywhere. Let me put it this way. There ain't nowhere that God ain't. Alright? God's everywhere. Omnipresence, ever present. Look at me real quickly, verse 5. Thou hast beset me behind and before, and laid thy hand upon me. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. It is high. I cannot attain it. Look at verse seven. Whither shall I go from thy spirit? Whither shall I flee from thy presence If I ascend up to heaven, thou art there. If I make my bed in hell, behold, thou art there. If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there Shall thy hand lead me and thy right hand shall hold me. God is omnipresent. He is everywhere. Little boy was walking home from Sunday school. And a guy was uh a guy was out in his yard working on a Sunday morning and the boy walked by and the fellow said, Where you been, son? Boy had his little Bible with him. He said, I went to Sunday school. He goes, uh Uh, where uh uh what'd you learn in Sunday school about God? The man said, Tell me where God is. He thought he stumped that little boy. Little boy, without hesitating, turned back and said, Tell me where he ain't, mister. God is everywhere. We can't hide. We can't go anywhere. Years ago the uh Russians, the uh communist Russians, they sent a astron up into orbit. This back I think it was before they walked on the moon. They sent this guy up in orbit and he's radioed back and he said, I look, I'm up here in outer space. I'm wording it not exactly what he did. He said, I'm up here in outer space. And I don't see God nowhere. He's mocking God. I like what one of the commentators said. They said, oh yeah, open the door. You'll see him real quick. I tell you, God's in outer space. There ain't nowhere God ain't. Omni omniscient, omnipresence. And then look at verse eleven A great passage on the omnipotence of God. God is all powerful. Look at verse 11. He says, If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me, even the light, even the night shall be light about me Yea, the darkness hideth not from thee, but the night shineth in the day. The darkness and the light are both alike to thee. For thou hast possessed my reins, thou hast covered me in my mother's womb. Here's our text. I will praise thee, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Marvelous are thy works. And that my soul knoweth right well. God made us He says, God made me. God, an all-powerful God, created life. Listen, I'm no scientist, but I'm uh smartest. I'm not the smartest guy in the class But I know this, you don't get life from non-life. Life has to produce life. God's the one that gave us life. God's the one that created life. These bodies, these uh bodies, these machines that we call a body are a technological amazement. Just our brains, the function of a brain is beyond comprehension. Well, it just happened over years and years. Oh, it just formed in accidents and chaos and and all this and it just happened over years. I'm telling you, you haven't convinced me of that. I don't have enough faith to believe in evolution. I tell you what, it and then there's not a scientist in the world. They send I like to follow uh I follow on the computer uh Nassau and they have I think there's two. I think one quit running There's one still operating. They sent these little uh remote control uh cars onto Mars. Anybody see that? I think one's called a Pathfinder, I forgot the other. And man, they uh I don't know if they have a little joystick down, I don't know how it works. But they got these things up there. And every now and then that thing's taking pictures and samples. And every now and then they'll get a picture of a rock and it'll have some sort of symmetrical shape to it. And they'll say, oh, good night, that's not natural. Something made that. And then they'll look at it and say, well, it wasn't what they thought it was I tell you what, if they came up over a hill and they saw a bicycle sitting there, you know what they'd say There's intelligent life on Mars. There's no way that could have just happened. Something made that. Something designed that. There has to be intelligent life. Right? Would they not say that? Of course they would Suppose there was just a peace symbol scratched in the in the sand. Perfect. Shh-chh. What would they say? Has to be intelligent life. Something did that. There's no way that that design could just happen. Something gave that. But then they'll turn around and there'll be a hummingbird in their front yard at a flower and they'll say, oh, that just happened I'm telling you, there's more technology and intracy and design to that hummingbird than any bicycle you ever find on Mars. And if that peace symbol scratched in the sand can't just happen, that hummingbird can't just happen. And these little babies don't just happen. We're created by God. And so the power of God, the omnipotence of God. Notice what he says here. He goes on. He says, My substance was not hid from me when I was made in secret. curiously wrought in the lowest parts of the earth. He's using uh artistic language here about the little child developing in the womb. Look at verse 16. Thine eyes did see my substance Yet being imperfect, in thy book all my members were written, which in continuance were fashioned, when as yet there was none of them He says, while I was still in the womb before there was even before I was developed, he said, You already had me fashioned, you already had a designer model prepared for me. Actually, that word fashion there, I believe them, correctleness comes from our word blueprint You designed me in the womb. You had a blueprint for my makeup. God designed what color our eyes would be. He designed how big our nose would be. He designed uh um uh uh uh uh the the how much hair we would have on our heads. I feel sorry for some of y'all. Got hair all over your head. I'm what I'm trying to say is this our God is all powerful, and in his wisdom He's given life. He's created life, created man, and he's given to each of us a designer life, a life by design. Listen, this is what something I want you to get. You are not an accident. Say, preacher, you don't understand the circumstances of my birth. I wasn't wanted. I was I was maybe somebody says, oh, I was uh conceived in rape, or I was conceived unwanted. Listen, it may have been a sinful situation, it may have been a tragic situation, but I'm here to tell you God has a plan and purpose for every single life. Every single way. Solomon, what a testimony. How God can take a tragic situation and yet do a wonderful thing out of it. Our God's an all-powerful God. Our God's an all-knowing God. Our God is an ever-present God. Let me give you, jot this down real quick. Write this down. Would you? God knows me. God knows you. God knows you. Write this down. God sees me. He sees you. Nobody knows what I'm going through. Oh, yeah, God does. Nobody knows how I feel. Yeah, God does. God knows you. God sees you. God cares about me. Look at verse 17. How precious also are thy thoughts unto me, O God! How great is the sum of them! I'm glad God cares about me, aren't you? He cares about me. He cares what bothers me. He cares about my broken heart. He cares about my fears. He cares about my struggles, my dreams. His thoughts are towards us. He cares about us. What a wonderful life. And then back in verse 14, he makes this statement at uh right at the beginning. He says, I will praise thee. David wants the world to know that he's got a reason to praise God. You've made me a design, a life by design you've given me. He wants the world to know he has a reason to be grateful. A reason to be grateful. Let me give a challenge to God's people this morning. We've got to get back to being grateful for what God has done for us. We have lost, we have lost the attitude of gratitude. Everything in the world, we complain this, that, and the other. This, David says, I want the whole world to know I've got something to be grateful for. God's been good to me. God's blessed me. He's given me life. He wants the whole world to know that He's rejoicing. He's rejoicing. I think it's wonderful. I don't hear this very often. A number of years ago I was at um I was at our uh our old fellowship hall. Walmart. Uh, because everybody goes up there m from church. I go there. If I want to go visiting, I just go to Walmart. I see all our church rig there But um I was up there one time and I was in one aisle and I heard coming from the other aisle it Bible time, it's Bible time, it's Bible time in our town. I thought, what in the world? And I went around, here were some kids that had been out to our Bible time rally and they're walking around singing Bible time songs in Walmart And uh I had my ribbons on and say, Oh Bible God. Wouldn't it be wonderful if God's people walk around uh in Walmart just singing, He's God has been so good to me Wouldn't that be wonderful hear that coming? God is so good. That's what David's saying So I want the whole world to know I'm rejoicing in God. Oh, we let everybody know what we think about government, right? We let everybody know what we think about weather. We were talking earlier, somebody says, boy, if it wasn't for my arthritis and weather, I wouldn't have nothing to talk about Hey, let's talk about the Lord. Let's praise God. Talk about, sing about how good he is. So David here is the penman behind this. Now I want to give you a Three thoughts, real quick. This is my message. Number one, I want you to consider with me, each life is precious. Life is precious. Every life is precious. Every one of these little children here, every single life is very, very precious. By the way, not just the life of the baby, but the life of mama is precious. The life of daddy is precious. Every single life is precious. What does it mean to be precious? What do I mean when I say life is precious? Your life is precious. My life is precious. What does that mean? It means to be of great value. There's a great price, there's a great worth to every single life. It means to be highly esteemed and highly prized. If something is precious, it means that it's dearly loved. She's so precious to me I love it. I love her. She's valuable. She's highly prized. I'm here to tell you, your life is precious. It is. Now this a lot a lot of people in this world, much of this world, a large percentage of this world, doesn't view life that way. Large percentage of this world does not view life as something valuable, something precious, something to be cherished and loved. I hate to say this. A big portion of this world considers sometimes the life of a little baby just a hindrance. Just an interference to my life. Very, very famous, very, very famous rock singer. She gave an interview just recently, just in the last few years, and she said this. If I had not aborted my baby, I would not be the famous singer I am today. You know what she said She said, my career, making money, being popular, being famous, is more precious to me than the life of that little child Isn't that tragedy? I'm here to tell you every life is precious. Every life is valuable. Well, these lives matter. These lives matter. These lives matter. I'm here to tell you every single life, red or yellow, black and white, tall, short, skinny, not skinny. Every single life is precious. So what makes life so precious? It's precious, first of all, because of its source. Life is given to us by God. It's a gift given to us by God. Genesis chapter 1, verse 27 tells us that God created man. A direct act of creation of the part of God. You say, Brother Lemon, you still believe that old Genesis stuff? As long as it's in the Bible, I believe it. I don't believe that's a fairy tale. I don't think that's a myth. I believe that's an accurate account of God's creation of mankind. God created us. And the Bible says we're created in the image of God. Life is precious because of the source. God gave you your life. My life is a gift given to me by God. I'm telling you, the older I get, and you ask my wife, every single time we pray, I bow my head and I say, Thank you for another day of life. It's precious. World doesn't consider it, brother. They'll uh they'll uh a big portion of this world, not all the world, a big portion of this world, uh, brother, they'll they'll try to kill that day before it's even born. And then those that are born, they want to abuse them and manipulate them and use them to make money and sell them. It's hard to imagine. But I'm here to tell you, life is precious. Life is precious. There's some room down here, folks. If you like a couple of seats here or if you like, it would help you. Over there, glad to have you all with us Life is precious. Life is valuable because of its source. I got a couple things here that were given to me that are very, very precious to me. Now I got a bunch of these. And uh this one here was given me a few weeks ago. It says this, and she's going to be embarrassed, but that's all right. I love to embarrass teenagers. It says, to Pastor Leatherman from Bella Shiplett. I tell you, I keep this on my desk. I'll bet I read this five, six times a week. I'll get out and read it. It says, Happy birthday, Pastor Leatherman. I got a huge surprise for you, but it's not done yet. I hope you had a great. Then she says this, P. S. You do a great job at running a church and a preacher. Stay preaching God's word. I'm always praying for you. God bless you. I tell you what, that little note there is precious to me. You know why? Because of who gave it to me. And I get a whole slew of 'em, most of the kids in here, Josh and I come in the office one time, Jennifer's working and the secretary, I come in my office, Jocelyn was with her, and there's these little letters stuck on my desk. I mean stuck permanently They're still there. I can show them to you. You remember that, Jug? And it said, I love you, Pastor. I tell you, because of who gives it to us, it becomes precious. God that created this universe, spoke it into existence, gave me life. That makes it precious. I got a a little gift here. I went back and grabbed it while we were shaking hands. Um I go down to um uh New Zealand and preach for Brother Howe and been doing it for years. And uh I got to know some fellows down there, preachers down there. One preacher, a Filipino preacher, Brother Jason Flores. We became dear friends. I mean just he loves God, just a cool guy. And we just well our hearts knit together and we're dear friends. And not this last time, the time before, before I left, he came, he had a little package, and he said, Here, Brother Lesman, I want you to have this and just let you know how much uh I appreciate you. And he gave me a nice little gift. I tell you what, this thing is precious. I could have bought this in a gift store and it would just be another thing on the shelf. But now, because of who gave it to me, this thing's very, very precious to me. You follow what I'm saying? God. God gave you your life. Don't you diminish that. Don't you go around and say, oh, my life's not that much. Listen. It's not. Listen. This world, do not let this world tell you whether you're valuable or not. You are valuable because God gave you your life. Every life is precious. Don't let this world run you down and diminish and tell us, oh, if you don't have this, if you don't look this way, and here's the tragic thing With some of our and young people and even our older folks, uh we get this idea that if I don't look like the world, if I don't get the approval of the world, then I'm of no value. I'm and I I'm just a loser I'm here to tell you there's not a person in this world that's a loser. God gave you your life. It's valuable. It's precious. Well, I don't look like this, and I don't have this figure, and I don't have that color hair, or I don't this, or I don't have that much money, and I'm just no no no no. You are created by God in God's image. Your life is precious, your life is valuable. Life is precious. Did you get that? Amen. Life is precious because of who gave it to us. God gave it to us. Life is precious because life is significant. Life is significant. Your life matters. Every life is significant and has an impact on this world for good or for evil. Paul was writing to the believers in Rome, in Romans chapter 14, he said this: No man liveth unto himself and no man dieth unto himself. You know what he was saying? He was saying, your life makes a difference. Your life has an impact on other people. Your life has a uh is significant in this world. You say, oh, I'm just a I'm just a farmer, I'm just a trucker, I'm just a kid in school, I'm just this, I'm just that. You ain't just nothing. You're a child of God. You know Jesus Christ as Savior, created in his image. Your life is significant. You have something to offer That helps other people. Every life does. Every life does. I think of all these millions, 60, over 63 million babies aborted, often wonder I wonder what they could have contributed to the world if they'd been given a chance to live. What influence they could have had for the cause of Christ and for the good of mankind, but we snuffed them out. I tell you, life is significant. Your life means something. Parents, your life is profoundly significant in that life of that little baby God gave you. Those little children. Most influential people in a child's life are their parents. Parents. I thank God for a Christian daddy My dad and some of y'all knew him, he went went to be with Lord here about three years ago, but he's a truck driver. And when I was little I'd say uh uh he said I'd say daddy when I get big I'm gonna be a truck driver And if you knew my dad, he'd say, oh pfft, any dummy can be a truck driver. How about that, Ron? He would say that, I'm telling the truth Oh you can make something other than a truck. And uh he would say stuff like this, he goes, Oh, I'm just nothing. I'm just an old dumb Dutchman. He's from Pennsylvania Dutch. I'm just an old dumb Dutchman. I'll tell you what, I thank God for that old dumb Dutchman. I'd be on my I'd probably be I'm telling you right now, I'd probably be in hell right now if it wasn't for the influence of my daddy. His life was significant And your life is significant. You will make, you are and will make a difference in other people's lives, either for good or for evil. It's precious the impact of this world that your life has. Say, well, I'll never be president. You don't got to be president to make a difference. You know what Jesus said, ye are the salt of the earth. Let me ask you a question. I had, we went down to Englanders, I got eggs yesterday morning, and uh and bacon and toast. And uh mean I'm getting hungry, but um I like salt on my eggs. Anybody can I get a witness? I like salt and pepper on my eggs. You don't take the can and dump the whole thing of salt on there. You just sprinkle little grains, right? And it has an impact. Jesus said, You're the soul of the earth. You don't have to be big shot. Just be a little simple grain of salt and it makes a difference. Life is precious because of its significance. Life is precious because of its source. Life is precious, I put it this way, because of its singularity. Say what do you mean by that? I mean this. We only got one You and I only have one life to live. It's all we got. Hey, I'm here to tell you this morning, there aren't no do-overs. How many older folks here say, Boy, I wish I'd go back and do things differently? You can't. I can't. You can't go back and do it over. We can't live this life again. Hey, I'm here to tell you, there ain't no such thing as reincarnation. I'm telling you, it's not in the book. It's not there. Hebrews 9. 27, this point of man wants to die. After this the judgment. We got one shot at life. Life is singular That makes it precious. Tell you what, you got a pocket, you got a pocket full of roll of money that big round. You're kind of loose with it there. Yeah, I got a whole bunch. You get down to that last dollar or two and suddenly it's like woo I only got a little bit left. I tell you what, life, we only got one. We only got one. You don't go back and live it over again. We don't get a chance to go back and redo. No do-overs, no reincarnation, no repeats. Life is precious. It must be lived wisely. Somebody said, Life is short, get all you can out of it. Can I give you a little better advice? Life is short, we only got one. Let's live with eternity in mind. Most people, I'm afraid I hate to say this, but a lot of Christians live as if this is all there is. This isn't all there is. You and I are spiritual beings. You and I are a living soul. God breathed into man the breath of life, and he became a living soul. Not a living body, a living soul. That soul spends eternity forever. We got one length to live here, then it's out in the eternity. I'm just trying to be honest with you this morning. It's heaven or hell. There's no other options. I've read this book, I'm working on 45 times reading through this book, and nowhere in that book does it even remotely suggest we have any other options between heaven and hell. So our lives are precious. They're significant. They're precious because of the source of our life, God. They're precious because we make a difference. Our life is significant. It's precious because we only got one. We only got one. Don't waste your life. 2 Corinthians 5, 4. 18 says, for we look not at the things which are seen. But the things which are not seen. For the things which are seen are temporal, but the things that are not seen are eternal. In other words, there is a very real spirit, there is a spiritual reality that we cannot see with our physical eyes, but nevertheless is just as real. As an 18-year-old kid just living in sin and you know my testimony. And God began working in my heart. I needed to change. I kept saying to myself, I don't want to be the man I'm becoming. I don't, this is awful. And I'd try and change, and I could not. And I began praying, God help me, God help me. I began reading my Bible, and I came across that verse. For we look not at the things which are seen. But the things which are not seen, the things which are seen are temporal, things which are not seen are eternal. I thought, all I'm living for All I'm living for is the material, the physical, the temporal. And I've completely neglected the spiritual, eternal. I've completely neglected that. Anybody here remember eight-track tapes? Why do we always laugh when we mention eight-track tapes? I had stacks of them. Stacks of them. Thousands of dollars worth of eight-track tapes I was driving up the road, I can still see the intersection in my mind at this old uh 69 Mustang Mach 1. Yeah. Seriously. Now I'm driving up to this intersection and this verse has gone through my mind. I just read it the night before and I'm stoned. And this is going through my mind, the things which are not seen are eternal, things which are seen are temporal. I stuck that eight-track in and that old eight-track payer just ate that tape up I mean it's good. I tell you, that sounds silly, but God used that I thought everything I'm living for, everything I'm going to is temporal, and eventually it's going to tear up and be gone. And I'm going to be left spiritually empty. I'm going to be lost. I'm here to tell you your life is precious. We got one. And then eternity. And then eternity. How foolish. How foolish to waste our life. On the here and now. Life is precious. Um, and I won't give you the rest of this. Uh I was going to t talk about life each life has purpose. Life has meaning. Life has purpose. Honor God. And then my last thought was this: life is precarious. Life is precarious. What do you mean by that? I mean we're not guaranteed tomorrow. We have no guarantee tomorrow. We don't know what tomorrow holds. Proverbs 27:1 Boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. James chapter 4, I wish we had time to go there, we don't, but James says uh he says, uh, oh, you say tomorrow we're going to go to this city and go and do that. He says, you don't know what tomorrow holds. Your life is but a vapor. He'll be going, you know how many funerals I've done? I don't mean to be morbid on baby day, but I'm here to tell you, you know how many funerals I've done on a Saturday, and that person was sitting in church the previous Sunday Had no idea they'd be out in eternity. Our life is fragile. It's precarious. Things could happen. Brother Ed and I were talking the other day. How just one day walking in slips on the step, boom, goes down, broken bone, alters everything. Right? Just a moment. Just a moment. Just a moment. I'm telling you, God gave us our life. It's precious. God has a plan for your life. But it's precarious. We don't have any guarantees of tomorrow So we need to live today. Jesus said this, or the uh 1 Corinthians says this, today is the day of salvation. If you're here this morning and you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven, if you're here this morning and you don't have assurance of a home in heaven, I'm here to tell you today's the day to get that settled. You know how many people told me, preacher, one of these days I'm gonna get my salvation. We got a guy right now. Uh Ed, Charlie and Ed are working on trying He told me one time, he said, Preacher, I'm not getting saved now, but one of these days I'm getting saved. That was a year ago. He's been in and out of the hospital. I'm telling you, life is precarious. Need to make sure your sins are beginning on your way to heaven. And by the way, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church can't take your sins away. That baptistry up there can't wash your sins away. You can't put enough money in this offering plate to take your sins away. It's only one way to be saved. There's only one way to find forgiveness. That's through trusting Jesus Christ, the Savior, trusting Him as your personal Savior. It's the only way. It's the only way. You live for God. Hey, let me say this. Moms and dads, let me talk to moms and dads real quick. You need to raise those children for God. Every one of these little babies ought to have a Christian daddy, ought to have a Christian mommy. Now I know circumstances are such, sometimes, you know, grandma's raising them or whatever. That's I understand that But whoever is raising those kids ought to be a testimony example of what a Christian is. Every one of these little babies, hey, every one of these little babies is going to spend forever somewhere. As vitally important, they know the Lord. Moms and dads, you have the greatest influence on them. I'm just trying to challenge you this morning. Take your spiritual well-being seriously. I'm trying to challenge you this morning. Take your relationship with God seriously. Don't just blow it off. God gave you life. He wants to take you to heaven someday. I remember on April 18th, 1988, we were in Indianapolis. Uh it was actually the 17th. Kathy said she was like this. When she laid on her back, she looked like a pyramid. When she laid on her belly, she was like a uh what are those things called? Says all. She goes, uh oh. I said, what? It's time. Oh no. So I jumped the car, ran to the hospital. I forgot her. I had to come back and get her and April eighteenth, nineteen seven nineteen eighty-eight, Kathy gave birth to our first son, Samuel and some of y'all know exactly what I'm talking about. I held that little baby. It's all blue, shriveled up, looked like a grape. I held little Sam. I just began crying. I said, Sabin, oh God, help me be the daddy this boy needs. Oh God, help me to be a Christian daddy to this boy. Two years later, on January 1st, or three years, 1991. Same thing, we go run up there, our second son's born. This time, had some trouble he ingested uh fluid when they did a C-section and when they were take him out, he ingested a bunch of fluid He brought him out and he's just gasping. The little baby in his chest is just I don't know And uh they said they let us see him and they rushed him back and put him in incubator and did whatever and finally they came in and said, Mr. Letterman, come back and see your son. And I went back there, he's in this incubator type thing, and they got all these tubes. They had a little hole in the side. I just reached in, I'm sobbing, I'm so God. I reached in there and little Daniel reached up and he took my finger. And he just held on so tight. And I said, God help me be a daddy. Help them see Christ in me. Help them know the Lord. I'm telling you, our lives are precious. Our lives are important. We make a difference. We need to know the Lord. We need to live for God. I'm with this. We had baby day, oh, years ago, 15, 20 years ago, probably. I had a big old marquee sign out front and um somebody drove by, a young couple drove by with the baby, they saw baby dead. And they came in, they brought their baby We know them from Adam, never been here before, and they didn't know us, we didn't know them. But they came in on baby day. The whole time I'm preaching, they're sitting over here and they're just crying. And afterward I gave the invitation, they came forward, they got saved. And afterward we talked. And they had done something terrible. They had done something terrible. And they were so convicted, and they want God to forgive them so badly, and they held their baby I'm glad Mama and Daddy both bowed their head and trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. They got baptized, they were faithful for a long time, moved away. I'm here to tell you, God can forgive you and God can save you and God can give you a new life. Your life is precious. God gave it to you by design. You need to know your creator. You need to know your Savior. You're saved, you're not living for God. My plea with you is give your life to Christ. Live for God. Serve Him. Get that home, the kind of home it ought to be as a Christian. Get that marriage the way it ought to be. Get your life the way it ought to be. I gotta quit. Father, I ask you to help us. Lord, you've given us these little babies here this morning. What a blessing. And I pray, Lord, you'd help us take our spiritual well-being seriously. Help us take the spiritual well-being of our homes and our children seriously. I pray you'd convict us and challenge us and encourage us, help us. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I know I'm saved, I trusted Christ, no doubt about it. But uh There's areas in my Christian life that I really need to get straightened out. There's some areas that I need God to help me make adjustments. Some things need attention in my spiritual life. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I know I'm saved. But there's areas that need attention. God bless you. Hands all around. Hands all around. How about moms and dads? Want our home to be right. Want it to be right. What it ought to be. I wonder if there's some this morning say, preacher, I don't know if I'm going to heaven or not. I'd hope to, I'd like to, but I can't say I know for sure. Maybe some would say, preacher, pray for me that I can get that settled. Any at all this morning, preacher, pray for me. I need to get that settled. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven. Any at all? Any at all, Father, I pray you'd bless now our invitation in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are