Your Bible and turn to John chapter 4, will you? John chapter 4. And we're going to take our text from verse 35, but we're going to look at a lot of the chapter. John chapter 4 Verse 35. John chapter 4 and verse 35 is very familiar to us. Here's what it says. Say not ye, there are yet four months, and then cometh harvest. Behold, I say unto you, lift up your eyes. And look on the fields, for they are white already to harvest. I wouldn't be able to stand up here and tell you how many missions conferences I have been in or preached over the period of my ministry. This is my 49th year of ministry. There have been a lot of missions conferences But I would say that on one hand I would count the conferences where that verse is either read or referred to or preached from. It's just a great missions verse. But here's the question I want to ask you tonight. Why does the Lord say it there? Why does he put it, he's talking to his disciples, why does he say to them, lift up your eyes? Don't say there's yet four months, then we'll get to the harvest. Don't procrastrocrastinate. Lift up your eyes and Look on the fields for they are white already to harvest. They're ready right now. Why does he say that to his disciples right in the middle of John chapter 4? One of the things that sometimes we do is we in our minds segment the Bible. We look at John chapter 4, and we know that the first part of John chapter 4 Jesus deals with the Samaritan woman at the well. And that is a great, great passage and a great truth. Thank God for grace, and thank God even fallen women and fallen men can get saved. Amen? But then we come to the end of that story, and it's as if that, well, okay, now the Bible changes, and now we're going to talk about the mission field. And we fail sometimes to make the connection because what I want to assure you is that Jesus says what he says in John chapter 4 and verse 35 because of what preceded in the 34 verses before it. And that's what I want to look at. Go back to John chapter 4 and verse 1. And let's just walk through it and let me show you something. Verse 1. When therefore the Lord knew how the Pharisees had heard that Jesus made and baptized more disciples than John, Though Jesus himself baptized not, but his disciples, he left Judea and departed again into Galilee. This is one of the first times that Jesus is ministering publicly, not up in Galilee, but he's down in Judea, very near Jerusalem. And the Pharisees have taken notice of him. As a matter of fact, what they're saying is, well, I thought we got rid of John the Baptist, but now This guy seems to be drawing bigger crowds than John the Baptist, and even though he's not doing the baptizing, more people are being baptized at his meetings than ever were at John the Baptist meeting. And they began to notice his his ministry. And Jesus, because he knows they're jealous of his ministry, makes the decision to move from Judea and Jerusalem back up to Galilee where it's a little bit less noticeable. Now, let me be very quick to tell you, Jesus does not leave Judea and go to Galilee because he's afraid of the Pharisees. He goes back to Galilee because his hour has not yet come. It's not time for him to be arrested. It's not time for the confrontation. It's not time for the cross. And Jesus wants to do all things well according to his father, and so he goes back up to Galilee. Now that's not shocking. What is shocking is what he says in verse four. Notice it. And he must needs go through Samaria. I know that you're biblically literate here at Mountain Lake, but let me just remind you that Jews hated Samaritans. And let's be very clear, Samaritans hated Jews. They wanted nothing to do with each other. The Jews considered Samaritans to be dogs. They would call them dogs to their face. And when a Jew had to leave Jerusalem and go to Galilee He went way out of his way. He would descend from Jerusalem down the mountain, down to Jericho, cross Jordan. go up the king's highway until he came to the Galilee area, cross back over Jordan, and then to the cities of Galilee. taking him miles out of his way. But he did not want to go through Samaria. He didn't want the dust of Samaria on his shoes. He didn't want to touch a Samaritan, talk to a Samaritan. It was worth going out of the way. It doesn't hit you and me like it hit the disciples, but when Jesus said, I'm going through Samaria, their jaws dropped. What? You're the rabbi. You're the great teacher. You don't go through Samaria. I don't think they said it to him, but they thought it. But sure enough, he is going through Samaria. Now let's pick it up in verse 5. They're on the journey now. Then cometh he to a city of Samaria, which is called Sikar. Near to the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph. And Jacob's well was there Jesus, therefore, being wearied with his journey, sat thus on the well, and it was about the sixth hour. And then cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water. Jesus saith unto her, Give me to drink. For his disciples were gone away unto the city to buy meat. Let me unpack that for just a moment. They're on the journey. Jesus has grown weary. It is now time for a meal. I don't know why, but they did not carry the vitals with them And now Jesus is going to sit down and rest at the well. It's near the city of Sikar. Jacob, in antiquity, had built a well there. And the disciples, knowing that it's time for some food, are going to leave Jesus to rest on the well, and they are all going to go into this Samaritan city Sikar to get the food that is necessary for a meal, and then they just want to get on their way and get out of this land. Now, two things happen. While they're gone, the woman comes to draw water. And precious Jesus asks her for a drink. She's amazed that a Jew would ask her for anything. And I wish I had time to preach that wonderful passage. It's not the point of our message tonight. But Jesus confronts that woman with her sin. And then Jesus draws her to himself. And that woman gets saved at the well. And by the way, that process is the same today. When we get confronted with our sin and agree with God that we are sinners and turn to the Savior and ask him to save us, we can be saved. And if you're here tonight and you've never experienced that, I want to tell you we've got open Bibles. We can show that to you tonight. That takes place while the disciples have gone into Sikar to get food. Can you imagine what they were in Sikar? They didn't want to be there. They didn't want anything to do with Samaritans. And when they go in that city, they want to get what they need as fast as they can without conversing, saying as few words as they have to say, touching as little. Well, you would have thought COVID was there. And they buy that food and they get out of that city, and it never occurs to them that the people they're talking to are loved by the same God that loves them. It never occurs to them that those people might be as hungry and as thirsty for Christ as that woman at the well is proving to be. They could care less about the souls of the people that they're having to do with. They just want the food for the sandwiches. Forget the souls They rush out of that city. They run back to the well. And I'm going to tell it in line. The verses get a little bit jumbled here. But if you go up to verse 27, notice it real quick. And upon this came his disciples and marveled that he talked with that woman. Yet no man said, What seekest thou, or why talkest thou with her? They could care less about her. They're just glad she's leaving as they're coming. When they get there, they've got the food. They lay it out. They begin to prepare the meal. Pick it up then in uh in verse um Verse 31, in the mean, while his disciples prayed him, saying, Master, eat, but he said unto them, I have meat that ye that you know not of. Therefore said the disciples one to another, Hath any man brought him aught to eat? Sometimes I look at those disciples, and you know what I see? Me. So spiritually dull that we ask stupid questions. No, nobody has brought Jesus anything to eat. No, he's not saying that because somebody brought him a sandwich. Notice what he says in verse 33. Therefore, verse 34, Jesus saith unto them, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me and to finish his work. You say, preacher, what is he saying to his disciples? He's saying, fellas I want you to know that for the last two hours, you have been focused on nothing but getting something to eat and hating the people you were getting it from. And I want you to know there's something more in my life. I'm not driven by the physical to the point where I forget the spiritual. And Jesus says, I've been sitting at this well, not wondering where my lunch was. I've been sitting at this well, caring for the soul of a woman that you're just glad she got out of here. Hey, my will is to do what my father sent me to do, to seek And to save the lost. And you've gone into that city and you never spoke to anyone about the rabbi, the great teacher the one that you believe is the Messiah. You never offered to bring them out so they could meet him. You never cared for anything but what you were doing, what you were there for, what you were going to get, what you needed, what you wanted. And in your hearts, I believe it's because you didn't think they were worthy of the gospel. They're Samaritans. They can't be saved. And fellows, I want you to look at something. And in my mind's eye, Jesus turns and he points. And you know what he's pointing at? That dear woman, while he's conversing with the disciples, has gone back into the city and said, come with me. I want you to see somebody. He's told me everything about my life, and he's revealed himself to be the Messiah. And I believe if you talk to him and he talks to you, you can get saved too. And the ones that the disciples discounted as not being worthy of salvation are now streaming out of the city because they do want to meet Jesus. They do want to know this one. And the city gets saved. When all that's done, Jesus says, Hey guys, lift up your eyes. Look on the fields. You're always thinking, we'll get to it later. You're always thinking of something else that needs to be done Hey, here's the truth. In your world, it's more about sandwiches than souls. I'm not trying to scold all of us. But I'm telling you, way too often, we're just like those disciples. We get wrapped up in our schedule. We get wrapped up in our activities. We get wrapped up in what's surrounding the little bubble around our life. And some days we go through life not seeing all that is around us that God wants us to see. And this missions conference is the opportunity to say, hey God, will you show me what you see? I'd like to look up and see something other than just my life, my hurt My need, my want, my dream. I'd like to see what you see. Here's three things very quickly I think we need to get from this conference. Number one, I think in this conference we need a greater vision. As I said, like the disciples, we can we can just get so wrapped up in ourselves. It's not that we're bad people. It's that we're distracted people. We get so caught up in all that surrounds us, we just don't see what the Lord sees It's easy for us in gospel-loaded America to miss the truth that most of the world lies in abject darkness. Driving up here today, I drove up from Charlotte, North Carolina, not far from where you are. I I I kind of gave it a test. I probably In moving the dial could have picked up twenty Christian radio stations. Now There's some of them weren't fit to be listened to, but but still they were Christian radio stations. I picked up preaching. I picked up singing. I picked up uh a couple of programs of you know talking about Christian things and so on. And and and what impressed me was I came from North Carolina to Maryland And there was basically nowhere along that trip that I couldn't have had a gospel witness in my car. Folks, that's not the rest of the world. I'm told there are 8 billion people on planet Earth, and I'm told that 30% of those 8 billion people, one of two things is true. One, a bunch of them have never even heard the name Jesus. And if they have heard the name Jesus, number two That a great deal of them have never had a clear presentation of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I just want you to know that it's not like it is here everywhere else in the world. It's dark. There aren't churches, there aren't preachers, there's not Bibles, there's not soul winners, there's not radio broadcasts every uh inch of the dial. And I'm saying to you that one of the things the Lord says to us is, hey, lift up your eyes. I looked that that phrase up. I took elementary Greek 49 years ago. So I am a scholar. I don't know Greek. I own a strong concordance and it makes me dangerous, alright? And and I look up that lift up your eyes. You know what Mr. Strong says that means? It says, he says, take the weights off. Take the weights off of our eyes. Cut the schedule off. Don't worry about the activities. Don't worry about what is on TV. Don't worry about what bedtime is. Don't worry. For once, for four or five days during this conference, God, would you help us to just cut the weights off And just be committed to allow you to speak into our hearts, to speak into our lives, to have ears that are whole open. not just to physically hear, but to receive what you say. God, help me just to take the weights off. Spend time hearing what you have to say. Here's number two. We need our hearts touched. This conference needs to be more than just an academic consideration of population numbers and facts and figures of too few missionaries or too little giving or whatever it is. We need our hearts broken. A travel America preacher, and can I tell you one of the distressing things I'm beginning to see? Even good churches are becoming churches of empty altars and dry eyes. You say, well, it's because we're mature in the Lord. Really? Really? So maturity makes us cold? I'm thinking that's backslidden. I I'm just saying to you, if Jesus really is our master and we're not above our master, and I'm going to preach on this later, so I won't I won't overdo it But can I remind you that when Jesus healed and healed and taught and taught and then looked up and the multitudes were even greater than all he healed And he looked on the all on the multitudes. Can I remind you of what the Bible says took place in Jesus? He was moved with compassion. There is no way to pretty that phrase up. You know what it means? He got sick to his stomach. His stomach churned. In other words, what he saw truly bothered him. It truly moved him Hey, when was the last time I'm asking this honestly, I'm asking it of myself, when was the last time instead of being repulsed by this generation, we were compassionate toward them? So preacher, I see them and and man, you see their lifestyles, you see what they what they do and what they are. How could we ever be anything but repulsed? Jesus loved them. And but for the grace of God, that's you and me. Amen. Get over yourself. Amen. You are not what you are because you're special. You are what you are because Jesus loved you enough to save you. How dare we who know the Lord and have experienced his grace, how dare you and I who remember where he got us from I was not raised in a Christian home. I didn't get saved until I was a married man with a with a child And and I remember, I'm not happy for the years that were wasted, but I am glad of this. There's a clear line of division in my life where Jesus wasn't and then Jesus was And I'm glad I know there's a difference in my life, in my heart, and I don't want to forget it, and I don't want to get over it. And we have whole churches that have gotten over it We have whole churches that think somehow we've earned it and we deserve it and the rest of the world, well, you know, they made their own bed, let them lay in it. Aren't you glad God got you out of your bed? And there's no urgency You and I ought to be brokenhearted for what we see in this world. I don't understand all the trans this and trans that, and it and it repulses me. But every time I see that Person acting like what they're not? I remember that God loves them. Amen. Jesus died for him her than she what did. God help us. God help us to be moved with something other than rejecting and revulsion And may God break our hearts. And may we be moved from Moslem nations. Hindu nations, nations that still fall down to Norse gods for heaven's sake Nations that grow fields of tulips and everybody ooze and ahs at the beauty of it, and they they haven't darkened the door of a church and wouldn't know the name of Jesus if they asked if somebody asked them. God help us. We go through conferences like this, we think of these people on these places, in these lands. And and for the moment we think, well that's a pretty city and that's a pretty sight, but we never remember it's not about the sandwiches, it's about the souls. God help us to sense and have an urgency. God help us to care. I'm not asking everybody to become an emotional wreck. I'm just asking everybody, can't we just for a week lift up our eyes? And get our attention off of us and see their need and say, what can I do about that? I'm not asking you to feel guilty about it. I'm not saying it's our fault. I'm just saying, what can we do about that? I was not raised on a farm. I was raised on asphalt. I don't know much about farming, but this I do know, that when the harvest is ready, the farmer does not call his wife and say, let's take a cruise. Let's go to Disney. No no. When that harvest is ready, everything else gets put away Everything else gets put aside. And in the fields they go, and if they can take their sons, they take their sons. If they can take their daughters, they take their daughters, their wife, if they can get their friends and family. Everybody goes to that field and then they help somebody. else because the harvest is ready and you gotta get it in. Where is that in our hearts Here's last. Not only that, not only do we need a greater vision and our hearts touched, we need our faith increased. For the sake of time, let me just read to you 2 Corinthians 10. Not boasting of these things without measure, that is, of other men's labors, but having hope when your faith is increased. That we shall be enlarged by you according to our rule abundantly, to preach the gospel in the regions beyond you, and not to boast in another man's line of things made ready to our hand You know what the Apostle Paul is saying? I'm praying that your faith is increased. Why, Paul? Because there's work to be done. I'm praying that your faith is increased because I need support to go preach the gospel in the regions beyond. So I'm praying that your faith is increased so that you can can can give to me abundantly. What? So I can become rich? No. Have you ever met a rich missionary? I personally have not. Okay? I guess somewhere out there there might be one. I've never met him. And by the way, you men know this to be true. A man who's a man doesn't want to ask for anything. You think it's easy for these guys to come in here and say, Will you help us? It's the hardest thing any man's ever done in his life. But God's called them And God has instituted the system, and God has said, you've got to get to that field, and they come here, and they need our faith to be increased. Listen, the world is not not being reached because communists run countries. It's not not being reached because the churches are closed. It's not not being reached because Moslems are there. It's not being reached because our faith is weak. Men and women don't go because they don't see how God could provide for them. Men and women don't go because they don't see how God could make them able to do it. And sometimes We look at our economy like it is today and we say, Oh my, oh my goodness, oh my goodness, inflation. Oh my goodness, oh my goodness, interest rates. See, God has never dealt with anything like a high interest rate. He's really struggling to know what to do with that. No, he's not We're struggling. God's the same God that He was. Hey, back in 1981 when we bought our first building, interest rates were 21%. Lead your deacons to sign that dotted line. Hey, back when Paul was preaching in the regions beyond, Nero was emperor. Stop, let's stop excusing ourselves because it's difficult. And let's say, God, I can trust you. And God, would you increase my faith so that I can do all that I can do So that these families can get to those fields with the gospel of Jesus Christ. I'm done. Lord, here's five days Preacher, thanks for scheduling the conference because it gives me an opportunity to lift up my eyes. Just to forget about myself for a few days. Woo! Can I say it again? Just to forget about myself for a few days. What's that preacher? Forget about myself for a few days. And look at the needs of others. Say, God, will you lift up my eyes? God, will you touch my heart? Will you help me to care about them? I know they're in sin. So was I. I know it's going to take your grace. It took it in my life. And God, I know you love them. Will you touch my heart? And God, will you increase my faith through this week? That's it. That's what he wanted to say to his disciples, fellas. Look around you. You're so busy wanting to get through Samaria. You missed an entire city's worth of souls. And they did want to get saved. And they would listen. And they did come out. And we are leaving them different. And by the way, Pete and John and James It took the same grace to save that city full of Samaritans as it took to save you. Amen. God helped me to see it. That's what I'm asking, and that's the invitation. These next four or five days, would you ask God to help me to lift up my eyes and see? God, would you touch my heart with the needs of others? And God, would you increase my faith? So that I can see what you see, feel what you feel, and do what I need to do, what I need to do, and all I can do To reach those that need to hear. Would you pray with me? Father, we thank you for these few moments we've had. I pray now that you'd give us understanding of your word And Lord, would you speak to us? How easy it is to attend a service, hear it for everybody else, and not hear it for ourselves. How easy it is to just rush out the door and Yeah, yeah, okay, I get that. God, I ask that you would help us tonight to make a decision to do just what you said to your disciples. Lift up your eyes. Guys, allow your heart to be touched. And guys, increased faith, and we can reach this world. And Lord, help me to get my eyes off of myself for these days. And just speak to me. Wrestle with the Lord. Ask Him to speak into your life. Father, would you help us? And I pray that people would take the time to offer yourself or offer themselves for you To help them. I pray it in Jesus' name. Amen. I'm going to ask you to quietly stand to your feet.