Back with me to the Gospel of John and chapter number four. John chapter four. All I want is to read a portion of verse number thirty-five. I was reading this the other day and I came across this little phrase and just stirred my heart. Look at verse 35. It says, Say not ye, there are yet four months, and then cometh hard Harvest, behold, I say unto you, now look at this little phrase. Lift up your eyes. Look on the fields, for they are white on the harvest. That little phrase, lift up your eyes. That's what I want to speak about this morning. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless our time in your house. We're grateful for all your goodness to us, Lord. Daily you load us with benefits. We rejoice in that. Lord, we're very grateful for the beautiful weather, Lord. It lifts our spirits many times. We see that sunshine, the warm weather. Lord, I ask now as we look into your word And I pray your Holy Spirit would be very present here today to speak to our hearts, challenge us, dear God, encourage where encouragement is needed. Uh uh direct give direction where direction is needed. Lord, if we need to be corrected in some way, I pray your Holy Spirit would use the Word of God and Correct us maybe in our thinking or in our actions. Whatever the case may be, I'm asking you, Lord, in this hour to meet with us and change us and help us I yield my will to yours as best I can. I present my body anew, and I ask with all my heart that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I'll go where you want me to go, dear Lord, as long as it isn't too far I'll go where you want me to go, dear Lord, as long as I can take my car. Dear Lord, uh don't ask me to go to the mountains top, the mountains top or over the stormy sea Adjustments in a foreign land just would be too much for me. I'm sure that you can find many others far more qualified than I to send them out to the different distant lands. On them you can rely I'll pray each Sunday for those who have gone, and I'll give a dollar a week. But Lord, don't ask me to go abroad. A new language I could never speak. I'll say what you want me to say, dear Lord, but not uh as long as it's not my neighbor I'll say what you want me to say, dear Lord, but not to those where I labor. Don't ask me to be a witness down at the shop. I know they'll call me a square. But I'll try to be extra good and look like a Christian down there. I'll be what you want me to be, dear Lord, but don't ask me to be a preacher. And I'll be faithful in Sunday school next week, but just don't ask me to be Ask me to be a teacher. I want to be your servant, true, and do your perfect will. But just don't ask too much of me. I just cannot fill the bill. Is this the way you serve the Lord by word of mouth alone? Or can your heartfelt love for God in your works be shown? When you stand in the church and sing, what you want me to be, I'll be, be careful to honestly consider those words, then la then ask, Lord, how does this apply to me? Boy, doesn't that touch home with a lot of us? Yeah, I want to serve you, Lord, but on my terms. God, I want to live for you. But according to my understanding, God, I'll serve you as long as it isn't inconvenient or costs me too much. In our text here, we have a wonderful story, very well known among Bible believers, of Jesus meeting the woman at the well. He goes out of his way to go through Samaria, and of course the Samaritans were hated by the Jews, and they hated the Jews. They despised each other. But Jesus went through Samaria and he goes by this well, and this woman comes out to meet him. And most of you are familiar with the story. The Lord Jesus engages her in conversation. And he asks her to draw water from the well. And uh he begins to share in a uh different way the gospel of Jesus Christ. He's presenting himself to her as her Savior, as the one that can give her eternal life. To make the without going into detail, the woman ends up trusting Christ as her Savior. Now the interesting thing here is this woman was uh a little, we could put it this way, a little rough around the edges. If you would notice with me over here in verse number 18 of John chapter 4. Jesus is engaged here. Well let's back up uh to verse number 16. The Lord's engaging her in conversation. He's trying to get her to see that she is a sinner. She needs a savior. By the way, nobody ever gets saved without first realizing they need a savior. And I'll never realize I need a savior until I understand how sinful I am as a human being. being. I need someone to forgive me of my sins that I've committed against God and save me from God's judgment. So He's trying to get this woman to see her need of a savior. And if you would, notice in verse number uh 16, Jesus saith unto her, Go, call thy husband and come hither. Alright? He's setting the stage. She responds in verse 17, the woman answered and said, I have no husband. Now, do you think Jesus knew that she did not have a husband? Sure, he's God. He knew all things. And so he's, as I said, he's setting the stage here. Look what she says. Jesus said unto her, Thou hast well said, I have no husband. Now look at this. For thou hast had five husbands. And he whom thou now hast is not thy husband, and that thou sayest thou truly Now, if you read this, and again, I don't want to take the time to elaborate on this, but as you read through here, if you watch it very carefully, this woman is kind of rough. She comes from a rough background. I I like to read this out loud and try and uh talk it like you would be standing there hearing this conversation And as I read through this, I get the impression this woman is smarting off the Lord Jesus. A number of times, her answers to Jesus Christ are very what we would say to the kids, a smart-mouth answer. And so here she is. She's had five husbands. She's living with a man at this time. Apparently, she was very good at getting married, but she wasn't very good at staying married. And so the Lord points us out. And then he deals with that. Now here's my point. This woman was rough. She had some issues. She had some things that needed it to be addressed in her life. If she was going to fulfill God's will for her life, and she needed to see the fact that she was a sinner if she was ever going to trust Jesus as her Savior. But God loved this woman dearly Jesus Christ went out of his way to approach this woman, not to condemn her, but so that she would need see that she needed a savior and that he was that savior she needed. He loved her dearly. Um this woman needed the Lord. Now we were out visiting yesterday. We were giving out gospel tracts down in We were in Westernport and Piedmont and over in Kaiser, giving out tracks everywhere, just going up and down the straight, saturating the area. And I was thinking about this woman and my message today as I was going along. And um I thought, you know, this woman, uh, she needed to be saved. As rough as she was As a as a as a far from God and what we would consider righteousness, as she was, she really needed a savior. But she didn't need a savior any more than the best. of mankind. For whatever reason, some of y'all are familiar with attorney David Gibbs. Anybody familiar? Christian Law Association, David Gibbs. A great man, highly respected man. A man of impeccable integrity. Do you know what? David Gibbs need to be saved just as much as this woman by the the well needed to be saved. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. And by the way, this woman at the well She was to be saved the exact same way that David Gibbs or any of his caliber got saved through acknowledging our sin and accepting Jesus Christ. Christ as our personal Savior. Amen? As I said, we were out yesterday and I came up to a house, we were down there and came up and there was There was little i it was a lot of houses that were abandoned, a lot of them were kind of uh half collapsed in and were just in really rough shape. And I came to one house and at first I didn't think anybody lived there There was trash piled up on the front porch and it was in desperate need of paint. Uh there was uh things all over the yard and I I was almost went by and I thought, well, I'll leave it tracked on the door anyway, eventually somebody's gonna to come by here. And uh I noticed and there was like a little well-worn path up through the beer cans and different things stacked up there. There was a very well-worn path. I said, well apparently someone does live here And I made my way up and no one was home. I knocked on the door and no one was home. I left the gospel track and I came out of there thinking, you know, these dear folks need the Lord Jesus Christ no more and no less than I need Jesus Christ myself. And I think there's a tremendous lesson here the Lord Jesus is teaching the disciples that everybody needs to be saved and everybody gets saved the same way. It's great. There's so many others. We could just take ours And look at the lessons that are taught in this one event where Jesus Christ takes the time to sit down and speak with this woman who the Jews would have despised. Who uh the society would have pushed aside as uh somebody that's destroyed her life and ruined her life with sin and and infidelity and all of that But Jesus Christ stops and sits down with her and engages her in conversation. She ends up believing on the Lord Jesus Christ. She sets her pots down and she goes back into the city. While she's in the city going to tell folks there about the Lord Jesus Christ, what happened to her, the disciples show up. And as they come out, they're concerned about what they're going to eat. They'd gone in, they were at Dairy Queen and Burger King and McDonald's getting some sandwiches and value meals and stuff, and uh they were you know there wasn't Dairy Queens or Burger Yours So anyway, they're coming out and uh they're concerned about what are we going to eat? Jesus, what are you going to eat? And they're all wrapped up in what they're going to eat and what they're going to do and what their situation is And Jesus says, fellas, lift up your eyes. Lift up your eyes. And I have three thoughts on this That statement. Number one, we need to realize the influence of our sight We need to realize the influence of our sight. He says, fellas, I want you to notice something. I want you to see something. You're missing. Lift up your eyes. Look on the fields, for they're white, are ready to harvest. What we choose to look at has a profound influence upon how we think and how we behave. What we choose to look at, what we focus on, what we see, has a profound influence on how we think and how we behave He says, lift up your eyes. Lift up your eyes. Lamentations chapter 3 and verse 5 says this: mine eye affecteth my heart. What I see affects the condition of my heart. Um what I see Has a profound effect upon my emotional well-being. What I see has a profound effect upon my spiritual well-being. Turn with me if you would, and we're going to go to a number of verses. I want you to see from God's Word the importance and the significance and the influence of our sight. Turn with me to Job, if you would. Book of Job, back before Psalms, back in the Old Testament, come back a good little ways. We're going to end up in John here again before we're done. But Job chapter number 31. Brother Caldwell last week had a prof pr a tremendous message on Job. A challenging, convicting message. And if you know about the man Job, he was a man of, again, tremendous integrity, he was a man of uh upright and had a powerful uh testimony, was a man of great faith But of course a man very tried. But Job chapter 31, and look with me at verse number 1. Job 1, verse 30. Job 31, verse 1. He says, I made a covenant with my what? Eyes. I made a covenant with my eyes. I made a I made a you could almost say I made a vow. I have I've I've decided something about my eyes. Look, I made a covenant with my eyes. Why then should I think upon a maid? Now, Job was very concerned that he'd be right with God. Job was very concerned that his heart and life would be pure. That was important to him. It's extremely important that my heart and my life be pure before my God And he said, I made a covenant with my eyes. Why then should I think upon a maiden? Now, this is what I want us to notice: the connection between what I see and how I think. He says, I made a deal. I'm not going to look. I'm going to be very, very careful where I look. I'm going to be very careful what I place my eyes upon So that I do not think, and the implication here is, in a sinful way and an impure way, upon a maid. I want my eyes to look right so that my thoughts will be right There is a direct connection between what I look at and how I think. Satan knows that. Why do you think our society in these last days is so saturated with visuals? Why do you think our society in these would you agree with me the morals and spiritual well-being of our society are deteriorating rapidly? Some would say we're going to hell in a handbasket. That's a little rude way to say it, but there's a lot of truth in that statement. And it is no coincidence that we are absolutely saturated with visuals. Because Satan knows my eye. Affects my heart. Job said, I made a covenant with my eyes, so that I don't think in an impure way Upon the maid. I want my life to be pure. I want my heart to be right. I want my Savior and God to be pleased with my life. What I look at affects my spiritual condition. Satan knows that. Turn with me again, if you would, to the first book of the Bible, Genesis. We're going to see a little pattern as we go through here. I noticed this years ago, and I found it to be true. I found that everything in the Bible is true. But this in particular. Genesis chapter number three. Of course we know the story here. By the way, I I I I know I don't need to say this uh for our crowd, but I just think I think it's important to reiterate it. Genesis chapter 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 are literally the truth. It's exactly as it's given here. We don't have to incorporate evolution and millions and billions of years and all that. In other words, what I'm trying to say is this Bill Nye is wrong. So I just that was free. Um so we have the story here. Uh uh you have Adam and Eve have been created. And they're in the Garden of Eden, and Satan, in the form of a serpent, approaches Eve. And he entices her. To consider the one tree that God said they're not to eat of, the tree of the knowledge of good evil. They can have anything they want, but not that one And so he Satan zeroes in on that one thing that God said they could not have, they should not do. That's the one thing Satan obsesses over. And he approaches the woman. He engages her in conversation. And notice in verse number six. Now watch the wording here very, very carefully. And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was pleasant to the eyes. She saw it. It's good for food. It's very attractive. That affected her thinking. It affected her heart. And look at the next statement. And a tree to be what? Desired. That's talking about the heart. It's where our desires come from. She saw the tree. It's good to eat, very attractive, and her heart is stirred. Now she desires it. The implication is she had no interest in it before. She had no desire in it before. But when she looked at it, When she set her gaze upon it, her heart was stirred. Now there's desire. Now read on. And a tree to be desired to make one wise, she what? Took of the fruit thereof and did eat. And the consequences of that one free will decision Are felt by you and I today, to this day. And it all began. Her eye affected her heart Heart. Her eye affected her heart. Desires are stirred. She took of the fruit. Devastating consequences. Turn with me, if you would, the Joshua, fifth book, sixth book of the Old Testament in the Bible. You go Genesis, X, Leviticus, Numbers, and you get to Joshua. Of course, uh Israel is now out of the uh Egypt and Moses is dead, Joshua's in charge, they cross uh the Jordan River and now they're invading the promised land. They're finally where God had promised his people they would be. And now they're stepping forward in faith. And uh their very first battle in the Promised Land is a tremendous victory. I mean they just devastate Jericho and they conquer the city. Now God had given a very stern warning Said before before they went in, he says, I want you to take any of the gold, don't take any of the silver, don't take any of the spoils. That's to go to the worship of God and all that. You'll have plenty later, you'll have plenty to do. Don't take any of that. God had given very clear instructions Well, you know the story. Achan decided that he was the exception to God's rule. Isn't that the way it always is? Somehow we think that God's law doesn't apply to us. Somehow we think that we're the exception. And Achan thought that, so he took some gold, he took some silver, and he took some garment. It's called a Babylonian garment, and he took that, and the Bible says he hid it in his tent. He disobeyed God knowingly, eyes wide open, disobeyed what God told him to do. He thought he could hide it from God. Dumb We can't hide anything from God. Can I get an amen there? We can't hide anything from God. So he hides the tent. They go to the next little city of Ai, they get whooped. This is just a little city. I mean Israel gets whooped. 36 men, I think, is the figure die. Come back. Joshua says, Lord, what's the deal? Lord, so many words says there's sin in a camp. You can't have my blessings. You're not going to have victory until the sin is dealt with. Somebody has deliberately disobeyed me, deliberately sinned against me, and is trying to hide their sin. And so they go through this elaborate process to find out who it was and what it is, and given Aiken all this time to make it right. He doesn't make it right. Finally, he's found out And look with me if you would at verse number 21. Again, notice the wording through this very carefully Joshua is confronting Achan, asking him, What's the deal? Why did you do this? Verse 20. Achan answered Joshua and said, I indeed have sinned against the Lord God of Israel. And thus and thus have I done. Now here he explains what happened. Are you there, Joshua 7? I'm sorry, what did I say? If you guys knew your Bible, you'd know right where I was at. I'm sorry, Joshua chapter 7. And verse number 20. Everybody there? I know what I'm talking about. Nobody else does, is the problem. Verse 20. And Athan answered Joshua and said, Indeed, I have sinned against the Lord God of Israel. And thus and thus have I done. He's explaining what happened. Now look. When I saw among the spoils of godly of goodly ba uh a goodly Babylonian garment Two hundred shekels of silver and a wedge of gold of fifty shekels of weight, then I coveted. Ah, his eye affected his heart. Coveting is an is a desire for something that is not that is not just is not a a coveting is a illicit desire for something I have no Right to own. His desires are stirred. I saw, mine eye affected my heart. I coveted, look at this. Then I coveted them and Took them. Saul desired took. Eve said, Bible says, Eve saw the fruit that it was good to eat, make one wise. She desired it, she took it. Achan saw that Babylonian government. God said, Don't take it. He saw the gold, he saw the silver. He knew it wasn't his. By the way, the word saw there. I saw it, it means this. To l gaze on, to look intently at. It's not the idea he just inadvertently happened to glance by and see it there. No, he stopped and checked it out. He stopped and started sorting through it. Man, this is a nice car. That's my wife's size. Good night, what I could do with this gold and this silver. And his eye affected his heart. And he ended up sinning. And you know what the consequences were? Aiken and his whole all his kids died. This is the point I'm trying to make. What we see has a profound influence upon us. What we choose to look at, where we place our eyes, has a profound influence upon us On who we are and what we are and how we behave. Turn with me, would the judges. You have Joshua, now go to the next book in your Bible, Judges. And this time I'll tell you the reference. It's chapter 14. Lord said, Lift up your eyes, fellas Because what you see, what you look at, what you gaze at has a profound influence on you. Your eye will affect your heart Eve learned that the hard way. Achan learned that the hard way. Now let's look in Judges chapter 14, and we have a fellow by the name of Samson. Look with me at verse number one. And Samson went down. Now Samson was one of God's champions. He was a great soldier for the Lord, filled with the Holy Spirit. The Bible says, if my calculating is correct, the Bible says that Samson was filled with the Holy Spirit more than any other person in the Old Testament. The Spirit of God, I should say, came upon him. More than any other person, the Holy Spirit. Used mightily of God, but Samson had a profound weakness. Look at verse 1. And Samson went down to Tibnath And Saul and and uh there I said it and what? Saul, a woman of Timeth, of the daughters of the Philistines. The Philistines were pagan. They had no desire for God. They despised the God of Israel. They despised the Israelites. They were absolutely wicked. But boy, this gal was good looking. And Samson saw her. And again, the word saw there doesn't mean he just happened to glance by and see her. It means he looked. And his eye affected his heart. Come down to verse number seven. And he went down and talked with the woman. And she, what's that next word? Pleased him. Would you agree with me? That word please there has the idea his desire for her was stirred up. Oh, this is what I like. This is what I want. Saul Affected his heart. Now he desires. Look at verse 8. And after time he returned to what? Taker. And the consequences were horrendous. One more, if you would come over to 2 Samuel chapter 11. We live in an intensely visual society. On every hand. Now we've got moving signboards along the wall, uh along the roads, animated I mean everything. The Satan is using every avenue he can to get in through our eyes and get us to look on that which ought not. 2 Samuel chapter 11. And it came to pass, verse number one. 2 Samuel 11, verse 1. And it came to pass after the year was expired. Now this is significant, but we won't dwell on it. At the time when the kings go forth to battle. David sent Joab and his servants with him and all Israel. Last part of verse 1. But David tarried still at Jerusalem. In other words, he wasn't where he's supposed to be. I tell you, we could avoid a lot of trouble if we just be where we're supposed to be. Alright? Look at verse 2. And it came to pass in an evening tide. David's supposed to be out at battle, he's not, he's at home in the palace, that David arose from off his bed and walked upon the roof of the king's house, and from the roof he There it is again. Saw a woman bat washing herself, and the woman is very beautiful to look upon. That word saw there is the same word used in previous references to look at intensely, to gaze upon. It's not just an inadvertent glance. He set his eyes. He lifted up his eyes on this woman. He's looking at her. Verse 3, and David sent an inquiry. What does that mean? Why would he inquire after her? Because his eye affected his what? Heart, and now he wants her. David sent and inquired after a woman. Now look at God. God's trying to uh intervene here. And one said, is this not Bathsheba, the daughter of Elion? Could have stopped there, but look what he says, the wife of Uriah the Hittite. What's he saying to David? David is a married woman. David Uriah is one of your top soldiers, one of your top commanders or general. That's his wife, David. But his eye had so stirred his heart. Look at the Bible says, verse 4. And David sent messengers and what? Took her. Saul, desired, took. I circled those words all through those passages. I had Saul, and then the word either desired, coveted, pleased, the word that related to coveted Desiring and then took. So here's the thing. This is the point. When the Lord said to the disciples, lift up your eyes, look when he Look in the fields for the white already in the harvest. He knew that what we look at, what we see, affects us in a profound way. And he wanted the disciples to see the need of reaching people with Christ. This principle, saw, desire, take, I affecting the heart, which affects my behavior, that also has a positive aspect to it Now I went through, we had three or four here, three here, four here, that were very negative. Very negative in their connotations and in the consequences. But there's a positive aspect, too And we get to go through and uh find many instances of the Bible where people saw something that was good. They set their eyes on the right effect. I was thinking of the Good Samaritan. As he's traveling along, you got the priest and the Levite go by, and uh they just pass on by, say a few words, pass on by. Uh but the Good Samaritan comes along, and the Bible says he saw the man that was beaten And robbed and lay dying along the side of the road. He saw him. He stopped and looked at him. He saw that there was a need there. He saw that there was something he could do to change this man's condition. There was something he could do to save this man's life. He saw him. He didn't just walk by, he didn't just ignore it, he didn't just glance at it, he stopped and looked at the situation and realized I can have an influence in this man's well-being. He saw. He saw. It stirred his heart and he stopped at a great risk to his own, at a great cost to himself, and helped that man and helped him serve And it all began with him lifting up his eyes and looking. Looking. My point is this: there is tremendous influence in what we look at. What we see in our text back here in John chapter number four. The Lord Jesus Christ knew if these disciples would just get their eyes up, lift up their eyes, and see the need. Now, there's a lot of there's a lot of uh implications here when the Lord said, look unto the harvest, for it is white already Look under the fields, for they are white already unto harvest. Some of the historians and Bible scholars tell us that that was most likely a reference to this woman who had gone into the city, the well was out of the city. She had gone into the city, she had told people about Christ. She said, Come and see this man that told me all that I've ever done. And these crowds of people are coming out of the city. The Bi some Bible scholars suggest And now when Jesus said, Lift up your eyes, he was directing their attention to these crowds and crowds of people who were without Christ, who were without God, that were without hope in this world And he's trying to get the disciples to see, hey, there is a tremendous need out here if you will just see it It'll change the way you think. It'll change the way you behave. are we must realize the influence of our sight of our sight. Um when I went when I in 1981 I moved down to Chattanooga, Tennessee and rolled in Tennessee Temple. I had been in a church for about a year and a half. I was saved for about a year and a half before that. Church I was in was was a good church and they had a visitation program and I you know when I got I don't know this is me and I'm sure many of you feel the same way but when I got saved there was something in my heart I wanted to see other people saved Something down inside my heart. I want to share the gospel with other people. I believe it's the presence of the Holy Spirit in my life. So I would try and witness I didn't really I didn't know what I was doing and the church really didn't have any soul winning training program or anything like that and I'd give out tracks and try and witness and stumble around. Well I got down to Chattanooga and my first week there was I didn't know anybody. I didn't know anybody within seven hundred miles of where I was living. I was I didn't know anybody. So I'm here in this campus, 4,000 students reading lunch, guys crossing me. He says, What ministry are you involved in? I said, I'm a transfer from uh Philadelphia College Bible and uh he said what what ministry are you involved in yet? I said, well I just got here. I don't even know what there is. He goes, I work in the bus ministry. Why don't you come on out Saturday and we'll go out in the bus route I'd never worked in a bus ministry other than when I was younger, when my dad first got saved, he drove a bus route and I would ride along. I was unsaved at the time, 12, 13, 14 years old. And so that was my only exposure I said, sure, that sounds good. So we met at 8 o'clock Saturday morning, bus meeting, got our flyers, loaded up, headed out, and we're visiting a route. His route was the inner city projects of Chattanooga, Tennessee. see. Rough. I mean what they would call today the hood. Right? Is that the right word? I'm trying to keep up on my coolingo. It was what we called ghettos back in the day. I have no idea what I'm talking about, do I? But anyway, we got in there, and I mean poverty Gangs, drugs, uh just ru uh and they said we were the only white guys in that whole area and they and uh and they said always carry a bible with you so they know you're not the uh the drugs drug guys, the drug enforcement guys. So I found the biggest Bible. I had a big old Lester Roloff Bible. It was that big. I'd be walking around the streets, that big old Bible. I'm a preacher, I'm a preacher And we go in there and visit those kids and get them to to uh ride the buses. I'll never forget that first time we went down there, Randy Miller had me. He said, come on, let's visit. And we went down. I'd never been in a place like I got deliberately in my life. You know, I saw those little kids. We had one little boy. Got to love him dearly. His name was Cornbread. That was his name. You know what? I'd see that little boy in that horrendous circumstances, and he was just as sweet as to be. That little kid had so much potential. I saw that that affected my heart. I said, Lord, if you can use me to somehow help these little kids find meaning and direction in their life and find Jesus as their Savior. God, that's what I want to give my life to. affected my heart. We had another one, little John boy and his family, and I forget the other kids. They ended up, he was my ring he was our ring bearer in our wedding. Little boss kid. Inner city projects mean rough And we scrubbed that kid down, put a little suit on him. You don't even recognize him after he was clean. And just stirred my heart To see that there is a tremendous, tremendous need in our world of the gospel of Jesus. Christ. So the Lord understood. He's talking to the disciples. Hey, fellas, lift up your eyes. Look, what you look at affects your heart. Number two, my second thought is this. Not only must we realize the influence Of sight. But number two, we need to direct our focus off of ourselves. We must direct the focus off of ourselves. What we look at has a profound impact. Then he says, and I this is what really, this is the crux of what the Lord used this passage in my mind. Lift up your eyes. That phrase, lift up your eyes, what does that imply about where they were looking? If he's telling them to lift up their eyes, they're looking down at themselves. They're looking at their circumstance. And if you'll read the context as we did a few moments ago, if you read the context, they're all worried about what are we going to eat? We got thirty of it. And I think it's safe to say these disciples were consumed, they were consumed by themselves. What they were doing, what's happening in my life, what is me and my food, and where are we going to go and what am I going to do? And it was all me, mine, and me. And the Lord says, listen, fellas, you've got to get your eyes off of yourselves. You need to redirect your focus on the needs of others and quit being so self-consumed. I've often referred to this mentality as having ingrown eyeballs That all we can see is my world, all we can see is what is happening to me, all we can see is whether this is good or bad for me, whether this helps me, whether it makes me happy or not, whether it's pleasurable to me or not. And the Lord says, you gotta get your eyes off of that. Lift them up. Look beyond yourself. Disciples were focused on themselves, on their immediate circumstances. Here's one. We might not relate to being selfish, but I think there's an element to it. They were obsessed with their own relationship with the Lord. They were obsessed with what God was doing for them and what they with their their relationship with the Lord. Now don't misunderstand. I'm glad I'm saved. I'm telling you, listen, don't misunderstand. It is a w it is an indescribably wonderful thing to have a relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ, for him to hear my prayers and answer me and for him to speak to me from his word. and God to direct in my life. What an amazing thing that is, that my God and Creator would love me and work in my life. But it is possible to develop a, this is my invention, Christian selfishness. Where all I care about is what God's doing for me. Where all I care about Is the blessings I'm getting from God. And I fail to be able to look beyond that and see the fact that God also wants to save others And God wants to bless others. And my salvation is not necessarily all about me. It is also what God. My salvation isn't just about what God wants to do for me. It's also about what God wants to do through me to others. Am I making any sense? And so we sit in our nice churches and we got our chandeliers and our perfectly uh temperature uh heating I didn't get any amens there. I knew that wouldn't happen. But we got our padded pews and we got our automatic transmission buses. And we got everything nice and everything comfortable and everything is great for us worshiping God. And praise God for that. But do you realize? That within 2,500 feet of where we're sitting, there are people, if they died now, would go to hell for all eternity? Do we ever think about that? Do we realize that tomorrow we get up and we go to work or we go to the market or whatever we're going to do We're going to come in contact one-on-one with people who are still under the judgment of God, the wrath of God. If they die like that, they're going to go into hell and that lake of fire for all eternity At least I'm safe. Well, praise the Lord. I'm glad I'm safe. I'm glad you're saved. But let's lift up our eyes. The phrase he says, lift up their eyes, implies that they were looking down on themselves. We are thrilled with what God does for us, but we need to ask, what is God doing through me for others? I put this down. As sinners, we are naturally self-centered. Would you agree with that? How many people here raised had have children? Either have children in the house or you raise children. Had little babies. How many people here had to teach your child to be selfish? Now here's how you're greedy. This is how you don't share. This is how you be very, very selfish. Now maybe our boys are exceptions. But none of them said, uh don't bother getting up in the middle of the night, we're hungry. We'll just wait till the morning and then you can feed us in. When they were little babies, they none of anybody have ours didn't do that We had to teach them over time not to be selfish. Because that's what we naturally are. And we can carry that into our spiritual life, into our Christian life. And we just get so obsessed with me, what God is doing for me, what God has done for me, God's great love for me, God's great blessings on me, God's answer to my prayers. And don't misunderstand. We praise Him for that. But the Lord said, lift up your eyes, fellas. Selfishness, the more self-centered I get, the more discouraged I get. The more self-centered I get, the more disappointed I am in myself. I have to watch out as a Christian. I just If I'm not careful, I constantly evaluate myself, which I think is a place for that. But if I'm not careful, man, all I see is me and my failures And I get discouraged. And I think, God, I can't even lift my eyes up to heaven. I'm such a horrendous sinner. Self-centeredness. Now don't misunderstand. There's a place for self-value. We need to deal with that stuff. But when I get self-centered, I get frustrated. The more self-centered we get, the more irritable we get. Is it just me or is our world becoming irritable? Man, a lot of everybody's irritated by everything. Myself included. You know, you get in Walmart line and there's a and you get in the 10 item line And I've got nine. That person in front of me has eleven. We get irritated. You know what that is? Self-centered. The more self-centered I get, the more irritable I get, the more impatient I get, the more angry I get. When we get self-centered, when our eyes are down on ourselves, when all we see is ourselves, when we have ingrown eyeballs, we fail to see what God is doing out there. These disciples, there is a whole city of people that are about to get saved. And the disciples were going to miss it because they're absorbed in themselves. What they're going to eat. Am I going to be comfortable? Am I tummy going to be full? And the Lord says, Good night, fellas. There's about a thousand or more people that are on their way to hell that are coming out to hear the gospel. Look beyond that. Lift your eyes up. Get your eyes off yourself for a change. And look and see the opportunity is before you. Look and see the great need that's before you. And we have a world that's going to hell. While we've got Christians sitting in the church just praising God for all he's done for us and we're not doing anything. Am I making any sense And he has to teach the disciples and he's training them. Fellas, what you look at has a profound influence, and all you can see is yourselves. Get your eyes, redirect your eyes off of yourself and look out at the tremendous need that's out there. Dr. Lee Robertson used to say this: die to self, die-to-self, die-to-self. And brother, he nailed it. He nailed it. I was thinking a dear man had a profound influence on my life, what I consider one of my mentors, Brother Charles B. Holmes. Founder uh of Neighborhood Bible Time. Went to be with the Lord last summer. I was able to go out to his funeral. I've had the privilege for the last fifteen years to serve on the executive board of Bible Time, side by side with him. What a tremendous This man. And I'm telling you, if I when I was preparing this and I was thinking about eyes off of self on others, Prohumsur, come to mind. I've seen that man so many times just drop whatever he's doing, set aside uh inconvenience himself for the sake of going over and maybe sharing the gospel with some. We were at the airport one time at a busload of Bible time evangelism. And uh actually parked where it shouldn't park and different things and chaos. And there was a policeman standing right there. Uh and this was before 911. And uh he jumped off that bus, ran down. The police were standing there, and I was up front with him uh on the in the aisle beside him. He was sitting here. He pushed me back and he went down. And I heard him talking to the guy. He said, Sir, do you know that you're a minister of God? The police and said Like, what? He goes, Yeah, let me show you. Got his Bible out. And he went through and he started working in the gospel. And he took about 10 minutes, went through the gospel with that man. Man, there was a thousand things we had to do. He got back in and he says, you know, the Lord spoke to my heart. That man needed to hear about Jesus. You know, most of us, what would we have said? Oh I've got to do this, I this, and I gotta do that, and I've got this. Wait a minute, there's a he lifted up his eye And he saw there was a man that needed something might have. He needed the gospel. Number one, the influence of our eyeballs. Of our eyesight. Number two, redirect the focus off a self. And last quickly, we need to realign our priorities. Look in verse 35, and I'm going to end with this. Jesus speaking to disciples. And it's kind of out of context, really. They're saying uh verse 34, uh verse 33, they're asking him, Do you have anything uh to eat? Who brought you anything to eat Lord said, My meat to do the will of him that sent me and to finish not. Now look at verse 35. Say not ye, there are yet four months and then cometh harvest. What was he saying? He's saying, listen, you guys got your priorities out of line. Oh, we have plenty of time to go talk to others about Christ. We have plenty of time later to serve God. We got plenty of time later to invest. something in the thing like right now we've got to figure out how we're gonna do this meal and who brought this food and and uh what we're gonna eat and how we're gonna be cared for and taken care of. And the priorities were all out of whack. And he says you need to realign your priorities. Those people cut hearing the gospel is a priority. Don't push that off four months. It needs to be dealt with now. Need to be dealt with now. The harvest was a very low priority in the disciples' mind, but it was an urgency in the mind of the Lord. Four months. Don't say four months and then come Tarvath. Last night I was reading over this and I jotted a few things down at the end of my message. And I saw that four months, I thought, yesterday we gave out 3, some hundred gospel tracts. In four months' time from now, four months from now. Some of those people that we gave a gospel tract to are going to be in eternity. There's no way you go to 3,500 people, four months time goes by, not some of them going to be going out in eternity. Somebody that sat down last evening or yesterday afternoon and read that little gospel tract, in four months from now is going to be an eternity. Now whether they accept the message or not is their responsibility. But I say, thank God we're able to share that gospel with them before the four months is up. You see what I'm saying? It has to be a priority. Someday, one of these days, I'm going to do something for God. Don't say that The harvest is now. Today's the day of salvation. Now is the accepted time. Lift up your eyes, fellas. Boy, that spoke to my heart. I was reading through my devotions. Lift up your eyes. And what I look at as a professional Maybe some of us this morning need to be a little more careful what we're looking at. Huh? You know what my Sunday school teacher Thelma Felton when I was a little first, second, third grade, taught us? A little song she taught us. Oh be careful, little eyes, what you see. Oh, be careful, little eyes, what you see For the father up above is looking down in love, so be careful, little eyes, what you see Maybe some of us need to reevaluate what we're looking at. Maybe some of us need to redirect our eyes off ourselves and look at others and see, hey, there's other people out there that need what God has given me. And maybe some of us need to realign our priorities and put the Lord first. Jesus said, seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, all these things will be added. You know what we want to do? We say, Lord, I've got to get all these things added to me, then I'll seek your kingdom. Lord, I want all my ducks in line. I want everything. I want all my needs, man. I want this, that. And if you do all these things for me, then I'll seek your kingdom. No, says, no, no, no. Lift up your eyes. Get your priors right. Don't say the harvest is later. It's now. I read about, let me quickly give this to you, I read about a German He was in Nazi, World War II, he served as a Nazi soldier, but he did not agree with Hitler's hatred. And he defected But he was captured and thrown into prison. He was charged as a deserter and was sentenced to die before the firing squad. There was another fellow that had done the same thing. On the day came that they were both marched outside of the camp, they were to be executed. For whatever reason, the commanding officer said uh had them both blindfolded, lined up. The guys are lined up with the guns. They're gonna execute both these guys for desertion. For whatever reason the commanding officer said, when you shoot, he told the just his men there, he didn't tell the prisoners He said, when you shoot, just shoot the guy on the left, let the guy on the right alone. He didn't know that. He's standing there, facing blindfolded, fellas beside him, the guns go off. The other fellow drops dead out of shock, thinking he was dying, he collapsed. They took him, threw him back in prison After the war was over, he was finally set free, but he had nowhere to go. His family had been torn apart. So he just went from city to city, uh living in the streets and going by. And finally he got somehow got over into uh Berlin. He got into Berlin and he hurt there was a He was about to jump. Oh, he was going to throw himself here. Here we go. He went down to a nearby river hoping to drown his sorrows by throwing himself in the river. His eyes were on himself and on his circumstances, as horrendous as they were. This is a true story. And as he was about to jump, he heard soft singing coming from a nearby wooden building. Years later, as a preacher, he still remembered the words, When Jesus comes, the tempter's power is broken. When Jesus comes, the tears are wiped away. He takes the gloom and fills the life with glory For all is changed when Jesus comes to stay. He thought, what sweet words. They went over to the little building and here was a handful of little Christians in there singing. And they took him in and they introduced him to Jesus Christ. The man got saved and became a preacher throughout Germany and won many, many others to Christ. Aren't you glad there was a little handful of Christians that cared enough to see another man and be able to share the gospel with them. Lift up their eyes. I'm sorry you can't come in here. You're dirty, you're nasty. We're Christians. You come in this place, you better No no no. I saw a man that needed Christ. I shared the love of God with him. Lift up Your eyes. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us this morning. I know you stirred my heart in preparing this, and I pray you challenge us. To have a heart for others, dear God. To have a real concern, a real zeal, a real burden to bring others to the Savior. You've been a good Savior to us. Help us, Lord, to share you with others. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many this morning say, Preacher, I know I'm saved. God has saved me from sin in hell, there's no doubt about it. But I know some folks that need Christ. I know some folks that in four months from now, if they die to uh if they die today, they're gonna be lost for all eternity. You say, Preacher, help me to care more about them than I do about my own well-being, my own temporal pleasures You say, Preacher, pray for me, and I would have a greater heart for the needs of others. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, but that's my request. Lord, I want to I want you to use me and help others. God bless you. You know what we need to do? We need to ask God to help us. Now, this is a little personal perhaps, this is between you and God. But I wonder if there isn't some this morning say, Preacher, when you're preaching about the influence of what we look at God spoke to my heart. There's some things in my life, there's some things I've been looking at that have a tremendous negative influence on me. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me that by God's grace I'll discipline myself. I'll yield my eyes over to the Lord. I'm going to keep my eyes on Jesus. I'm going to keep my eyes on My eyes pure and clean and right and good. And that's old sinful world. Is there any like that? I left with the hand. Preacher, pray for me. God bless you. Hands all around. I'm telling you, it's all around us. It's all around us Now what about this priority of service? Am I doing anything for God? One last question. If you're here this morning, you say pray I don't know for sure that when I die, I'm going to heaven. I don't know for sure that when I die, my sins are forgiven. You don't want to go to hell You say, Preacher, pray for me that God will that I could have that matter settled in my heart, that I could know that when I die I go to heaven, not to hell. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure I'm going to heaven I don't want to go to hell. Pray that God will help me settle that in my heart and life. Any at all like that? Any at all? How about it? Any at all? Father, bless our invitation time. I ask that you would help us to trust you and yield ourselves to you in Jesus' name.