I want us to read together, if you would, in Luke chapter 20, I'd like for us to read together verse number 28. Now the Lord here is presenting And in Matthew and Mark, he actually goes into a little more detail than what he does here. But he is giving a picture of the days. just preceding the second advent of our Lord. Now for Bible students, you know the second advent is not the rapture Rapture takes place. The Lord comes in the air. We're caught up. We're out of here. We meet the Lord in the air. Then you have the seven-year tribulation period. At the end of the seven-year tribulation period, you have what we call the second advent of Christ. And that's when he comes physically down to earth, visibly down to earth. And the Lord is describing the days. He is describing what the world will be like in those days just preceding the second advent of Christ. And I'm a little ahead of myself in my message here, but I'll just say this right here. This is the darkest, most horrific days in all of human history. Jesus said there never has been a time like this before, and there never will be again. It is hard for you and I to fathom what it's going to be like. The horrors and the terrors and the disasters. That this world is going to endure for that period of time. Now, I said that to say this. We come to verse number 28, and I read this in my devotions the other morning. And this little spray struck me. Now get the context. This is the most horrific days in all of history. And look at verse 28 with me. And when these things begin to come to pass, right, when all this start is taking place, Look what he says that we sh that the believers at that period should do. Through the scriptures, he's telling them, this is what you should do. Look up. And lift up your heads, for your redemption draweth nigh. And this is what struck me. He is telling them in the most horrific days of all of human history: don't hang your head Don't walk around scared. Don't get down in the dunts. Don't get overwhelmed with all the circumstances taking place. You lift up your head, you lift up your eyes. And you keep your eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ. And so I've titled it, Lift Up Your Heads. Lift Up Your Heads. Let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord, I pray that this message would be a blessing. God, I've worked on it and I just pray that it comes across in a way that it encourages and helps us. I yield myself to you. I present my body anew, and I pray with all my heart that you fill me with your Holy Spirit. And Lord, when the storms of life hit us, and when we are in the lowest points that it seems of our whole life, as believers, help us. To lift up our heads and lift up our eyes and keep our focus on you. Again, fill me with your spirit. Speak to us. Help us, I pray, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. I want to begin the message this morning with a few questions. And uh I want you to answer these if you would, not uh not in detail, but just uh as I ask them. Number one, question number one, is Jesus Christ coming back again? Yes Absolutely, Jesus Christ is coming back again. The Bible is very, very clear. Jesus Christ is physically literally, visibly going to return to this earth for the second time. We believe the Bible. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church believes the Bible. Amen? The Bible is our sole authority for everything we believe and how we live our lives. The Bible is our sole authority. And it is impossible to believe the Bible And not believe in the second coming of Jesus Christ. Now, somebody might believe the Bible and be confused or mistaught. But it is impossible to take the Bible at face value. It is impossible to take the Bible literally and not believe in the second coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, the content of my message is not to prove that the Bible teaches the second coming. But I do want to say this: if you'll study the Old Testament very carefully throughout the Old Testament, the Old Testament prophets mention and prophesied not just of Jesus Christ being born of a virgin in Bethlehem for the first time, but they prophesied also of the return of the Lord Jesus Christ, the second coming of the Lord Jesus Christ throughout the Old Testament. Jesus Christ himself. repeatedly said things uh mentioned and referred to his return to earth, his second coming. The classic is in John chapter 14. He says, uh he says, um he says, I go to prepare a place for you. He says, let not your hearts be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. And he says, I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, listen to this: I will come again. And receive you unto myself. Jesus does not lie. Jesus cannot lie. He is never mistaken. And when Jesus says emphatically and clearly, I will come again, you and I can mark it down, Jesus Christ is coming back again. And so Jesus spoke of his return. The Old Testament prophets spoke of the return of Jesus Christ. In Acts chapter 1 and verse 11, and we may end up looking at that a little bit later, if we have time, probably around 1130, we'll get to that. And um uh but uh the angels as Jesus ascended to heaven the angels refer uh addressed the disciples And uh Jesus stood there, they're standing gazing up into heaven with their eye. I picture, I think they look like this And the angel said, Why stand ye gazing up into the heaven? This same Jesus, which you have seen go into heaven, shall so come in like manner. It's coming back physically, visibly, literally. And so the Old Testament prophets assure us, hey, Jesus is coming back. Jesus Christ Himself repeatedly stated, I am coming back. The angels of God assured the disciples as they stood there confused and amazed at the ascension of Christ. They said, listen, he's coming back. And then you get through the New Testament. The New Testament writers, Paul and Peter, and James, they all refer to the second coming of Jesus Christ. In fact, I'm told there are 385 references. to the return of Jesus Christ in the Bible. And so is Jesus Christ coming back again? We can give an emphatic what? Yes. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church believes Jesus Christ is returning to earth. And so it is something we are looking for. We're looking for the return of Christ. Here's my second question Number one, is Jesus coming again? Yes, absolutely. No doubt about it. Number two, let me ask you this question: Can, do we, or can we know when? He is coming back. Answer to that is what? No, absolutely. We do not and cannot know. Turn with me, if you would, in your Bibles to Matthew chapter number 24. Now keep your place here in Luke. We're going to come to this. Come with me back if you would to Matthew chapter twenty four verse number thirty six. Now I want you to see this in your Bible Because inevitably, over and over and over, people come up and they set a date and they set a time and they pick out a time. Oh Jesus coming back, Jesus come back How many people ever heard of someone setting a date for the return of Christ? Anybody remember that ever? You know something they all have in common? They're all wrong Why? Because Matthew chapter 24, look at verse 36 with me, says this. But of that day, talking about the return of Christ, but of that day, an hour, look at this. Knoweth how many men? No man. No, not even the angels of heaven, but my father only. Turn over with me, if you would, to Mark chapter 13 Now I would I have these passages marked in my Bible because these are important statements, especially in days When folks have a tendency to ignore these statements here and try and figure out someday, some month, some period of time, whenever Jesus is coming back again. And Jesus is very, very clear here. Look at verse Mark 13, verse number, let me read 31, just because it's a good verse. Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word shall not pass away. Look at verse 32. But of that day And that hour knoweth who? No man. Not the angels which are in heaven, neither the Son, but the Father. Knoweth no man. In Acts chapter 1 and verse 7, after the Lord had uh rose from the dead and he was meeting with his disciples, just moments before he ascended to heaven, we referenced that here a few moments ago And the disciples asked the Lord, He said, When are you going to set up your kingdom? You're resurrected now, you're obviously the Messiah, the Christ, it's proven by your resurrection. When are you going to set up your kingdom? When does this take place? And Jesus, I'm putting this in my own words. He says, listen, that's none of your business When I come back, when I set up my kingdom, when I rule from Jerusalem, when I sit in the th in the throne of David. It's none of your business. Don't you worry about the when. You worry about taking care of my father's business. You make sure you're doing the and uh taking the Great Commission into all the world into all the world. And so, do we know when Jesus Christ is coming back again? No, we do not know when. We are certain he is. There's no doubt about that. We sang a song a few moments ago. Jesus is coming again. What a great song. Marvelous message we bring. Glorious carol we sing. Wonderful word of the King. Jesus is coming again. Then the chorus goes like this. Coming again, coming up, maybe morning, maybe noon Uh maybe evening, it may be soon. That chorus, as we sing it, is absolutely true. He may come at any moment. It might be this morning, what's left of this morning, it might be this afternoon, it might be at noon today, it might be tonight, it might be at midnight We don't know when he is coming again. Now, I reference that song because sometimes we sing it this way. You'll hear people sing it this way. Maybe morning, maybe noon, maybe evening, it will be soon. Anybody ever hear somebody sing that song? We cannot honest scripturally sing that song that way. Because we don't know that it will be soon. I can't say that. I can say I sing it this way sometimes, maybe morning. Maybe noon. Uh I'm way off key, but it will it may be soon. I sing it this way sometimes. Maybe morning, maybe noon, maybe evening. Sometimes I'll sing it this way. It must be soon. And the reason I sing it that way is because in my mind, as I look at this whole world and I see what situation we're in, in my mind I'm thinking, man, the coming of Christ has to be soon I look around and think, man, everything is in place, everything is set. It must be soon. But I cannot scripturally say it will be soon. Because I don't know that. It might not be for another 10 years, it might not be for another hundred years, might not be for another thousand years. Now I can't fathom that in my mind that that would be the case, but nevertheless Jesus very clearly said nobody knows the day nor the hour. We don't know when Jesus Christ is coming again. We don't know that We do know that he is coming, there's no doubt about that. And uh I look around and I think, goodness, uh to be honest with you, there's been times I thought I I thought he'd have come back by now You know, I just thought, man, a lot, it looks like he'd be back by now. But uh one thing I learned is God is never late, he's never early, he's always right on time And so he knows he's got it all set up, Jesus Christ is coming again. So, number one, my first question to get us started here this morning is: is Jesus coming back again? We say, yes. Yes, he is. And I think it'd be a great thing for us to go out and just tell this whole world, hey, Jesus rose from the dead, he's coming back again someday, he's coming back again someday. I think that ought to ring out. You read the book of Acts, and their message was saturated with the resurrection of Christ and the return of Christ. And that's the message this old world needs. Jesus is coming again. We don't know when. We don't know when. I can say this: He might come today at noon. How many people agree? That's a scriptural statement He might come today at noon, but I would be wrong to say he will come today at noon. And all these yard birds get out there and they start picking dates. September he's coming and saying, oh, October, no, it's going to be April. They'll have all these little times they'll put out there. In my mind, I think, well, I know what day he's not coming And so we don't know the day. We don't know the day. We are to live, as a believer, I am to live every day of my life in light of the fact Jesus Christ could come back today. Now, I've often thought this, and maybe this has entered your mind. Often thought, would I live my life differently today if I knew for certain he was coming back at 7. 30 tonight? I wonder if I would do some things differently. I wonder if I wouldn't make some phone calls. I wonder if I wouldn't maybe go witness. I wonder if I wouldn't maybe spend some more time in prayer. And examining myself, making sure I'm right. If I knew for certain he was coming tonight, if I knew for certain he was coming tonight at seven thirty, I'd I'd tell you where I'd be, I'd be in church And I wouldn't that be awful, be home watching a boxing match during church time and the Lord comes back? The rapture take place? I'd be embarrassed But um we don't know when. We don't know it might be 730, might be a thousand years But he's coming back. He's coming back. I got a third question to ask. And this is going to bring me to my thought this morning. What will the world be like In the days just before Jesus Christ comes back. Now, and and the purpose of this message isn't really a eschatology type message. I'm not really preaching on the second coming. You'll see what I mean here in a minute. But I do think it's important that we understand that the return of Jesus Christ is not just a single event. The Bible very clearly teaches that the return of Jesus Christ is in what I'm going to call two stages. The first quote-unquote stage of the Lord's return is what we refer to as the rapture. How many people are familiar with that word, that rapture of the church? It means to be caught up. No, the word is not in the Bible. We know that. But the truth is there, the teaching is there, the rapture. It's in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, the archangel is going to shout, the trump of God is going to blast, and every person that has been saved, born again is going to be instantly changed. In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, boom, when we're caught up out of here, and we go immediately into the presence of the Lord Jesus Christ, meet him in the air The unsaved world will not see Jesus Christ at that point. It will be uh it will return in the air And we'll be caught up out of here. And hundreds of thousands, millions, whoever was saved, whoever professed in Christ as Savior, the moment of that rapture, we are gone Transform new bodies, glorified bodies. The dead in Christ instantly are not going to precede us. Boom! They're going to be there. And we'll be reunited with our loved ones, saved loved ones, and we'll be with the Lord and meet him in the air. The unsaved are going to be left behind. The unsaved are going to uh no doubt there'll be confusion and chaos as to what happens. All these uh believers are gone. No doubt they'll come up with all kinds of uh theories and wild ideas, what happened. Now this is what I've often thought this, and I mentioned it in messages on this many times in the past. I wonder what would happen if the rapture took place during a church service. I wonder how many churches around our world, if that rapture took place, there'd be folks sitting in the church looking around, wondering what happened I've all thought this, Brother Heinball. I wonder how many pulpits the preacher would still be standing behind the pulpit and people gone. I'm telling you, it's vitally important that we know for sure we've been saved. It's vitally important that we know for sure we have biblical salvation, that we trust in Christ, and that we are born into the family of God. We are part Of the body of Christ. And so the rapture is the first stage, if you want to use that word, of the return of Christ. Following that, we have the seven-year tribulation period. And then you have the second advent or the physical return. At that point, Christ comes back to earth down to Jerusalem. We will follow him. The saints will follow him from heaven. And there is, you have the battle of Armageddon. He establishes his 1,000-year reign from the throne of David. And uh and uh you have the millennial reign, and then he returns to Christ. But Jesus here in our text is describing those days Right before his return, his second advent to the earth, he's describing those days. You say, what are the days like before the rapture? We're not told there's nothing, there's no signs, there's no uh indicators about when the rapture is going to take place, but these are all describing the days preceding, during that tribulation period preceding the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. And he describes that. What are these days like? Now again, this isn't the purpose of the message, but just to summarize what Jesus describes the world to be like, he says there will be wars and rumors of wars. He says, men's heart will fail them for fear. This world will be scared to death. This world will be on the brink of war skirmishes and wars breaking out all around The world will be characterized by absolute fear. He says there will be earthquakes in diverse places Places you wouldn't expect earthquakes to be, earthquakes taking place over and over and over again. He says there will be pestilence. Sicknesses and diseases perhaps never heard of before. He says there will be false prophets and false messiahs. There is going to be a perversion of biblical Christianity, the likes of which the church has never seen. False doctrine, false preachers, false messiahs. He describes a world that is saturated with violence in the streets, in the homes He describes a world of unprecedented selfishness. Men will be lovers of their own selves, worshiping themselves as gods. He refers to those days of turmoil and confusion, corruption on every level, all levels of society. It will be a period of rejection of God's word like this world has never seen. It will be a period of increased satanic activity. I'm telling you, I'm telling you this morning, the devil is real. And he walketh about this whole world like a roaring lion. seeking whom he may devour. And he is out to destroy your testimony. He is out to destroy my family. He is out to destroy these young people. If he can get them away from the Word of God If he can get you and I living ourselves by our own understanding, going by our own morals, living for whatever I want. That is his ultimate goal. And during this period of time, just before the return of Christ, satanic activity will absolutely characterize this world. Revelation tells us he's going to perform signs and wonders and miracles. These are the bleakest days. This is the lowest period of mankind, morally, spiritually, in all of history. Before and after, he describes this period as a time of increased and uh a society is saturated with sexual immorality and sexual perversion, such as which this world has never seen. He references back to the days of Noah. And how wicked and perverse it was. And God says in Genesis that the days leading up to Noah and the flood, he says that their every imagination was on evil. He references back to the days of Sodom and Gomorrah when sodomy and perversion and sexual immorality absolutely saturated that society. Even to the point where God poured out his wrath on those five cities And he says, as it was in those days, so will it be in the days preceding the second advent of Christ, to a level and a degree never experienced by mankind. What will the days be like preceding the second advent of Christ? It will be the lowest time physically, morally, mentally, emotionally, spiritually. It will be absolute darkness. Is Jesus coming again? Yes, he is. Do we know when? No, we don't. We have no idea when that rapture is going to take place. What's it going to be like before the return of Christ? It is going to be terrible. There is not one pleasant or positive statement made about mankind in the days preceding the second advent of Christ. Now let me stop here and say this. What I just said is absolute biblical truth. And with that being true, the most important thing for you and I, the most important thing for any person Is that we be prepared. We be prepared for the coming of Christ. We don't know when the rapture is going to take place. Um we go in our men's getaway in uh well it's usually May, sometimes it's March, sometimes it's June. In fact we never really know exactly when it's going to be But we go down on our men's mountain getaway and we get up four-wheeling up in the mountains, and uh I learned something. There's a couple guys that go with us that are always prepared. Brother Ken spranza. Doesn't matter what happens. Something breaks down or whatever. We're back there. I said, oh no, what are we going to do? Ken says, I've got it. He'll pull out a a a roll of wire. This guy can fix anything with a wire. I mean, I'm telling you, you can build an airplane out of a roll of wire. It's incredible. We were up with uh Greg Renard one time. He had this two-wheel drive motorcycle Get that two-wheel drive motorcycle. Thing broke down way back up in the mountains. Penn said, I got wire, I can fix it. I said, wow, that's incredible. This guy's a miracle worker with met with metal wire. Another one is Tom Sharon. Doesn't matter. That Tom Sharon has kitchen stoves. He's got showers. He's got garages in his backpack on his four-wheel. I mean, he just pulls stuff out of that thing. It doesn't matter what happens. He these guys are prepared for anything. Now that's pretty handy. I I like these guys to be along. I ain't prepared for nothing I tell you what, being more more important than being prepared for a little four-wheel ride up in the mountains, it'd be having my soul prepared for the second coming of Jesus Christ. Second coming of Jesus Christ. Be prepared. You say, how in the world to prepare for something like that? Well, it's not really that complicated. Number one, I need to know for sure I've trusted Jesus Christ, my personal Savior. I need to come to God and acknowledge and confess the fact that I am a sinner. I've broken his law. I've sinned against my holy creator. And because of my sin, there is a judgment upon me. God is holy, He is the judge of all the earth. Because of my sin, I stand in judgment of God. Are you listening, girls? And because of my sin, I stand in judgment of God, a holy God. But I've got to understand God loves me. And God died on that old cross 2,000 years ago, and he took the judgment that I deserve. He took the punishment of my sins He took it upon himself and took responsibility for my sin. He was judged in my place as my substitute. He suffered eternal hell in my place, was buried and rose again. And he promises that whoever will acknowledge the fact that they're a sinner, turn to Christ as their Savior, accept what He has done for them by faith, receive it as a gift. He promises that that person will be saved from eternity in hell and will be prepared for the coming of Christ. You're here this morning, you're hearing the sound of my voice, and you have never trusted Jesus Christ, your personal Savior. You do not have that settled in your heart and mind, biblically settled in your heart and mind that you know Christ as Savior. The most important thing in your life. It's to get that matter settled and know that you're saved. Sins are forgiven home in heaven. Oh, you say, all right, well, I've got that settled, so I don't have to worry about it. Wait a minute. If we're saved, we ought to be living for the Lord. I don't know about you, but I wouldn't want to be ashamed at the coming of the Lord. Oh, when he comes, that rapture takes place. We don't know when. We don't know what moment's going to be. I don't know what I'm going to be doing. If I'm alive during the rapture, if it takes place before I die, I don't know where I'm going to be. I don't know what I'm going to be doing I need to be very, very careful that I'm walking with the Lord. I need to be very, very careful. I guard my keep my heart in mind. And be very, very careful that I keep short accounts with the Lord. If I sin, if I do something, I disobey God, man, get that settled right away. Not that I would be left behind, but that I don't want to be ashamed at the coming of my Lord. And I think another way to be prepared is we need to be busy about our Lord's business, sharing the gospel with other people. Telling others the need of Christ. I say this often, the Bible clearly brings it out in Thessalonians. When that rapture takes place, any person that had an opportunity to be saved before that rapture, once that rapture takes place There's no more opportunity for that one. And so the most important thing when we think about the return of Christ is that we be prepared. Saved, seeking to live for the Lord and please Him with my life, reaching others with the gospel. And so to be prepared, to be prepared Now come back. I said all that because I wanted to lead to verse number 28 in our text. Is the Lord coming again? Yes. Do we know when? No, we don't know when. What's it going to be like prior to his physical return? It's going to be horrendous. The lowest point in all of In all of uh mankind's history. Then he makes this statement in verse 28. Now come back here, look at this with me. And when these things begin to come to pass, The darkest, most horrific time in human history. What should I do? Then look up. Lift up your heads. For your redemption draweth nigh. I wrote this down. I hope you'll get this. This is what I took from this. And again, I hope I'm I can convey this, what Lord spoke to my heart about. When things are falling apart. Now let's take it, let's take it out of the immediate context, the return of Christ, and let's apply it to our lives. I may be speaking to someone this morning, you are going through the lowest point in your entire life. I don't know what your circumstances. You know what I found out? We're awfully good at hiding heartache sometimes, aren't we? I know there's times folks have come to this church and I've talked to them. We fellowship together, others fellowship, say, how are you doing? Oh, I'm fine. Uh, what's going on? Oh, just going away, going good, and go home and cry their eyes out because their whole world's falling apart and their heart is so broken. And what I saw as I read this, God spoke to my heart, look up and lift up your heads when things are falling apart, and when at this point in time, the lowest point in mankind's history And when you're at the lowest point in your life and things is everything's falling apart, and you think, I don't even know what's happening, the Lord says, You lift up, look up, lift up your heads. I looked up, I got I looked up the word look up. And I saw how it was used various places in the Bible, that phrase, and I looked at how it's uh the word that it's translated from, uh, what that means. And it means pretty much the the basic meaning of it is pretty much what you think. It means simply this, to elevate your eyes The idea here on this with this definition is this. I'm in a situation, everything's going on around me, maybe it's chaos, it's heartache, it's disappointment, it's failure, just just It's the lowest point, and I'm looking around, and everywhere I look I see heartache, and everywhere I look I see pain. And he says, get your eyes off of that, elevate them And look above that. It has the idea of elevating your eyes, looking above the general focus of where you were, we would naturally focus. And that was the second definition of the word I found was to lift up your focus. Change what you are focusing on. The believers, and there will be believers on the earth, many people, mil millions will get saved during the tribulation period, and they're going to be in this situation, persecution, they're going to be suffered hardship, they're going to be hated by the world. And the Lord is saying, don't focus on all of this that's happening around you and happening to you. Don't focus on that. Lift your focus up. Look above what is happening. And so he says, look up, and then he says a statement very, very similar. In fact, they're almost identical. He says, lift up your head. Do you see that there? Lift up your heads. Now I got looking at that. I looked up the words that are used, that that's translated from. I looked how those Phrases are used other places in the Bible, and the number one definition for that phrase was this: be proud. Now it's used in primarily a negative way in the Bible. People lifted up their heads. They stiffened their neck. Boy, they got proud. Ain't nobody tell me what to do. Ain't nobody gonna boss me around. I'm my own man. I decide what's right and wrong. I decide what I'm gonna do. Now I got looking at that and saw that definition lift up your heads. I thought, that's not what the Lord's talking about there. That doesn't fit the context. That doesn't make sense. He wouldn't tell us to be very, very proud. And I got looking at it, and it has another aspect to its meaning, and that was this. I like this one. This is what got me. Raise your mind above the circumstances surrounding you Don't let what's happening around you get to you and mess up your mind. Lift up your head above that. Get your mind and thinking above that. Here's our problem. Here's our problem. Heartache and situations and difficulties and people stay and do things that hurt us. Brother, we think it's bad now people saying do things that hurt us. What do you think it's going to be like for those believers then? They're going to be beheaded. They're going to be tortured And he's saying, listen, when these things happen, and and uh all the stuff that's uh is getting you down and discouraging you, it's getting you inside your head, listen, you get your mind up above that. Isaiah put it this way. Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose Mind is stayed on thee. Let me ask you a question. Is God above our circumstances? Yeah, he is. And let me ask you a question. At the end of the age, when just before the Lord comes back and all this has taken place, is God still in control? Is God still good? Does he still love us? And he saying to the believers in that day and age, listen You get your mind focused. You get your eyes on Christ. You get your mind up here on the truth of God and who he is and what he is and what his love is for you and what his plan is for you. And don't let the circumstances around you Destroy you. And I see it all the time. And I'm guilty of this so many times myself. Things start going south and things start going bad and it's tough. And man, I get all caught up and all I can think about is how terrible it is, and all I can think about is how corrupt Washington is, and all he can think about is how wicked our society is, and all he can think about is how churches are getting so liberal and how all the And the Lord says, stop it Get your eyes up on me. Get your mind and thinking stayed on me. Stayed on me. Look up. Lift up your heads. Don't dwell on the circumstances and conditions surrounding you. You know what I found out? Most of the time, now sometimes I can, but most of the time I cannot change my circumstances. You know what I found out, Dale? I found out I can't control what other people do or don't do. I found out a long time ago I can't control what people say about me. You know what I learned? I learned I can control how I respond. Listen, some of y'all, you can't control whether you get fired from the job or not. The place goes out of business. Luke my Luke, not mine, Luke uh Paper mill goes south and shuts down. You have no control over that. I got to all worry about this and all And uh this happened, and my wife left me, my husband left me, this, and my kids are that, and my parents are this. And the Lord's saying, No, look up, look above. You can't change that. You can't change that. Look to the one who can. You know I found. You know what I found, Brother Tom? I found That when I come to the Lord and pray and I ask Him to change other people what they're saying and doing to me, and sometimes I pray and ask the Lord, change my circumstances, God help this. Lord change that. You know what I found most of the time he doesn't change the other people. Most of the time, he doesn't change my circumstances. You know what I found out? Most of the time he changes me. And my attitude towards it, my perspective of it, my evaluation of it, and how that affects me, the Lord changed me. You know what he helps me do? Look up. Lift up my head above that. I don't know what you might be going through, but I'm telling you, I'm saying this. I believe the Lord's telling us this. Don't focus on that. Don't dwell on that. Get your eyes on Christ. Get your mind stayed on him. He'll see you through it. He'll guide you. He'll lead you. He'll deal with it. He'll give you what you need. I found out a lot of times the Lord doesn't take the burdens off my shoulders. What he does is he strengthens my shoulders to carry that burden. Look up. Lift up your heads. In the midst of storms and wars and earthquakes and fears. Look up. Focus on Christ. Make this our daily attitude. I started something years ago, and I wish I could say I've done this without fail every day. I try to most of the time, and sometimes I fail to do it. But I've tried sincerely for many, many years to do this on a daily basis in the morning. I try to do this, Lord, I surrender myself to you today. I am yours. I'm not my own. I want you to lead me and guide me and direct me, regardless of what the circumstances are, regardless of what other people do or don't do, regardless of what happens, Lord, I'm yours. I'm going to keep my eyes on you. You lead me. You direct me. I'm going to keep my mind focused on you and what you have me to do. Now, the Bible's an important part of that. So I get in God's word and I see what his instructions are for me and what his promises to me are. I found in the storms of life our faith grows the strongest. You know, sometimes, I'm sure this, you never do this, but sometimes I get on a high horse. Anybody know anybody ever hear that? In a high horse. What's that mean? It means you what? Start thinking I'm something, huh? Yeah. Yeah. I'm quite the Christian. I'm probably the best Christian in this church. I get thinking that way. Then I think ahead to these dear believers in the days before the return of Christ. What they're going through and the faith that they have in that time willing to die, be beheaded for their faith in Christ rather than deny Christ. You know what happens? I fall off my horse pretty quick. I realize I don't have that. I don't know that my faith is that level What I need to do is just keep my eyes on Christ. What I need to do is lift my head up, and I found that God uses storms and God uses confusion and God uses heartache and God uses pain. To make my faith in him grow, be stronger. We said in a recent message, it might have been Wednesday night, I don't recall. Well, we sent a recent message. I doubt there's anybody that God has used in any significant way that hasn't first gone through some horrible tribulations. Difficult, difficult heartaches, physical, mental, emotional pain. And they learn to trust God, to lift up their heads and look up Not at the circumstances around. I've found that a person's a Christian's testimony shines brightest When everything is going bad, when everything is when there's turmoil and heartache and pain. But that Christian keeps their eyes on Christ and their mind is stayed on the Lord. And my what a testimony is. Hey, anybody can praise God when all the bills are paid. Anybody can praise God when everybody loves them and oh, and everything's going wonderful. Oh, praise the Lord, God's so good to me, my bills are paid, and my health is good, and everybody loves me, and I'm a jolly good fellow. But brother, you show me that dear lady or that deer man or that young person when everything is going terrible and people are turned against them and and the bills are b piled high and the s Pain racks the body. And they with a smile on their face say, look up and say, God is good to me. But a testimony. And the joy of the Lord is there, and their eyes are their head is up, lift up. Their eyes are on Christ in the midst of heartache and tribulation. Lord says, look up. Lift up your heads. I love that old song. What a day that will be. When Jesus, I see, I saved it here because I knew I wouldn't remember the words. There's coming a day when no heartache shall come, no more clouds in the sky, no more tears to dim the eye. All this peace forevermore on that happy golden shore. What a day, glorious day that will be. What a day that will be when Jesus I shall see and I look upon his face, the one who Save me by his grace when he takes me by the hand and he leads me through the promised land. What a day, glorious day that will be Do you notice the end of verse 28 there? He says, look up, lift up your heads, for your redemption draweth nigh. You know what he was saying? You know what he was saying? It's not always going to be this way. It's not always going to be this way. I had a fellow a number of years ago who was going through unbelievable heartache. He sobbed and sobbed And I didn't have all the, I didn't have answers for him. I really didn't. I told him Bible verses. But God impressed on my heart and I said, listen, it's not always going to be this way. There's coming a day when no heartache shall be. And the Lord's telling those believers, right before the tribulation, everything is coming down. He says you look up, you lift up your head, you keep your focus on me, you keep your mind stayed on me, your redemption draws nigh. Your redemption. You know what Titus tells us the second coming is? It is a blessed hope. Blessed hope. For the Christian, I thought of this the other day, and I think I mentioned this before, but I thought of this the other day. Do you ever have somebody tell you, maybe you're witness somebody, you ever have somebody say, Oh, this is hell on earth right here. Anybody ever hear that statement? This is hell on earth. Well, we're on hell on earth right now. For the believer, this what we're going through right now is the closest thing to hell we will ever experience For the believer. For the unsaved, the person ends up dying in their own sins. This is the closest thing to heaven they'll ever experience. And for the believer, we have a blessed hope that one day we'll be with the Lord. We need to keep our eyes on Him and keep our minds stayed on Him. So the old preacher was dying. His body was racked with pain. He had a few days left, he could hardly breathe. When he tried to talk, he just And a young whipper snapper preacher boy came in and he meant well. He meant well. And he sat beside the old preacher and said, Preacher, it won't be long now. You're going to be walking on those streets of gold. Can you imagine that? Streets made out of gold, what an amazing thing. He said, in the mansion, can you imagine what the mansion's going to be like that you're going to live in? And he read them down chapter 14. He says, oh, it'll have rooms. It'll be beautiful. You're just going to love. And the sky, there's never going to be a cloud. It's just going to be perfect. And finally, old man, old preacher, grab him and says, son, stop. He said, these old eyes, these old eyes aren't longing to see streets of gold. These old eyes aren't longing to look at that mansion. These old eyes don't care about those skies, cloudless skies. He said, what these old eyes want to see is my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. That's who I've been looking to. That's who my mind has been stayed on all these years. I'm telling you, that's what the Lord's telling us. Lift up. Look up. Lift up your heads. Get your eyes on Christ. Keep your mind on him. He'll see it through until that great day when we're in the presence of the Lord. Amen? Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us Lord, don't let this, don't allow us to let this whole world get into us. God help us keep this whole world out of our head. Keep our eyes off of this mess. That we as mankind have made down here. Help us to get them on you. Lord, there's some folks. I'm no doubt about it. There's some folks I'm preaching to. I have some pretty deep heartaches. I have no doubt I'm talking preaching to some folks that have some very real fears. There's turmoil, maybe in the home or at work or whatever, in their own heart. I pray for every believer that you would help us to liberately, by faith, look up to you And keep our mind on you and the promises of your word and trust you and let you lead us through this. Lord, those that are under my voice, are unsaved, never trusted Christ, still in their sins. I pray before it's too late, you'd stir them to trust you. If that matters settled, they can know Have a home in heaven and not end up in hell. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, preacher, I'm saved? I know I am. I trusted Christ. But man, there are some tribulations in my life. There's some things going on. I really don't have the answers, and a lot of it doesn't make sense. I don't know But you say, preacher, I'm going to put my eyes on Christ. I'm going to trust him. I'm going to keep my mind stayed on him and his promises. I'm going to trust him to see me through this and lead me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. There are brought burdens, there are situations, there are heartaches. Sure. And there's probably, truth be known, there's probably more than what hands were raised. I'm going to challenge you as your pastor this morning. Bring that to Christ. Get your nose in the Word of God. Get your eyes on Christ. Your mind state on Him. Let Him strengthen you and lead you and direct you. One of these days we'll all be in the presence of the Lord. And what a day that will be. Turning here this morning say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved. I can't honestly say that I'm sure that my sins are forgiven. You say, but I'm concerned about that. And you'd say, Preacher, pray for me. God will help me settle that. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, preacher, pray for me. I don't want to go to hell. I need the Lord as my Savior. I want to know my sins are forgiven. And that God accepts me in Christ. Is there any like that? Any by the uplifted hand? Now, Father, bless our invitation. I ask, help us to trust you and look to you. In Jesus' name I pray Amen. Let's stand together, our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing our