2 Peter chapter 1, verse number 1, the Bible says, Simon Peter, a servant and an apostle of Jesus Christ. And we looked in previous messages. The penman of the book, of course, is Peter, the recipients of the book, the people he's writing to, or We we have reason to believe that the people he's writing to is the same crowd he wrote 1 Peter to. And we talked about that. These are not a particular individual church he's writing to, like Paul does Ephesians or the Corinthians. He's not writing to a particular church. He's not writing to a particular person. Like 2 John is written to a particular person. and Titus. It's not that. He's written to believers who are scattered abroad, that whole region there. And now, verse 1 of chapter 2 or of the 2 Peter, chapter 1 of 2 Peter. tells us it's more than just these uh individuals, the immediate folks that are being persecuted. He makes a statement here that tells us that he's addressing All believers, and including you and I, and that's what we're going to notice here. So he says, uh Simon Peter, his servant and apostle of Jesus Christ. Now look at this. This he tells us who he's writing to. to them that have obtained like precious faith with us through the righteousness of God and our Savior Jesus Christ. And he goes on and says, Grace and peace be multiplied to you through the knowledge of God and our Jesus Christ our Lord. Like precious faith, he's writing to folks That have light precious faith. Folks who have faith in the same person He does. And so let's pray and look at this here. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless. our time this evening and Lord we finish out Easter Sunday and it's sure been a blessing. I ask Lord you'd please speak to us one more time tonight and challenge us in our faith and the strength of our faith and the exercise of our faith. And teach us to trust you. Help us to have faith in you. And I yield myself to you again this hour, as always, I'm asking you with all my heart again. That you fill me with your spirit, that you speak through me. God, I yield my will and present my body anew, and pray you'd have your way. In Jesus' name, amen. Peter is addressing folks who share his faith. Now, the word faith in the Bible, particularly the New Testament, is used in one of two ways. Sometimes when the Bible is talking about faith, it's talking about a body of doctrine. In other words, the faith. You'll see sometimes the Bible talk about the faith. In other words, he's talking about what we believe to be true, the object of our faith, our doctrinal statement. If you would, keep your place here, but come over to the book of Jude. Just here back a little bit towards Revelation. You get to Jude. Yeah, 1 Peter, 2 Peter, then you got um you come to Jude or John, Aldous, and Jude. And notice with me, if you would, Jude chapter one, there's only one chapter. So verse three of Jude, notice what he says. I want to illustrate that sometimes the word faith is used to talk about a doctrinal statement or or what we believe in. Notice he says there verse 3, Beloved, when I gave all diligence to write unto you of the common salvation, it was needful for me to write unto you and exhort you. So he says, I was wanted to write about salvation. But I couldn't because there were some issues that need to be addressed. And he says, and it was needful for me to write unto you and exhort you that you should, look at this, earnestly contend for what? The faith. And he's saying we need to defend, we need to contend for the faith, what we know and believe that the Bible teaches. The faith. Alright, everybody understand what I'm talking about? The faith. It's like our doctrinal statement. By the way, this is in the sermon tonight, but Jude mentions it here. We should not be contentious But we need to contend for the faith. We need to stand up. If something's not scriptural, we need to stand up and say, that's not scriptural. You with me? We need to defend the truth, contend for the truth of the Word of God. So sometimes the word faith is used simply talking about a doctrine of saying, however Most of the time, when the Bible references faith, it's talking about an act of trusting Or believing or relying upon either a person or a thing, a statement, a truth. For instance, in Mark 11:22, I use this verse as my life verse all through Bible college and for many, many years. Jesus answering said unto them, Have faith in God. Now that's a different use of the word faith. You follow me? Anybody out there? Hello? Anybody out there? I mean use this as well. Amen. Trying to get you going here. Um and so sometimes, uh most of the time the word faith is used As an action we're doing, a decision we're making. I'm going to have faith in God. I'm going to put my trust, my confidence, my reliance Upon God. That's what he says there in Mark 11, 22. Turn with me, if you would, to uh 1 Thessalonians. That's not too far away. Come over to 1 Thessalonians. And chapter number one. Now you're going back towards the front of the Bible now. The opposite direction that we went for Jude. Go over to 1 Thessalonians, chapter number 1. Ah, the church at Thessalonica was a tremendous church. uh solid. They were a pattern. Paul said, you are an example, a model for all other churches. And so he makes a statement about them here that uh points out what I'm trying to say about faith being an action, uh uh something we do. Verse 8, 1 Thessalonians chapter 1. From you sounded out the word of the Lord, not only in Macedonia and Achai. Now look at this, but also in every place, your what Faith to God word is spread abroad. Everybody heard about the faith that the church at Thessalonica had. Everybody heard about it. Their trust in God, their reliance upon the Lord, their confidence in God's power, in God's compassion, God's love for them, God's will for them God's provision. They trusted. They had faith in God. And it was a worldwide faith. I wrote that in the march of my Bible there. Worldwide faith. Everybody Wouldn't it be wonderful for a church to have a testimony, something like this? I don't know a whole lot about that church, but I know one thing. They have faith in God. Wouldn't that be a good testimony? Man, those people trust God. I don't know much about their background. I know one thing That church out there on Broadford Road, they trust in God. They have confidence in God. Wouldn't that be a good testimony So sometimes the word faith is used as to a body of doctrine, a doctrinal statement. We hold these things to be true Uh sometimes faith is used to refer to our decision to trust in God, to have have faith in God, to uh be confident and rely on God. Now I said all that to say this. Verse number one, there's a little bit of debate among some Bible scholars whether he's talking about the doctrinal faith, the faith that we believe, or The exercise of faith, the action of faith. Now I'm going to tell you my expert, deeply, highly trained opinion. I think he's talking about the exercise of faith here I think he's talking about that they shared a common faith in God, their trust in God. If you would, come back there and look down at verse number five, and this is how I come to that conclusion. Verse number five, he's instructing them how to grow in the Lord, how to grow in their Christian life, how to mature in their Christian life. And notice in verse 5, he says this. Besides this Giving all diligence, add to your what? Faith, virtue. And the virtue knowledge. Then he goes down. I think there's seven things there he says that they need to develop. He's talking about spiritual growth. Now, it doesn't make sense if he says add to your doctrinal statement virtue. Question, do we just add and take away from our doctrinal statement? No, that's something that we ought to study out and know what the Bible says, and that's uh engraved in iron there. That's not something you play with And what he's telling them is, listen, you got faith in God, you put your faith in Christ to be saved. Now you add to that faith virtue, and we'll preach about that later on. Another five years we'll get be down there maybe But um so I believe when Peter says he's writing to these believers scattered around and to you and I He says that of like precious faith, he's talking about you and I making conscious decisions to trust God. To rely on the Lord. And He says, you're doing the same thing I am. We have this like faith, this common faith in God. He's addressing folks who have put their faith in the same person he's put his faith in. Let me ask you a question tonight. Who is your faith in? Huh? Who's your faith in? The Lord Jesus Christ, God. He says, I'm trusting the same man for my salvation. I'm trusting the Son of God for my salvation. And you are too. It's a like faith. You follow what I'm Getting that here? Uh they're trusting in the same gospel. You believe the same gospel I believe. You know what I found out? Um I learned a long time ago. Folks uh get saved the same way in Russia as they do in Maryland. Folks get saved the same way in Mexico as they do in England. There's one gospel, and our faith is in the gospel, and Peter's writing to them, hey, I'm writing to all you. He's writing, he says, I'm writing to all y'all. They have the same faith I do in the Lord Jesus Christ, in the gospel of Jesus Christ, in the Word of God. Faith in the Word of God. Faith in the Word of God. I love our church. I love Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. And so such a sweet spirit. Ms. Harper said to me Friday night, we were sitting over in the fellowship hall eating hot dogs with chili and onions and uh everything on top And um I tell you, pe you feed somebody hot dogs with chili and slal, they'll open up to you and start talking to you. And uh we were talking a little bit and she said, uh, she goes, You've got an unusual church here I said, brother, you don't know I said, sister, you don't know the half of it. And uh she goes, man, people just love each other and there's such a sweet spirit here She goes, every night we're used to she goes we church ends up, you know, and in the evenings or service is over, everybody zing. He goes, Good night. There's people in the auditorium here standing talking. There's people out in the in the in the uh parking lot standing around talking. We were over there in the activity center and kids playing and people standing around talking. She goes, They don't go home. And uh they just stay around. And I said, Yeah, I can't get rid of 'em, good. And um And I think that's something special. Now, what is it that produces that What is it that produces that atmosphere and that type of attraction for one another and appreciation of one another? I tell you what it is, it's a common faith in the Lord Jesus Christ We all have a like precious faith. It's certainly not our personalities that draw us together, because there is a lot of different personalities in this church, and I'll tell you some of them I'm telling you. It's not our personalities that unite us. It's not our backgrounds. We have all different backgrounds here. Uh some come from pure good, strong, godly home. You grew up in in a home that was loved God and the family loved each other and was everything it ought to be. And uh by the way, if you got if you got something like that, you ought to be grateful for it. Others, some of us, come from broken homes, dysfunctional homes, rough. But we've all come to a point in our life where we put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ And that is what unites us. This like precious faith. Different uh backgrounds, different interests. I I I enjoy fishing. Nate and I uh others we enjoy fishing. Um Austin and I talk about fishing and uh I am I enjoy fishing. Uh my birthday's coming up in May and I enjoy fishing. But um no, forget. Some people said I'd rather have a root canal than go fishing. And I've really seriously I've had people say that, one person in particular say that to me. So what I'm saying is this: we've got all different interests, right? That person next to you in front of you on the other side of the aisle, they might not be interested in anything that you're very much interested in. So it's not our common interests that unite us, it's not our backgrounds that unite us It's not our personalities that unite us. It's not our financial standing. We have some folks in our church that are fairly well off financially, and we have some folks that are not financially well off But yet we love each other and we get along, and I can't even run y'all off. What is it? I'll tell you what it is. It's a like precious faith. We're all trusting the same Savior. We all have great confidence in the same book. We're all in love with the same God. And that produces a love and a trust and an appreciation for one another And Peter says, that's who I'm writing to. I'm writing to all y'all that love the same God I love. You're trusting the same Savior I'm trusting. And you believe the same book I believe. Like precious faith, I want to give you real quickly a few thoughts about this faith. Number one, I put this down. Consider the priority of faith. Priority of faith. In Hebrews chapter 11, verse 6, the Bible says, He that cometh to God must believe that he No, it doesn't say that. It says, let's go look and see what it says. Hebrews chapter eleven, verse six. But without faith, it is impossible to what? To please him, for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Let me ask you this question. Looking at Hebrews 11, verse 6, looking at it there, let me ask this question. Is it possible to please God without faith? No, he says. It's impossible. God is looking for faith. God is looking for people who will trust him, who believe what he says and rely upon what he says and who he is. Faith is a priority. Faith is more than just an intellectual ascent to a truth. In other words, faith is not simply saying, oh, I believe something is true. Faith is more than that. I say this fairly often, but there's a heap of people died and went to hell that believed Mentally acknowledge that Jesus died on the cross, was buried, and rose again. You follow what I'm saying? A lot of people believe that fact, believe that historical truth, and it is a historical truth. It's a lot of people sitting down at the bar tonight. I guess the bars are open on on Easter. I don't know. They shouldn't be open any day, in my opinion. But, I guarantee you, there's folks somewhere sitting at a bar. They could quote John 3:16 to you. You ask them, did Jesus die on the cross, bury, rise again? They'd say, Oh, yeah, that's true. They mentally acknowledge it. But that's not what God's looking for. God is pleased when we trust Him. You understand there's a difference between knowing a fact, knowing a truth, and trusting, relying on that truth. James put it this way. He said, the devils believe and they tremble. Let me ask you a question: Has a devil ever been saved? No. No. And so not just knowing what the Bible says, not just having a mental acknowledgement of the Of the warnings in the Bible and the promises of the Bible and the instructions God gives us in the Bible. Oh, we know what they are. I memorize those verses. Well, wonderful But if God, God says, unless you trust in Him, rely on them, put your confidence in Him, He says, that's what I'm looking for, somebody who will trust me. If Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church doesn't do anything else, we ought to have faith in God. We ought to trust Him. And that will produce everything else. You know it's possible to go through the motions and not be trusting God. Anybody ever do that in your Christian life? You're just kind of going through the motions, going through the motions And not really thinking. And then we have a revival meeting or something. God does something, and it's like, man, I need to take this serious I need to start trusting God And so the priority of faith. The Christian life is a life of faith. It's what it's about: faith in God, in God's Word. First and foremost, God wants us to trust him. God wants us to rely upon him. God wants us to believe him when he says something so. Believe it. Trust in it. Rely on that. Number two, have the priority of faith. Number two, consider the person of our faith. Our faith is in God's Word. Amen. If we didn't have the Word of God, we would have no person to put our trust in. The God's Word points us to Jesus Christ. God gave us his word. We believe it. It is without error. Brother Harper preached on this tremendously. Without error, it is perfect, inspired Word of God. But when I read this word and I believe what it says, it's going to direct my faith to the Lord Jesus Christ. John chapter 20, verse 31. Listen to how John, under the inspiration of God, finished out his gospel. He said this: But these things are written, listen. That ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. He said, I wrote this book under the inspiration of God. I penned this thing is so that you'll believe and put your faith and trust and confidence in Christ. Take your Bible real quick. Got your Bibles. We've got a minute or two here. Come over to Luke chapter 24. This is right after the resurrection. And a bunch of people saw Jesus. They're still kind of trying to process whether he's alive or not. And um And we can understand, right? We can understand their confusion when they find out the grave is empty, right? We can appreciate that. It's like, whoa! What? He's resurrected? He's alive? And they run out and look at the tomb. And it's like, wow, what in the world? And there's a couple guys that are on their way to Emmaus. And the Lord Jesus shows up and he's walking along with them, Luke 24, and he's talking to them there a little bit. Notice up there, verse, he says, um Verse number 17, he's talking to these two guys, and they don't recognize them. They're not expecting Jesus to be alive. They just saw him crucified. How could he be alive in their minds And uh in verse 17, he said unto them, What manner of communication are these that you have one to another? And as you walk, and you're sad. He says, What are you guys talking about? Why are you so sad? Well, he knew. And they said, they said, oh, what do you just show up? Where are you from? Peralda? What did you just get here? And he said unto them, Don't you know what all happened? He says, What? And they tell him They said, Jesus of Nazareth, a prophet, mighty indeed and word before God and the people, and the chief priests, verse 20, and rulers delivered him to be condemned to death, and they crucified him. But we trusted, notice the tense of that word. What is it? Past tense. We trusted. That implies their what? They're not trusting now, right? They abandoned their trust. We trusted that it had been him which should have redeemed Israel And besides all this, today's the third day since these things were done, and certain women of our company made us astonished, which came early, and they found not his body. They came, saying that they had seen a vision, and that he was alive And certain of them which were with us went to the sepulchre and found that even so, but him they saw not. And there I said, we're trying to figure out what in the world's going to want. And I can appreciate that. Good night. And Jesus rebukes them. He goes, Oh, ye fools and slow of heart to believe, look at this: all that the prophets have spoken. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? Now look at verse 27. This is what I'm getting at. And beginning at Moses and all the prophets He expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning who? Himself. You know what he's saying? He's saying this book that you and I hold so precious, so dear to us, we believe with all our hearts it's the Word of God, this book points us to Jesus Christ. From Genesis to Revelation, Jesus, Jesus, Jesus, Jesus, Jesus. I was looking at the sermons of the uh the New Testament, what they preached and things they said. And uh it's like it's like they're obsessed with Jesus. That's all we can talk about is Jesus. Book of Acts. Jesus. Jesus. He rose from the dead. He's the Son of God. He healed the sick. He raised the dead. These guys are consumed with Jesus Christ. You know why? Because the most sacred book we have, the Holy Word of God, points us to Jesus Christ. And so the priority of faith, we have to have that before we have anything else. We start with faith. Number two, the person of our faith is the Lord Jesus Christ. Our faith is in a person. And last of all, number three, I want us to consider the preciousness of our faith. The preciousness of our faith. Come back, if you would, to Peter here, 2 Peter. Chapter 1 and verse 1. Let me get back there. 2 Peter. Notice what he says. He says, Simon Peter's servant, to them that have obtained, he doesn't just say them that have obtained like faith. He says like what? Precious faith. Precious faith That word precious, I think, is a favorite word of Peter. He uses it seven times in his two books. Seven times. He uses it in 1 Peter 1, verse 7, verse 19, chapter 2, verse 4, verse 6, and verse 7. He uses it in 2 Peter verse 1 here, and then Again in verse number four Peter thought that Jesus was very precious. Talks about the blood, the precious blood of Jesus. And here he talks about this precious faith. What does it mean if something is precious to me? It's valuable? What else? An emotional value. It's precious to me. What else? Come on, now think. Alright, it's irreplaceable. That thing is precious. Anybody else? Uh Chloe. Means a lot to me. It's precious. It means a lot. It's very rare, maybe. Maybe that. Ceisi. Priceless. I had that word written down. He says our faith, Peter said, our faith in Christ, that trust, that reliance, that That confidence we have in Christ and what he says and what he instructs us to do and not do his promises Man, that is precious to us. It is priceless. It's highly treasured. It's honored and very valuable. I find it interesting as I read through the Gospels. I just finished the Gospel of Matthew again. I'm working through the second time here in the New Testament. I'm into Mark. And um I always find it interesting who Jesus rebukes and who he praises through the Gospels. Now, he lays in to the Pharisees pretty good, right? I mean, he lays into them. But you know, some of his sharpest rebukes are to his own disciples. And it's never because they don't have enough money. He never rebukes the disciples. How come you guys didn't bring more money with you? He never rebukes them for that. He never rebukes them because they don't have enough abilities or talents. What's the matter with you guys? Looks like you ought to know how to do that. He never says that. Nothing like that He doesn't rebuke them because of their lack of education or their ignorance. You know what he rebukes them for? Over and over and over and over. Their lack of faith. In fact, a couple times he got angry. Where's your faith? It's almost like this. I like to put my own words a little bit. It's almost like this. What's wrong with you guys? Haven't you learned to trust me yet? What do you think? What's wrong with you? Why can't you have faith? Didn't you see what miracles I've done? Why can't you trust me? That's kind of the attitude, the idea behind it. And then the other side of that, it's interesting, the people Jesus praises the highest. He never praises somebody because they have a lot of money Oh, that guy there, uh boy, that widow there, she's loaded. Doesn't say that. In fact, he he praised the woman that was very poor. He never praises people because of their wealth. He never praises them because of their great intellect. He never praises them because of their great gifts and their abilities. Man, old Peter, he can speak. Man, that guy can, he's a great teacher. Ah, she's a great singer. He never praised them for any of that But over and over and over and over and over, his highest praises were for those that had faith in him. He'll say stuff like this: I've not seen such faith in all of Israel. He's talking about a Gentile soldier. I've never seen such faith. Oh, this woman, her faith will be a memorial through all of history. His highest praise are for those who will simply trust God and do what he says. Just believe. Believe him. Follow his instructions. Rely upon him. That's his highest praise and his strongest rebuke is to those who don't do that. It's precious to the Lord. Our faith is precious. Our faith is precious. Our faith is precious because it brings us salvation. For by grace are you saved through faith. Faith. It's precious because it brings us peace. There's now, therefore, no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus. The peace of God. Through faith, simply claiming his promises. I thought about Peter, and he knows a little bit about this. Remember when Peter was in prison, I don't have the reference on the tip of my tongue, but he was in prison, and he was going to be executed that next morning. Remember reading about that? And uh at night he's in the prison, they're going to kill him the next morning. They had they had killed James, and it made the Jews happy, so oh, let's kill Peter too, they'll really be happy. I guess they figured you killed one, they're happy, you kill two, they're even happier. So they're going to execute him in the morning, and that night Peter's in prison. And you know what Peter's doing all night long? Oh no, oh no, I'm gonna die in the morning. No, he's what? He's sound asleep. In fact He's sleeping so peacefully when the angel shows up, the angel has to smite him to wake him up. Get up, son! And he thought he was dreaming. He was sound asleep. Now you say, how in the world can somebody be so sound asleep the night before they're about to be executed probably a pretty violent death. How in the world can they be sound asleep? Because Jesus had told him something, and he had faith in that what Jesus said was true. Jesus told him he wasn't going to die till he was an old man. And he wasn't an old man yet. And so they can make all the plans they want. I'll just sleep here because I ain't dying until I'm an old man. You know what that is? That's faith. And that was precious to Peter. It enabled him to sleep in that environment, in that setting. And he could sleep peacefully like a baby. Faith is precious because it gives us salvation, it gives us peace, it gives us protection. Anybody ever read about Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego? You gotta bow down when the rock and roll music plays, you bow down to that statue there, or you're gonna get thrown in a fiery furnace And they didn't bend and they didn't bow. Uh, how's it called? They didn't bow, they didn't bend, and they didn't burn. And they took them in and they said, I'll give you one more chance. You guys bow down when the music plays, when the rap music comes on or country music, whatever it was, uh whenever that comes on. I just had to throw that in there for some of y'all I know my crowd. And um you bow down. And uh they said we uh we you can you can burn us all you want. We're not bowing down. They said this our God is able to deliver us, and even if he doesn't, we ain't bowing. Faith Yeah. And they didn't bend. They didn't bow. And they threw them in the fire and they didn't burn. And they learned to trust God And faith is precious because it's in response to faith that God takes care of us. Anybody ever read Matthew 6, 33? Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, that's faith. And all these things will be what? Added unto you. God takes care of his people if we trust him. Faith is precious, and it pleases God. And we looked at Hebrews Without faith, it's impossible to please him. I don't know about you. If God never does another thing for me besides saving my soul, if that's all he ever does for me, I want to please him with every ounce of my being. I want God to be pleased with my life. Hey, can I say this? I want God to be pleased with Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I want our church to please him. And I'll tell you where that begins. It's by having light, precious faith. It's precious. It's precious. Our faith in Christ is vital. It's precious. And so we have to strengthen it Teaching, I'm starting a little series in Sunday school about the importance of reading our Bibles every day. I tell you, faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. Anybody here say, preacher, I could use a little stronger faith Anybody here? Yeah. We never get more faith. What we got is what we got. We don't get more faith, but the faith we have, we need to strengthen, exercise it. We ought to exercise it. We ought to protect our faith Don't let this old world get in your head. Don't let the advice and this world's philosophies, vain philosophies of this world, don't let that get in your head. It'll mess with your faith. Amen. Amen. We have to protect this faith we have. Ador and Iram Judson, one of my favorite missionaries in history, was in Burma. We showed his his life story on New Year's Eve or New Year's night. They put him in jail. There was an insurrection in the government. They thought he was a British spy. And for seven years They put Adorniram in the jud uh Judson in a prison. If you remember that film portrayed, they hung them upside down, put weights on it, for hours on end, day on end, hours. Hanging. One of the fellow prisoners who was not a believer started mocking Aaron Iram Judson And he said, Judge said, what about the prospect of all these conversions? You've come to convert us to Christianity. How about it now, hanging upside down with the 32-pound chains uh on your ankles and and uh bamboo poles tied to your legs. What are the prospects of you converting us heathen to your Savior And his instant reply was, my prospects are as bright as the promises of God. What a statement. Everything looked awful, but he says, nope, I'm holding to the promises of God. That's what we need, precious faith. Amen? And one last thought I am with this. World War II, England was being bombed. I mean they are just blowing the daylights out of London. The Germans coming up And bombing the place. You remember reading about that? And at night they turn all the lights off, hide in the basements, because they're just bombing civilians and innocent everything architecture just blowing the place apart And they say there was one time a huge crater was there in the street, and kind of about half off the street and in this open area And the bombs started falling. They heard the planes coming. The bombs started falling. And his daddy had his little boy, it was just him and his small son And he ran to the edge of this crater and he saw the planes come and he set his son down. He said, Son, uh we got to get down in there as deep. So he jumped down into the into that uh um uh bomb um re crater the the hole there. And he got down in there and his son was up. And uh he said, jump, son, jump down to me. Come on And the son said, Daddy, I'm scared. I can't see you, Daddy. I can't see you And from the fires in the city there, he could see the light from the fires. He could see the silhouette of his son standing there scared. And he said, son, come on jump. It's dangerous. The bombs are coming. You got to jump. He said, Daddy, I can't see you. Daddy looked up and said, but son, I can see you. Jump! That little boy into that dark black hole. At the word of his daddy, he jumped into the darkness. His daddy caught him. They hid down there and they survived. You know what that little boy exercised? Precious faith. It saved his life. It saved his life. All he saw was darkness. All he heard was his daddy's voice. All he had was the word of his daddy. And he jumped by faith. Listen, sometimes all we have is the Word of God. But we have to believe it. We have to trust it. We have to rely upon it. And that is precious faith. Father in heaven, help us to have faith in you. Help us to take you at your word.