Second Samuel chapter number three. I know that I really don't need to say this, but I just want to remind everybody that we are Christians. If you're saved, you're a Christian. Amen? How many folks here are saved, you know it? Say amen. That means we're Christians, right? Amen. That means we behave as Christians behave and respond as Christians should be respond, whether things go the way we want them to or not Amen. You follow what I'm saying? And the Lord tells us in um in the Sermon on the Mound. He tells us very clearly how disciples behave and how they respond to different situations. And so I think it's very important at day and age we live particularly in our country that we remember we're Christians. And uh we we uh I don't know about you, but I am so glad this world's not my home. Our kingdom is not of this world. And so I am so glad for that. Can you imagine these dear folks that don't know the Lord, don't believe in God? And this is all the in in their mind, this is all there is What man can produce, what man can work up, that's that's all there is. Phew, they're missing out, aren't they? And so um I just wanted to say that this evening. First or 2 Samuel chapter 3 If you would notice with me, verse number six, I'm going to read down through verse number eleven. The Bible says in verse 6, 2 Samuel 3, and it came to pass While there was war between the house of Saul and the house of David, now remember there's a long war. The first verse is there's a long war between these two, seven and a half years And it's just going on. Now look what happens. That Abner made himself strong for the house of Saul. We'll look at that here in a bit. And Saul had a concubine whose name was Rizpah, the daughter of A-a, Ai-a. And Ishbasheth said to Abner, Now who's Ishbasheth? Anybody remember? Who is this guy? That's Saul's son. He's the one that Abner put on the throne in rebellion against God. David has been recognized by the tribe of Judah, one of the twelve tribes of Israel. The tribe of Judah has recognized God's anointing in David. They anointed him. in agreement with God, recognizing God's anointing. The other eleven tribes have not. And Abner has usurped David, is attempting to anyway And rebelled against God and put Ishbosath, Saul's son, on the on the throne of those tribes. So that's who it is. The daughter uh and Ishbosath, verse seven, said to Abner Wherefore hast thou gone in unto my father's concubine? Then was Abner very wroth for the words of Ishbasheth. And said, Am I a dog's head, which against Judah do show kindness this day, unto the house of Saul thy father, and to his brethren, to his friends? And have not delivered unto thee into the hand of David that thou chargest me today with fault concerning this woman? He says, um to uh uh the the the the uh Israel. Uh and uh he says I didn't turn you over to David and so he's making his defense. Then look what he says, verse 9. So do God to Abner And more also, as the Lord has sworn to David, even so I do to him. To translate the kingdom from the house of Saul And to set up the throne of David over Israel and over Judah from Dan even to Beersheba. And he could not answer Abner a word, that's Ishbashath. He could not answer Abnur a word because he what? Feared him, he's afraid of him. I've entitled it, and I get this from Ishbash's actions, we'll see here in a bit. Um Like Father, like son Like father, like son. Um my of course my dad's with the Lord now and I've been driving his car around and um I I I don't know how you are, but I the older I get the more I see my father in myself You know, I can just see some different characteristics. And I see in Ishfazeth I see King Saul's influence Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for David and Lord, the life that he lived and how you've recorded it for us here by inspiration and preserved it for us. I pray we'd learn from this little incident, though David's not involved directly, does affect him. And so I pray you'd help us to learn. And I pray your Holy Spirit would take the words here, the truth here, these events And you would apply the lessons to be learned from this to our lives, and that we could be the people, the men and women you intend for us to be. We could be the church. You intend for us to be. So we need your Holy Spirit, Lord, tonight. And I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. And I pray with all my heart you fill me with your Spirit and speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray Amen. As I mentioned in my prayer, this is not, David is not directly involved in this event here. However, what takes place here with Ishbashath and Rizbah, this concubine, and uh Abner Is a huge, huge turning point on David's journey to become the king of all of Israel. Now, Judah, as I said, they've already recognized him. He's king of Judah, that one tribe. They recognize, yes, God has anointed them. He's the man. The other eleven have not, under the leadership of Abner, they have uh rebelled against God's anointing And uh, but this event here is a huge, huge turning point in David becoming king of all of Israel. Now, I I got this from uh as I was studying this God uses unexpected means to accomplish his will. Just about the time I think I've got it figured out how God's going to do something, he does it completely different. I was reading this, I was reading it over and over, and actually, this whole period of David's life, even leading up, this whole thing is like a Shakespearean play. I mean there's drama, there's uh treachery, there's uh loyalty, there's disloyalty And it is the fascinating. David lived a fascinating life, and God did fascinating things in his life. And here, and I think we'll see this, I'm going to try and bring it out tonight a little bit. We're going to see it A little bit later on this chapter, as we work our way into the life of David here, we're going to see it a little more clearly. But God uses something here that at the moment seems to be terrible. Seems to be like a bad thing. But then later on we're going to see that God knew exactly what he was doing. And God was putting things in place so that later something really, really good could happen. And I found God's really good at that. Taking bad things and bringing good things out of it. I've been saying this a lot this year in various settings. Been saying this a lot this year. When bad things happen Keep your eye out for the hand of God doing something around there. Just watch and see what God might do. There's a series, uh, oh, this is another thing I observed here. This is kind of off the context here, but it just kind of stood out to me. There's a series of men here that had issues with women. Um it's kind of interesting. A lot of men have issues with women But um uh here we have uh David. Now think about David. Now don't think about future events, just what we've studied already. He had an issue with Michael. How many people remember Michael? Michael was who? David's wife, yeah, daughter of Saul, David's wife. That didn't work so hot. Right, they she was a piece of work and uh and that kind of fell apart on him there. Um later on they'll get back together, but so he had that issue there, and then uh who's the next woman that comes into his life? And Abigail. Remember Abigail, now the Bible doesn't say this, but I just, you know, it was just kind of not the best arrangement there, and Abel dies. He takes her to wife. So it wasn't a big issue and I think she was a good gal. But uh, you know, she's next in his life, and that was an incident, that was an event And then uh and now we uh and then uh we notice at the beginning of chapter three, David had multiple wives. He started piling them up. And uh we'll find out later that wasn't too good, and that violates scripture very unscriptural. And now we have Ishbashet And he has this issue with this concubine of his father's, Rizba And then Abner gets sucked into this. Now Abner didn't really have his issues, I don't think. And then Solomon later on. So you have in this David's life and those around him, these different issues. But this was what caught my attention, I think, is you don't read any of that about King Saul You don't have find him having really any real issues with wives. In fact, very little is said about his wives or anything going on or is, you know, that aspect of his life, other than he had several and he had these concubines But there really wasn't issues. And I just thought that was interesting about David. His whole life, there was a series of uh women that uh just there was issues about him, and then Solomon of course and how that affected him. I want us to notice three things from this passage here. First thing I want us to notice is the individuals involved here. Now I want to restate the fact that what takes place here, I believe, is very, very key. On David sitting on the throne of all of Israel, God uses this odd, kind of almost bizarre event here To really put things in place so that David can be king. So who are the people? I think there's I notice three key players here. The first one, of course, being Adner. Notice that the last part of verse number six This war is going on between Saul and the house of David. That Abner, now notice the wording very carefully, that Abner made who? Himself strong for the house of Saul. He made himself strong. Now he's the captain of the host of Ishbosseth That's the house of Saul. Who would you think, under normal circumstances, with a rational person, who would you think he would be making strong? Ishpa said, he would be making the house of Saul strong. He wouldn't be making Saul's son strong. He's the one that got him in this position. He was a key instrument in Ishpa said sitting on this uh this throne, uh this uh this fake throne, and yet Abner is making himself strong. Now what does that tell us about Abner I think this. He's using Ishbasath to advance his own agenda. Abner had his own plan in place. Abner had his own agenda in place. And he was simply using Saul's son Ishmaze to advance his own agenda. Now, think about this fellow Abner. You could do a character study on him And uh he's a piece of work, Abner is. This guy is incredibly clever, uh, he's very crafty, he's self-serving, and we're going to find out he's very disloyal. I think he was probably a poor soldier in battle. And I get that to go back when he failed to protect King Saul when David came down. Now, granted, God was working on David's behalf But David publicly rebuked him for his failure as a soldier to protect his king. And the other interesting thing is, as we pointed out before When Saul and Jonathan were killed, both two tremendous warriors, seasoned, powerful, strong, very wise warriors, they knew warfare. They're both killed. But somehow the captain of the host escapes alive. You know, so it makes me wonder whether he was even engaged In that battle or not. So I have strong doubts about Abner's ability as a soldier, but I have no doubt about his ability to manipulate people And uh to trick people and to work people into accomplishing uh his uh his agenda. I don't know how he ended up being the captain of Saul's host But I don't think and m I may get to heaven and find out I'm wrong, but I doubt seriously it was because of his soldier skills I think he worked his way up there. I think he manipulated and talked and schemed and got himself up there. Probably a poor soldier in battle, but very gifted in manipulation Now, it says here he made him strawself strong for the house of Saul. I think that's a key statement. And a little bit later on We're going to find out that God uses Abner's disloyalty, his self-will, his self-agenda to build himself up. God's going to use that to transition these other eleven tribes, transition them over to King David. I'm getting a little ahead of myself, but to catch at the end of this text that we just read, this passage Did you catch? So uh Abner says to Ishmazheth, I'm going over to David and I'm bringing the kingdom with me. Now think with me. I'm way ahead of myself. I wasn't going to talk about this to another message. But think with me for a minute. If Abner had not built himself up, would he have been very effective? Would he have much influence in bringing the other 11 tribes over? Maybe not. I think God's using his self-will, his scheming, his manipulation, his disloyalty, God's saying, alright, go ahead do that. I'm going to use that to you uh and use you to bring the other tribes, come in and be loyal to David. Isn't God good at taking the wickedness of man, turning that thing around, accomplishing his own will? The Bible says that God will cause the wicked to praise him And so you look around and you look at events taking place and you look at what happens and you think, man, this stuff is so wrong. Listen, just watch for God's hand. Just wait on the Lord. Just watch and see what God will do. I don't know what David was thinking. I don't think he was afraid of Abner as a warrior, but I don't know what was thinking as he saw Abner rising in power and influence in these eleven tribes. I don't know what goes through David's head, but that wasn't something I don't think that would be very encouraging to him. That Abner is getting stronger and stronger and stronger. And then God flips a switch, that whole thing falls apart, and Abner brings them all back over to David. And so I thought that was pretty exciting. So the first person involved here, uh individual involved in this whole uh event here is Abner. The second individual I notice here is Rizpah. Now we don't know a whole lot about Rizbah. She's mentioned again later on. We'll come across her um much later in David's uh um uh ki uh uh his reign as king. But look at chapter look at verse seven here. And Saul had a concubine whose name was Rizba I looked up her name. I always think maybe the meaning of a name has some significance. I looked up her name. I can't figure out what the significance of it of uh the one uh uh Hebrew dictionary I found it means pavement I have no idea what the significance of that is. Can you imagine naming your kid Pavement? But whatever the reason is, that's her name, and that's what it meant. But what I want us to notice, Saul had a concubine. Whose name was Rizbah. Now what do we know about concubines? I heard the one farmer boy said, uh, I was reading the Bible, I don't know why all these kings had all these uh uh combines and uh It's not a combine. It's a concubine. Anyone want to take a shot? What is a concubine? Anybody want to take a shot? Talk to me here a little bit. A mistress, sort of, yeah, a little bit more than that. Anybody else? Take a shot. How many people ever read? I wonder what those concubines were. Well, I'm going to answer your questions for you tonight. A concubine was somebody, uh this is, I'll just give you the list here, is a concubine as far as her relationship with um with her husband, as far as relationship, she had very, very little status. And she had very little influence on the home or over the in uh over the who her husband would be. She is, as I was studying these concubines and what we know about them Uh they would be I I referred to him as a second string wife. He wasn't the primary wife, or any even him with the primary wives. In fact, they weren't even called wives. They were called concubines. They were like second-string or secondary. They were inferior to the wives. By the way, having concubines is and was unscriptural. It's not scriptural. This is not the way God Planned this and purpose this not the way it's designed. We looked at that earlier with David's multiple wives. And so she was had very little status, very little influence. She would be what I'm calling a secondary wife She actually was little more than a slave. Often a concubine would be purchased. This would be some woman. Usually they were maybe from poorer class. Not as well-to-do or whatever, but they would purchase these concubines. Sometimes they were taken as a spoil of battle They would go in and and conquer a city, they'd kill the men, and then they would take uh these women, they would take them to be their concubines So they were a little more a slave. They were considered property of the husband. They did have some legal protection. I don't have the references, but I know in Exodus and then again in Deuteronomy God gives some protection to the concubines, some legal protection there. He does not sanction it, but he does recognize it and make sure uh that uh they do have some protection Often for a concubine, for like a king, most of the time, it was kings or the very, very wealthy that had concubines. Your average Joblo didn't have a concubine It was a very wealthy and and those powerful uh kings and powerful people, wealthy people. And a lot of times for a woman to become a concubine to a man It was a step up as far as her financial status was concerned. Maybe her her uh um standard of living would step up Generally, as I said, it was wealthy, powerful people that had concubines. Usually, the concubine, if it was a king and he had his wives and his concubines, Usually, whenever whoever succeeded that king, the successor, he would inherit that king's concubines. And uh so that makes this event here, this accusation by uh Ishmazeth very, very significant That Abner came in unto one of his concubines. That was that was kind of usurption on Abner's part To take this woman that would be his fat that would have been Esper's father's concubine to take him for himself, that was kind of like saying, hey, I'm taking the position of king How many people would like to be a concubine? That'd be a terrible thing. And that's what RISBO was. RISBO was um uh a second string wife and really possess uh the possession of King Saul. Now it's interesting. Uh King Saul had some sons by Rizbah. We're going to run into them a little bit later on in 2 Samuel. And we're going to find out that she loved those boys dearly. And they lost their lives. And we're going to see how she responded to that. So Rizba's an interesting gal. We don't know what her background is. We don't know what where she came from as far as growing up, but she was King Saul's concubine And now she's caught in this sorid event here. So we got Adner. We've been studying him. We know a little bit what he's like. We got Rizba. First we're introduced to her and we'll learn a little bit about her. And then we have Ishbarsath, and we've been looking at him a little bit. Look at verse 7, the second part Well, the whole verse 7, Saul had a concubine whose name was Rizbah, the daughter of Aiah, and Ishbashath said to Abner. Wherefore hast thou gone in unto my father's concubine? Now I'll tell you what my opinion of Ishboshath is, studying him. I think he was a very weak puppet of Abner. I think Abner got him on there. Abner was using him. And I think he was a very weak man. Now, in that way, he's different than his father. I don't see King Saul as a weak man In personality, position, will, determination. I don't think King Saul was very weak. But Ishbazet, the parent wasn't much of a warrior. Jonathan was a warrior But Ishbazeth was kind of a stay-home probably kind of guy, stayed home and and um uh you know cooked and cleaned house. I don't know what he did But uh he I see him as a very weak uh man, a puppet of Abner. Now here's where the similarities to his father I see. This is where I get the title, like father, like son. He makes this accusation against Abner. And I see insecurity on the part of Ishbazat. I see suspicion. Why have you taken my father's concubine going in unto her? I I see jealousy. Anyone think King Saul was jealous. Good night. That envy ate him up, drove him. Insecurity. He felt threatened by David. David was no threat to him. Jealousy, suspicion on every hand. Um he would in fact he killed uh all the priests just out of suspicion that they might have helped David. Very short-sighted. All King Saul saw was for the moment. All Ishes saw was this accusation he came up with. So number one, my first uh point here is the individuals involved. Abner Rizbah and Ishpaseth. Now, the second thing I notice in verse 7, we looked at a little bit, is the accusation that's being made. Again. Wherefore hast thou gone in unto my father's concubine? I put this down. Number one, it's a serious accusation. Serious accusation For somebody to go in and take the king's concubine is really a statement, hey, I'm taking your position, I'm taking your authority. It was more than just infidelity or dishonesty or disloyalty. It was an act of insurrection. Take your Bible real quickly, if you would And uh come back to 2 Samuel chapter 16, a few chapters back here. This is deep into the reign of David as king, and his son Absalom raises up a rebellion against his father. Anybody ever read that? Familiar with that? And he wins the hearts of the people over. And he and David flees Jerusalem and Absalom goes into the palace, the kingdom there, and he notice in verse number uh twenty. Notice what uh Absalom is advised to do. Now he is overthrowing his father. This is a coup attempt. And the first thing his advisors tell him to do, look what it is. Then said Absalom to Ahithophel, give counsel among you what we shall do. Notice his first advice. And Ahithophel said unto Absalom, Go in unto thy father's concubines. Are you there with me? Chapter 16, verse 21. Go into thy father's concubines, which he hath left to keep the house. Look at this And all Israel shall hear that thou art of hoard of the Lord, of thy father, then shall all the hands of all that are with thee be strong So they spread Absalom the tent on the top of the house. Absalom went in unto his father's concubines in the sight of all of Israel. Listen, that was an act of defiance. That was an act of usurpation of David's authority in the eyes of the people. And so this is a very serious accusation when when Ishverzah accuses Abner of going into one of his father's concubines. This is more than just uh uh you know a little affair going on here. This was an act of rebellion. This was an act he's accusing him of rebellion and of insurrection. So it's a serious accusation. I put this down. It's a surprising accusation. I got looking at this and I read it over and over and over. I don't know what your impression was reading through here, but to me this came out of nowhere. I mean, just out of the blue Ish that makes this accusation towards Abner. Just comes out of nowhere. I don't know. There's nothing leading up there. There's nothing to indicate That any of this was taking place, and then this is what I believe, this is my opinion in studying it, and there's a lot of different opinions about this, but I think it was an unsubstantiated accusation I read commentaries, people a lot smarter than I am, are on both sides. Some say, nah, Abner didn't do this. This was just based on rumors. This was unsubstantiated. Some others have said, oh no, no, Abner probably did this. But here's the thing, the Bible doesn't tell us. The Bible doesn't say he did this. Now, I do recognize the fact that Abner doesn't totally deny it. Look with me if you would at uh verse number eight, and we'll look at this verse here in a minute. Then was Abner very wroth for the words of Ishvosath and said, Am I a dog's head? Which against Judah to show kindness, and he goes down and says, I did this, that, and the other. Then look at the last part of verse eight, that thou chargest me today with a fault concerning this woman. He doesn't say I didn't do it. He doesn't deny it. He just gets mad at him for accusing them and suggesting he did. Now that may be uh factor in thinking that well maybe Abner did do this, but uh I don't think so. I there uh I I just don't see any evidence. There's no s uh scriptural Suggestion that Abner would have done this. I believe it's a false accusation made upon an insecure assumption. There is a real serious danger of assuming things. Right? Anybody here ever assume something and get in trouble? Oh I I just thought I just thought that's the way it was. Well it wasn't I put a few statements down. We need to be very careful about making accusations. I've said this before. I wish you would go through the New Testament in particular, and the Gospels and the Book of Acts I wish you'd go through there very, very carefully and pay attention to who makes accusations and who don't. You know what I found out? I went through and highlighted the word accuser, accused accusation in all the Gospels and all through the book of Acts. And the only people making accusations are the enemies of Christ. Every single time is the enemies of Christ make an accusation, accusing Christ, accusing the disciples, accusing Paul. Not one time do you find the word accuse or accusation used about God's people towards others? There's one other person in the Bible that's called an accuser. Anybody know who that is? Satan in Revelation, the accuser of the brethren. And I've often thought we've got to be very, very careful about making accusations Because the only people I see in the Bible making accusations are the enemies of Christ and the devil himself. And I don't want to be like the devil. Anybody here want to be like the devil? I don't want to be like the devil. And so we got to be very careful. I think Ishrazette reacted, he's insecure, he's suspicious. And man, he throws a serious accusation out there, and it costs him dearly. It costs him the throne, really. So, number one, be careful about accusations. Number two, make sure I have all the facts. Now I don't know whether he he's right or not on this, but I think before we react to something, before we are going to confront something, make sure we have all the facts. There's nothing worse than going in and confronting somebody or trying to deal with something get in and find out you you had you didn't have all the facts. Anybody ever been in that? I've had people in my office come in and say, man, you know, what's the deal? And try and straighten something out. Here, lo and behold, all my facts were wrong. I didn't have all the facts. And who looks like an idiot in that The one doing the confronting. And so my suggestion, my advice is number one, be very, very careful about making accusations. Number two, make sure I have all the facts. And number three, be very, very careful about accusations I know I said it before. But I think we have to be very careful. So I think Isboshash It Ish both makes this accusation, and I think it's a false assumption on his part, and it costs him dearly. And last of all, I want us to notice very quickly the anger of Abner. Look at verse number eight Then was Adner very wroth for the words of Ishbasheth and said, Am I a dog's head? And he goes down there. He says verse nine, God do s uh so do God to Abner and more also, except as the Lord has sworn to David, even so I do to him. In other words, I'm going I'm going over to David. Translate the kingdom from the house of Saul to set up The throne of David over Israel. I put these down, his agner. Number one, it was an intense anger. He was very wroth, that means furious, in a rage. He just went off. Uh it was indignant anger. Says, I've done nothing but good for you. I've done nothing uh but good for Israel. I've got you on this throne. I've I didn't turn you over to David, I did everything, and now you're accusing us he was indignant with it. And then last of all, I put it down, it was incriminating anger. And by that I mean this. It reveals Abner's true character It reveals Abner's true character. Now think with me a little bit. What was it that prompted Abner to put Saul's son on the throne rather than Recognizing David's anointing. Anybody remember what we suggested? I think it was revenge. I think he was still steamed at David because David publicly rebuked him for his failure to protect the king. I think he had an attitude. I think that revenge took took root in his heart. And so what he what motivated him to set up Ish Basheth instead of David wasn't any scriptural principle. It wasn't any godly character. It was simply personal revenge. And now he abandons Absalom and he goes back over to David just on ambition. Um Ba if you're not going to recognize me, if you're going to do this to me, then I'm going to go over there, maybe I can work my way up the ranks of David So he's not motivated, he's not controlled, he's not governed by scriptural principles, he's governed by his own personal whim, his self-ambition, whatever he can get the best out of. I started off with the statement, we're Christians. We respond not because of any personal agendas we have or any personal desires or our self-will. Isn't what dictates our actions. We're Christians. We follow the Lord. And we live by scriptural principles and scriptural values and standards we go by. And uh so I want to challenge us tonight. Let's be very, very careful. Let's not be like Ishazah, who took on the attributes, uh some of the characteristics of his father, insecure, suspicious, jealous accusations. Or like Abner, who had his own selfish ambition he was running. We want to learn from this. So let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. To operate and to live by and to make our decisions, our actions based on scriptural principles, on character, godly character. And so please help us. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I need to live by scriptural principles. I let my self-will, I let my flesh, my reactions, my emotions to control me. And I need God to help me. Any like that, any like that, sure. It's a constant battle, whole life long. To die to self and live by the by the word of God. Maybe there's someone tuned in tonight and God's deal with your heart. I want to urge you, get alone with the Lord. God's been speaking in your heart about something. Maybe what we preached on or even folks here Get some time. Get on your knees alone with God. Let God have His way. Talk to Him. Yield it to Him. Trust the Lord. If you're not saved, we urge you to contact us. Let us show you from the Bible how to be saved. How to know for sure sins are forgiven on your way to heaven. I tell you, God will save any old sinner that comes to him. It'll not turn him away You just trust Christ. Father, bless now, invitation time, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed. Our eyes are closed.