These these uh lapel mics, I can never figure them out. Are they supposed to go on your jacket, your tie, your shirt? So I just put yeah That's right. We all just get one for each, right? So I just put it on my tie, that way it looks like a tie clip and it looks all fancy and stuff like that. Anyway, none of that matters. 1 Samuel chapter 8. We read some of this for our scripture reading. I want to back up a couple verses here for our main text verse. I'll give you just another minute to get there. 1 Samuel chapter 8. And I'm going to read verse five, six, and seven. Verse five, six, and seven. Verse five, and said unto them, Behold, thou art old. And thy sons walk not in thy ways, now make us a king to judge us like all the nations. But the thing displeased Samuel when they said, Give us a king to judge us, and Samuel prayed unto the Lord And the Lord said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people, and all that they say unto thee, for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me. That I should not reign over them. We saw kind of a familiar passage here where Israel as a nation approaches Samuel and asks for a king like the other nations. And the kind of the thought that I want to preach on this morning is to be like the other nations. There was requests here that they had to be like the other nations, and that's kind of the thought for this morning. Let's go to the Lord in prayer before we get into the message. Heavenly Father, Lord, again, we just we thank you, Lord. You've been so good to us, Lord. Uh nothing else, Lord, for providing salvation for us, Lord. You've been so good to us, but you've given us so many other blessings, Lord, we don't deserve any of them So Lord, I ask now that you would uh bless this uh service. Lord, I ask that you would just fill me with your spirit right now. Give me the power to say the things that you once said. Lord, I just kind of want to hide myself behind you right now, Lord. I want you to just take over. Lord, and I ask that you would uh you would preach to us this morning, and that we would learn something from your word, and it's in Jesus' name. Amen Like I said, kind of a famous passage here in Israel's history. I like history. I like studying history. I like American history, I like ancient world history, I like stuff like that. Um I just I mean I just find stories like that fascinating And I think it's a good thing to know history. It helps us to learn and things like that. But I enjoy history, and we're going to get to this chapter here in Israel's history, 1 Samuel 8. But we're going to kind of back up towards the beginning of Israel's history. We're going to go through a progression there of where they were, where they came from, look at Egypt and all that kind of stuff. And then we're going to get to this point here in 1 Samuel chapter 8. And then we'll make some points and some application there. Israel's history starts out in Genesis, of course, first book of the Bible. You know, there's Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and then Joseph. Remember there's a famine in the land, so then we end up going down into Egypt. You remember the story here? I'm going to kind of go through this pretty quick, so hang on. They go down into Egypt to get food for their livelihood to get food And um they end up living in Goshen down there in Egypt. Um so they they live down there and then they're they're they just multiply. Um they grew and grew. They multiplied and they became very, very many people. Then the king of Egypt realizes, the Pharaoh there, he realizes that there's a whole bunch of them, and then Kind of makes them nervous, and again I'm paraphrasing some things here, but he brings them under bondage. Um and he forces them into uh slave labor Um and he forces them to uh do things for him, build things for him, build the cities and things like that. Um and then they're in bondage for many, many years in slavery, um, and they work uh for the king of Egypt, for Pharaoh. And then God sends Moses, you remember that story? Um one of my man, one of my favorite characters in the Bible is Moses And um, you know, he's raised in Pharaoh's court there and then um goes off into uh and then he gets married off in the the desert there and then he comes back and uh leads God uses him to lead the people out of Egypt And um this is the point in their history where um yes they lived under the government of Egypt and things like that, but they understood God wants us to worship out and worship him and they went out and um did so. They went to across the Red Sea, you remember all that. And then after the Red Sea they um went to Mount Sinai, remember, where uh Moses got the law from God, uh got it twice, remember, he the first time he um broke the tablets when he saw uh Israel riding and worshiping the the golden calf and things like that. So here there's um um a government structure, I guess you could say set up member Moses takes some advice from his father-in-law and he appoints him uh officers and uh appoint some captains and things like that. Of course they recognized God was their authority. They were a theocracy and and all of that But um nonetheless there was still uh human government that God used, I guess you could say. And so then um fast forward a little more than the time of Joshua and they go on and conquer the the cities there in Canaan, and then there's a period of the judges. in their history. Fast forward a little bit here, and um about three hundred and fifty years or so from when they left uh Egypt. Now we're in 1 Samuel chapter 8. Samuel is here, and the people come before him. Again, God was the ruler of the nation at this time in their history, and they didn't like it. They didn't want God to rule over them anymore. And we see here in verse 5, they make their request to get a king, like all the nations around them. And they wanted to be like the other nations. They didn't want God as their uh authority. They didn't want God ruling over them. They wanted uh to be like everyone else. Remember the story there? They wanted a king to be like all the other uh nations and and this is not my message but whenever we want to be like other people we we we tend to get in trouble, right? Um this isn't the main point I want to make this morning. But whenever we as God's people want to be like The world, it's not going to be good. It's not going to be a good thing. We should not want to be like the world, right? We should not want to be like the the the heathen nations and things like this. This is not a good thing. But this is where they're at And this is where they're at, and then it upsets Samuel. Samuel goes to the Lord, and the Lord says in verse 7, They have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me. Remember Samuel he goes before the Lord here and he's like, Lord, this thing, you know, they want to uh reject this uh this structure that you have set up this government that you have set up and then that God says hey it's not you they don't like me they they're rejecting me a lot of times um You know, that we see that today too, right? We see people rejecting persons, but really what they're rejecting is the God behind those persons. We'll see people rejecting authority, but really they're rejecting God to put the authority there. We see people rejecting the pastor of our church, and we have a great pastor, but um a lot of times what they're doing there is they're just rejecting God, uh the man uh the God behind uh the pastor. Anyway. So this is where we're at here, and uh we get to this 1 Samuel chapter 8 moment, and this is where we're going to part here now. Um they get to a point in their in their history where they have just drifted further from God. to the point where they no longer want God to rule over them. They don't want God to judge them. They want a king to judge them. They want a man to judge them. They don't want God to be the authority of the land. want a king to be authority of the land like the other nations. I think it's pretty clear that there's an election taking place here in this chapter, and it's an election on whether or not to keep God in their country, to keep God in Israel. First point we see here, a request was made. A request was made. What was that request? Well, it was to have a king. The request was made. They wanted to have a king. We see it in verse five. And then again we see it at the end of the chapter in verse 20. They want a king. They want a man to be over them. Now, as we read this, we wonder why, right? Because God's perfect, right? God doesn't mess up. But men do. There's this thing called human error. And if I had the the option, you know, right off the top of my head, I think, well, I would want God to be the leader, right? Of course, but because we err, sometimes we make the error to reject God. And that's what the nation did as a whole here. What was their request? They wanted to have a king. The reason for their request was this. Verse 5, they wanted to be judged by man and not God Uh verse five it says, uh now make us a king at the end of the verse to judge us, judge us like all the other nations. They had gotten to a point in their society where they just didn't want God to be a judge over them. They want they didn't want God's word to be the final authority. They wanted a king to be the final authority in their land That's one reason. Um they want to be judged by man. Another reason is they wanted maybe the uh the other nation's lifestyle, the other nation's government But of course, really the main reason for this request was a rejection of God They thought they were going to Samuel and saying, Samuel, we don't want you in charge, but what they were saying is we don't want God in charge. They rejected God, and God clearly says this. For they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me. I imagine Samuel was probably feeling A little upset. I mean, I think that makes sense. Samuel was probably pretty disappointed at this time. Because this mob comes to him and says, hey, we don't want you anymore. We don't want God anymore. Give us a king. And um God tells them, hey, it's not you. It's me they don't like. And it reminds me of what Jesus said, you know, that the world hated him before it hated us. Right, a lot of times people uh antagonize us and are mean to us and hate us and and maybe not so much in this country, but around the world and throughout time Christians have been persecuted. Why? Uh because they hate God. Right? They they they hated God way before uh they hated us. So they reject God. Um and it's it's a very clear rejection. A very clear rejection. There's no way to sugarcoat this, no way to get around it. They straight up said, we want a king like the other nations. Another reason they wanted a king was to fight their battles for them, to do their work for them. Well look at verse 20, it says this. It says, That we may also be like all the nations, and that our king may judge us and go out before us and fight our battles. Now did Israel have an army before this? Yeah. Did they fight battles before this? Yes. Okay. They wanted a king to do this for them. They didn't want to do their work anymore. They wanted uh the government to take care of their work. They wanted a king uh to do their work for them, specifically here in this uh text, to fight their battles for them So the first thing we see there was the request that was made. Second thing we see is a warning was given. Now, as I was reading through this chapter earlier in the week, this I mean this this is so plain and and I wondered. After this warning, how could they still be so adamant about wanting a king? But a warning was given, and there is many, many different parts to this warning. Okay, it's uh let's just start here in verse eleven. And he said, This will be the manner of the king that shall reign over you. You really want a king? This is what will happen. You really want to be like the other nations, this is what will happen. He will take your sons. Now, right off the bat, that blows my mind. That you would want a king to come and take your sons. I don't have a son, but I imagine if I had one, I wouldn't want him kidnapped. He will take your sons and appoint them for himself, for his chariot chariots. I almost said Cheerios. I wonder if they had Cheerios For his chariot chariots to be his horsemen, some shall run before his chariots, and he will appoint him captains over thousands, captains over fifties, will set Than to ear his ground and reap his harvest. This this is this is like remember this is what they were doing for Pharaoh, working his land, doing his bidding. Now a king's gonna do this. And to make his instruments of war, instruments of his chariots. He'll take your daughters, verse 13. Again, I I don't have one, but I imagine I wouldn't want her kidnapped. And he will take your daughters to be confectionaries and to be cooks and to be bakers. He will take your fields. He'll take your property. He'll take your land. I mean he I mean he'll he'll he'll take your property. He will take your land. This is a this is This is what they're asking for. He will take your fields and your vineyards and your olive yards, even the best of them, to give to his servants. He will take a tenth of your seed, income tax, and your vineyards, and give to his officers and to his servants And he will take your men servants, your maidservants. He'll take your hired help. Let these things sink in for a minute. This is what Israel was asking for. Verse 16, take your men's servants, your maidservants, your goodliest young men, your asses, and put them to his work. His work. Not Israel's work. Not the country's work. Not God's work. His work. He's taking your children, your land, your money, your property. For his work. Verse 17, it'll take a tenth of your sheep, and ye shall be his servants. They were slaves in Egypt. They were servants of Pharaoh in Egypt. Fast forward a few hundred years, and they're asking for the thing they left. Right? They're asking for the thing that they left. Verse 18, And ye shall cry out in that day because of your king, and ye shall uh which ye shall have chosen you, and the Lord will not hear you, in that day. A warning was clearly given here from Samuel. The people come before him and say, hey, we want a king. We want to be like the other nations. God's been over us. We've had a theocracy. We don't like this theocracy thing anymore. I mean, look at these other nations. They've got kings that fight for them. They've got kings that go to battle for them. Of course, a king has soldiers, right? A king doesn't do all the fighting by himself. He's gonna take your children and force them to do his bidding. He'll take your money, he'll take your property, he'll take your livestock. And this is what the warning was. We see a request. We want to be like the other nations. We see a warning. You don't want to be like the other nations. You don't want this. Is what Samuel is saving, saying. So first, a re a request was made, two, a warning was given, three, a vote was cast. A vote was cast. It's very clear that this was a that they were they were electing here what kind of government they wanted. And wanted the king. A vote was cast. And I submit this was a vote to reject freedom that God had given them. They're voting to give up property, money. Children? I mean, freedom. They're voting it away, right here. But why? Is it because they just are itching to be slaves? They're just itching to be servants? No. Because it's a vote to reject God. It's a vote that says, no, God, we don't want you in charge anymore. That's what's happening here in 1 Samuel chapter 8. A vote was cast. The vote was to reject God. Again, Samuel felt maybe like it was him, and they were unhappy with, but God says, No, they're unhappy with me. Now, God gave them what they asked for. God gave them what they voted for. They got a king, right? King Saul. And you know what happened? Everything that Samuel said would happen. God gave them what they asked for. Now, does this sound familiar? Is this is it is it just me or is this like seriously just ringing some bells? This to me, I mean I I was I was when I first started reading that, I was thinking, man, that sure sounds like a lot like the history there and the way everything happened, that sounds a lot like America's history. It's not even that it's just a lot like it. It's almost identical. It's almost identical. Think about it. Because of various things, persecution, desire to worship God freely, or even just safety and prosperity, better life, people came here to the New World Right? Freedom to worship. Right? Other reasons as well. People came here and they prospered. The population blew up, right? Like Israel. The population blew up here in the colonies. The colonies. And um The population grew up, fast forward a couple hundred years, and the king put us under bondage. Read the Declaration of Independence, there's 27 different things they name where the king put them under bondage. Sound familiar, right? So then God gave us our founding fathers. He gave us our George Washington's, our Thomas Jefferson's, James Madison's, John Hancock, so on. But more importantly, he gave us preachers during that time that unashamedly preached the Word of God. And preached in Galatians 6:1, where the Spirit of the Lord is there as a liberty. And um remember remember um Brother Harding's film The Sacred Fire of the American Pulpit? Remember that? That's good stuff right there. But they unashamedly preached freedom through Christ. And it this wasn't a rebellion like, oh, we want, you know, we want democracy, we want anarchy, we want, you know, we don't want anyone over us. This is no, we want God as our authority. It's actually kind of opposite of what happened here in 1 Samuel 8. We said we no longer want a king, we want God as our authority. And of course then there was that the war of independence. And miraculously, God granted us our independence. Praise the Lord. So um we rebelled against the Pharaoh, I guess you could say, against uh the tyranny and all the twenty-seven things mentioned, um, on Thomas Jefferson's seal. Um had this phrase, rebellion to tyranny is obedience to God. I like that. And we understood the fact that we were um that we ought to obey God rather than man. That was how we started. Right? That was the basis of the country in independence. God bless America. Now Israel, when they went into the promised land, was everything perfect? No. They had corruption in government, sure. They uh had battles, they had sins they dealt with, right? We're no different. You don't understand there's corruption in our government, right? Uh there are sins not just in our government, but in our people. Um and we've had battles, we've had struggles. But what has made us so unique is we're the only other nation in history to recognize God is our authority. That we are endowed by our Creator with certain inalienable rights. And we recognize that our freedom, our liberty, comes from God, not from man. We're unique in this. And uh God gave us this nation. And I love it. I love it. I'm proud to be an American. I love it. I'm more so proud to be a Christian, sure. First and foremost, I'm a Christian, but man, I love this country. The very thought of it. Reading through the Constitution, man, read it. And you can see God all over it. Um four separate times, just in our declaration of independence, four separate times God was mentioned, and uh it was through his help and his divine providence we were doing this Um like Israel though, man it's it it's so similar. Like Israel, um We've kind of gotten away from God. Not kind of. We've really gotten away from God, haven't we? Um man, and this is another reason we shouldn't study history and look at history and read it and stuff like that, because we can see it being repeated. Man, over the past half a century, it's just gone way downhill. We've rejected God. On uh on uh I mean and and not just in government but in the home. And that's by the way, in the home is where it hurts the worst. The home will affect every other facet of society. But we rejected God. I mean, sin is rampant. You understand that sins that just a decade ago were sins of shame I'm young, right? Twenty eight. But when I was eighteen Just ten years ago, there were sins that people were ashamed of. And in fact, that's why they wanted to keep them in the closet. And now we went through this phase where people are coming out of the closet, and now it's glorified. Sins that should be shameful and are shameful are glorified. Murder of millions of children is seen as a wonderful thing. You all agree we've gotten far from God. Our families have gotten far from God. Our homes, our churches, our government, sure. And now we kind of find ourselves at a first Samuel chapter eight moment. A request has been made in the nation to be like the other nations. And they're not even hiding it anymore. The ones that want to be like the other nations. They flat out say it. We want health care like the other nations. We want education like the other nations. We want socialize this and socialize that. We want to be like the other nations. Now hang on, hang on. Do you really want to be like the other nations? Do you really want to be like the other nations? I'm glad a lot of people are saying no. Do you really want what goes along with this? Now, why is this request being made? And we see it all over our streets. We see it on our news. If you want to watch that. But we we see this everywhere. A push, a request is being made to be like the socialistic nations. Oh, we want to be like everyone else. We don't want this constitution that recognizes God as our authority anymore. We don't want this declaration anymore that says that God is our authority anymore. We don't want this. We want to be like them. And that's the reason. They don't want to be judged by God anymore. You ever notice whenever you um You can put a verse online or something like that, or you can make a statement about a verse from the Bible, and of course God is the one that said that verse. It's God's word. And you can just say a verse and people say, Don't judge me, right? But they're saying that to God. People don't want God to judge them anymore. Oh, you're being so judgmental. No, God's being judgmental. God is the one that it's his word that is judging. By the way, the Bible says the spiritual man judges all things, but They want to be like the other nations, they want their lifestyle, their free college, free health care, free rent, etc. , um, and whatever else. They want that government. There's a huge push in this country that God has given us to reject God. And now a warning is being given and across our country right now there are people uh standing up and warning preachers from the pulpits, just Good patriot citizens warning people, this is not what you want. We don't want to be like the other nations, trust me. You go through 1 Samuel 8, again, it's so similar. He'll take your sons, he'll take your daughters, he'll take your property, he'll tax you more. It's the same thing. It's the same thing. You don't want that. You don't want to be like the other nations. You ru uh if you really vote To reject God and to be like the other nations, you will lose some freedoms. You'll lose your First Amendment, freedom of religion. We saw a little piece of that here this year. Freedom of speech, things like that. We'll lose our Second Amendment, Third, Fourth, Fourth Amendment. We'll lose our Fifth Amendment, the freedom to a fair trial. You won't have that anymore. Remember Nazi Germany, there we didn't have fair trials. That's where we'll be again. Freedom to protect the government from coming onto your property and living with you. Third Amendment. And on down the list, you'll lose your whole Constitution, really. That's what the push is for to get rid of the Constitution. Why? Because they want a new government? No, because they don't want God. It's not Republican-Democrat left-right. It's for God or against God. You want to be like the other nations? Then you want to reject God. You want to murder children, then you want to reject God. You want to promote sodomy, then you want to reject God. You want to promote socialism, then you want to reject God. Really? Yeah, go to Proverbs chapter 1. Verse 10 says, My son, if sinners entice thee, consent thou not. Don't consent to this. They say, Come with us, let us lay wait for blood, let us look privily for the innocent without cause. Verse 12, let us swallow them up alive as the grave, and whole as those that go down into the pit We shall find all precious substance, and we shall fill our houses with spoil. Cast in thy lot among us, let us all have one purse. Their feet run to evil. Make haste to shed blood. Cast in thy lot among us, let us all have one purse. Let us share the money pot. Let's just take all of our money, put it together, and we'll share it. We'll distribute it evenly. You make more money, we'll take more from you. Guys, that's that that's a good description of socialism to me. What does it say? Consent down on Do you really want to lose your freedoms? Do you really want to reject God is what it comes down to. I know who I'm talking to now. Okay, I'm I'm talking to A conservative group, right? We're Christians. We like God. We support God, right? We read our Bible. We believe God, right? We're Christians. We accept that Christ is our Savior. If not, you can. But as a whole, as a society, we are at our 1 Samuel chapter 8 moment. There is an election coming up, guys. Listen to me, church, there is an election coming up. Are you going to vote for God? Or are you going to vote to be like the other nations? A vote will be cast. Will it be a vote to reject freedom? Will it be a vote to reject God? I hope not. I hope not. And I really don't think so. I really, I mean the media hypes things up. Satan's got his he's working around the clock. But I really think that Christians are going to be stepping up. I really believe that. I really believe God's people are going to say, no, not yet. We don't want to be like the other nations. We still recognize that we're a nation under God. That's what I think. That's what I'm praying for. That's what I hope. A vote will be cast whether or not to reject freedom, whether or not to reject God or to accept God. Remember, Samuel felt like it was him they were unhappy with. But the people were unhappy with God. Now, Israel, I want to make some points here. Israel, they got what they voted for, right? They wanted to be like the other nations. They got what they voted for. God will sometimes give you what you want. And if you want to be like the other nations, he might just let you. And if we decide in our this year in our 1 Samuel chapter 8 moment if we want to be like the other nations, he might just let us What are what are we gonna vote for? What are we gonna push for? What are we gonna stand for? What are we gonna stand against? I understand this is a very political type message, but at the same time it's really not. Are you for God or against him? Are you for God or against him? Now we look throughout scripture where God gives people what they ask for. Hezekiah got more time added to his life when he asked it of God. Josiah Uh remember, he turned the nation back to God and God still brought judgment, but not for that generation. Remember? I believe we're at that moment. We can choose to say, you know what, we want to be like everyone else, and God's like, okay, go ahead. But we can stand up and actually vote for God and say, no. We don't want to be like the other nations. We don't want to reject God like the rest of the world. We're voting for freedom, we're voting for God. And God might just say, Okay, I'll give you another four years. It might it might happen. It's time for God's people to get right with God first. God may just spare our nation for another generation. But if we vote to reject God and we vote to be like the other nations, then we may just get what we want. So, okay. I don't think there's any denying, I don't think there's any opposition to that. We can see this is our first Samuel chapter 8 moment Are we going to be for God or against him? Okay. What's the take-home from this? What's the application? I got a few points here. What can we as God's people do? Because God's people are for God. But the Spirit of the Lord is there's liberty. We're for God, we're for freedom. We don't want to be like the other nations. We all agree with this. So what do we do? I got a few things here. You can write them down if you want, four different things. One, well I'll give them all four to you. I'll give them all four to you and then we'll go back through them. One, vote for God. One, vote for God. Two, be a voice for God. Three, tell others about God. That's probably the most important. The number four, pray to God. Again, that's probably the most important. Vote for God, be a voice for God, tell others about God, pray to God. Now. We see a mess, don't we? We see an absolute mess. There is such a push to get rid of God. Okay? It really upsets you when I see people burning an American flag. I get, I get. If that does not upset you, Sorry, I'll pray for you. Okay? But what makes me more mad, i infinitely more mad, and upset and hurt a little bit is when I see people burning Bibles. They're doing both in our country right now. America God shed his grace on thee, America. And we're at this point where there is such a push to reject God. It's it's been coming for a while, has it not? It it started with trying to get him out of school. It's start then it I mean and then it was uh you know different forms of entertainment attacking the family, attacking the church. God I mean, Sat Satan's attacking everything. He hates God and now people hate God. There is a lot of people in our nation that want and will vote against God. They will. So what do we need to do? We need to vote for God. Again, we're not voting Republican, Democrat, right, Left, Conservative, Liberal. No, no, no. That's not what this is about. This is about what are you going to do with God? What are you going to do with God's word? Are you going to vote for it or are you going to vote against it? Well, I'm trying to leave this out of it. I'm trying to separate politics from everything else. And I really just like these policies of this candidate. If his policies go against God, then you're voting against God. Right? So what can we do as God's people that love God, love the Bible, love our country, vote for God. Alright? Get that on a bumper sticker, put that on your car. Vote for God. Right? Um, so that's the first thing we can do. Vote for uh people that will preserve the godly heritage we have, rather than be for trying to tear it down and erase it. Vote for people that will stand for the Bible and on biblical truths, like our vice president. Vote for people that stand against abortion, stand against sodomy, stand against sin, stand for freedom, stand for God. It's not right or left. It's for or against God. So one, what can we do? Be a voice for God. Two or one vote for God. Two be a voice for God. Be vocal. I'm not saying be belligerent. Alright, there's a right way to be vocal. I'm not saying get in people's face and yell and scream at them. No, that's what they're doing. Alright? But don't be afraid to speak up. Alright, conservatives by nature are conservative, right? This is the time where we're supposed to speak up and speak out. Why? So that we can get a Republican. No, so that we can vote for for God and have our nation spared. Right? Um be a voice for God. Be vocal about your stance for righteousness, because righteousness exalteth a nation. We love our country, we love our nation. We want to see it exalted, we have to vote for righteousness. We have to promote righteousness. We have to be vocal about righteousness. That means When you see something good, say, hey, that's good. But when you see something bad, you say, hey, that's bad. A lot of times we'll say, well when we see something good, we'll say we'll say, oh, that was good. But when we see something bad, we go Right? It's okay to say something's bad. It's okay to say something is ungodly, unrighteous. Be vocal. Be vocal against sin and be vocal for right. So one, vote for God. Two, be a voice for God. Three, tell others about God. Guys, this is key. Now I guess this kind of goes along with being vocal, but we have got to share the gospel everywhere we go. Again, this is not a political issue, this is a heart issue of the nation. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. If they don't have the Lord, then nothing else is going to fall in line. Why why we preach on soul winning? Because it is the most important thing, guys. This is why we're here. If I'm going to complain about the way people reject God, but I'm not going to go tell them about God, then I'd be a hypocrite. Right? Oh, this nation they're rejecting God, they're anti-God, they're they're this, they're that. Well, when's the last time you took your Bible out and showed someone about Jesus? I think one reason people are anti-God is because they don't know Him, because we're not telling them We need to tell them. We have got to share the gospel. Learn how to do it. Learn how to do it. Learn how to take your Bible and open it and show someone how to be saved. Learn how to take your Bible and show someone that we're sinners. But Christ died for our sins. And if we trust in him, he'll take us to heaven. It's a simp it's a simple message. Learn how to share it. I mean I'm all for you know campaigning and things like that. I think that's great. You know, get bumper stickers, put them on your car. I've got one on my car Bumper stickers are great. But you know what'll do more than anything is just good old-fashioned soul winning. Telling people about Jesus. Telling people about the Savior Jesus said, if I be lifted up, I will draw all men to me. Maybe we need to lift him up a little more and more people will be drawn to him, right? And I mean we we can we complain about the way people vote, but what are we doing about it? One, we ought to vote for God, two, we ought to uh be a voice for God, three, we ought to tell others about God And four, this is something that everybody can do. Pray to God. Pray. If we prayed as much as we complain, we'd pray a lot, wouldn't we? Oh, I can't believe this. Did you see this? They're trying to pass this bill, they're trying to pass that bill, they're trying to take this away, take that away. Did you pray? Guys, we seriously just need to stop and pray for our country. That people will be saved. That people will vote for God. Why is it that Hezekiah got years added to his life? It's because he prayed. Right? When we pray, gotta listen. Remember, my if my people which are called by my name will humble themselves, guys, gotta be humble. We can't demand anything from God, and we've got to get rid of our pride as well. Humble themselves and pray. We need to pray. Whether or not our nation is going to accept or reject God this November Could very well be determined on whether or not we pray. We need to pray. Humble themselves, pray, and seek my face. And here's the hard one. Turn from their wicked way. Yeah, country's wicked. There there's this promoted, that promoted, this sin, that sin. But God's people It's my people, right? We got sin we need to turn from. We got things we need to get right. Our families need to heal. Our relationships need to be restored. Church members need to get right with each other. Husbands and wives need to get right with each other. Our reputation in the community needs to be restored. Guys, we have got to turn from our wicked way. We have got to swallow that pride. Humble ourselves, pray, seek God's face. He'll heal the land So this November we find ourselves at a 1 Samuel chapter 8 moment. Again, just like Israel, God has blessed us. We've recognized him as the leader of our country, and it's referenced over and over again in the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence. Our freedom comes from God, where the Spirit of the Lord is there as freedom, and we love it, we take advantage of it, and we might lose it. So what are you gonna do? Are you gonna be a a voice? Are you gonna be vocal? Stand for right? Stand against sin? You're gonna vote Are you going to share the gospel? Because someone's not going to change the way they vote until their heart changes, right? What are you gonna do? Heads bowed, eyes closed, no one look around for just a moment. Just a brief few questions here before the invitation. First, how many of you would say, you know what, Pastor Matt, I don't even know God personally. Talking about voting for God, standing for God, standing for rights and I don't know him first. I have never trusted Christ as my Savior, and I don't know if I'm going to heaven That is the most important thing. The most important decision you'll ever make is what you'll do with Jesus, right? How many of you would say, you know what, I'm not even sure I'm going to heaven. But I am concerned about that. Could you pray for me? I just want to pray for you. If that's you, could you slip your hand up? I'm not sure I'm saved. I'm not sure I'm going to heaven, but I'm concerned about that. Could you raise your hand? Okay, next question is this. Are you praying for your country? How many of you by raising your hand would say, you know what? And I'm not even asking if you've been praying. But have you been praying for your country that people would be saved and people would vote for righteousness? I mean if you say, you know what, I have not been doing that. Would you raise your hand? God's convicted me, I have not been praying for my country. Hey, my hand's up. Man, you may put your hands down. Thank you. Next question is this. How many of you would say, you know what, I have not been witnessing like I ought to? I've not been sharing the gospel like I ought to, passing out tracts, opening my Bible, telling people about Jesus, I have not been doing that like I should. God's convicted me about this. Could you raise your hand? Yeah, my hands up too. Thank you. You may put your hands down. Last question is this, are you standing for righteousness? Saying that bad things are bad, and God's convicted me about this, would you raise your hand? Man, you may put your hands down. Thing is, is this, still no one looked around for just a moment. God has spoken to our hearts today. We are at a 1 Samuel chapter 8 moment in our nation, and God is speaking to us, and you've got to get things right. You've got to pray, you've got to witness You can stand to your feet, please. And when she starts playing the invitation's open, if God's dealt with your heart about anything, I beg you get it right. If nothing else, please just pray for your country.