Well good evening. It is good to be home even for a short weekend. And uh Pastor was talking a little bit about I think I gotta turn this thing on, don't I, Jamie? We on now? Is that better? Okay. Good. Getting a thumbs up. All right. It is good to be home and uh we did travel five hundred miles to watch two. uh five year olds play basketball. So uh the things that grandparents do. Amen. Um but uh no we had a little business to take care of in town but that was our primary mission and we accomplished that yesterday and it was it was quite a blessing Um we uh we thoroughly enjoyed that and uh it uh it is good to see those. I was listening to Brother Dale's testimony and I was thinking When he was talking about to the young people, you know, about how how quick those years passed by and I was sitting back there thinking, yeah, I can remember sitting back here and not even thinking about being a grandparent. So I can relate to that pretty well. But Anyway, John chapter number um ten and verse number ten will be our text verse tonight. Um we'll just be looking at a piece of that. So as you're turning there, um Pastor left this joke with me. Um he he told me that uh I had to cover for him tonight and He wanted to make sure that I was properly equipped, so he left this joke with me and he said that there was a blonde and her husband. They were laying in bed one night And they were trying to go to sleep, they'd went to bed early because they had a big day the next day, and they'd laid in bed for about four hours listening to the neighbor's dog bark And finally, the blonde got up and she left the bed. They were both frustrated. They both talked about it several times as they were tossing and turning trying to go to sleep. And finally, about midnight, the blonde got up and she She left and she was gone for a little period of time and she came back and uh the husband said, Well well what did you do? It worked for a little bit, the dog quit barking, but but then it started barking again and it seemed like it was maybe even a little bit louder And she said, Well, she said, I went over and she said, I got it out of the neighbor's yard and I put it in our yard. Let's see how the neighbors like it. Pastor didn't really leave that with me, but I did hear that down in South Carolina last week and I thought, how fitting, I was gonna tell him, but when he had me fill in, I said, I'll just brand him with it anyway. So Amen. Let's look at John chapter 10, verse number 10 tonight. The Bible says, the thief cometh not but for to steal and to kill and to destroy. I am come that they might have life and that they might have it more abundantly. Let's pray. Father God in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for this time, and Lord for uh your your word, and Lord has been mentioned tonight, Lord, the comfort that it brings us, and Lord uh I think there is a an encouraging thing here tonight that we can glean from this verse, and Lord, I pray that you would uh as I step aside that you would take my place, and Lord, that you would speak to your people tonight, speak to their hearts. I pray, Lord, that you would encourage them and that you would help them, and Lord, that they would be better equipped for tomorrow because of tonight and because of your word. So Lord, we just ask that you would bring all this to pass in the precious name of Jesus. Amen. The thief cometh not but for to steal and to kill and to destroy. I am come that they might have life and that they might have it more abundantly. The title of my message tonight is Little Things So you kind of are confused at the moment, but just hang with me, and I'm going to show you an incredible thought that God showed me not long ago. Let's look at, first of all, as we start this, keep your finger here. We'll be back at this verse, but turn with me back to 1 Samuel and chapter number 17. 1 Samuel, chapter number 17, a familiar passage of Scripture. For most of us, we're going to look at verse number 40 in 1 Samuel chapter number 17. 1 Samuel chapter number 17. Background here, of course, is the Philistines and the Israelites are together, and of course, this is uh the David and Goliath story And we pick up the story here in verse number 40 of 1 Samuel chapter number 17. And the Bible says, and he took his staff in his hand And chose him five smooth stones out of the brook, and put them in a shepherd's bag, which he had, even in a script, and his swing was in his hand, and he drew near to the Philistines. So as we look at that, and we see here in this little verse of scripture that David chose him five small stones, five smooth stones, it says, I think that they were small stones. If anybody's ever used a swing, it's not something that you use a boulder in. I mean it's usually something that's small. Pieces of shot, I think, for a wrist rocket are what, about 40 caliber, I think, somebody who's familiar with that About forty caliber, I think, the pieces of shot for a wrist rocket. So these were small stones. Now, did it take five stones to take down Goliath? How many did it take? Just one, right? It took one little stone, one little stone out of five to kill Goliath. This one little stone brought down the giant champion of the Philistines One little stone. If we turn in the back in our Bibles, you're there in John chapter 10, flip back there, and then flip back a couple pages to John chapter number 6. John chapter number six. Look at another familiar event that took place. It's recorded in the Bible here in verse number nine. Verse number nine, we see the feeding of five thousand here. And in verse number nine, uh well we'll back up to verse number eight. One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, saith unto him, There is a lad here which hath five barley loaves and two small fishes, but what are they among so many? Verse number 10, and Jesus said, make the men sit down. Five barley loaves and two small fishes. So I kind of look at that as five biscuits and two brook trout. We'll put it in in terminology that you can understand. Five biscuits and two brook trout. Now, if any of you here have been down to the men's mountain getaway, you've seen brook trout. I didn't even know what a brook trout was until years ago I went down to my first men's mountain getaway And and boy everybody talked about these brook trout that they were catching, you know, and all this stuff and Brother Jerry had his fryer down there and we fired the fryer up and and uh got ready to fry these and I was ready for a for a fish uh y fish feast, you know. I mean I was ready to eat. And they brought these little fish out, and I thought they were sardines. I thought they were joking with me. You know, I think the biggest one might have been eight inches long, maybe, and that was a whopper from what they were saying But uh but you know two small fishes and five little barlows fed five thousand people. Small things, little things. God uses little things. What am I trying to say? Sometimes we see things as small and insignificant, but in fact, most of the time we don't even notice these little things. But there's little blessings happening all around us all day long. And we need to stop and pay attention to these little things. These little things. Notice the little things. I'm challenging you tonight to open your eyes tonight and tomorrow to the little things. Romans chapter 12 and verse 12 says, Rejoicing in hope, patient in tribulation, instant in prayer, we want to instantly call on him when we need him. Why can't we instantly call on him to thank him? When these little things happen to us. As we look back at our text, John chapter 10 and verse 10, Jesus said, I am come that they might have life and they might have it more abundantly. So listen up here. We're real quick tonight. We're almost done. We're going to get out of here quickly tonight. um and get out of here before the weather. Jesus when when Jesus accepts us or we accept Jesus Christ as our personal Savior and we become a child of of of God, we become uh heir to heaven, we become co-heirs with Christ. We become a child of God. Which one of you parents are not concerned about the little things of your children? You know, I came up here and we watched two little guys play basketball yesterday. And you know, I didn't really care what was going on with the rest of them. I was caring about the one little one that I came to watch And I was caring about what happened. I mean, when the ball got knocked away from him, or when he knocked the ball away from somebody else, I was either throwing a fit or I was cheering. I was caring about the little things that happened to those little guys Okay? So think about our relationship now with God. If He's our Heavenly Father and He's looking down on us, He's caring about the little things. I challenge the young people this morning in Sunday school about prayer, passion, and perseverance. But I told them, hey, it's the little things. God cares about the little things in your life. The little individual things. We were talking about rain. Whenever I carried mail here years ago, I I challenged them to count how many times. You all know that I walk a mail route downtown, I walk five miles every day carrying a mailbag I challenged them to come up with how many times I got wet. I was a sailor, sailors in water, if sailors get wet, there's something wrong. Sailors are not supposed to get wet. They're supposed to stay dry. They're supposed to sail on top of the water, not go through the water. I don't like to get I don't like a shower, that's fine. A pool, ocean, you can have it all. I don't want to get wet So I challenged them to come up with how many times I got wet. And you know some of them were given astronomical numbers, and one guy said zero. He was pretty close to right. I can count in five years of walking that mail route, and I know I was a mailman longer than that, but in five years of walking my assigned route, I can count on two hands how many times I got wet I can remember pulling up and stopping and loading up my mailbag, praying and asking God for it to stop raining, and it stopped. Now some people would say that's a coincidence, but I think it was my heavenly father looking down and saying, you know, Chip doesn't like you a whip. You know, so we'll just turn it off for a second. But now there's a guy down the street just praying for rain chips, so hurry up and get around the block so I can turn it back on. Amen? And he did. And I mean, you know, we look at that and we laugh, but you know, I attributed that to God every time that happened. Or it would slow down to a drizzle, and I wouldn't get drowned when it had been pouring or something along those lines Hey, God cares about the little things in our life. We had an event happen here just not long ago when Brian was down at Beacon. And uh we had ordered we've we've been a lot of churches are getting cutters. You guys are not alone. So we're stepping into a new portion of our ministry, so you pray for us. because I used to have control of all of our equipment and once I got it running pretty good, you know, I had control over it and I could take care of it and everything seemed to be okay. Now I've got one here, I've got one over there, I've got one over here. I'm getting ready to send one to Kansas Alright, so I'm uh you know we're going through this thing trying to make sure that it's as close and new as possible. And the the countertop on the thing was all beat up and the formica was coming off of it, so we had to order a new piece of formica so that I could recover that before we sent it out there to Kansas. Well, I've seen Fermica before, but it's always come in 4x8 sheets or 4x12 sheets or 5x12 or something like some great big sheet like a sheet of plywood. Well, Fermica's real thin Well the day that we went to get that it came in and we went to get this thing, it was raining that day. Kind of like today. I didn't ask God for it to stop raining. I just went to get the Formica. I was hoping that we might catch it in between storms. You know what happened when I got to Home Depot to pick up the Sheeta for Micah? Ronnie, do you know It was rolled up in a cardboard box that fit right in the backseat of my truck and it poured rain all the way back, but the promica never got wet. Now, could I just say that was a coincidence? That, my friends, is what sparked this message. Brian and I, all the way back, were talking about how God took care of that little desire that I had Why? Because we're his children. Because he cares about the little things He cares about the little things. So my friends, are we paying attention to the little things? Back to our text. I am come that they might have life and that they might have it more abundantly. Abundantly means fully, amply, or plentifully. So here's what I'm getting at. If God takes care of the little things, I can do one of two things. I can either dismiss them and meander through life and be depressed. Or I can recognize those little things, and I can have a life more abundant. I can be happy. I can be energetic. I can realize the little things that God is doing for me. I can acknowledge those things. Now Fathers, mothers, what happens when you take care of the little things for your children and they thank you for them? What does that do to you? It motivates you to do it again, doesn't it? And it motivates you to do it again. And it motivates you to do it again. And pretty soon you have an abundant life. We have an abundant life. You know, Christians, I just heard this preached recently, you know, Chr and I and I thought about this also in testimony time when Miss Cindy said this about her brother getting saved, and praise the Lord. And let me tell you what, if you know anything about Cindy You know, Cindy is probably one of the greatest soul winners that I personally have ever known or had the privilege of going out visiting with. If Cindy can't win them, nobody can. I mean that's kind of you know what I'm saying? No. But but I mean for her brother to go that long um and for her to pray, what a wonderful thing. What a wonderful thing We as Christians, as independent Baptists, I heard this preach and I thought how truth this is. We as independent Baptists, as Christians, we don't have any problem believing that God can. Where the problem comes in is we don't believe God will. Now why is that? I submit to you tonight that we have trouble believing that God will because we don't acknowledge what He does do. We need to stop and acknowledge what God has done for us. The little things. The little things here, the little things there, and thank Him for that. Get the strength from that. You know, we can look at things on the negative side or we can focus on the positive. And my challenge to you tonight is to focus on those positive, little, and personal things. A more abundant life. The further I go, the more I believe that we give God credit and do, the more it motivates Him to do, just like it does if you were a parent. That is an abundant life. The more I thank him, the more I praise him, the happier I become, the more happy he becomes, the more he blesses, and the more it continues to go. So let's take a few moments tonight and let's thank God for those little things in our life. Let's praise him for the small things that he's done for us. Pretty soon we're going to be praising him for great things because those small things are going to become more abundant. So that's my challenge for you tonight. I cut it kind of short because of the weather, but stand with me if you would. We'll have uh uh Catherine come back and and play a A quick hymn of invitation here. And if God spoken to your heart about something, come forward. Let's get it dealt with tonight. If there's something God's done for you, maybe it was pretty spectacular Let's get up here and thank him for it. If there's someone here tonight that maybe does not know Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, hey, come on, let's get that settled tonight so that you can have that abundant life and you can start thanking God for the little things in your life.