Chapter 1. And as you turn there, I uh do a lot of preaching and several years ago I was in a missions conference in downtown Philly with the Pinochetis And if you've never seen a Bethel Baptist church, you've never been to an inner city church, they were meeting in a bar. It was a can an old bar. And it was about not quite this size. And uh And they uh they they have a tradition they still do today. They started it that week when I was there, and it was roll out the barrel. And it's the tune of you know, roll out the barrel, and you think they're going to sing a uh a neighborhood Bible time song, but it's off the roll out the barrel of beer, you know. But they've got a Christian tune to it, and they roll the barrel down. And we're going to take a love offering up for all of our missionaries, and whatever goes into that love goes into that barrel belongs to God and no one else. And so I got uh and so we did an offering and God got done preaching and they're going to do it again and they rolled the barrel out a second time and now what do you want to give to God? And one of the men picked up his five-year-old boy and put him in that barrel. Amazing stuff. And I was there preaching three months ago, and that boy's assistant pastor at that church. And he told me I was the one in that barrel. Just a little thing like that that comes together from time to time. I preach across the country enough, and some people say, you remember me. No, I don't. You know, and I uh do you I'm that little girl you said be a preacher's wife. Well I'm gonna be a missionary's wife to Uganda And uh, wow, that actually happens. And uh you've all been in a lot of services here, and you'll hear a preacher say something or Preach something and that that little thing he says will touch you in a way that you don't forget. And I figured out, and if you read the scripture, God does not use big shots in the Bible. He uses little people. And I want to preach the best message to you tonight is a little shrub, a little stone, and a little snack. Now, shrub was in the story to save a nation. The stone is in the story to save an army. And the snack is in the story To present to us for the first time in John chapter 6 the bread of life. That's the best bread, amen. But I want us to start tonight and uh we'll week through this. I will be done by 9 o'clock. You're here at 9 o'clock, you'll be here by yourself. Amen. So the faster you go through the Bible with me, the better, okay, because this is spread out a little bit. 1 Corinthians chapter 1. Verse twenty six. We're calling people into the ministry We're talking about full-time service. You know, the strength of a church is measured not by their giving capacity, but it's by their sending capacity. People out of that church. For every 14 independent Bible-believing Baptist churches like this one, you get one missionary to come out of it. I live in Monroe County, Noble County, Ohio. Monroe County has about 8,000 people. And since 1950 till today, only two missionaries have ever come out of that county in any form, and I'm one of them. The other one came out in 1952 They came back in 1960. Now once you understand that God takes country boys like me, hickbillies, we didn't have hills where I was at, because they called us hicks. If God can use me, he can use anyone. Now wait a minute. Do you really believe me? I'm going to read some scripture to you, unwrap it, and then we're going to get into it. This is to encourage you. Well, preacher, I'm eighty years old. Well God called me. Yep, we're going to start out with an eighty-year-old. Well I'm just one of those dumb teenage boys. You know, yep, we're going to go to teenage boys secondly I wonder if I'm just seven eight years old and I'm not that uh uh you know I'm just a lad or just a little uh uh a lassie as we say in Australia, a little Sheila. That's okay God uses all these people. There's no age limit on it. So we take that off the deck. Well I I can't I can't you know you started your social what security this week Medicare, you don't I can't more medicine. Yes, you can. You're just getting started. You're wise enough to keep your body out of some things, amen. Just trying to encourage you here. God will call anybody Anywhere at his time, but you have to be ready to go. Look at this, verse 26. For we see your calling, brethren, that's you and me. That's the Church of Cornath here. How that not many wise men after the flesh, not many, or not, not many mighty And not many noble are called. I think that's got about every one of us in here, so we're still on the list. But God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. And God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty and base things of the world. In the Greek and in English, that base means little. And things which are despised hath God chosen, yea, the things which are not to bring to naught the things that are, that no flesh should glory in his presence, but of him. Are ye in Christ? Now you listen to listen to this thought. He saved you for a reason. And he is in you for a reason. That's more than it's good to read your devotions, it's good to memorize the scripture There's more to it than that. He says, But of him are ye in Christ, Jesus, who of God has made unto us wisdom and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. That, according as it is written. Folks, what's that word redemption mean? He saves you. Go the next word back and sanctification. That word sanctification is in verse 30. He cleans you up. He gets you right with him. You get discipled and you get led along and mature in the Lord. And then he, guess what's that next word? And righteousness. God's word and God's will and God's way in a local church will always teach you what is right. It'll show you what God wants to do, what's right. And then look at that first word. I know I'm doing a backwards, I want you to catch it. Wisdom. And you will have the wisdom. We got in this conversation today with a bunch of people from this church. God will give you the wisdom to do the right thing. Are you with me on this? So when you consciously make a decision to do what God wants you to do, Pretty good, isn't it? But when you consciously make a decision to do nothing, still pretty good, huh? Nope. It's either or. Either you're in it or you're not. Now God says, I've redeemed you, I've sanctified you, I've taught you righteousness, you know what's right, know what's wrong. Maybe God just called you to be a godly father. A godly layman, uh, have a Christian home, and you ladies the same. But in a church like this, with an emphasis like this, I know the Holy Spirit of God wants to tap On the heart of you folks over the age of 60. Those middle-aged, those teenagers, and even those below the youth. Well, what did he tap on the swallow of Samuel, didn't he? He tapped on David, didn't he? He tapped on some young ones through the New Testament, didn't he? I just want to encourage you that God, little is much, if God is in it. And it's not a false well such nothing. Humility. No, I'm not saying that. God takes the humble and he changes the world with them. So I want you to catch this whole message. It says, brethren. So Paul's talking to the church. He's laying it out there for us. So I saw that word base. Look at verse 28. That and the usually in scripture that means a bunch of sinners. Base fellows, terrible people. But in this Greek word it means little Tiny. You get me by Biggie, he's big. Dan DeLong is tiny compared to him. Okay? And I I am the base fella in that thing, alright? And but it's not the size That's important here. He says this, it's the heart of the thing. I've saved you, I've cleaned you up, I've taught you righteousness, now I've given you wisdom to make that decision. So far so good. Let's go to Exodus chapter 3. We're going to take a look at the the first small thing in Scripture. There's other things I could do, but I wanted to go to that shrub And there was an eighty-year-old guy there at that shrub, and he'd have failed at about everything, and his name was uh uh uh uh Moses and uh he made a lot of mistakes But God uses a little shrub on the backside of nowhere to get an attention of an individual that he wanted that he felt God felt he was ready to lead. The Bible says in verse chapter 3, verse 1, now Moses kept the flock of Jethro, his father-in-law, the priest of Midian And he led the flock to the backside of the desert, and he came to the mountain of God, even to Horeb, and the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a flame of fire. out of the midst of a bush. There's why I get the word sh sh it's a scrub, it's a shrub, not very big, not a tree. And he looked and behold the bush burned with fire, and the bush was not consumed And Moses said, I'll now turn aside and see this great sight, why the bush is not burned. Now let's stop right there. There's no Red Sea yet. There's no uh getting into the promised land yet. So far in our story, Moses is known for messing things up I mean he he killed that Egyptian and made a mess of things and if it by all the only job he could get from his father-in-law, even his sheep, you know, would say he's a bad shepherd because he's taken back on the back side of the desert. Doesn't say anything about green grass. And he gets way up in there, and he looks over there, and there's a shrub burning. And it says, and when the Lord saw that he turned aside, To see, God called him out of the midst of the bush and said, Moses, Moses, and he said, Here am I And he said, Draw not nigh hither, put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place whereupon thou standest is holy ground. You know what that means in your vernacular and mine? You need to sit still. We're going to do business. And God's uh got you here tonight. He wants to get your attention. And he says this, when I look at this burning bush, he says it uh that that that bush when Moses saw it burn I can see the sheep looking at it too. And that thing is not consumed. It got his attention. But I want you to see about the bush, number one, it was consistent in its burning. Its consistence in its light. It did not shut off. That got his attention. I say all that to say this. What's your testimony like? What should a witness like? You know, will you keep your hand there? Would you slide to Matthew chapter 5? I'm going to tell you what kind of uh consistency God wants from you and I in this church and through this church. It says in verse 14 of chapter 5 of the book of Matthew, Jesus is speaking. He says, Ye are the light of the world, Christian. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. Neither do men light a candle and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick, and it giveth light unto all uh to all that are in the house. Let your light So it's shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. Now I want you to listen to this. I've been in the ministry now fifty years this trip. And I've got a list here, I'll show it to you of guys that started out in the ministry that aren't in it today. Missionaries, we've been talking, that started out, they're not in it today. Ministries that was going, they're not going today. The lights went out, alright? You see, because I when when God said, Moses, I want to talk to you, you're on holy ground, stop, sit still, get on your knees, whatever you got to do I'm going to chat to you for a few minutes because I got a plan for you. And I'm telling you, folks, God will come knocking on your door if that light's lit. If you're a consistent witness, consistent testimony. And it's not about how much education you have. It's about the witness you are. It's not about what how you can uh uh memorize the scripture it's how you treat and love on people to get them to Jesus. Number two, I see this bush burning. Second thing jumps out to me. That little shrub caught Moses' attention. Look at verse three If you'll slide back to the text, the Bible says this in Exodus chapter 3, uh verse 3. And uh Moses said, I will now turn aside. Who's he talking to? Sheep. He's so goofy, man. I'm gonna turn aside here. You know, he didn't know he's talking to God, yet that bush is burning He said, I'm gonna I'm gonna turn aside and see this great sight while the bush is not burnt. May that thing's burning. It's like a gas pipe It's like that grill. It's always flaming up and you know, but it's not burning enough. What's what's going on here? And and as he's looking at it, secondly here, that little shrub got Moses' attention. You stay around this church long enough And I follow you online, I see your preachers and your sermons, and I listen to your stuff, and I read it. Hey, God's here If you can come to a church like this and God not get your attention, boy, your spiritual woods all wet, you better put that in the dry cleaners, okay? Because God is here and he meets with you. And what God wants to do, he not only wants to maintain what he has here, but he wants to touch people's heart to do something for him. You see, the Lord was after Moses' heart, and when he got Moses' attention, He said, now you take them shoes off. You're on holy ground. About that time when Moses heard that bush talk. And when he heard the voice of God, that's my third thing. Look at verse 4. And when the Lord saw that he turned aside to see, God called him to him. In the midst of that bush. How'd you like to be walking that fire last night? We were sitting there and that thing starts talking to us. Good night We've been trying to get out of those chairs running different, what's going on? How many have had somebody scare you and you didn't know they they were there? I love to do that to my grandkids. They hate it with a passion I'll be driving down the road about an hour on the trip and about like half asleep on purpose. They'll look at them and they're like, got about three hot hamburgers in them, you know, and And and then all of a sudden now the car like that, scream like an eighth-grade girl at a spook house, Wow the Halloween. They come up out of that seat, go, go, go, go, go, go. If they'd been really sleeping, they'd just get up in that seat and go, huh? And I think Moses, when that bush talked to him, huh? Oh. You wait a minute. Moses knew who that was. He got on that, he listened to that, and he obeyed that. And I want to talk to you tonight. That little shrub teaches a lesson. Thy word of the Lord thy God, when you hide it in your heart, you better apply it to your heart. And I just want to encourage you, God wants you to make a decision Will you listen to that burning bush? Well, what's the plan for me if I do listen to it? And I do obey it. What's the plan for me? I don't know, but God's got a plan. Moses made five excuses to that bush to try to get out of it And God had him check-made it everywhere. And he teaches us a valuable lesson. Don't make excuses to God. Just obey him. And and and Moses didn't know everything at that time. God let him know as he went down the track. You know, and I've done a lot of preaching. There's a a pastor over in Ohio that In 2012 he met me, he'd been married about a week. I was preaching at a church and he's at a church no bigger than this and uh he'd went to uh college and he's working at the aluminum plant there and And uh I'd I'd be preaching and and uh I'd go there from year to year and boy God's working on his heart and and uh he had a man he's making a hundred and fifty thousand a year, just a young guy, uh a foreman And it God was working on his heart and he called me one night and he said, Preacher, I think God's called me in the ministry. What do you think I should do? I said, I got this good job. I got this good wife. If I go into ministry, how's that going to work? Ah, you just need to listen to God on that. It's going to work. You know, and that he stayed in that church, and we're here ten years later. He has pastored that church for two years now. He got his education, kept his job, raised his family, and when he said, I am unworthy. And I told him, that's the type of people that God wants to use. And God used Moses to save his nation, but he had to speak to him first. He had Got him where he was. Moses was a proud person. Now he's known as the most humblest man in the Old Testament. God got him where he needed him. He got him up on that mountain. And praise God, Moses lifted listened to God to a burning bush that was not consumed. And God used that little bush to get his attention You use that little bush to stop him, and that little bush contained the voice of God, and it contained the will of God for him. When the little things take place in this church When the little things are said from this preacher or that teacher or that Sunday school lesson, when the Holy Spirit is working in your life, do not walk past that. Stop. Gaze at that how God's working on your heart. God will use base things of this world. God will use Moses's. God will use Dandelong's. Gods will lose Dennis Leathermans, God will use you. But you have to be willing to listen You know you might have a nation for you to save, amen. Or to leave. Number two, let's slide on over with me, please. The second small thing tonight you'll see in 1 Samuel chapter 17. Let me hear those Bibles rustling, that's in the Old Testament, by the way. Little is much if God is in it. You know, uh when Tal Arbery came to me as a 12-year-old, he went through a Christian school, then he didn't have parents, his uncle took him in. And uh he came to our Bible college. I go pick him up on a Monday and Tuesday night. And he stayed all three years. The other guys done all the rest of them did. And he said he didn't know what God wanted him to do yet. How do I decide? And I said, always be listening for the Holy Spirit to touch you. Touch your heart, touch your mind. You'll come to a place where you can't do anything else. You cannot sleep, you cannot eat, until you say, Hear my Lord, send me. Folks, uh, he's already wanting to send you, okay? And I want to give this thought out to you tonight, secondly, that little stone. You see, in verse 40 of chapter 17, David's getting ready to take on Goliath. And it says that he took in his staff and his hand, and he chose him five stones out of the brook. And put them in the shepherd's bag which he had, and even in a script, and in his sling, and it was in his hand, and he drew near to the Philistine, and the Philistine came on to drew near to David and And a man bare the shield that went before him. And when the Philistine looked about and saw David, he disdained him. Are you kidding me? Come on, man. You're bringing that little pipsqueak against me. That's what that' what what he's meaning here. For he was but a youth and ruddy and of a fair cut countenance and Looked like a sweet little thing, didn't have no muscles on him, you know, and and the Philistines said unto David, Am I a dog that thou comest to me with staves? The Philistine cursed David by his gods, and the Philistine said to David, Come to me and I will give thy flesh to the fowls of the air, to the beast of the field. Then said David to the Philistine, now let's stop right there If you didn't know anything was going on, and uh Biggie stand up there for me, would you please? That little boy behind you in the black shirt, what's his name? Could you stand up for me That's about the ratio. Maybe a little bit more. Goliath's about three more foot taller. Alright. Now who you think is going to win that thing? Where are you going to put your money? Biggie. Biggie, you're going down. Have a seat. I wanted you to see this And David's looking up at that guy. Now I want you to listen to David in verse 45. Then said David to the Philistine, Thou comest to me with a sword and with a spear and with a shield, but I come to thee in the name of the Lord of hosts. Can I tell you when God calls you into missions God wants you in the ministry. Would you just understand he knows what he's doing? Oh, well I'm not you don't have to be qualified. He'll take care of all that for you. Look what it says closer. But I come to you in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defied. This day will the Lord deliver thee into my hand, and I will smite thee. And I'm telling you folks, drop down to verse forty-eight. It came to pass when the Philistine arose and came to drew nigh to meet David And David hasted, and he ran toward the army to meet the Philistine, put his hand in his bag, and this and a stone, and took a stone and slang it, smoke that Philistine And that their Philistine, whose name means splendor of exposure, exposing the lies of Israel, for forty days I have, and he cussed and swore And everybody ran from him till David showed up. Everybody thought he was too big to fight. David thought he was too big to miss in the fight. Because God was on his side. He took that stone, whipped it in it, hit him in the head. He said he would never bow down to the God of heaven. That old boy fell forward. Isn't that great stuff? Let me give you three thoughts about that stone. Number one, that little stone was in position to be used by God. It was on the right stream of Elah, on the right day, getting ready to go into the right battle. David, a typical teenager, he didn't hey slang, but he didn't have any You know, he didn't have any shells and no stones. All right. And so he's going across to fight that giant, and he reaches down in that there creek of Elah. Now watch this. And in that creek There's those five smooth stones. Do you know how hard it is to find a shepherd stone in Israel? Do you know what one looks like? Do you know what a shepherd stone looks like? Could you raise your hand Anybody? I didn't think so. Let me give you a visual. You ready? How many know what a marble is? Oh yeah, okay. Jawbreaker? Okay? That's what a l now how many knows how many's ever skipped a stone across the pond here in Maryland? Those are called skipper ton skipper stones. You don't get around one to do it because it's going to go blink, blink, plank. Now my mom was the number one skipper on our farm. We'd go fishing. And she said, boys, can you skip stones like your mom? Well my twin brother and I were just dumb as oxes. You know, we boys stay dumb until they're 21. You know, you got about ten more years, son, you'll be all right. And and and so we'd get these stones and we'd throw them across that pond. And she'd get a little flat thing, and she'd take a smooth side of that on the bottom, get it next to the water. Forty fifty skips and she'd do you about forty five years old, she'd do a little victory dance. She would do that. Is that that giddy thing you guys do? You know, I thought she would do And she would rub it into us. And we tried to get she said, Boys, it's not your arms. It's not the water. You don't know how to choose the right stone. And they're hard to find. When David's going to cross that creek to fight Goliath, number one, you've got to understand he was trusting God with this. Who put those stones there? And that God did. Who'd prepared those stones? God did. Who put 'em in position? God did Are you in position to be used by God today? Or do you have one of those silly little sins that so easily beset you, that weights you down, and you excuse that and you just keep putting it off, putting it off, where you just trust God Take on that giant of discouragement. Take on that giant of wait till next year. Take on that giant, well, I can never do it. You get across that stream. You get that that bag loaded or that gun loaded as you're going across that stream, he looked right in there. It doesn't say he searched around. He reached right down in there and he got five smooth stones. I don't care how many stones he got But they're also known as in the scripture shepherd stones. He got the right ones. He was the shepherds were the stones were in position. That boy'd been flinging rocks. He was prepared. And he had that stone in the bag there. And when it comes to throwing down time, he grabbed that one stone out. Not all five. It wasn't You know, using buckshot. Ps, ps, ps, that's a sound it makes, by the way. Pst, psst, ps, ps What was that? That was the power of the God on display. He used a little stone to take down the strongest man in the Philistine army, a man that was against God, little as much if God is in it. Wow. Aren't you glad that David was in position to be used by God? And he'd taken down a lion and a tiger and a bear. I'd add an animal there. He took down a lion and a bear. Now watch this. He'd always been already through this. He'd watched God work. He was used to it. Have you seen God work in your church? Have you seen God work in your life? How many of you guys have taken down a giant or two in your life? Discouragement, defeat, worry. Anger, alcohol, other drugs, abuse of situations, you got victory over that. Shh, here coming. I I praise God for that, don't you? Well, why is God giving you victory after victory? Because he wants to use you. And he used David. That little stone was in position. David had already been prepared. The giants showed up at the power of God. was putting on display. Folks, David didn't have a lot of opportunities to take down giants. He had one opportunity. Don't miss it. Don't pass that up. Number three, and I'll be finished here. Look at the third little thing. I think it's a probably a really good one for all of us. Go in your Bibles to John chapter John chapter 9. Oh, excuse me, John chapter 6. We use a little shrub to save in our uh country. A nation to bring him out of slavery. He uses a little stone to save the army. And number three, God uses a little snack lunch. The Bible tells me in chapter 6, starting verse 5. And Jesus, when he lifted up his eyes, and I got a circle, he saw a great company coming to him. And he said unto Philip, When shall we buy bread that these may eat? That's 5,000 men there. He'd been preaching. It's time to eat. Now, I want you to understand God always got a plan before we ever ask the question. God has a plan for this missions conference before it ever started. He's got a plan for this mission conference after it's over. And I want you to understand the Bible said, and this he said, not only did he s see it, But he said to prove him, for he he himself, Christ, knew what he Christ would do. He's got a plan. He just needs somebody to help him execute it. Philip answered him and said, 200 penny worth of bread is not sufficient for them. He's the keeper of the bank. We don't have enough money to buy bread for these people. That every one of them may take a little. One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon brothers, Simon Peter's brother, saith unto him, There's a lad here. Now that word lad means just a small kid One of these little small girls I saw here, I mean, I mean this not much more than a toddler. Some scholars say between six and four years of age. There was a lad there which had five barley loaves and two fishes, but what are they among so many? And I think what happened, that little boy had his sack lunch there, his snack lunch. When Jesus was looking for food, he may have heard the conversation, and he kind of held it up a bag up to Andrew. Nice thought, kid. You don't have to feed me maybe Jesus. That's about it. Look what Jesus says in verse 10. And Jesus said, Make the men to sit down. Now there was much grass in the place, so The men sat down and then the number about 5,000. Now, they took the loaves from that little boy. And he took the fish from that little boy. And he given thanks, he distributed to the disciples, and the disciples to them that were set down, five thousand men, and likewise of the fishes as much as they could eat. And the Bible says, when they were filled, he said unto his disciples, gather up the fragments that remain, that nothing be lost. Wow, that boy gave what he had He gave it when he could. Jesus knew what he was going to do already, and the boy's heart was waiting and willing to do it. Man, what a missions thought. See, I started with Moses the old man. David the teenager. For time's sake, we didn't do it. I got another one. We're just, and we're doing this little boy here. God can touch the heart of a little boy and a teenager and an 80 or one-year-old going out the other side of life. He wants all of us in that time frame. Therefore they gathered them together, it says in verse 13, and filled twelve baskets with the fragments of the five barley loaves, which remained over and above unto them that had eaten You know I wrote three thoughts down about this snack. The lad, the lord, and the leftovers. About the lad. I can write so much about him. But that little boy sitting there had a vision that those people needed food. And no one else had any but him You catch that vision. Just a dumb little four, five, six-year-old, not dumb, let me rephrase that. Immature But he had a heart to give. His mom had to teach him that. Most boys, I think a hamburger and a hot dog ain't gonna share that with anybody. But she'd give him the day's meal. And he was there at a preaching service. Something was going right. And when when he heard what was going on, he had a vision. You can take it. His heart didn't understand the math yet, but Jesus was already there. Are you ready? He was already had the answer. Usually when I do this sermon preacher, I do a math lesson. Can I do one now? What's two plus two? What's double that? What double that? Double that. 32! What's double that? What's double that, 128? What's double that? 256. 256, 512, 512, what's that? 1024. 2048. Four thousand ninety-six. Eight thousand one hundred and ninety-two. Where are you? I've lost you somewhere. Oh Wow. That boy did not have a calculator. But he had a vision to give what he had. He had no idea. Set the men down. God take care of this for me to show your power and will. Amen. Jesus started handing out the baskets. I don't know where they come from, it doesn't tell us. How many loaves of bread did he have? Five? He had a lot more than that Did they have a bakery behind there? How many fish did they have? How many? Two, four, six, eight, ten, twelve, five thousand I think. When it was all done and said, and everybody was done fed, they had twelve baskets left over. All God's people said, Do you see that thing the boys saw? He gave what he had when he could, and he wasn't going to wait till he got his inheritance. He wasn't going to text mom, how much do you think I should? He gave all that he had when he could When you look at the lad there, boy, did that boy have a good heart. Now let's look at the Lord. The Lord's always going to bless. It says in verse 6, he knew what he was going to do. And he said, Set him down. And they set him down, and he prayed, and he handed it out. And when they were done, there were twelve baskets left over. When they started, Whoa. That boy didn't have enough to fill up a half of one of those baskets. I just want to encourage you when it said, would you do this for God? It says it's pressed down, shaken together, and running over. And I want you to catch this with me. The Lord knew what he was going to do. Now look at these leftovers And that goes with what I've been preaching all week. It says in Philippians chapter 4, when you give the mission, Paul writes under the direction of the Holy Spirit. When you take care of the missions programs, you're going to have leftovers. What do you mean? It says, but my God shall supply all your need according to his riches in glory by who? Christ Jesus. Little is much of God as in it. That little shrub called Moses to lead a nation, that little stone The five that David God took down that giant. That little snack was used by God to teach us and introduce the world. That's the key. Go home and read it tonight, John chapter 6 Jesus said, I am the bread of life. And that was the illustration of doing that bread. I just want to encourage you that it says in my text tonight that God, the world thinks we're foolish. It thinks we're weak. It thinks we're base. It thinks we're small. It thinks we're just and they despise us. And I can say something to you tonight to encourage you as a church as you finish up your missions conference. It says in my text in verse 58, God uses the base things. The little things. It's five dollars here, ten dollars here, hundred dollars here, fifty cents here Five minutes of prayer for the missionary. She does ten. You do fifteen. You do an hour. You uh uh uh call the missionary on the mission field. You Text that missionary. You get this uh WhatsApp, it's free around the world. You can even talk to us face to face now. You don't have to have FaceTime. This is unbelievable. I'll communicate with about 20 missionaries Because what I do every week around this world, I'm telling you, that incur you invest in them. My God says it shall be added to your account. It's more than finances, it's more than time. Little is much if God is in it. You know I God's called you to Paraguay. Is that right? That's your country? You're the first mission I ever met to go in there God's called you to Spain, you know, and I'm going to New Guinea. I have no interest in Russia or the Ukraine. I don't even know where Paraguay is. I know where Spain is. It's over there somewhere around Portugal. I'm not my interest is where God's called me. But every church I've ever started, every church I've ever belonged to, I've always been a proponent of missions. Because for some reason, preacher, God just, I don't do it to get it, but he always adds to the account. And it's health and it's time and it's treasure. I just want to encourage you tonight. The next time you sing that song Little is much if God is in it. But I want to stop here as I start my invitation. Number one, Moses had. To take his shoes off and talk to God. David had been proven by God with the lion and the bear. David had been through it, and David listened to God. This little lad is more New Testament, more like us. He did not understand everything. But he knew he was Jesus was doing it. And that little boy had a vision of what he had. And God touched his heart. Jesus touched his heart to give it. You see what what an illustration of mission. I don't know if that little kid what happened afterward. He became a m missionary or church planner or disciple. I don't want it. His name's not given to us. But I guarantee he never forgot that day. And my friends, you'll not forget it either When you say, Hear my Lord, I'll I'll go be a missionary. Hear my Lord, I'll be part of this. And you know Moses, yeah, he turned God using to save that nation. And he was about as normal as all of all of us in here. Pretty hard-headed, amen. David, boy, good teenager. Boy, did he mess up? But he got it right with God And this little lad, we don't know what happened to him, but Boy had a vision to give it to the Lord. And anytime the war, the Lord's around it And he wants you to be part of it. My text started tonight with this in 1 Corinthians chapter 1, brethren. Brethren. And the whole four of the next four or five verses is Jesus is doing this, Christ has done this, so you can do it for him. He's redeemed you, he's cleaned you up, he's taught you righteousness. Now you need to have the wisdom to do when that Lord, our Holy Spirit says, I want you to be a missionary to Spain. I want you to be a missionary to Paraguay. I want you to be a church plan. I want you to be a pastor's life. I want you to be a pastor. I want you to be a youth pastor, uh or I want you to be a doctor, or I want you to be a mechanic, or an airplane pilot. That's all good stuff But we're in the are you ready for this? We're in the God-building church ministry business here. And so we need to make that first and foremost. All God's people said. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I don't know your hearts tonight, but God does. And who will say, Lord, here am I? If God would touch your heart to step out like Moses did and go on a journey with God, to help save a nation or save a county or save a community or make a to start a church or be a pastor who can say I would do that preacher. Can you raise your hand as a testimony with me? No one's looking around. Okay. All right. Number two, I'm a laban, Brother DeLong, and I I want to do more than listen to burning bushes. I I I want to do more than pick up stones and God is speaking to my heart tonight that I can be like that David. I can I can I can I can uh stand up for God and be a witness for him. and save my community and save my area and and I can be like that little boy, Lord, carrying that snack and and rem and listening to God ask that question, Jesus asked that question. Do we have anything to feed 'em? Now I'm just a young man, I'm a small guy. God can save an army through a bush. He can take down a giant through a stone and save a nation. And he can take a little boy's snack lunch of bread and give us the bread of life. He can use each and every one of us in here. Who can say tonight, Brother Dan, Pastor Leatherman? God calls me, God tugs my heart to be in missions, to be in ministry. I will do it. No matter what your age is, no matter what your position is, I will do what God wants me to do when it comes to missions. Can you raise your hand and say, pray for me? I've got them between 80. Come on now, teenagers. I got some teenagers. Got some middle-aged people had their hands up. Understand this is real I I see your hand, sir. Ma'am, I see your hand. Tonight when we have the invitation. See the vision of this little boy. See the vision of David. See the vision of Moses. Three different age groups. Three different situations, and God used the little things that bring great victories in this world for him. Pastor. Let's stand together.