And said Verily I say unto you, except ye be converted and become as little children ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven. Whosoever, therefore, shall humble himself as this little child, the same is greatest in the kingdom of heaven. Jesus makes a phrase here in this passage of Scripture and on down. Verse number two, he references a little child. He calls a little child. In verse 3, he references, he refers to these little children. Verse number 4, he says, as this little child. If you would notice in verse 5. says, Receive such little child. And then verse six he says, Whosoever shall offend one of these little ones If you would notice in verse number 10, again, he says, take heed ye despise not one of these little ones. That phrase little child Little ones has to re refers to a small child, maybe an infant or a toddler, that age group And so I want to speak this morning about little ones, the little ones. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now or time in your word. As we look at this passage, I ask that your Holy Spirit would draw out principles and lessons for us in our Christian life, and that we could be the people you intend for us to be, be the Christians you saved us to be And I ask, Father, you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will and mine. Present my body anew, that you could please speak through me now in this hour. In Jesus' name I pray Amen. I think we're all familiar with the fact that Jesus had called to himself twelve disciples. How many people are familiar with the twelve disciples? Sure, of course we all know that. I'm not going to ask you to. I wonder how many of us could name all twelve disciples. Now there's a challenge. But he called twelve disciples unto him, and the whole purpose for these calling these men and By the way, they responded to the calls. They forsook their jobs. They uh left all. They took up their cross, so to speak, followed the Lord, and left everything and dedicated themselves, 24-7 pretty much. uh to following the Lord Jesus Christ for about three and a half years. His whole purpose for calling these twelve men to him was to prepare them and train them for a future responsibility. The way he did that was through primarily teaching Some of the greatest teaching on Christianity, some of the greatest teaching on discipleship came from the lips of the Lord Jesus Christ and the Gospels, what it means to be a disciple for you and I. So he trained them through teaching, through preaching. Some of the most powerful messages ever preached came from the lips of the Lord Jesus, the Sermon on the Mount. in Matthew chapter 5, 6, and 7, where he preached on discipleship, what it means to be a disciple. Jesus preached some of the strongest messages on hell. Came from the lips of the Lord Jesus Christ. He preached about heaven. He preached about sin and righteousness and dedication And uh he taught his disciples through his teaching and his preaching. Uh he also taught them through parables. He would tell these stories who I tend to think were actual events. that he was referencing, but he would tell these parables to illustrate a spiritual truth or something to the disciples. The overwhelming Uh emphasis of Jesus' ministry for these three and a half years was focused on these disciples. Now multitudes heard, multitudes were saved. Multitudes were impacted by the Lord Jesus, his miracles and stuff, but his focus was these twelve men Um and so he taught them, he preached to them, he told them parables, he used object lessons sometimes And probably one of the most powerful tools he used to teach these twelve men, to influence them, train them, was his own example. They saw Jesus praying, and they said, Lord, teach us to pray. They saw Jesus interact with enemies and adversaries and how he interacted, and they learned. And they observed in the life of the Lord Jesus Christ what it meant To live for God and to be the kind of person God wants us to be. And so He was training them, developed them to be spiritually mature men of God. He's preparing them. They didn't know that they didn't know this at the time, but during this three and a half years, what the Lord was doing, his focus on them, his investment in them was preparing them for a responsibility that they would have down the road a little ways after he was crucified, resurrected, he goes to heaven These men were going to have a tremendous responsibility, and that was this, laying the foundation for the New Testament church And then taking the gospel into all the world. I love our church. I love Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. I've invested 32, just about 32 years of my life into this body of believers right now. I love our church. And our church is the fruit of the leadership of these men after Christ ascended, and they went out and they established churches, and then down through the ages. Here we are today. Would you agree with me? Tremendous responsibility. Tremendous job that the Lord had given them. And they had no way of, at this point, they had no way of comprehending. What God was doing in their life, what he was preparing them for in the coming years. And then taking the gospel into all the world Of course, Judas was a traitor. He ended up taking his own life. Paul later on was uh replaced him in the Lord's plan, I believe. And every one of these men, with the exception of John, gave their lives for the gospel of Jesus Christ. Every single one of them were martyred because they were followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. Anytime you have baby day, you're going to have babies crying, and so we praise the Lord for uh Caleb back there. He's saying Amen is what he's saying in baby language. And so they didn't comprehend that. At this point in time, where we're at in our text, what we just read here, Matthew 18, at that point in time. There is no way in the world, I mean no way in the world, these guys are prepared for what they're being trained to do If you would, I want you to notice something about these guys here. Look at verse number one. At the same time, the disciples came unto Jesus, saying, Now look at this great question they have for the Lord Jesus. They said, Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. Now on the surface, in just that verse, that doesn't sound too bad. Who's the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? Not a bad question, right? Come with me if you would. Keep your place here. Come with me over to Mark chapter number nine. We get Mark's version of this event. It's a little different. He gives some details that Matthew doesn't give, and he leaves some out that Matthew does have. But he tells us a little bit about this question, the background. to this question we're they're asking. And once we understand what's going on, it's not as great of a question as you might think. Look at Mark chapter 9 and verse number 30. Get the context here. Mark 9. And they departed, verse 30, and they departed thence. And pass through Galilee. So this is Jesus, these 12 guys tagging along with them. He's teaching them as they go, instructing them. And they pass through Galilee And he would not that any man should know it. So he wants time alone with the disciples. He doesn't need big crowds. He's working on these guys Verse 31. For he taught his disciples and said unto them, The Son of Man is delivered into the hands of men, and they shall kill him. And after that he is killed, he shall rise the third day. Pretty important information, right? I mean, that's the whole purpose of his coming. is to give his life a ransom for many. And so he's telling them, listen, fellas, this is what's coming. This is what I want to prepare you. You need to understand. Now look at verse 32. But they understood not that saying and were afraid to ask him. Now notice what happens. Verse 33. And he came to Capernaum, and being in the house, he asked them, What was it that ye disputed among yourselves by the way? So they're making their way down there, passing through Galilee. He doesn't want big crowds. He's just pretty much alone with the disciples. He tells them this This powerful fact that what's going to happen in just not too long, I'm going to be crucified. They're going to kill me. I'm going to be buried and rise again. Disciples, huh? You know, they didn't know what's going on. They get to the house and Jesus noticed as they were traveling that these Disciples were disputing among themselves. Now I did a little research on that word dispute. You know what they were doing? They were arguing and fussing with each other. What in the world would these twelve great men of God be entrained to be the of help for the foundation of the Church of the Body of Christ And take the God. What would they be disputing? What would they be fussing about? What would they be arguing about? Look what it says. But they held their peace. They won't answer the Lord. Did you ever say something to your kids? What were you guys doing? They just look at you? Anyone know what I'm talking about? Or worse yet, they say this: nothing. So he says, what were you guys fussing about among yourselves? What were you guys arguing about? We're going down. What were you arguing? Question, did Jesus know what they were arguing about? Yes. He's not asking them because he's ignorant of what was going on. He knew exactly what they were doing. By the way, we can't hide anything from Jesus. But they held their peace. They just looked at them. Why? Why wouldn't they answer him? For, by the way, they had disputed, fussed, fought, argued, raised their voices They disputed among themselves. Look at this. Who should be the greatest? Would you agree? Immature What? These are great men of God. And they're fussing, I'm the greatest. Uh-uh. I'm the greatest. No, I am. No, you ain't. You're dumb. No, I'm not dumb. You're dumb. I I mean that's basically what was going on Grown men. Can anybody here imagine grown men being that immature? There is no way in the world these guys are ready to be leaders of the body of Christ to fulfill the responsibility they're being prepared for. They are not even close. To that. If they're arguing over who's the greatest, it sounds like kindergarten. I'm stronger than you. Uh-uh. I'm stronger than you. I'm the greatest. Uh-uh. Immature, proud, huh? There's pride behind all of this. They're not arguing that the other person, you're going to be the, oh, you're awesome. You're going to be the That's not what they're doing. They're saying, I'm awesome. I'm going to be the one greatest. Pride, immaturity, self-seeking. They saw the kingdom of God not as something that exalted the Lord Jesus Christ They saw the kingdom of God as something that I can be something in. By the way, we're afflicted with that same maturity 22,000 years later. We still fuss, don't we? We still get proud, don't we? We still think it's all about me and we're the center of the universe, and what do I get out of this And so the Lord asked them, what were you guys fussing about? They wouldn't answer them. The Lord knew what it was. They were fussing about who was the greatest. The disciples' understanding of what greatness is, their thinking of what it means to be great in God's kingdom. Did not align with God's definition of what greatness in his kingdom is. In their mind, greatness revolved around themselves If it pleases me, if I get my way, if it's the way I think it should be, if it's what I uh want things to be, then And the Lord said, no, no, no. You've completely missed the point. If you would come back to Matthew, and the Lord teaches them. By way of illustration, what genuine greatness is, not in the world's definition. Not by man's definition of greatness, but God's definition of what greatness is. And it would be a wonderful thing if we could get to the point I hope you are on the same page with me on this. It'd be a wonderful thing if we could get to the point where we understand what it means to be great The way God wants it to be. Or let me put it this way: if we could get to the point where we're more concerned about being great in the eyes of God than in the eyes of the world or even in the eyes of ourselves God considers great. He takes, come back to Matthew 18 here, and look at verse number 2. Now that's the context behind that statement in verse That question in verse number one says, Who is the greatest in the kingdom of God? They've been fussy. And Jesus responds And look what he does. Jesus called a little child unto him. Jesus takes this little child. And he uses that child to illustrate what it means to be great in God's eyes. In other words, I believe he's taken this child. The disciples are all around, they're watching closely, they're You know, they're thinking this through. And Jesus brings this little child and he's and he uses that child to illustrate what God is looking for in the life of his people. He illustrates that little child, he used that little child to illustrate what he wants in your life and my life, what he's looking for, what we should be, this little child. He teaches a profound spirituality. And I'll tell you, as I was working this message, the Lord kept impressing upon me, and it's just kind of dawning on me, I guess I should say. That in this little child that he uses, and in little children, we see what it means to be a mature believer. He uses an undeveloped child to illustrate what it means to be a fully developed believer. A child. A profound truth here. I believe we can get a hold. There's two pr primarily two lessons here. And I think if we can get a hold of those two lessons, we could see revival in our hearts. We could see it in our homes We could see our homes healed. We could see our churches alive and on fire for God. Because we would be what God wants us to be. What God wants us to be. Now let me throw this out just real quick and then I'll look at this. We've often said this: children are the future of the church. Right? We often say a church that has no children's ministry has no future. A church that has no focus or effort or ministry to reach children has no future. We say children are the future of the church. And I agree with that. I stand by that statement. However Children are not just the future of the church, they are vital to the present well-being of the church Children are not just for our future. They are necessary for what we should be now. Every one of these little children play a role And every one of these little children is a first-hand object lesson for you and I as to what God is looking for in our lives. I notice three things. I'm going to be primarily the first one is the main. The other two I'm just going to tack on. The first thing I notice here is the picture of this little child. The picture. By that I mean the example. This child becomes an example or an illustration of the kind of Christian God wants us to be. And I believe the Lord points out two vital characteristics. that you and I ought to seek to have true in our lives. The first one is this that I see is faith. Faith in God. Look at verse 2. It says, and Jesus, what's that third word into the verse? Jesus what? Called a little child unto him. Notice it doesn't say he reached over and grabbed the child and pulled him over. It doesn't say he reached and took that child out of his mother's hands or some other part in the house and picked it up and carried it over and set it in front of them. No, he did a simple little thing. The child was there, obviously somewhere within sight or within voice, and he called the little child. Doesn't say that he called it by name, he may have But he said, come here. Come here. Come on over here. And what did the child do? The child responded in faith. It heard the Lord Jesus call and it responded and it came to where the Lord Jesus Christ was. I'm telling you, that's faith That little child trusted the Lord Jesus Christ. That word called there means to summon or invite He didn't grab it. He didn't pick it up and carry it. He said, come here. He invited the child to come And the child reacted in faith and trusted the Lord Jesus Christ and came to him. I tell you, if you and I in our lives can get to the point where we just trust Jesus. And he says something. And we take it for what he says, and we trust him. And the Lord says, the Lord instructs us from his word. And he says, you need to do this. And we trust him. And we do it. And he says, you need to avoid this and watch out for that. And we have faith in him and we trust him. And we respond and we watch out for it. And God gives us a promise. And we just in simple, childlike faith, we believe that promise. We hold on to it and we take it to be our own. I tell you, every one of these little babies, and I'm not just singling out the parents, every single one of us, but I'll tell you what the little ones need. The little ones need mommies and daddies that just have faith in God. Just trust him. God says this is what the family is. This is the structure. This is how the family is to function and uh uh and and this is what makes up a family and for that child to grow and be what God intends for it to be you need to trust me and just simple faith And what's true in the home with a child is true in every other aspect of life. We have got to get to the point where we just trust the Lord. Jesus put it this way in Matthew 11, 22. He says, have faith in God. Jesus called that little child. He invited it, summoned the child. The child in simple faith, without fear, just comes right over to the Lord Jesus Christ. Little children are capable of real, genuine, saving faith. In fact, they're an example. Jesus said they are an example for you and I as to what it means to have faith in God You say, preacher, I'm not sure how to have faith in God. I'm not sure how that applies. I'll tell you what, look at a little child. Just observe a child. There's a testimony of what it means to have faith. In fact, Jesus is very clear, we are as adults are to have adopt the faith of the child, not vice versa. And that was a lesson the disciples had to learn. There was another time when mothers were bringing their children and their little infants and they wanted to bring them to Jesus and have Jesus bless them. They're little children, much similar to what we did perhaps this morning. And the disciples, in their ignorance and in their immaturity, and in their pride and their self-exaltation and their their distorted self-worth turned those mothers away and say, get these little children out of here. Get them out of here. You don't have time for that. The Bible says Jesus rebuked them sharply. You suffer those little children to come unto me. Forbid them not. For such is the kingdom of God. You know what he was telling? These disciples needed to learn to have faith just like a little child Just like a little child. The faith, faith of this child. We need to learn that. Jesus said, that's what you've got to learn. If we as Christians could just learn to trust God, what a difference our lives would be How much victory we could have over sin, how much more confident we could be in our Christian life, how we would be able to interact with one another on a more mature spiritual plane If we could just learn to have faith in God, just to trust Him. Adults are to adopt the faith of a child. Nowhere does He tell a child you learn to trust God like your Parents do. No, no, no. The parents, you learn to trust God like a child does. Observe how a child exercises faith and then mimic it. Watch a child, how they have faith, how they trust their parent or whatever, and then mimic that to God, the faith of a child. In the Old Testament, we see examples of this. One of my, I think, in my estimation, one of the greatest prophets in the Old Testament was Samuel. Great prophet, anointed Saul, anointed David, tremendous man of God. He was given to the Lord as a small child. As soon as he was wean, Hannah gave him over and dedicated him to the Lord. He grew up. uh uh at the uh uh outside the tabernacle with the priest. And when he was just a small boy He's sleeping in bed at night. He hears a voice. Samuel. Samuel. Jumps, wakes up. He goes running into Eli, he says, You call me, he goes, I ain't call you, get back to sleep, you woke me up. That's in the Hebrew. And um He goes back to bed. Samuel! Samuel! He wakes up again. He goes running. He says, I didn't call you. Get back there. Get to bed. Quit waking me up. Later. Samuel! Samuel! Finally, Eli says, wait a minute. God's calling you. She goes back. Samuel said, he says, speak, Lord. Just a little boy. No fear. Just trust. The Lord called, and he trusted. God gave him the information. He had to go to the priest and tell him a bad message. And Samuel just trusted God. God used him in a great way. Throughout the Bible we find people that had great faith in God. I thought about David. Now he wasn't a little one, but he wasn't an adult. And he goes out to the battlefield and he sees Goliath. We all know the story. And if you'll read that account of David and Goliath, by the way, it is not just a story. It is an historical event, just as real as the uh the revolutionary, any other event in history, David and Goliath is just as a historical event as any other. And if you would read that very, very carefully back in 1 Samuel, you find a young boy that has absolute faith and confidence in God. And does exactly what he needed to do, faith in God. His faith was greater than the king of Israel's faith. You know what should have happened? The king should have observed the fate of that young boy and mimicked it. The armies of Israel should have observed the fate of that little boy and mimicked it. I'm telling you, children are an illustration, an example to you and I of what it means to have faith. Samuel, David, and one of my favorite characters, particularly children, in the Bible Is this little Jewish girl that is a maid to the captain of the Syrian army's wife, Naaman? And if you know the story, it is an amazing event Little Jewish girl, the Naaman, is the captain, powerful man in the nation of Syria. He's the commander of all their armed forces. A man of tremendous influence, a man of tremendous power, a man of a warrior of warriors This little Jewish girl has been taken captive. Probably her parents have been killed by this very army, this very nation that she's now a slave in. And she finds out that Naaman, this great man of military man, has leprosy And she knew enough about her God and what he was capable of doing. And she says to her the his wife, her her her master, I guess She says to her, Oh, if only Naaman could get back to Israel, God could make him well. I'm putting my own words. God could heal him of that leprosy. That faith of that little girl, willing to speak up and say what she knew was true There was something about that little girl that this powerful military man believed her. And through a process of events, he comes back, he ends up back in Israel, where they stole her from and destroyed him. And he ends up being healed of his leprosy and he becomes a convert of Jehovah. The old boy gets saved. Because a little girl had faith in God. Jesus said, fellas, you guys are all high on yourselves. You think you're something. You're missing the point. Hey little child, come here. Come over here, little child. He just made a powerful illustration. Trust me. Have faith in me. So faith, the faith of a child. Then there's a second lesson. Look with me at verse number four. He says there in verse three, Verily I say unto you, except ye be converted, become as little children, ye shall not enter the kingdom of heaven. Would you agree with me? Faith is absolutely necessary to enter the kingdom of heaven. That's his whole point. You need to have faith like this little child. I called. It responded in faith. But then he says this, verse 4. He adds on to that. Verse 3 is talking about their salvation, how we're saved by faith, but just like a little child has faith. But look at verse 4. Whosoever therefore shall what? Humble himself as this little child. In the same way that this little child humbles itself, you humble yourself. This child's a picture of what it means to be the Christian God wants us to be. It's a little child's an illustration of what it means. Of what God is looking for in your life and my life, faith in God, and then humility, humility, humbled himself. Whosoever therefore shall humble himself. That's a conscious decision. I think sometimes we get this idea that being humble or something is something just happens to us. It's not. I've got to decide. I've got to decide to put aside my pride, repent of my pride, and deliberately, consciously humble myself before God. Just like a little child. It's a conscious decision. The word humble means to make myself low. It means the eradication or the removal of all pride from my heart, all self-will, all self-focus All self-love is removed from my heart. I humble myself before God. Now here's the interesting thing. Children, as I studied this a little bit, in Roman society were considered the least significant citizens. And even it was even to an extent in the Jewish society. Children had no rights for the most part. They were the least significant of all people. In fact, I mentioned a little bit ago, the disciples had that attitude when they refused the mothers from bringing their children to see Jesus. And again, I'm putting my own words, but basically what they said was, Jesus doesn't have time for this insignificant people. Jesus is too important for children to be involved We're talking about God. We're talking about the kingdom of God. We don't have time for children. Jesus said, Oh, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no. You need to become like the child. That is exactly what the kingdom is of. Faith and humility of a little child. Humility. Generally, a child will be pretty honest about themselves, generally. Generally, a child is teachable. Daddy, show me how. Daddy, how do you do this? Mommy, how do I do this? Generally, a child is very teachable, very honest about themselves. I don't know. I don't know how to do that, Daddy. I can't. Faith and humility, I am convinced, are the two greatest virtues in the Christian life. Faith and humility. I'm convinced all other virtues, all other characteristics that make up a good Christian are dependent upon those two: faith and humility. Someone says, oh no, holiness is the most important attribute of a believer. Holiness is the most important characteristic of a believer. I submit to you, without humility, there's no holiness. In fact, anytime pride enters into the equation, all other characteristics, all other attributes are eradicated. Whenever pride is there, I need to learn to have faith in God and to deliberately remove self-will, self-love, and pride. And humble myself before God. And Jesus used a child to illustrate that, to picture that. Hebrews chapter 11, verse 6 says, without faith, it's impossible to please God. If I'm not trusting God, then I'm not pleasing God. If I'm not living by faith, if I'm not acting on faith, then I am not pleasing God. I hate to say it, and I'm guilty of this myself. I think there's a lot of times in our lives as believers we do not please God. We lean on our own understanding. We operate on our own abilities. We operate according to our own thinking, our own values. We need to put all that aside and say, Lord, I'll trust you, what you say, and then humble ourselves before the Lord. James chapter 4, verse 6 says, God resisteth the proud. But giveth grace to the humble. Now I don't want to get off and I don't mean to be political in any way. But if you're paying attention at all, the world, much of the world is declaring June to be Pride Month. I tell you what we need. We need humility. We need God's grace on our nation. We need God's grace on Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. We need God's grace. In our homes, my home and your home, and my marriage, and your marriage, our children need God's grace. God's word tells us God resisteth the proud, but he giveth grace to what? The humble. The humble. Jesus pulls a little child, come here, come here, hey, come. He shows them what it means to have faith. He said, that's how you get in the kingdom of God. Hear the call of God. Respond in faith. Trust Him. And then he says. Whoever humbles himself as a little child, they'll be great in the kingdom of God. That's what God's looking for. That's what pleases God. Humility and faith. That's what he wants in your life, disciples You're going to have my blessing, and you're going to have my grace, and you're going to have my power. You've got to have faith in me and humble yourself just like a little child. He's teaching these disciples a powerful lesson. And it's a lesson you and I need to learn. Have faith in God and humble ourselves. I'm a poor Christian if I'm a proud Christian. I'm a poor Christian if I'm a faithless Christian. However, I'm a strong Christian. I'm a, and I use this term carefully, I'm a great Christian in the eyes of God. If I'm humble, I'm a great Christian man, Christian woman, Christian teenager. The eyes of God. If I have faith in him, if I'll trust him, do what he says. Let him lead me and direct me. Trust him. So we have the picture of this little child. That's my main point. There's also here in verse 5 and 6 the preciousness. of this little child. Look at verse 5 real quick. And whosoever will receive such little child in my name receiveth me. It's just like you uh you treat this child, it's just like you're treating me that way. He says verse 6, but whosoever, look at this. Shall offend one of these little ones which believe in me. Now that word offend there means to introduce them to sin. It means to cause them to stumble in their life before God. You get what he's saying? Here's a little child. You introduce that child to sin. You cause them to stumble. Look what he says. It were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck. and that he were drowned in the depths of the sea. Would you agree with me? Strong statement Listen, when it comes to little children, Jesus isn't playing games. It's not a doll. It's not a toy. It's not a pet It's a human being that is precious in the eyes of Almighty God. He says, Don't you mess with them. Don't you hurt them. You keep them pure and clean and right. It's better you to be hanged with a millstone in the depths of the sea than to hurt these little ones spiritually. You follow what I'm saying? That's the lips of the Lord Jesus. It's not Dennis Leatherman. The preciousness of a child. God have mercy on a nation that kills its infants. God have mercy. On a family that exposes their children to the wickedness of sin that God warns us about over and over and over. God doesn't play games. A child is not a toy and it's not a pet. It's a tremendous responsibility. And they are precious, precious, precious in the eyes of God. Number one, the picture of a child. We learn what it means to be a good Christian, be great in the eyes of God. We learn that from a child. God says they're so precious. And then last of all, I see the protection of these little ones. Look at verse 10. Jump down to verse 10. He says, take heed that ye despise not one of these little ones. That despise means to consider worthless, to consider no value. Ah, it's just a kid. He says, Take ye that ye despise not one of these little ones. For I say unto you, look at this: that in heaven their angels Do always behold the face of my Father which is in heaven The protection of these little ones. Now, to be honest with you, we know very little about these angels he's referring to here. We're not told hardly anything about them Other than basically what he says here. Sometimes people will use the term guardian angels. Anybody ever heard that phrase? Now that's not the term, that's not a biblical term, but it appears that's what he's describing here. Angels. In Hebrews chapter 4:1 and verse 14 says that angels are ministering spirits sent by God to minister to the people of God. They serve us. They serve according to this these little children. They have a special care, a special protective care over these little babies, over these little ones. Angels are real. Just as real as you and me sitting here. I'm not trying to be sensational, I'm not trying to be spooky or weird in any way. But there is no doubt in my mind that there are angels in this room right now. Here Just as I'm confident you and I are here in this all the time, I'm confident they're angels of God right here. They are real and they serve God's people. Angels, my understanding and studying scripture about angels, angels do, at all times and everywhere, only good for God's people. They do good. They minister to God's people and little ones in particular. Angels give personal care, I believe, to children. In some way, shape, or form, I can't answer. Any more than that statement. Psalm 34, verse 7 says angels camp round about God's people. Psalm 91, 11 says angels keep us in our ways. They guard us. They protect us. Little children, little children. We sang the song Jesus Loves the Little Children. All the children of the world, red and yellow, black and white, they are precious in his sight. Jesus loves the little children of the world. A daddy got his little boy, just a little boy, got him a bicycle. How many folks remember your first bicycle? Got him a bicycle. I put it all together. Daddy just about lost his salvation putting the bike together. Finally got it done. Gets out there, his little boy's out there, he little boy hops on, he's so excited. He makes about two petals and crash he falls over and crashes. Daddy says, get back on there, son, get back on there. Little boy jumps back up there and he kind of pushes himself and he pedals a little boot. Boom! He goes down again Daddy says, Come on, son, get back on there. He pedals a little bit and doesn't go two, three pedals, and boom, he's down again. Finally the boy gets up, his knees are all scun up, his tears rolling down his cheeks, and he says, Daddy. I need you to help me. I need you to help me We need to emulate that little boy. We need to mimic that little boy. We need to look up to our Father in heaven and say, Father, I need you to help me. Help me have faith in you. Help me to be humble. Help me, Lord, to trust you. Little children, little children. Father, pray you bless now. Help us to learn from these children. God help us to be the people you intend for us to be, not in the world's eyes, not even our own eyes Lord, in your eyes. I wonder with our heads bowed eyes closed, I wonder how many would join me in saying, I feel like my faith is so weak sometimes. And I want a stronger faith. I want my faith to be what it should be, just like a little child. Is there anything like that? Say, preacher, pray with me. I have faith to be stronger. God bless you. My hand is raised I was preparing as I bowed my head, said, Lord help me. Have better faith. I wonder if some this morning be honest enough between you and God. Say there's too much pride. There's too much of me. I need to push this out I need to humble myself before the Lord. Is there any like that, like me, on my hands raised, say, preacher, pray with me. I need to repent of this pride. Humble man. Any like that up, lifted hand. God bless you. Hands all around. Those two things, I'm convinced, those two things hang all the other attributes of a Christian life. Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us. I want to ask one last question. Now we pray for our parents, and God bless you. We're praying God helps you raise these children. But I wonder if there's someone, anyone, this morning who would say, Preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know that God has forgiven all my sin. And I have eternal life. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? You'd say, Preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about that. I've got to have that settled. Any at all by the uplifted hand. God bless you. Any others would say, Preacher, pray for me. God bless you. Now the Bible has the answer. The Bible can give us that assurance. I can't, our church can't, but God can through his word. I hope you'll let us show you how we can have that, how you can have that settled. How God can help you settle that. Father, bless our invitation now. I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are