I know them. That was appropriate that was an appropriate song. No, that was good. I like that would be a great name for that group. A bunch of men. You know, and that'd be a good name for that group. James chapter number three. I'm a little loud, Dave, I think. James chapter three. I'm going to read verses one through eight. We're talking about a very convicting subject here. Um I was trying to figure out how I could preach this message without studying it, preparing it, because when I do I get convicted. But uh you can't do that, so um I just trust God will use it to help us in this area of our tongue. Did you notice the song that Mark led here a few moments ago? Little is much when God is in it. The title of my message tonight is Little Is Much When God Is Not In It. Direct Contradiction. Let's see what it means. Look look I'm going to begin reading verse one of James chapter three. My brethren, be not many masters, knowing that we shall receive the greater condemnation. Of course we studied that a couple weeks ago. He's talking about teachers when he mentions masters there. Teachers of the Word of God. For in many things we offend all. If any man offend not in word, the same is a perfect man, and able also to bridle the whole body. In other words, if he control his tongue, control his words, he control can control every other area of his life. Behold, we put bits in the horses' mouths that they may be obey us, and we turn about their whole body Behold also the ships, which, though they be so great and are driven of fierce winds, yet are they turned about with a very small helm, whithersoever the governor listeth Even so the tongue is a little member, boasteth great things. Behold, how great a matter a little fire kindleth, and the tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity. So is the tongue among our members That it defileth the whole body and setteth on fire the course of nature. Look at this, and is set on fire of hell. Talking about our tongue. For every kind of beast and of birds and of serpents and of things in the sea is tamed and hath been tamed of mankind. Now here's where I get my title from, verse number eight. But the tongue can no man tain. It is an unruly evil, full of deadly poison. Now he says through here that the tongue is a small thing And then he says in verse number 8 that no man can tame that tongue. So if no man can tame the tongue, we need someone to tame that tongue, or we're going to be in a mess. Who's the only one really that can do it? God. So if God isn't in bringing my tongue under control, then I've got a big mess And that little tongue is going to be much of a problem if God isn't in controlling that tongue. See where I'm going with that? So Mark's off the hook. The song works. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless our time in your word. And God, I'm the first one to step up in line and say, Lord, my tongue's gotten me in a mess so many times. And Lord, I think all of us can say we've tried to tame that thing. We've tried to bring it under control. And it just seems to get out of control so often. We need you to help us, Lord, our homes. Our homes, Lord, need you to help us tame this tongue. And our ministries need it. Our country needs it And so please use this message. I present my body anew to you for you to fill me with your spirit and use me and speak through me And help us be sensitive and tender-hearted and submissive to your word, Lord, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. One of the key areas in Christian life, it's kind of interesting. Sam and I were talking before the service this evening One of the key areas in Christian life is being self-disciplined. That's true in all areas of life. If I'm going to be successful, I've got to learn to discipline myself Every area of the Christian life is dependent upon me being disciplined, having self-control, and doing what I need to do, doing what I'm supposed to do, whether I feel like it or not. Are you with me? The matter of daily Bible reading. We try and push that pretty hard here. I believe, with all my heart, I'm convinced every Christian should read their Bible every day Whether they've been saved five days or they've been saved 50 years, want to read our Bible every single day. Get some portion of Scripture, get in my heart and mind. Now you know what that takes? That takes discipline I've got to control myself. I've got to discipline myself to do that. Because if we don't discipline ourselves, what's going to happen? Other things are going to c crowd it out. I just got to discipline myself. I need to read my Bible every single day. This matter of daily prayer. I'm convinced every Christian ought to have a prayer list and every day pray and bring that list before the Lord That takes discipline. Church attendance. Don't raise your hand, but I wonder how many of us ever uh we just didn't feel like going to church that service. I just don't feel like it. I just got other things to do, my favorite shows on TV, a ball game or whatever. I want to go fishing or whatever it might be. Uh I don't feel like going to church, but You know, I want to please God. I want to be a good Christian. I want to be strong in my faith. And so I discipline myself and I go to church, whether I feel like it or not. Can I get a witness there? Anyone know what I'm talking about? I wonder how many of us ever didn't feel like going to church, went, and after it was over, he said, Boy, I'm glad I went tonight. Happens so often. Discipline Bible reading, daily Bible reading, daily prayer, faithful church attendance, witnessing. I'm telling you, this old flesh doesn't want to witness to people very much. Can I get a witness there? Anyone know what I'm talking about? And I know God's instructed me that I'm to share the gospel with people. I'm to witness uh to folks all around. And how many times You know, I just don't want to, I don't feel like, but I have to discipline myself and I say, no, this is right, this is what Christians do, I'm going to do it. And I give out that gospel track, or I go to Thursday Soul Winning, or I go to Greek Commission there, or whatever it may be. And I just disabled myself. This is what a Christian does is what I need to do. Personal separation. You know what I found out? I wouldn't stay very long. You know what I found out This old flesh of mind, this old nature of mind, sometimes wants to do things that God says a Christian ought not to do. I found that sometimes there'll be something, maybe something on the tube there, and I know a Christian ought not to watch that, or Christian ought not to look at it, and boy that old sinful nature wants to see all it's about. Now you all are looking at me so pious But we've all found that to be true, right or wrong. And whatever area may be, music or whatever area it may be. Now here's what it requires. It requires discipline. I've got to say, no, that's not right. That's not going to help me. That's going to hurt me spiritually. That's going to set me back. That's going to grieve my Savior if I take part in that. I'm not going to do that. I need to discipline myself We're told in Scripture to um dis teach our children to discipline themselves. It's one of the problems in our society today. Our children aren't being taught to discipline themselves. That's what all part of parental discipline is teaching a child to be able to control themselves, not just do whatever But control themselves. Listen to Proverbs chapter 29 and verse 15. The rod and reproof give wisdom, but a child left to himself In other words, a child that has no discipline, not taught to control themselves, they just do whatever they want, a child left of himself bringeth his mother to shade. We were talking with somebody recently. They said they had a family member. I can't remember who it was. But they said they had a family member. Live somewhere else that that t that their children say we never teach our we never say no to our children Good grief. That's a disaster waiting to happen. And so discipline. This is what I'm trying to get at. Self-discipline. Now look with me again at verse number two. In many things we offend all. No, it's just we just have to deal with it. If any man offend not in word, the same as a perfect man, and able also to bridle the whole body. We talked about this last week. But what I need I need to focus on being able to discipline my tongue, being able to control What I say and what I don't say. In other words, thinking things through and deliberately Saying things that ought to be said, and deliberately not saying things that ought not to be said. Now, here's where we get in trouble. We just let it fly Huh? Please let it go. And the Bible says, God says here, if we can if we will get to the point where we can bridle that tongue, We can rein that tongue in, keep that tongue under control, discipline it. Man, then we can discipline any other any every other area of our lives. Now he goes on for the rest of this portion of scripture we read here, and actually some verses beyond where we read, and he talks about the power of the tongue. He talks about controlling and disciplining our tongue because our words have a profound effect Statements we make have influence on people. During World War II, and I know we're getting awfully removed time-wise from World War II. But um during World War II, one of the big things they would put on posters, particularly overseas, was they would say, have a big poster that said this, loose lips, what's the rest of it? Sink ships. You know what they're saying by that? They're saying, be careful what you say. You could give information out that would aid the enemy and actually end up killing some of our own people. The principle is this. What we say has an impact. What we say has an effect. Loose lips sink ships. We could say this. Loose lips sink homes. Loose lips sink marriages. Loose lips sink ministries. Loose lips sink lives. Loose lips sometimes sink people down into hell. Our words are tremendously powerful. Um one of the sources of power we work with here in the United States and some countries overseas is uh nuclear power. And what a phenomenal power that is, and what the the homes that can be energized through a nuclear power plant. But along with that power comes a tremendous danger, and that needs to be kept very secure, needs to be kept very contained that hour, or it would have devastating, horrendous effects on society. And I want to suggest to you, between the jaws in our mouth Is a nuclear power that if it is not contained, if it is not controlled It has devastating effects on ministries and on churches and on homes and relationships and people in far greater ways than we ever even think of at the time. Now, I want to look at verses 3 down through verse number 8. I'm trying to try and cover these very quickly. But I want us to notice, first of all, the apparent, this is my first point, the apparent insignificance of the tongue. Notice verse number five and the first part of verse five. He says this, even so the tongue is a little member The word little member there means has the idea of just a small, insignificant part of our body You have uh some guys uh they'll have uh bodybuilding shows. You know, guys these guys will exercise and they'll get out there and uh they'll and uh they've invited me, but I turn them down. But um They have uh bodybuilding shows and these guys will uh, you know, and show off a they they never have a tongue show. You know, I've only had one person in my life ever asked to see my tongue, it's the doctor. And uh, you know, a tongue is not as significant as far as on the surface, you know, just looking, it's not a significant part of our of our body. Nobody goes you have a hairdresser, so you know guys I I'm amazed ha how much time men are spending on their hair now. I don't spend any time. You know what I use for a comb? A washcloth. It works beautifully. But nobody, you don't go to the cosmetics and find cosmetics for your tongue. It's insignificant. Who thinks about their tongue? Several years ago I was at the dentist getting my wheat uh my wheat my wheat toothed on, my teeth worked on And uh I try to go every couple years and and uh but that was a couple years ago I was at tennis and they said uh they said what's this on your tongue? I said, Oh I don't see nothing I said, you've got a little tumor-like thing on your tongue. I said, really? I said, yeah, we need to get that looked at. I said, okay. And so it made the arrangements, had to go and they hacked part of my tongue out and hacked it out and um sent it off for by and I was scared to death, you know, I'm thinking, mate alive. I'm a preacher. I need my tongue And uh came back benign, everything was fine. But you don't think about your tongue. The fact is that little member The apparent insignificance of the tongue is deceitful. Nobody pays a lot of attention to their tongue. At first glance, the tongue is of no consequences. But don't be fooled. The tongue is a powerful, powerful muscle. James mentions three items that on the surface at first appearance seem very small, seem very insignificant, but he expands on that And he points out that though they are very small in appearance or they seem insignificant, they are tremendously powerful in their influence And he comes down here and he lifts them. And he's using these to illustrate the power and the influence of a tongue. Look at verse 3. He says, Behold, we put bits in the horse's mouths. That they may obey us, and we turn about their whole body. Now a bit is a very small piece, uh uh a little small instrument we use in in uh in a horse in in uh um horsing, you know dealing with horses. I I did a little research. I don't know a lot about horses, brother Derek knows more than I would. But I I found out that your average horse is between five to six feet tall. Does that sound right? About five to six feet tall? Don't say no if I'm wrong, just go along with me. Uh horses weigh between 840 and 1200 pounds. Would you agree with me? That's a big animal. I don't know if anybody keeps a horse in their house. That's a big, powerful animal. Five, six foot tall, eight hundred and forty, twelve hundred pounds. Powerful animal. Horses have helped men throughout history in tremendous ways. Horses have helped men win wars. Horses have helped men conquer the West. And old Poly Express and gone out there and uh horses have helped men communicate. They run that Pony Express. That just captures my imagination how they did that. And taking mail back and forth. Horses help men kill the land and settle the west and turn that prairie, turn that sod over and open it up to grain and harvest. But if a horse is going to be any good to mankind, there's one tiny little matter, one little item that is absolutely necessary. And that is that little bit in that horse's mouth. Because as I understand it, if that bit is not there You have a hard time controlling the horse. Am I right? Just say yes. Thank you. Absolutely. Thank you. He's becoming a good member, you know. But that fit is absolutely necessary to control that horse. Years ago m my son uh outfitted, many of you know Sam outfitted for elk hunting out in Colorado in Gypson, Colorado And I was out a couple times to hunt with him and um I'm not a big horse fan, uh just haven't been around him that much, but uh we would do horse uh hunt elk on horseback out there And um I was a little anxious and nervous and I know that one morning we need to be up in this one certain valley that uh that they kind of never hunted in. They just kept it You know, if for whatever reason they kinda kept it like a little refuge and he said, My dad's here, I'll take him up there, we'll get a nice big elk. So we went up there, we didn't get any elk. But um We had to be up in that area before daybreak, and so we had to ride these horses up through these canyons and up through the mountains to get up to this big m upper meadow uh by the before the sun comes up. So it's dark, it's pitch black And he says, you get on old Bessie here, or whatever the horse's name was. And I said, Sam, I'm not very experienced with horses. I don't know how to work these things. He says it's very simple. He says, you just sit there and ride If you need her to go one way, pull this side. If you need her to go that way, pull that side. If you need her to stop, pull both of them. Said, all right, got on that big old horse. And um he was up ahead, I was behind him, we're going, and we're going through one area, I think I've mentioned this board, we're going through one area, and I could hear way, way, way down below, I mean, way down below, I can hear water running And on this side I'd kind of reach over and I'd rub against the side of the mountain. So it's pitch black, so I was thinking, oh, that's interesting, and got up there. And we go up and I just let that horse go and we got up there and we hunted all morning. We didn't get anything and chased a bunch around. But anyway, about lunchtime or so the afternoon we started making our way back down. We're coming down and we're on this little 18-inch path at best on the side of a mountain. And you can reach out this time the mountain was on this side of my face. And I look down and we're talking three, four hundred yards. Down the mountain, there's a little river way down there. And we're on this little path going around there. I said, Sam, he says, yeah. I said, this one happened to be the path we were on in pitch black this morning coming up here. He goes, yeah, why I'm glad I didn't know it. I was scared out of my mind. But you know that big powerful horse. My life was in the hands of that horse. That little big powerful horse. And I'm just this cowardly preacher. I knew nothing about horses, but I could control that thing because it had a little bit in its mouth. That big powerful horse, we could turn it all around and do all that with. One little item. You know, I could have hollered at that horse wouldn't have done a bit of good. I could have said, uh, I command you in the name of the Lord, don't go down that trail, it wouldn't have done a bit of good. That horse could care less if I was a preacher or not. That horse could care less whether I had a degree from a university or not. But one thing he paid attention to, one thing that controlled that horse, is when I pulled on that bit, he reacted The Bible says that bit is a very small thing, but it has tremendous, tremendous influence, tremendous power over that horse. And you know what he says? He said, your tongue is just like that. Your tongue is just like that bit. Um then he comes on and he says, look in verse number four. He says, Behold also the ships, which though they be so great and are driven of fierce winds, yet are they turned about with a very small helm, whithersoever the governor listeth. Now the governor there would be the ship's captain, the guy in control. Now, what do we know about a helm? Or we might call it a rudder. What do we know about that? Well, it's unseen. Yeah that gigantic aircraft carrier out there is just amazes me. I mean the aircraft carrier is a has a city on that thing, has its own army really And down underneath the water in the back of that thing is, relatively speaking, a very small elm. And that huge ship that goes thousands of miles across the ocean, that relatively small helm controls that day. And that guy can sit up in the captain's seat. I imagine now they have somewhat of a joystick or something like that, I would guess. And he maneuvers that city on water with one little helm in the back there, just how he turns that. What a powerful, powerful thing a helm is. A ship, they have nuclear motors, they got nuclear power in some of these ships. They have impressive sails. Some of the sail boats are just amazing. But if they don't got a helm on that thing, They don't got that rudder in place. That thing's not functioning. That ship's going gonna be a mess. It's gonna be a wreck So he says, a bridle, a bit in the horse's mouth, is a very small thing. It seems insignificant. But man alive, it has tremendous influence over that horse. That helm on the bottom of that great ship out there, you don't even see it. It's out of sight, it's out of mind, you don't really give it much thought That thing there that's found unseen under the water, that thing has tremendous influence, tremendous power to control that. Then he mentions one other in verse number five He says even the so the tongue is a little member, and we touched on that, and he's illustrating this, and both this great things. Now he brings up a third little thing that on the surface appears insignificant, but is very significant Behold, how great a matter a what? A little fire kindleeth. Just a little fire I looked up that phrase a little fire to try and get an eye on what he's talking about. And it would basically what he's referring to there, I believe, would be what you and I would call a spark. Just a little spark, just a little fire. You say, oh, it's just a spark. It couldn't cause any damage. It's just a little fire. It's just a little spark. What could that possibly do? Well, a little spark can ignite that natural gas and give you a nice cozy house in the middle of Garrett County winter. That little spark could ignite the uh uh ignite those wood pellets in your wood pellet stove and boy put out just a beautiful heat And heat that warm and keep the little baby warm. That little fire, that little spark, can be such a blessing And make life so much nicer. And really, in some ways, preserve life. Just a little spark. You don't think much of it. But that same little spark, if not contained, if not disciplined, if not controlled, could burn that house down And kill every person in it. We had some bus kids here this morning. They are just now able to move, they're starting to move back into their house that burned down this past winter. From a little spark. Just a little fire. Um the little spark could ignite the little gas lines that lights up the city And people can see. Or that little spark could burn that city down. You heard about Ms. O'Leary's cow that kicked the lantern and burned Chicago. Hundred thousand people lost their homes A bit, just a small little tool, but boy has tremendous influence over that horse. A helm? Just a small little rudder under the water. That ship's captain turns that thing and that gets that mighty ship to its destination. A little fire, just a little spark. Oh, but that could save lives. That could do great things. Tongue? Here's what we say. Oh, is it just the words? I didn't mean anything by it. Oh, I just said those things in the heat of the moment. I didn't really mean anything by it. No? That little spark that gets out of the under out of control and that horse that has no bit That ship that that helm comes loose and is no longer controlled. That ship is destroyed and the battle is lost and the house is burned down. Just something little. But if it's not controlled, it's devastating. The tongue is a tool that God has given to us to accomplish His will in our lives. And if it's not controlled, our lives can be destroyed. Our words can make our home pleasant and comfortable and enjoyable, or our words can destroy our home. And tear that thing up and ruin our children's lives. Our words can build up the ministry, and our words can be a blessing to folks in the church and visitors come in and Folks that are struggling, we can say words that strengthen their faith and encourage them in the Lord and challenge them in their faith. Or our words, if not controlled, can cut people down and hurt and destroy ministries. I'm going to suggest to you there are more ministries been destroyed throughout history by uncontrolled words than by unscriptural doctrine. Fire, bri uh a helm A bit, though they are apparently insignificant, they have tremendous influence. Let me make this statement. We must never underestimate the influence that our words have upon ourselves and upon the people around us. My second point is this: first of all, the apparent insignificance of our of our tongue. Second is the appalling destructiveness of our tongue. I already touched on it a good bit, but look at verse number six. And look at how he words this. I mean, it's like God, James, under the inspiration of God, goes to great length To point out how destructive words can be. And the tongue is a fire. Man, he doesn't end there, but look what he says. Just look how he piles on here. A world of iniquity. Wow. So is the tongue among our members. It is it defileth the whole body. And setteth on fire the course of nature. Look at this last statement. And is set on fire of hell. Goodness. The Bible does not paint a pretty picture of our tongue. James uses this powerful imagery of fire to illustrate the destructiveness of our tongue. An uncontrolled tongue is extremely dangerous. I mentioned our son Sam for a number of years he was down in Texas managing some hunting ranches down there. And one thing they would do in the springtime is they would have what they called controlled burns. And they would take huge patches of of of uh like prairie type land, it was shrub brush and whatnot. I mean we're talking 10 10 we're talking a thousand fifteen hundred two thousand acres at a shot and they would deliberately set it on fire and they would do what I as I said a controlled burn You know what I found out, and he told me this and he sent us pictures and we were down there and we saw the after effects of it. You know what I found out? Those control burns are extremely difficult to do. It requires tremendous planning and preparation. There are so many factors involved, the wind, the wind speed, the humidity of the air, the the uh dryness of the of the grass and the shrubs that are going to be burned. The poz how the land glaze and how those wind currents are going to come across those hills and those little gullies And all of this had to be factored in if they're going to do a control burn, because it was very, very easy for that fire to get out of control and break its boundaries and become a devastation to people. And that is the picture that God has given us here. He's saying, listen, that tongue can be devastating. And to be able to control it is not easy. It requires much energy and effort. We I lived in Boulder, Colorado for a few years, and one year I was preaching up in Um, I guess it was in Wyoming. I preached a little church there, uh, did a Bible time rally, and we tacked a few days on after the rally, Kathy was with me, the boys are real small, and we decided we were going to go up to Yellowstone And we did a one-day tour of Yellowstone Park. Anybody been out there in Yellowstone? You can't do a one-day tour of Yellowstone. But we did. It was like, do you see that? Yeah, that was great. And we just tried to see as much as we could. Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. We got up into one area there. This would have been like 1992, maybe somewhere in that range, 91, 92 We got an arrangement, and as far as you could see, everything was black. As far as you could see, everything was charred. The trees were burnt. The ground was burnt. It was one of the most ugliest landscapes I've ever seen in life. It looked like it was some Martian landscape. What it happened was a small spark. had developed in that dry ground and just burned thousands and thousands and thousands and thousands of pristine landscaping. It's the ugliest thing you've ever seen. You know what happens when a tongue is let loose and uncontrolled? It gets ugly. And it leaves behind devastation. And it hurts. Turn with me, if you would, to Psalms chapter 39, real quickly, if you would, Psalms 39. Now he takes a long section here in James and he talks about the tongue. Psalms 39, David Is the psalmist here, and he references his tongue and he makes an interesting statement. Psalms 39, let you find it there. Notice in verse number one, David, this is King David He's a tremendous man of God. And he says this: I will take heed to my ways that I sin not with my tongue. He says, I'm going to be very, very careful. I'm going to give attention and I'm going to put energy to discipline myself to make sure that I do not sin with my tongue. I will keep my mouth with a bridle. While the wicked is before me, I was dumb with silence. I held my peace even from good, and my sorrow was stirred. Now look at verse 3. My heart was hot within me. While I was musing, the fire burned, then spake I with my tongue. I put this down. A hot temper, a hot temper produces burning words He said, my heart was burning within me. Now I don't know exactly what he was referencing here, but I get the impression he was worked up. And I get the impression, I may be reading into it here, I don't think so. I get the impression his temper was stirred up, his heart was burning, he was hot. He made a mistake and he opened his mouth. And burning words came out. Turn with me, if you would, to Proverbs chapter 18. Listen, if If David had trouble disciplining his tongue, if David had trouble keeping his tongue under control, especially when the temper got worked up, how much more do you and I need to give attention to that one? Uh well go with me if you would to Proverbs chapter 18. And again, it astounds me how much the book of Proverbs, which deals with wisdom, addresses the tongue. Proverbs 18, look with me at verse number 6. Now look at the wording here. I didn't write this, folks, so don't get mad at me. A fool's lips enter into contention. Now what is contention? I want you to talk to me here a little bit. What is contention? Well just strife or arguing? Let me put it that how about fussing? Just fussing, getting in a fight, saying something Oh yeah Oh yeah Can I get a witness? Now notice the first few words. What type of person's lips does that? Ouch. Not a wise person. A fool's lips enter into contention, and his mouth calleth for strokes. A fool's mouth is his destruction, and his lips are the snares of a soul. Look at verse 8. The words of a tailbearer are as wounds. They go down into the innermost parts of the belly. I put this down. Words produce fights. I guarantee you there are more fist fights in the bar last night because of something someone said. Then there are about somebody and something somebody did. You say, how do you know that, preacher? One of the deacons told me. But um Words produce fights. Words destroy lives. Look at verse 7. A fool's mouth is his destruction. Man, how many people uh boy you know now we've got Twitter and Facebook and all this social media have you noticed in the news how many people are destroying their lives, their employment because of stupid stuff they're putting out on t on uh social media. Have you seen it in the news? Some gu some gal puts some stupid, ridiculous statement about police. He gets out there. She's destroyed her life Perfect illustration. And then I put this down according to verse number 8, and this is the one that touches my heart. Words hurt people. The words of a tailbearer are as wounds. I put this down. Words hurt people, they hurt people deeply. Words of a tail bearer's wounds, they go down into the innermost parts of the belly We can say things to people and about people that hurt them and hurt them deeply. The devastation of our words. I would venture to say, I'm talking to some folks tonight, that you're still stinging. You're still stinging about some things that were said to you or about you years ago. And it still stings, it still hurts. People have died because of uncontrolled tongues. Homes have been ruined. People are in hell, ministries destroyed I want to suggest to you we do more damage with our tongue than anything else. We hurt more people with our tongue. Now my last point is this: the absolute dependence upon the Lord. James says in Verse 8 he says, the tongue can no man change. You say, preacher, I don't want it hurt people. I don't want to destroy my life. I want my words to be pure. I want my words to be right. How do I do that? No man can tell me. Listen, you can't control your tongue. I can't control my tongue. You say, what do we do? We need God to get in it. Because little is much. That thing will let loose if God isn't in it. But if I can get God in this thing about my speech and controlling and helping me discipline myself and I can keep that tongue under control. And it just stays a little matter. Look with me, I'm going to go to one more verse, Psalms chapter 141. And this is going to be, this verse is going to lead into our invitation. Psalm 141. I'd like you to turn there, I'd like you to see this. Psalms one hundred and forty-one. And verse number three, I highly recommend to underscore this. Maybe work on committing this verse to memory. This is King David. King David was a powerful warrior, a great man of war. He could control a sword, a shield, and kill tens of thousands. He was a tremendous man of God. He was a great king over a powerful nation. But David couldn't control his tongue. And he prays in verse number three, he says, Set a watch, O Lord, before my mouth. Keep the door of my lips. I want to ask us tonight, let's make that our prayer. Amen? Lord, set a door. Set a watch, O Lord, before my mouth. Keep the door of my lips. God, I want you to control my tongue. The words I say, how I say them, when I say them. I want to be pure and clean and right and good. I don't want to hurt people. I want to destroy my life. I don't want to destroy the Lord's glory, the Lord's testimony. I want my words to be right. A lady who was known as being a Awful gossip and cut people down and hurt people with our words. She got convicted. She came to the preacher and she said, Preacher, I need to put my tongue on the altar tonight. He said, ma'am, there's only one problem. We don't have an altar big enough for what you're wanting to do. Now, we can't literally put our tongue on the altar. But before we go to the Lord's Supper. As we finish today out, I wonder how many Christians would come to the altar and say, Lord, set a watch on my mouth, keep the door of my lips. Help me control what I say and how I say it. Amen. Let's practice. Father, I ask you to bless us Lord, we need your help in this area. If we can get this down, we can get this right, we'll be able to get the other areas right. How many tonight would say, Preacher, I'd like for you to pray with me? I'm going to make that my prayer this evening. That the Lord would set a watch. And keep the doors in my mouth. And I want God. I want pr I'm going to come to an order and make this my prayer tonight. That God would help me in my words, that they would be pleasant and pure and upright and good. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand, preacher? That's my prayer and I am telling you, if we can get that settled, we're on our way to being mature Christian. We're on our way to being a strong Christian. But we need God in it. We need God in it. Father, bless our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's going to play a few verses of invitation. Tonight, before we go to the Lord's Supper, why don't you come home? And as she plays, why don't you find a place order? Let's just make this our prayer tonight as Christians Let's just make this our prayer tonight. Lord, I want that to be so. I want my words and my home and my ministry and my world of influence to be helpful and encouraging. Lord, I need you to control them. I tell you, they just come out so easily. They just come flying out. Lord, I need you to control that. How about it? Are there others? Say preacher, I want to be a good, strong Christian, I want to be growing, I want to be all that God wants me to be and I'm telling you, if we get this one area right, if we can just get this under control, we're making a long, a lot of progress. To be in that Christian that God saved us to be. To be the mom, the dad, the parent, the child, church member that God saved us to be.