Good to see all these beautiful young men in the up front here. The tall, dark, and handsome And two boys are handsome and that beard's dark. That's about all I can say. But anyway, we ate together today. We had a good thing, didn't we? Whatever I ate, I was a Mexican place, wasn't it? I've been speaking Spanish ever since. But that was good eating. And thank you for that, Pastor, in church. Good to see these young people here. Good to see the old people here Hey, how many is ready for summer to come? Amen. And uh man I went to go walking this morning. It always rains when I want to go walking, so uh I I gave up on it. So tomorrow it's gonna be sunny Yeah, 'cause I'm not going to go walk it, I hope. But anyway, turn in your Bibles, First Corinthians chapter one. We're going to run through the scripture tonight a little bit And but as I do, I got my water here. I got my Baptist mug right here. It says the old West. Is that what that says? Double O six, whatever that means. Ah boy, that's good stuff. But hey, how many folks have uh ever got excited And uh and uh you did something uh a little wrong and you weren't paying attention and it cost you. Or I wouldn't say excited, but how many folks in here have ever ate something that you should not have eaten You didn't realize you was chewing on till you had it in your mouth. Amen. And and uh uh when I was a teenager, I was uh listening to a basketball game. Lou Al Cinder was playing, a team in Houston, and I was rooting for Houston and they were gonna beat 'em on the radio way back in the sixties I think, and I was supposed to brush my teeth with Colgate. And my dad used brill cream. A little dabble do you. You older folks remember that. And uh it was white just like Colgate ice cream Come in a tube. It was like grease you put in a tractor joint, uh, but you put it on your hair. And uh and so I'm sitting there listening to that game and Man Houston's winning, I'm all happy, you know, and I put this toothpaste out and I start brushing away. About ten seconds in. I realized that was oil, not pace. Stuff stayed with me for a month. Amen. One night we got uh Dominic Penicetti from Philadelphia sent us a dozen uh uh creamy things that they're gonna get in New England. I don't know if it's tasty cakes and I love the butterscotch and and we've been friends for years so he sent me a case across the seas to me and uh I I thought he sent it, you know, I got a notice from the post office in New Guinea. You have a box from the US of A. Come immediately. So I went down there and and it it it said it said uh from Domini Pinocetti, your favorite pastor in Philly. In and here's the taste of cakes you like. And and so we drove it home. We didn't even open it up. And I told the guy to put it right in the freezer so it doesn't spoil. So we we put it in the freezer, you know, and that night or in the refrigerator and top of the refrigerator and that night we we get we have a blackout. Electricity goes out. And I told the boys, wait at nine o'clock before we go to bed, we will celebrate. And so but we had candles going, no electricity, and I opened up the freezer real quick and shut it, you know, and And we're in the dark and I'm opening up the box of uh tasty cakes, you know, and and I said on three you could we couldn't see very well. We took the pa rapid off of it, and my wife and my two boys and I, and let's all take a a a taste of the USA. We all been into those things, and I'm telling you, for about a second it tasted real good, and then it had that kind of peppermint grassy taste. And I got a flashlight out, and those things had turned to green mold. The cream inside. You just see it in our teeth. We didn't need a penicillin shot for months. But anyway He had sent them over by boat. It had taken them nine months to get there. Man, I messed that up, didn't I? Well tonight I want to show you some fine print. Well, you need to make sure you're not using brill cream instead of toothpaste. And you're not eating something that's contaminated, you want to read, make sure the due date on that thing. Amen. So where are you going with this preacher? We're going to look at revival tonight. And the song we sang tonight, I appreciate the preacher doing it. It's entitled Little Is Much. If God is in it. Alright? And I want us to we use a term in New Guinea, uh you stopping one time being cheeky. Don't act like you don't know what I'm talking about. So they they call it in that world being cheeky, like, oh I really don't understand what's going on, but you do. Amen. Revival doesn't start out there and it doesn't start with the preacher and it doesn't start with the preacher's wife. It starts with us. With the Lord. So, and I want you to understand that. And you do. So let's take a look at 1 Corinthians chapter 1 tonight. And Paul is writing to the church of Corinth. And he wants them to have a revival. And he talks about some things. As I unwrap this for you, I want you to understand, I want you to let this kind of hover over. our thought process tonight. And I guarantee you I'll be done before nine o'clock, all right? I think I'd go to school tomorrow. Okay, we'll be done at 8. 59. No, but I will be done before that. But I want you to see this as I unwrap it. I want you to catch what's going on here. God is going to come to you, and God, the Holy Spirit, is going to work on you to have you do something for Him. And living between the world of do and don't is up to you. And it's your choice. Tonight you might be here without Jesus Christ in your heart. We'll talk about that tonight. You do have Christ in your heart tonight, and you're here at this service. You didn't come because anybody made you. You came because you wanted to. But I guarantee you, the Lord has spoken to some of you already that you know you're in the right place at the right time and the right day for a reason. Let's take a look what Paul writes as we set the table for this and let these thoughts of doing God's will, giving God your head, your heart, and your life. It's what God's after at the end of the day. The Bible says in verse 26, 1 Corinthians chapter 1, it says this: For ye see your calling, brethren. Hello. That's all of us that are saved. He said, I want you to see this. How about many wise men after the flesh? Not many mighty, not many noble or called. Well, that's about all of us in here. Isn't that great? But God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise, and God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty. And base things of the world and things which are despised hath God chosen, yea, and things which are not to bring to naught things that are That no flesh should glory in his presence. But of him are you in Christ Jesus, who of God is made unto us wisdom. He made us wisdom And righteousness and sanctification and redemption. That according as it is written. So it's written in God's Word. You see it there, don't you? Verse 26 says, Brethren, I want you to see that you're called to do this. This is how it works. Now drop down to verse, uh look at verse 28. and base things. Man he uses the weak and uh to confound uh and he uh to confound the mighty and and uh the uh the little guys are called and then he uses the word base in verse twenty twenty-eight. Everywhere else in Scripture, the word base means terrible, sinner, no good no good, rotten. Here I got it written in my Bible. You need to write it in yours. In the Greek, it means this. It means little. It means little things. Now I want you to catch this with me. I want you to see this as I speak this message tonight. And I can twist it several ways, but as I unwrap it, I want you to catch verse 30. Look at the last word: redemption. How many of you folks in here understand that you've been redeemed by the Lord Jesus Christ? Now, redemption is related to repentance. In order to be redeemed, you've got to repent of your sin and trust Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. Is that true? You're walking this way in your sin, and repentance means what? Changing direction. So in redemption, God gives us the opportunity to make the choice, watch me now, to be redeemed He doesn't make it do us, doesn't make us do it, but we decide to do that. So he redeemed us. Now look at the next word in that verse, going backwards through that verse. Secondly, he not only redeems us He sanctifies us. He cleans us up. Amen. Hey, when I got saved, I knew it was wrong to lie, steal, and cheat, but I didn't know it was wrong to go to the dances I didn't know it was wrong to go to the bars, but when a preacher pointed it out to me, when the Bible pointed out to me, I I I mean I began to get cleaned up a little bit. How many of you guys got saved and you cussed like a sweat sailor before you got saved Just two of us, okay? Uh cussed like a marine, okay? Uh just two of us. After you got saved, it's hard to turn that cusser off, isn't it? Am I right? I got guys in Australia, they smoked like freight trains when they got saved. It's like freight trains. After they got saved, they slowed down to a small freight train. I guess other guys got saved, they stopped smoking the next day. The guy's drinking la liquor like you and I drink water. Took him six, eight, nine months to get over it. Amen. Temper. Took him a while to get over it. Can I tell you God's Word and the Holy Spirit, and sitting under the teaching and preaching of God, I call it preaching. It'll clean you up a little bit, amen. It'll sanctify you. Look at the next word before sanctification. You get righteousness put in you. Pastor Leatherman teaches God's word, and Pastor Leatherman presents God's word, the Sunday school teacher gives it to you, and they disciple you and Man, you learn what right is. Amen. Is it right to go to church? Is it wrong to steal from the church Okay, there's my point. And I want you to catch this. So we we learn righteousness Uh we we get our life cleaned up, we learn uh we learn uh uh uh salvation and and and then look at the word before all of them wisdom Wisdom. So God gives me wisdom to do right because He sanctified my life and cleaned me up, because He saved me Pretty good stuff, isn't it? Rewind the tape back down to verse 26. I want you to see your calling because you've been redeemed, you've been cleaned up. We've taught you what's right. Now you better have the wisdom to do the right thing. That's where revival starts. Isn't it amazing how this is already in Scripture? I didn't write this. I'm just the newspaper boy. I'm delivering it. Amen. So boy every time I brush my teeth I look at the tube today. Amen. And I want every time I eat a I had some today, preacher. It was in your gift bag you gave me Uh and I uh when before I eat those uh candy bars and twinkies and reasy cups, I make sure there's no mold in them or on 'em. Amen. Now how many with me on this? Let's talk tonight. I'm going to give you about three or four things. And we're going to talk about the base. Look at that word base, verse 21 Or verse thirty one. Little things. The Bible's full of little things. And let's turn back and start our first thought tonight. We're only going to use three. Let's go to Exodus chapter 3, and I want you to turn there with me. Base the little things. And I want God to touch your heart tonight And I want you to understand, let's deal with uh with Moses, and we're going to deal with David and a little boy and a snack lunch, and let's focus on what God has for us and what God wants us to do. and what God wants us to be. And let's deal with God on the little things in our own lives. Moses had been a bad boy. You all know his story, where he messed up there killing that Egyptian. Went on the backside of the desert, and Moses had a problem, ladies. He had a pride problem. And he had a temper problem. He was educated and he was chosen of God, uh uh but he had a he got in kind of front of God And he killed that Egyptian and Pharaoh wanted to get him, so he ran for his life, and let's pick him up forty years later in chapter three in the book of Exodus. Now Moses kept the flock of Jethro, his father-in-law, the priest of Midian. And he led the flock to the backside of the desert and came to a mountain of God, even to Horeb. And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a flame of fire out of the midst of the bush, and he looked and behold the Bush burnt with fire and the bush was not consumed and Moses said, I'll now turn aside to see this great sight. Why the bush is not burnt And when he when he uh when the Lord saw that he turned aside to see, God called him to him out of the midst of the bush and he said, Moses, Moses, and he said, Here am I. Tonight, first of all, I want to look at a little shrub That God used to deliver a message to save his nation. He just used a little shrub. We would take uh this little green tree here, whatever that plastic bushes there and take this thing here and we set it on fire, it's gonna turn to ashes, is it not? Let's say that uh we're gonna do a hot dog roach tonight. And uh preacher, we're gonna take uh me and uh Biggie over here is gonna take the uh your big man, amen. Uh uh we're gonna take uh the teenagers and we're gonna take us outside in the parking lot and we'll take those cabinets in the back and we'll put them in a pile, put a little petrol on them and light 'em up. That's that's gas in Australia. And and preacher's gonna run down to Walmart and get some hot dogs and mustards. What am I forgetting? uh ketchup and uh heartburn medicine and some potato chips and and some uh marshmallows and we're gonna he's gonna bring back some of those we'll make some of those s'more things you know. Boy we're gonna have a cookout. And when we come back, when he comes back And if you go out there with us, you expect everything to be in a hump of ashes. But Moses is walking along with those sheep, and for forty years God's been dealing with him About his pride and his stubbornness and his temper. And the Bible says it's not that today there wasn't a more humble man, wasn't a greater leader in the Old Testament. That was before the burning bush. Where the meanness was. After the burning bush is what the humbleness was. And see, God used those 40 years to get Moses right with him. And then God said, It's time for you to step up to the plate. And when Moses saw that bush was burning and it was Uh was not consumed like there was a gas line going into it. I wrote down three things about that shrub. Number one, it was consistent in its burning It was always burning, yet it was not consumed. And let me ask you this. Are you constantly, are you constantly trying to have a testimony? Or are you like so many people today? You're in and out of church, you're up and down, you're emotional, you don't stay with it, you're not consistent, not only in your going to church, but in your giving, in your witnessing, in your Bible reading, in your devotions, in your prayer life. And I know this is a tough thing to say, but it's not fixed until it's fixed. Let me say, like we do in West Virginia, it ain't fixed till it's fixed. If you have trouble in one of those areas, you need to fix that thing Because I'm telling you what, if you're not consistent, it will catch up with you. That inconsistency will take you further than you want to go. It will let you stay more longer than you want to stay. And it's going to cost you down the road. It pays to have a relationship with God. And I want to tell you this. I want to ask you a question tonight. If you want revival, you need to be consistent. In your walk at home, in your walk in your community, because the Bible says we are to be a witness for him. Amen? Now let's go to the second thought here. Not only is that shrug constant in its burning, as it says in verse 2, there in the book of chapter 3, book of Exodus, let's look a little closer at verse 3. It caught Moses' attention Not only was it consistent, the Bible says about you and me here in this church, it says in Matthew 5. 14, Jesus speaking Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. Neither do men light a candle and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick, and it giveth light unto all that are in the house Let your light so shine uh shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. Hey, this is God putting us out here. This is Christ putting it out here. We gotta be consistent. And number two, I want you to see this, in this consistency, it'll catch people's attention. The Bible says here in verse 3 that it caught Moses' attention. How do we apply it to us today? Does your spirit As we say in New Guinea, does your walk-walk, talk-talk, T-O-K-T-O-K, do people see you living what you really believe? When 9-11 took place, I was in Trinidad and Tobago. I was the only American in this suburb, and I was surrounded by five other houses with ten-foot fences around them, and every house was a Muslim house. When 9-11 took place, these Muslims around me, the embassy called, I was at a like a price mark or Walmart getting some water hose And they come got me and took me to the front of the store and we watched the TVs there as the planes were crashing in, our cell phones went off. The American Embassy down there said get get get get get hunkered down, get locked down, stay there, let us know where you are We got a couple of boats coming down, be off out of sight, offshore things go south in Trinidad and Nobego like it did in nineteen ninety two when they had a Muslim coup down there and killed a bunch of people. So we got in our house, kind of got locked down, looking over the fence a little bit, and then I uh right before dark, here come the Muslims. They brought baskets of food. They were crying. And they said, we're not like them. We're not like them. I wasn't supposed to do it, but I opened my gate. I let six families in. We sat there until 2 o'clock in the morning. They're all safe. They're just unsaved as a goose sitting on the pond out here. But they listened to me that night. They was in shock that I I I know Christ, God was in charge of all of this. You know what? None of them got saved. But they learned to respect and they taught me something that night. They said, Pastor, what you do is better caught. I want to tell you, you can say you got the power of God on you. You can say you love the Lord, but if you have a spirit that's sour, You have a spirit that is narcissistic. That's a term self-centered. You have a spirit that it's me, mine, I, and everybody's always against me. You better take a look at it again. Because I tell you what, people watch you as a Christian, amen. I hate it when they say, well I'd go to church if it wasn't for uh Bobby Baptist over there or Bertha Baptist over there. I say that has nothing to do with your relationship with God, but everybody looks at it that way, don't they? So I do that pays to be consistent with God. It pays to uh to let God speak to your heart and let you be a witness to others. And lastly, when I look at this shrub, I see the third thing. Look at verse 4, chapter 3 God called unto him out of the midst of the bush. It contained the voice of God. Will you follow the voice of God in your life here in this church? You say, Well, Brother Lethburn, Brother DeLong, you know, you see, I'm a little bit different, and I'm not I really, you know, sometimes have a hard time reading the Bible and God wanted Moses to be his servant, and Moses was born in the right family in the right way. And hey, Moses was a murderer. Let's look at it. Moses had to get some things straight. When God came to him with that shrub, he stuttered and stammered and made every excuse in the world, but God said, checkmate every time. And Moses finally said, Okay, Lord, I'll do it. You watch him the next few weeks, he came off that mountain. He said he couldn't talk right. And God said, I got your brother, he'll talk for you. No one's going to believe but that that you're in behind me. Just tell 'em I am sent you. They'll they'll get they'll get the they'll get the thought. I'll put the thought right there that you're the one. And when you go through those one, two, three, four, five, ten plagues, when things begin to fall apart, you stay fast, you stand strong, although murmur all the way across the Red Sea, but they'll go with you. Can you see him on the other side of the Red Sea? Egyptians bearing down on him. And I can see Moses looking through the water, seeing Pharaoh coming to kill him. And he his mind rewinds back to that burning bush. Oh man, I wished I'd have never. But you know what he didn't? God took care of business, did he not? I just want to carry-tell you, if you start to trust God at burning shrubs, he'll get you across Red Seas, He'll get you into that promised land, and He'll bless you in a wonderful way. All God's people said, Boy, I need to look at that Moses a little bit, Amen. Slide in your Bibles with me now. Let's go to the second little thing tonight Not only a little shrub, but let's go see a little stone in 1 Samuel chapter 17. David's getting ready to throw down with Goliath. Now I'm not going to talk about the fight much and is there not a cause, but what I'm going to look at tonight is that the stones. First Samuel chapter 17 verse 40. David, just a typical teenager. I love teenagers. They like to eat a lot though. And they they think it they think about for the next second. They never plan uh you know uh things out. Here's David, a young man after God's own heart, and he just took uh Goliath Goliath, he just took Saul's armor off and He said there's a lot of calls. He got his sling and he got his staff and he's going straight towards that giant. And uh going towards that giant, I think he doesn't say it in scripture, but he may have went in there to cock the gun. Or to just double check the chamber. No bullets. No stones. You want to go? First thought? How dumb can you be? Boy, it got a heart after God, and I mean he's sincere as a heart attack, but boy, load that gun before you go across the creek And the Bible is very clear here. Look at verse 40. I want you to catch this. I'll teach you a lesson, I hope, tonight, on on the on the thought of s shepherd stones. And he took his staff in his hand and he chose him, five smooth stones out of the brook And put them in the shepherd's bag which he had, even in the script, and the sling was in his hand, and you drew near to the Philistine. The stones Let's look at one stone tonight. And when I see this stone here, I want you to understand he didn't run up and down that creek bed. According to the season of year, water should have been running. On his way to the giant, he reached right down in the water and brought out five smooth stones. Now the word smooth normally don't get our attention. Can I unwrap it for you? It's called a shepherd stone. Let me illustrate. How many of you folks in here, you've got a lot of ponds and lakes here. How many's ever skipped a stone across the creek? Okay. And how many try to count the skips? How many always got beat by your mother on the skips? My mother and my twin and I went fishing, we about seventeen years old. And uh it was the summer before we got saved and we were fishing over here and and uh she's probably fifty, maybe forty-five, fifty, and she takes her Uh uh you know, just a little old fat lady from the farm just flips them rocks across there. Right across the m about from here to the sound booth, go right across that creek, see get twelve, fifteen skips and stick the mud uh stick in the mud over there My twin and I and we'd say oh mom we can beat that watch and we'd get these big old round rocks we'd throw them She'd do her little victory dance there on that little beach you know Big sissies, he would call us. She said, You boys got a problem. You don't know what a skipper stone looks like. Now you boys reach down in there. And and uh get a flat one. Uh she said flatten, a tillbelly for flat one. So we'd reach down there and get a flatten. And she said, pull that stone up out and we would. She said, look at it real close. So we did. Yeah, it's a rock. She said, no, look close. One side will be rounded, and one side will have a little hollow in it. That hollowed side you put it to the sun. You put that round side here. See that's been down underneath, and this was been uh made flat on top, and you can't let this dance against the water, you'll get more skips out of it. And we did, and she was right. So I know what a skipper stone is. How many learned a lesson tonight you didn't know what one was? Some of these teenagers, what's a stone? But anyway, I'm just being funny. What's a hashtag? I've had no idea. Alright. They watch a creek. But anyway I could go on. And and now watch me. Now watch on this. He goes across that creek, the creek of Elah. The Bible says he reaches down in there and he picks up five smooth stones, puts them in his bag. Puts one in there ready to roll. Are you with me so far? Give me three things about the stone. Write them down. Number one, the stones were in position to be used by God. You come to this church. David on the right day against the right giant, going across the right holler, going across the right valley, his army's behind him, the enemy's in front of him, the giant said they'll never bow down, but the stones, now watch me. You stay careful with me on this. Now this is a big point for revival. Are you in position to be used by God? Or do you have that sin? You've got that little thing that hooks you. That that addiction that you cannot control. That thought process you've never had victory over. Now listen to me very carefully. Are you in position to be used by God? Or are you just kind of sitting there behind a rock watching David see how he does it first? Are you in position? When you come to a church like this, listen to me now. God not only wants to save you, God not only wants to sanctify you God not only wants to teach you righteousness, but he wants to you to have the wisdom watch me now when he picks you up, when he gets ready, he wants to use you. But he'll not use listen to me now Pots of broken clay or a marred pot. He wants that heart right with him. You are you with me on this Secondly, not only was the stone in position, are you ready? The stone was in preparation. I don't know if that stone tumbled down that mountain valley It maybe took him four or five years, maybe took him four or five weeks. God Almighty could have He could have created this world. He could have put them there as David was walking, putting his hand in the water. You know that and I know it. But they were five smooth stones. That means they were separate stones. They weren't little stones, they weren't oblong stones, but they were a stone that looked somewhat like a marble. When they flung them, they tr they flew true. You know what I'm saying? Now listen to this thought. Are you in preparation to be used by God? Writing water in the Bible speaks of the Holy Spirit of God Still water in the Bible speaks of the Word of God. So you let the pastor, you let the Word of God, and you let the Holy Spirit of God in the ministries of this church speak to you. Preach to you. Let it work on you. It's gonna round those rough edges off. Just to sit? No. He wants to use you. There's not an age limit on this. There's not an IQ on this. It is not rocket science. David was a teenager, a young man, after God's own what Heart. And that's where that revival was. Like you said, today it's amazing that Jesus is setting on the throne of David in heaven It is amazing. And you read Daniel's life. I talk about a guy that walked with God. And the Bible says it twice in the book of Daniel. And God loved him. Amen. Do you know why? Because he was not in the imposition, but Daniel, and basically David here, had prepared for this. How do you know a preacher? He took down a lion The lion came back and wanted that sheep back, wanted to fight him, so he killed it. Took down a bear a few a few weeks later. Might have been the same dumb sheep. Didn't have any brains, always wandering off. Slap that bear upside the head, took that uh baby lamb out of that sheep out of its mouth, and set it down and put him back in the and the lion. Bear turned on him, killed them both. Spirit of God came upon him. He said, hey, hey, what's this uncircumcised Phil Steve? He's not a lion and he's not a bear. I mean, the guy's not too big to fight. He's too big to miss Amen. Are you with me on this? He had a different thought process. You know why? Because he was in position and he had prepared for this. Most of us, we get real timid. Uh preacher, you go out there first. David, you you go first. Oh shucks, preacher, I can't really do anything. I was born down in a holler from uh you know in in in in Henderville and I don't want to do anything Let me tell you what. God wants to use you. And he puts you in position and he prepares you. And here's the last thing. You ready? You are powerless. Until that shepherd picks you up and touches your heart and said, let's go take a giant on today. Let's go in the lion's den today. Amen? Let's cross a Red Sea today. None of those things happen unless there is a revival first. All God's people said, Well The enemy, Goliath bunches down there. David flings that rock, hits that giant in the head, and which way does he bow? Backwards or frontwards? Forward. Hey you hit me as big as you are with your fist, I'm gonna go backwards. You hit me with a stone, I'm gonna go backwards. Amen. But boy, when hit this big giant got hit He went forward. I think David bunched Saul first. Hey! We got him! Charge! The enemy goes, huh? We're out of here. I think the devil works the same way. If some of us will start standing up and stepping out and going across the creek, start flinging a few, a few uh A few rocks at the devil and inviting people to church and just keep on flinging 'em. The accuser stands up, keep on flinging them. He has a real bad habit. He runs every time God shows up. Amen Do you know why most of us don't do things for God? Because we're afraid it's going to cost us something. Folks, it don't cost you anything. And the devil gets on this shoulder. And and the God's on the shoulder. And you listen to him. Oh, what will people think? They won't think a thing. Amen? Listen to me now. Little is much. If God is in it. I was in New Guinea and I go jogging every morning back in those days. Now I dream about it. Amen. Used to have his old dog that would sleep at night. He would run in his sleep. He was so old he couldn't run, but he could dream he could. I tried to reach a little place called Te Te. And it was a settlement of squatters. Golialas, their average height. They were almost pygmies, but they were all the even but they were thieves. They're about three miles from my house and where our church was and our house was and where our compound was and I'd go jogging down to their village and back and try to go in, but they would not let a Taubada in there They thought I was a Catholic priest, because the kids will come out, the younger ones about the size of these here, and go war running with me. 'Cause they they they wonder they would run with Mingo and they'd yell, running with the white guy, running with the white guy, you know, and and running with running with Father D Long. And you know, and I'm a pastor. No, oh Father D long. So they thought I was a priest And uh I'd go jogging by there and I'd try to get in there and invite people to church and I'd try to befriend those kids and start to run with a pocket full of suckers. You know, candy will get them every time. And then about a week later I started using a little piece of bubblegum. But the bubblegum had a track on it written in their language, lighting them to church. You know, I just throw it on the ground. You say that's litter. No, they'll pick it up. They'll steal anything. So it's a piece of candy. Then I had more kids running with me. One one night I had twenty-three kids running with me, jogging in the afternoon. They wanted that candy But I'm trying to get my toe in the door of that village, Tay Te. They had a wall around it. You had to be invited in. About 500 of them in there And uh they'd never let me in. I'd go up there on Saturdays, try to get in, hand out some tracks, never let me in. Never let me in. Man, I prayed and prayed and prayed, and about two years in I was praying that God would let me get in there. But nothing happened. And and then one day one of the kids on Sunday morning snuck in the back of the church property. And come into the church service. He was the first Golialla ever to come. That little boy got saved. I started inviting kids to church and they'd come out to meet their their wall of that little village, they'd walk almost three miles. You'd s they'd be hiding on the weeds and and the side of the church and our kind of people that we had in our church didn't want them to come because they were thieves. But when the pastor walked out he'd see these little heads coming up out of the weeds. Come come one time. Come boom one time. You come. And they would come to me and the people I'd say stay back. This be the little kids. Those are bullyalas. Yeah, but they got souls. Preacher, we don't allow them. We do now. Boys, a couple guys got mad in my church. I said, leave it be. They say they'll never let you in, Pastor. It'll never open up. You're wasting your time. I'm telling you what, God never wastes his time. If he can take a Moses and take him 40 years to get him ready, and he can take a teenager and just a couple of years to get him ready, he can get you ready, right? Are you with me on this? But you gotta listen You've got to be prepared. You've got to be in position. And you're absolutely powerless to you step up and say, the shepherd picks you up and say, let's go. Let's take on a giant today. Amen. Let's finish the message tonight. Go to John chapter 6. Little as much of God as in it. I hope the Lord tonight will put you in position to be used. I hope the Lord tonight you'll prepare for to serve him here in and through this church. I hope tonight you understand you'll become very powerful. Very powerful for God if you have revival in your life. You know the little snack launch in chapter 6. We'll look at verse 13. And I want you to catch this with me. And I want to thank you people for praying for me and my my tooth. You're here, I might I kind of hyperventilate a little bit. I got a lot of painkiller in me. But it doesn't make me sick or anything, but helps me catch my breath a little bit. Verse verse thirteen, catch this. This is great. Therefore they gathered them together and filled twelve baskets with the fragments of five barley loaves which remained over and above unto them that had eaten. Jesus had been long preaching, and 5,000 men were sitting there, and their wives, and their kids. And Jesus, when he was done, said, Ah, these people are hungry Well we need to feed 'em. Can we go down to the McDonald's and buy and and and Peter or filled the the bean counter said no we don't have enough we only got two hundred penny we ain't got enough to feed us. What are you talking about? And when I look at this, I see the negativity. And Jesus, I want us as we read this, we're going to look at three people. The lad, the Lord, and the leftovers. And look what the uh Philip said in verse 7: 200 penny worth of bread is not sufficient for all these people for them. Then every one of them may take a little And one of his disciples, Andrew Simon Peter's brother, saith unto him, There's a lad here which hath five barley loaves and two fishes, but what are they amongst so many? And Jesus said, have everybody sit down. Let's take a look at the lad. Can we do that? Just a little lad. I think that lad, I don't know. What's this boy's name here? What's his name? Isaac, can I shake your hand? Stand up here with me. I think he's about that size. How old are you? Twelve, fourteen? Nice, I was I you're bigger than I thought you I mean you're nine yeah you're a big boy. I was that big in when I was seventeen, but anyway He's sitting there listening to the preacher. Can you sit over here for me for just a minute? I'm gonna give you this box. Wait, I don't even know his name. Hold on And Jesus is up there preaching all day long. Time to go eat. He said, Hey, disciples, followers of me, uh my next generation of preachers. Hey, uh, uh we got uh we want to feed all this crowd. And and you know the bean counter, the accountant, they don't have any money. And God, we just sent them out to McDonald's and say, we don't we don't feed them. Let's let them go. And then Andrew, he he he's sitting there by this little boy up front. He'd been listening to the preaching. And when the little boy heard Jesus talking to Philip, the little boy kind of leaned over and handed me that box. Handed that box up to to and said, Here, here, uh uh missionary disciple, future preacher, uh I want to give Jesus, my five little green barley loaves of bread and and two salt-dried sardine fishes. And I want to give that to him. And and look at it Andrew made kind of fun of him. Hey, this little stupid kid wants to give his sack watch. How dumb can he be? Let's look at the lad. Number one, he gave what he had. Are you listening? God has given you things that he wants you to give to him, and I'm not talking about your money. I'm not talking about missions. I'm talking about a thought process, a heart process. Also, the little boy saw the opportunity. So he he did what he could. Are you ready? He gave all he could when he had the opportunity to do so. How many times have I heard this? Preacher, when I win the lot of When I get right with Jesus, man, I'll really do something for God. You know, why did you live in a world like that? This little lad had a heart. Then he gave all he had when he could. I know it was five little rolls smaller than your hand. And how many of folks in here have ever eaten sardines? How many of you like to eat sardines? They'll let you stink for about a week, won't they? I like opening up the sardines because I want to see what their eyeballs look like. My dad had his uppers pulled on a Monday and lowers pulled on a Tuesday. And uh and he couldn't eat anything hard, so he made an Amish fish milkshake. Here's how it works. You take a quarter pack of crackers, saltines, put them in a blender. You put about six, seven ounces of water or milk in there. You got some cornbread, put that in there. And on top you put a whole can of sardines. Out of the can, by the way, kids. You gotta take it out of the can And you hit that thing on blend, you see body parts going around those crackers. What's so cool? Towards the end, nothing left but little eyeballs going around in circles. And my dad would pop the top off of that when mom wasn't around and he would drink it. And he said, don't tell your mother this, but watch. He would do a little belch and green stuff would come out. We would laugh just like you. We just haven't fun teenagers. Dad, this is so cool! Sardines has not much to offer for Jesus. But that's all the boy had. Listen to me. God put that on the boy's heart to give. And God's going to work on your heart to give part of you to Him even more. What holds back revival is, I think it's more us than it is, is the Lord or anything around us. Now we looked at the lad. Now let's look at the Lord. I want you to read with me verse 6. This is so cool. I want you to catch this And this he Christ said to prove him Christ, for he himself Christ, knew what he him Christ would do. Before he asked, how much money we got? Before the boy's heart was touched to give. And the question wasn't directed to the boy, but his spirit was so sensitive to this. Can I tell you what? God is already at tomorrow. Say amen with me. And God knows what He's doing with you. Well, you don't know my life. I don't have to. I know what he's all about. He'll never leave you. He'll never forsake you. Yeah, but I got to go through some valleys of Eva. I thought when I got saved, I was going to be like, you know, it's going to be really sweet the rest of my life Yes, that's what uh, you know, people don't know their Bible preach. No matter what you face, he's bigger than anything you're gonna face. Amen? That little boy, he just gave, watch me now, what God put on his heart to give. The boy had no idea That Jesus was in charge of this and Jesus worked on his heart. Philip's over there pushing the calculator. Andrew's making fun of him. The boy's just offering, and Jesus is already out in front of it. Watch this Have them all set down in groups of fifty. God take care of this. Amen. A short prayer. I don't know where they got the baskets, but they had, verse 13 said Twelve baskets of bread left over when everybody had had seconds. When everybody had eaten. So they actually ended up with more than they had to start with. Isn't that great? Some scholars on this side of the aisle say that the twelve baskets that were left over represents the twelve tribes of Israel. Whew, I don't see it. On this side of the aisle the more mature ones say that each of the baskets was for Each one of the disciples so they could merrily serve Jesus in their non-faithless state as they walked around uh uh you know the the providence of Capernaum. It doesn't say that, does it? But when I read my Bible, Philippians chapter 4, Paul said this, you don't do this to be added to Paul's account, but to what? your account. And it says in the book of Matthew, when you give with a pure heart, it's pressed down, shaken together, and running over. You can't ever get in front of God on this. Here's what I think personally. Are you ready for this? It's not there, but it's better than what this side said and this side said. I believe the Lord may give them twelve baskets of that boy. You go on home to mama. Now, there's is there any Jewish people in here? But if you're a Jewish person, what would that boy do with eleven of those twelve baskets? Sell every one of them. Amen. He'd open up a bakery and coffee shop. That's how they work, amen But God does promise us, if we're in tune with Him, He will supply, He will meet every need. And He said He will add to you and add to you and add to you. I just wanted to encourage you tonight. Hey, brethren, it's your calling. And I mean, you may be weak. You may be poor, you may be base, you may be weak, little and poor. You have nothing going on. You're worse than Job's turkey leaning up against a rock after uh, you know, uh his kids had all died. There's nothing going on. But I want you to understand, God will use you if your heart's right with him. Hey, Moses had to take care of that pride. Boy, he got across that Red Sea, but that God used a shrub to get his attention. David took down a giant, but God used a stone. Through that boy to take him down, to save a nation. And that little boy was used to introduce to you and me the Gentile world in John chapter 6 to the bread of life. Jesus said, I am the bread of life. Isn't that right? You read the rest of that chapter, it's there. What a great thought. I want to encourage you tonight. The difference in failure and success, that you want revival in your life, you better consistently. Be listening to God's word. And He will get you in position and He will prepare to use you. And then it'll come about time for you to offer up and to give and be part of it. And you just watch and see what God will do. Amen. Back to Tayte. Sunday afternoon. Been about six months into this. A man knocks on my door and says, Pastor Dan, come on. Missionary DeLong, come on. There's a hanging at Tay Tay. The gate is open. He was a deacon in our church, Paula. I said, What? I'm studying for tonight's service. Oh, you've been praying for the last year for God to open the door. Well somebody for let the front gate unlock because there's a hanging inside. Now in New Guinea If you steal somebody's hogs, dogs, frogs, and wives, they catch you before the police do. They're going to hang you. How many realize they do this in other worlds? You didn't realize that? There's no rights in these other worlds. It's hard for Americans when you go there. So I was studying my Bible and in fact I was studying this Bible and man I'm in my study and getting ready for Sunday night service. And I said, man, they didn't teach me how to do this at Bob Jones University. Brother Paul said, Pastor, missionary Delong, when you come, bring an eight-inch block with you Concrete block with you. What's that for? Just bring it with you. Because you're not that tall. And and uh and we we drove up there and got out and I he said, Bring your Bible. And I brought my Bible. He said now I'm gonna put carry this block in there and they're not they don't they're not gonna see it but no one can kill anybody in New Guinea if there's an American missionary there holding the Bible. That's holy ground and they won't they won't they won't touch 'em. I said, well I never thought of that. Yeah, you didn't learn that in Bible college, did you? And so uh he set the block down and he said, now you stand on top of that I said I can't speak their language. Well they can't speak English. You do I I don't know what to say. I'll just say it and translate and then I'll tell you what you said. Okay, that's cool. What am I giving into? Exactly what God wanted. So we got in the back of that crowd, they hadn't seen me yet, and put the block down there and And I stood on top of it, you know, and there were a bunch of short people, and all their eyes, about 500 of them sitting there watching a tree in front of us. About uh trees back there by the about the edge of the school uh church building here and and they had two ropes up over top of it. I saw on the ground an old man and an old woman. They got their feet tied to their hands, kinda hunkered over like that, got nooses around their neck, getting ready to pull them up to tie 'em off. Man, I'd never seen a hanging before And I didn't want to see one. I said, Paul, I told John, John, we need to get out of here. I don't want to be part of this. I don't want to see this because I'm an American. If I see a killing, they may want to get me in court. No, I don't want to. And they said, oh, you just stand there, you'll be the preacher You've been praying for this. I said, well, Paul, what do you mean? You've been praying for God to open the door. Hey, the gate's open. But I didn't come in here to see a hanging. We'll get it taken. Hey, God, God will be glorified. Okay. Man, he got more faith in me. Hey, what's your faith right like? Well I come to church, sing in the chor. What's your faith like? Give once a week. Uh worse that was the dishes here. No, what's your faith like? Are you gonna are you gonna be a Moses? You wanna be a David? You wanna be a lad? Now watch this. So I got on that block and Paul said, hey, can I have your attention, please? And he he he was talking in pigeon. Hey One time, he look 'em you, turn him, turn him, turn him, look, look him, look 'em. But tawbutta, belong me. Man belong me. He's telling them that I'm his pastor. Tal butter means lard, white lard in that language. And that I'm a missionary. And they're looking at me and they see the Bible. He said, Hold the Bible here. And they did and they so they all came, whoa, we gotta stop this. He turned and talked to the mayor, the head man of that village, and he said, Pastor Dan, just tell him not to hang the kid Hey sir, I won't tell you, don't hang the kid. And here's what Paul translated. You're a wise leader. You know what you're doing. We don't understand. But you ought not to hang those two people till you gave us a hearing. God's let him here to hear this, and he will be the judge if you should continue in what you're doing or not. I'm going, oh boy. He said, Well, the woman put a hex on her son. That boy was laying over there on the cot. He didn't want to come back home, and his mom said, if you don't come back home, I'll put a spell on you. A couple of neighbors neighbors heard them arguing. And in that world, demon possession is really strong. And so they were uh they're gonna hang her and her husband for putting a demon in the boy because he was sick. And I looked at the boy and he was foaming at the mouth and a little bit and his eyes rolled up in his head and he's kind of shaking like he's got cerebral malaria. And uh Paul said, Listen, if you're a wise, wise leader, you'll let the pastor here, the missionary, the Talbot, and and and before he makes a decision, he wants you to give him permission to put him in his truck, which is down there by the gate which you left open. and and and and we want to put him in the truck and take him to the hospital and and pass the dam. Missionary DeLong, he will pay for the the test for the doctor this afternoon and then we'll come right back. Do you will you you have a wise leader? You don't want to hang anybody if the boy's just got malaria. That their leader said, spoken wise. I said, you got me paying for all this? It's only 50 bucks, preacher, and you'll be all right. We picked that boy up, put him on that truck. First time in my life. We stood going down to the hospital. God give him malaria. God give him malaria. God Give him worms, give him something, amen. You listen, little is much if God is in it. See, they'd seen me run by their village for like a year almost. They'd seen me give their kids candy. They knew some of them was sneaking to church and didn't stop them. Some of them got saved and they would talk in the village. Then when the Taubutter shows up, they stopped to hang it. We went down there and one of our nurses from our church was on duty and I said, we you need a blood test and and uh And they did it. We waited about w they put us in the front of the line because I had money. They moved me right up front. Everybody else didn't have money. I had to wait. And they we carried them in there, did a blood test and Doctor come out and says he's full of malaria, give him a shot and get and give him 30 days worth of malaria medicine. I got out of there for 65 bucks. Best day I ever, best 65 bucks I ever spent, amen. Because he did not have a demon in him. Man, I'm happy. I drive back in that village. I get back up on my concrete block And and they were all looking, and I said, You need to go ahead and untie them. You're a wise uh that you're a great lead you're a fantastic, you're a smart man because he's sick with malaria, he doesn't have a any demon any and so they cut it cut him loose. Everybody clapped a little bit and they went home. That woman crawled underneath the bush of their house, the husband turned around and left. And I mean, uh, that was the end of that. Next Saturday. I show up at the gate, they see me coming, they have cookies, they even bought me Diet Coke, and I got to go to every hut in that village. Had over 20 kids come out that Sunday. The next Sunday, the little woman that was going to get hung come out. And she got saved The third time she came to our church. Husband never got saved. That lady's about 65, 66 years old, about my age. When I was preaching there last year, they brought her across town. And she she gave her testimony that he got me to Jesus when I was supposed to be getting hung. I'm telling you. Now that's not that's not watch me now. That's not Dan DeLong doing anything. That's God you working through. Me when I got some things right. I'm standing on that cement block asking God to bless me and get me in this village. It's not how I planned. It's how he planned. But greater is he than you that's in the world. So when you let God reign Hey, he'll use little shrubs. He'll use little snack lunches. He'll use little stones. And he'll use little kids jogging with you to open up a ministry, to get inside a village. And I tell you what, then God takes over and does what only God can do. Amen. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Lord, we come to you tonight. I don't know the hearts of the people in here, but you do. And Father, there's someone here tonight that does not know you as their personal Savior. The Bible is very clear, for the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. Romans 3. 10 says, as it is written, there's none righteous. But the Bible is very clear in Romans 5. 12, whereas we're by one man sinned into the world. But I love Romans 5. 8, but God commendeth his love toward us. In the while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us That if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus Christ, thou shalt be saved. Do not save tonight. I pray that you'll come. And ask Jesus Christ in your heart during the invitation. And for you Christians in tonight, you want revival in your life? Would you listen to that shrub being in the right place at this church? Listen to the voice of God. Have the consistent testimony. And when God works on your heart, will you be like David? Will you be in position to be prepared? So when the God wants to use you, when that our Master Shepherd wants to use us, we have the power to step forward for his honor and his glory. And Lord, may we be like that lad. May we use what you've already given us, what we have. And God, you'll take these little base things, people like us, and situations you bring in our life to bring people to you May we here at this church, may we here in our lives, may we here in our family look at the little base things that you use to change the world. Lord, you redeemed us, you sanctified us, you cleaned us up Lord, you taught us righteousness because you give us the wisdom to step out and serve you. And Father, we thank you tonight for this opportunity to give us to have this meeting. We pray these things in your name. Pastor. Bowed eyes are closed. Let's stand together for our invitation. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. Here's what I ask you to do tonight. I don't know how God may have spoken to your heart. I know He did. Well, would you do this at an old altar tonight, Monday night of our revival? Would you ask God to help and do what he needs to do to make things right in your heart and life? Whatever's there is not prepared. It's not right. The Spirit of God is already speaking to your heart. And ask God tonight, God, do what you need to do to make things right in my heart, in my home. And then ask God this. Ask God, Lord, use me. Somehow, some way, some capacity, use me for your glory. And for the gospel. Would you do that? As the piano plays, as piano plays, let's find a place in order. How about it? Young and old. Lord, please do what you need to do to make things right in my heart God, please do what you need to do to make things right in my home, so that you can use me, so that you can have an influence in my life. How about it? How about it? God just wants you to use me however you seek fit, whatever role you have for me. Please use me. God do what you need to do to make things right. God will do it. God, do what you need to do to make things right in my heart, in my life, in my home. God can't use us if things aren't right, if we're not prepared. Now God can and will do what he needs to do to make us usable, but we've got to be yielded to him. We've got to be obedient. We've got to trust them. And then God used me. God wants to use us. He's just waiting for us to be willing. To let go, put ourselves in his hands, let him use us. Now, Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for little things. Lord, uh I just look at my own life and never thought myself to be much big, much of anything. But God, what you can do if we'll just uh take take ourselves and put ourselves in your hand, let you have your way, do what's right. And to trust you. And God, I believe you'd use every one of us in ways we never imagined. And I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you, maybe seated. Thank you, Brother DeLong. Good message. You helped me tonight. Ushers, if you would, come on down. All the offering tonight, tomorrow night, and Wednesday night is going to go to Brother DeLong, his ministry. This is how God provides for him And um and so we want to be real generous in our giving and keep that in mind. I just want to mention one prayer request. There's a lot of them. I just want to mention one. James and Diane called this