Alright, 2 Corinthians chapter 10, look at verse 14. For we stretch not ourselves beyond our measure, as though we reached not unto you. For we are come as far as to you also in preaching the gospel of Christ. Not boasting of things without our measure, that is, of other men's labors But having hope when your faith is increased, we shall be enlarged by you according to our rule abundantly. To preach the gospel in the regions beyond you, and not to boast in another man's line of things made ready to our hand. But he that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord. Father, we're grateful for this time and for this opportunity to be together. Bless your word in Jesus' name. Amen. I'll tell you one of the things I know, and this is not earth-shattering, but Our world is immense. I mean it's huge. And I don't just mean geographically. We all understand that it's a geographically it's a big place. But when I say it's immense I'm also talking about all the people. I'm told that eight billion people inhabit planet Earth I'm going to be honest with you, I struggle past a hundred, so I can't conceive of what eight billion people are. And then when I think of the size of that eight billion people, and I think of all the colors of people. All the languages that are on earth, all the cultures, all the religions, uh, if you will, that are on the earth. I I'm just telling you, it's it's hard for me to get my head around the immensity of that. And then I think of this. That as big as it is, and as many kinds of people populate this earth, God knows and loves every single one of them. And no matter what continent they live in, or what religion they practice, or what language they speak, or what color their skin is, here's a great truth There is but one name by which every man must be saved. And the only way to be saved is through Jesus Christ. And what Jesus Christ has done in paying the penalty of our sin. And redemption is only through his blood. The only way any man's going to be saved is through Jesus Christ. And then I think of this. As great as God's love is, and as big as God's heart is, can I just be honest with you? That sometimes mine no not sometimes all the time mine is so small What I mean by that is, is I know how many people are here and I know what their need is, but sometimes the only world that matters to me is my world. Only thing that matters to me is my schedule. Only thing that matters to me is my hurt, my desire, my want, my need. And sometimes I just chastise myself and my thinking. Lord, help me to live beyond the bubble of my own life. As I read these verses, one of the things I understand is That the Apostle Paul was a man who got it figured out and learned how to live beyond himself, beyond his own little bubble of life. In this scripture that we read, I see that he lived beyond his measure. I see that he had a desire to go be to the regions beyond. And and in a way that I'll have to explain, I want to be careful to explain it. He was a man that lived beyond his means. And I think that each and every one of us in the right way ought to endeavor to be like the Apostle Paul and more like the heart of God, and that is to live with a vision beyond. Our little world. Think about it with me for a moment. The Apostle Paul says in verse 14 that he wanted to live beyond his measure. Note it again with me. We stretch not ourselves beyond our measure as though we reached not unto you. You have to understand something. That the Apostle Paul and the church at Corinth often had kind of an adversarial relationship The people of Corinth didn't like the apostles' authority over their church. As a matter of fact, they got downright nasty about it at times They would they would criticize his preaching. They would even make fun of his appearance. They would make fun that I don't think he was a big man. And uh he wasn't uh perhaps strong in his preaching when he was there. And and they didn't like his authority, and they let him know That they didn't even at times consider him a real apostle. And what they're saying in verse 14 is something like this: they're saying, Paul, you are always talking to us about reaching the world. Paul, don't you understand that we've got our own stuff to take care of here in Corinth? Don't you understand we've got our own bills and our own businesses and our own homes and our own families? Paul, you're dreaming. You're not going to reach the whole world with the gospel. And I love what Paul says back to him. He says, we reached you. Well, get a hold of that. You see, there's always been a crowd that said, you're not going to reach the whole world. You can't get that done. They thought that, and that's why they kept the gospel in Jerusalem. There were people there that said, you can't take this to anybody besides Jews because we're the only ones that believe there's only one God. You can't take it to anywhere else, but they did. They took it to Samaria Well maybe you could take it to Samaria because they they had a heritage of Judaism, but you could never take it to just Gentiles, but they did. They took it to Antioch And they had so many people saved at Antioch that it was the first place where they were called Christians, not in Jerusalem, but in a Gentile city. And not only that It was the place where modern missions was launched and Paul left Antioch for his first journey. By the way, when it got to Corinth for the first time It had jumped an ocean, the Aegean Sea, gone to a new continent, and now people on Europe are being saved. And I got good news for you A little bit later in history it jumped another ocean, the Atlantic Ocean, and you and I are sitting in a church auditorium this morning Because the gospel is not stopped by a border or a boundary or a government. It can go anywhere God purposes it to go. And we need to stop saying it can't be done. Oh, I understand. If it's up to Mike Edwards, no, it isn't gonna get done. But it's not by my measure. Pour the Holy Spirit into a surrendered Mike Edwards. Pour a Holy Spirit into a missions. giving church and an oriented church, pour God into our measure, and we're enough and it can reach the world. We need to be the people who stop saying it can't be done and say, God, would you use us to do it? Paul was the kind of man that said, listen, I'm not going to sit around negative. I'm not going to sit around and say, no, it can't be done, can't be done, can't be done. God used me To go beyond my measure to see men and women saved. Here's the second thing. Paul was interested in reaching the regions beyond. That's what he says in verse 16. He wanted to preach the gospel in the regions beyond you. Hey, going from Jerusalem to Samaria to Antioch Now to Corinth. Paul wasn't done. He said, I want to go beyond you. I want to reach regions beyond you. One of the greatest questions, political questions in our day. Is who ought to be allowed into our country, both legally and illegally? And I think that's an important question. I think that needs to be answered. But to be honest with you, I think the more important question is Who's going to leave here and go to them? I think our churches need to be deeply concerned about why are we not sending more to reach a lost world And we need the spirit of the Apostle Paul that says, I want to go beyond. Paul was saved around 42 A. D. He spent some silent years in the desert being taught of the Lord and being taught of others. Around 46 A. D. , he began traveling the world preaching the gospel. And for the next 15 years, he traveled by foot and by ship. He was supported by others, but also when needed, he worked as a tent maker. He preached in cities and in villages. He preached in season and out of season. He preached in Jerusalem and North Africa. He preached in Asia Minor and Greece, the islands of the Mediterranean, Italy, and he even preached in the capital of the greatest empire the world to that time had known. He preached in the city of Rome. He preached to Jews and the pagans. He preached to paupers, but he also preached to kings. He preached to anyone that would listen to him, including those who who snapped irons on his wrists and on his legs and guarded him in the prison. It didn't matter where he was, it didn't matter who he who you were, didn't matter what your color was, didn't matter what language you spoke, Paul knew the gospel was for you and he wanted to reach the world. I'm convinced if he'd had a Tesla He'd have reached the whole world. Now he wouldn't have any place to plug it in, but he'd have tried. Amen. And I want that spirit. I want that heart. I want that heart that just keeps reaching. I read that phrase, regions beyond. And I thought to myself, when I was preparing this sermon, I thought, what's that mean for me? I can get on a jet airplane and literally, preacher, be anywhere on this globe in 24 hours or less. Literally. What's that mean for us? We can get on a boat, we can get on a plane. There is no region so further beyond. I'll tell you what it means for us. Can I tell you what one commentator said? Still further. Still further. One of the greatest fears I have in my life is this, and I mean this from the bottom of my heart. I don't ever want to come to the place where I think I've gone far enough. Somebody said to me the other day, what are you preaching 42 weeks a year for? Still further to go. I think one of the things we need to guard against is to think I've studied my Bible enough. I I've passed out enough tracks. Let somebody else do it. I've changed enough in my life. I've given of myself enough. Hey, not one single day I live on this earth. If I preach until I'm 85, there's not one day that I will have done any more than my reasonable service for my Lord. And one of the days we die, or one of the ways we die spiritually the quickest is to say, I've given enough. I've done enough. No, you haven't. And I want to tell you, if you have that spirit, it's not because you've matured in the Lord. Maturing in the Lord does not remove the burden to serve the Lord or the sense of debt that we owe the Lord. That's what backsliding does. And I don't mean to scold or be harsh, but sometimes we consider mature saints when actually what we've become is cold saints. Still further. There's still further I can go in what I give to missions. There's still further I can go in my walk with There's still further I can go down that street to reach somebody with the gospel. There's still further, there's still more. And may we guard against ever saying, I've done enough One of my heroes in the faith is a man named C. T. Stud. He was a cricket player back at the turn of the last century. I know we don't know much about cricket, but if you lived in England and you was a great cricket player in the 1800s, you were somebody. And he made the decision one night, somebody had invited him to a D. L. Moody rally He went to a moody rally and man he got saved. And cricket never meant what it meant before. to him again. Became a great missionary, and he had a way of really turning a phrase. And he said this. Ever forward, never backward. They also said this some want to live within the sound of a church or a chapel bell. I want to run A rescue shop within a yard of hell. Wow. He also said this: if Jesus Christ is God and died for me. Then no sacrifice can be too great for me to make for him. I'm gonna tell you, those are true statements. And one of the purposes of our meeting in a missions conference is for God to help us catch the vision of still further Never going backward, never satisfied with where we've come, always with a desire to go further. Here's number three. Let us live beyond our means. Verse 15. Not boasting of things without our measure, that is, of other men's labors, but having hope when your faith is increased. That we shall be enlarged by you according to our rule abundantly. You know what Paul was saying? Paul was saying, church according, I'm praying for you. And I'm praying that your faith is increased. Well, what purpose, Paul? Church, I'm praying that your faith is increased so that you will enlarge me. That's a bold statement. And it's a statement that we have to understand. Paul's not saying I want to be enlarged. He's not saying I want to be enriched for my sake. He's saying, I'm praying for your faith to be increased so that I can be enlarged for the purpose of sharing the gospel in another place, in another place, and another place It was never about him. It was never about him. It was always about others. Always about others. And church, I'm praying for you today that your faith is increased Because the work is not done. And more is needed. Sometimes we get very, very shy about talking about money, and I get that But what I love about Missions Conference Week is not a dime of it stays here. Not a dime of it pays the bills here or pays a salary here. It is literally what Paul was saying is There's regions beyond that have not heard. The need is great beyond us, and we need to reach those places. God loves sacrificial giving. Can I give you an illustration of what I'm talking about today? I know that you're familiar with the story of Elijah and the widow. Elijah had declared a drought. And God sent him first of all to the brook chereth and at chere. There was water bubbling still in the creek, and the raven brought him meat day by day, and he was fed there and frankly was quite content there. But when you prophesy and call a drought, the brook eventually dries up And so the Lord had to move him from that place. And the Lord said to Elijah, I want you to go down and be sustained by the widow at Zarephath. Now, can I remind you men in this room that no man wants to be sustained by a widow? As a matter of fact, our nature is to want to sustain the widow. But he says to Elijah, I want that widow to take care of you. And so Elijah, I'm sure, concerned in his heart about what he's going to do, goes down there. And can you imagine when he knocks on that widow's door and She comes to the door and and maybe recognizes him as the man of God, but he but he pronounces to her, God has sent me here. God has has sent me here so that you can sustain me. And and the widow kind of answers him back, well you've come on a bad day. Because right now I was just going out to gather some sticks. And uh And because you called that drought, there's no food. And I was going to get a couple of sticks and get a fire going, and there's just enough meal for me and my son I was going to fashion us a little cake and a little cruise of oil, a little oil from the cruise, and I was going to make us the last food we have, the last cakes we have, we're going to eat them, and then, Mr. Prophet, we're going to die And Elijah says to her, Make me a little cake first. Because God has told me that He's going to take care of you, but you've got to trust His word. Make me a cake first. Is there a man in this room that wouldn't have choked saying that to that widow? But God told him to say it, didn't he? A lot of folks get mad at preachers talking about giving to missions, but open your Bible. It's in there. And we're not faithful men of God if we don't tell you what God tells us to tell you. Make me a cake first. And I will tell you, the hero of this story is not that prophet. The hero of this story is that woman that stands there. And says, I I have so little. I have real needs and and and yet Here's what God's man has said, God said in his word. And God said, if I'll make him a cake, God will provide for me. Am I going to believe God's word, or am I going to believe my empty barrel? What am I going to do? I'm going to believe God's word. And God, I'm going to put my trust in you and do what you said And she goes to that barrel and takes that little bit of meal and what's oil and that cruise and she makes him a cake and she puts it on the table. And here's where, preacher, I just I stumble almost over this. Elijah sits down and eats it. In front of her. Little boys over there saying, Can I have a bite? No. That part did not happen, all right? He says, go make yourself a cake. And I think what she wants to say to him is, you just ate it But she goes back to that barrel. And you know what's in that barrel? Enough. Enough. And she fashions herself a cake and her boy a cake, and they eat that cake, and tomorrow she's not quite sure. Woo! And she's glad she trusted God for that day, but she doesn't know what's going to be there tomorrow. But she gets up tomorrow and you know what's in the barrel? Enough And the next day enough, and the next day enough, about the tenth day I'd have said, God fill that thing up But there was enough. You know what that woman's glad of today in heaven? She's glad she believed the word of God and the promise of God, and by faith trusted God's promise to take care of her. And she's got a testimony she'd have never had had she not obeyed the word of God. Hey, you know what we do? We go through all of our lives hearing testimonies. but fearful to have a testimony. That's right. Because having that testimony means we've got to take that step over that line and say, God. I'm going to trust you. I don't know how this is going to work. I don't know where this is going to come from. But God, I'm going to trust you. Let me tell you a story and I'm done. True story. There was a young man who graduated from high school in 1904. You are old enough, some of you are old enough like I am to remember Elsie the Cow. You remember Elsie the Cow? She was from Borden the dairy, Borden's Dairy. Borden's dairy was more than just a dairy. I mean it was an empire of food and so on. The young man that graduated was the name of William Borden. When he graduated from high school, his mother was a believer and had told him about Jesus and he was a saved young man. But when he graduated from high school, his father, the business owner and tycoon said, I'm going to send him on a trip around the world so that he can learn about business in other cultures. So when he graduates from high school, they get a guardian for him and he goes all across the world. so that he can learn about business. But can I tell you what happened to him on that worldwide trip? He might have learned a little about business, but God called him to be a missionary. He saw certain people in the Mongolia area of China, the Kansu people. Strange thing about the Kansu people, though they lived in China, they spoke Arabic. And so when he graduated and got back, oh, his father was so upset with him. What do you mean, missionary? You're gonna throw your life away to be a missionary when there's a business that you could run. You could become a powerful person as a business owner. He says, Dad, he's called me to be a missionary. His father sent him to Yale University. I don't recommend you do that today. Sent him to Yale University thinking he'll get that foolishness out of his head Sent him to Yale, but he didn't get the foolishness out of his head because it wasn't foolishness. Instead he led his doormates to the Lord. He went down into the streets of New Haven and started a mission there and led the down and out to the Lord, was used of God in a great way, graduated from Yale and filled his purpose He went to Cairo, Egypt, so that he could learn Arabic, so that he could reach those people in China. 30 days after he was in Cairo, he contracted spinal meningitis. To be honest, today we could heal spinal meningitis if caught early But not back then. And 25 days after he contracted that disease, he died in an Arab hospital in Cairo. The Chicago newspapers wasted life. Missed opportunity. Oh, man. They just berated this young man who could have been so much, but died in such a way. They retrieved his belongings from that hospital and someone opened them when they got them back. And in the fly leaf of his Bible, he had written this. No reserves, no retreats, no regrets. God had called him and he wasn't pulling back. And by the way, he wrote the no regrets after he had contracted the spinal meningitis. And what he was saying is: the best thing I can do with my life is to trust the Lord and to obey the Lord and to be what the Lord wants me to be. Can I tell you, I have a great fear? I wasn't raised in a Christian home. I didn't get saved until I was a married man with children. Then we got saved and we've lived for the Lord. But 23 years of my life Are a waste. I will forever regret that. I'll regret it when I stand before the Lord because I had opportunities to be saved But I'll tell you this. I don't want to stand before him for the rest of my years. And regret that I did not trust him and move forward by faith. Did you know that nobody is ever going to stand in heaven and say, man, I regret being in that missions conference? Boy, I sure regret spending my time surrendered to the Lord to go to a mission field. Boy, do I regret. Man, we could have taken ten more cruises, but we gave it the missions. Nobody's gonna say that. I tell you the songwriter got it right. Listen to this and I'm done. By and by I look on his face, beautiful face. Forn shadowed face by and by when I look on his face I'll wish I had given him more More so much more more of my life Then I hear gave me for I look on his face. I wish I'd given him more. Oh, that widow lady. Thank God I gave that meal. Thank God I trusted that Lord. That the word of the Lord. How will you be? Lord, I want to trust you. And Lord, I don't want to live Regretting what I held back from you that could have been used by you. Because what I used it for here, though it seemed important at the time, ran through my fingers like sand. God help us to see it. To people, to be people who live beyond, beyond our own measure, willing to live beyond our borders. And by faith, not foolishness in the world, but by faith, trusting the Lord, to live beyond our means. Would you pray with me? Father, we thank you for this day and for this opportunity, and I pray you'd speak into our lives. Lord, there may be someone here this morning that's unsaved, and the greatest message they could hear, and the greatest message they need. Is not about giving to missions, but being reached by missions. And God, you came and gave sacrificially. You didn't ask questions. You didn't think about yourself. You only thought of us, and you came and lived for 33 and a half years a perfect life And you became the sacrifice for sin, the lamb, without spot or blemish. And because you loved us, sinners as we were You went to the cross at Calvary and paid the penalty for our sin. And by your Act of kindness and grace and mercy. And by your shed blood and your shed blood alone, our sins can be forgiven. God speak to the lost today. Lord, would you speak to the saved? And would you would you just help us to see that I don't want to live embracing all the stuff of this world. I don't want to live foolishly. I'm asking no one to give everything they have. But I am asking, consider to live with the courage of faith, to step over that line where it is honestly having to trust the Lord. And find that the barrel will always have enough because you can't outgive the Lord. And find that it will be a delight to your life for eternity. To stand before him with no reserves, no retreats, but no regrets. So Lord, would you help us in these last minutes before we determine what we give? Would you just speak to us? And encourage and lead us. Move our hearts, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen.