Chapter four. How many folks you're sayed and you know it? Say amen. Amen. All right We started this last Sunday night in a snowstorm. We started this message. I want to read verse 7, 8, and 9 of 1 Peter chapter 4. We've actually looked at verse 7 a couple times, a little bit. I'm trying to break this down into bite-sized messages and bite-sized thoughts that maybe they'll stick a little bit. Verse 7 he says, now remember he's writing to these persecuted believers. He's trying to encourage them. And he says, but the end of all things is at hand. How many folks you're saved and you say, Oh, I'm ready for the Lord to come back. That's an encouraging thing, right? The end of all things, the Lord's coming. Now, for the unsaved, that's not a good thing, right? If the Lord comes back and they're caught unsaved, that's bad. And so he's writing to these believers, he said, listen, the end of all things is at hand. And he tells them, he says, be ye therefore sober. And watch unto prayer. And above all things have fervent charity among yourselves, for charity shall cover the multitude of sins. Use hospitality one to another without grudging. He says, the end of all things is at hand, and this is what caught my attention in my studying this. Be ye therefore, because the Lord's coming back, because we're in the end times. Because the coming of the Lord could be maybe today. Therefore, and he lists what I see four things here That ought to be true in every one of our lives in light of the Lord's coming back. So I called it this, living in the shadow of Christ's return. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now that are studying your word. And uh Lord, we thank you even for the snow. It disrupts our plans sometimes. And it's a bit of a challenge, but Lord, you know, and we trust you. And you send the snow and the rain and the sunshine. So Lord, we just rest in your wisdom And I ask now, as we take a moment, that you would speak to our hearts and prepare us as Christians for the coming of the Lord, our hearts, and our homes, our church. would be exactly what we ought to be when the Lord Jesus Christ comes back. Please fill me with your Holy Spirit. So I try to try and preach on this. Challenge us. Speak through me is my prayer, Lord, and be the preacher tonight. And I just want to be the conduit through which you speak. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We said last week, if you'll remember, those that were in on it. We said that God gives us prophecy, gives us information about coming events, the second coming, the rapture, the tribulation period, all of that. He gives that to us not just to satisfy our curiosity. Now I don't know about you, but I find the study of prophetic events fascinating. Anybody with me? I mean just to anticipate what the Bible says uh the future holds is just it's captivating. And um and and uh uh just uh um you know your imagination sometimes just can get the best of you think about what's it going to be like? What's this gonna be like And we anticipate it. But uh God doesn't give us information about what's going to happen in the future. He doesn't give us prophetic information just so we can be entertained by it Not just to spark our imagination or to satisfy our curiosity about what tomorrow holds. God gives it to us so that it affects our behavior. So it affects us spiritually. And that's what he's saying here. He says the end of all things is at hand. Be ye therefore. Because that's true, then these things ought to be in place. The first one we noted last week was we ought to have self-control. Look at verse 7 there. The end of all things is at hand. Be ye therefore. What's the next word? Talk to me tonight Sober. Sober. Y'all were kind of sober tonight a little bit. He says, Be ye therefore sober. Does anybody remember what did we say the word sober there means? To think clearly. Get your head on straight. It would be the opposite of being drunk. And I'm thinking clearly. I'm taking it seriously. has the idea of being under self-control, self-discipline. Now don't raise your hand, but I tell you one thing, one thing some Christians struggle with is this matter of self-discipline. We know we ought to do, we know what I should do, I know what God wants me to do, but I've got this old sinful will of mine that wants to do differently than what God tells me to do, and I've got to be able to discipline myself to do what I'm supposed to do, whether I feel like it or not. Can I get an amen? You got to get up out of the bed and go to work, whether you feel like it or not. Right? We discipline ourselves. And that's what he's saying. You know, the Lord's coming back. Don't let your feelings dictate your actions. Don't let your emotions dictate your actions. Don't let your desires dictate your actions. Be sober. Get your head on straight. Think clearly. Discipline yourself. And uh so vital in the Christian life. We talked about that. Now tonight I want to take another little uh bite-sized thought here on the second thing he says should be true in our lives In light of the fact that the end of all things is at hand. Look what he says. Be ye therefore sober. Now look at the next statement. And watch unto prayer. Watch unto prayer. I said, number one, we need to be self-controlled, sober. Number two, I put it this way: we need to be serious in our prayer life The Lord's coming back. We've got the Lord's coming back. We have got to get our prayer life in order. We've got to get our prayer life in order. I wonder how many of us Say, yeah, I really seen to get my prayer life in order. I need to get my head that's what he say. Watch unto prayer The fact that the end of all things is at hand, we have to be our best spiritually. How many people want to be right with God when Jesus comes back? I do. I want to be in the will of God. I want my heart to be clean and pure and right with the Lord when Jesus comes back. We've got to be our best spiritually. We've got to be strong in the Lord. And uh and we've got to be serious about our Christian life. Um I don't know anything about the boy this morning, but a young man came this morning. I was preaching, he sat there, man, he was glued the whole time with me. I I don't all I know is what I observed. And uh man I gave that invitation, his hand went right up. I invite him to come, he was at the altar saying I said, you raise your hand. You know for sure you're on the way to heaven and not go to hell. Can we show you? He goes, yeah, absolutely. And Andy took him out. Andy said that he seemed very serious about it. I tell you what, when we start getting serious about our Christian life and our spiritual well-being, then we'll see God start doing things. But when we just horse around in the Christian life, it's just something we talk about, we just go through the motions, and we really don't take it very seriously. We're not going to be ready when Jesus comes back. And by the way, a church needs to take their responsibilities as a church very seriously. I've been in churches. Maybe you have. I've been in churches. It feels like they're just horsing around with the ministry. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I mean they're not really taking it seriously. They're not investing much time or effort in getting the lost getting the gospel out to the lost. They don't they don't preach on uh you know things we should and should not do Is kind of horse around. Now I'm all for joking. I like to tell little jokes. I like to have fun and laugh. But brother, when it comes to being right with God, that's no joking matter And so the Lord, in light of the fact that Jesus Christ is coming back, we need to be our best spiritual. We need to be strong in the Lord. We need to be serious about our spiritual lives. And that is impossible. It's impossible to be strong in the Lord. It's impossible to be prepared for his coming if we are not fervent in our prayer life. That is so vitally important. Now, it is impossible to read God's word intelligently. You can't read God's word intelligently and not see that prayer is vitally important in the Christian life. Am I right or wrong? All right, I got one right there. Praise the Lord Yes! You read through the Bible, prayer, prayer, prayer, prayer, prayer. It's vitally important in our Christian life. John O. Rice, I like the way John O. Rice put it. He said this: much prayer Is much power. Much much results. Little prayer, you're going to have little power. You're going to have little results. And then he said this: no prayer You have no power, no results. I'm telling you, if we're going to be what God wants us to be when the Lord comes back, we have got to take seriously our prayer life We have got to get it in line. And um uh no prayer, low power, no results There is no place in the Christian life for a lazy, lifeless, careless, empty prayer life. There's no place in the last days for a Christian to be careless. About their walk with God and about their prayer time with God. The Bible describes the last days as perilous times. Times of spiritual deception. We've been talking about that. Times of great wickedness. I'll be 62 in May, May 6th. Mark that down. Uh I'll be sixty-two years old. Shocking. I can't believe that. And uh it's true. I know it doesn't look like you say there's no way, Pastor Lemon, you could possibly be sixty-two years old, but it's true, Virginia, it is true. And in my sixty-two years, what I've seen take place in this old world The wickedness on every hand. Who to ever dreamed, you folks that are close to my age, who to ever dream when we were kids, the stuff that's on television today? The garbage and the wickedness and the language. I saw some time ago the FCC was wanting to lower the restrictions on language on television. In other words allow more cussing. And my first thought was this. Apparently they think we don't have enough cussing and filthy words on television. We need more I'm telling you, we're living in wicked days. We all know that. We're living in dangerous times. You read the Bible and you find what's happening, and earthquakes, and wars, and rumors of wars. The stuff going on in in Eastern Europe now with Russia and Ukraine and you know it's just constantly something happening, pestilence and volcanoes and earthquakes. We hear it on every hand I'm telling you, we live in perilous times, we live in wicked times, and we have got to learn to pray. Come over to chapter 5 with me of 1 Peter, would you? Chapter 5, and notice with me verse number 8. Peter makes a powerful statement here. And something I think we need to take very, very seriously. 1 Peter 5, verse 8. Notice what he says. Here he uses that word we looked at last week, be what? Sober. Be vigilant. That has the idea of watching, being aware, being alert, paying attention. Be sober, be vigilant. Why? Because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. He's saying, you better take this matter seriously. You better be paying attention. Can I put it in the Dennis Leatherman version? Don't be horsing around with things that are right and wrong. Don't be playing games. You be sober, be vigilant. Your adversary is a war roaring lion walking about, seeking whom he may devour. Now I love our radio station. Don't misunderstand what I'm about to say. I love it. I thank God for it There's a song they sing on there. There's a little phrase that I take issue with. It's talking about the devil. It says he's low on ammunition and we've got him on the run. I look around this old world. I don't see that at all. I see devil packing, I hear see him stocking up ammunition, and he's coming after us full board, double barrel, shotguns blazing We the devil's not in retreat now. I'm here to tell you, we have to get after it, and we must be sober, must be vigilant about it. I've got news for you. Do you know the devil would love to destroy Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church? You know the devil would love to take out our Sunday school teachers, our bus workers, get them out of his will and mess up, destroy themselves. I'm telling you, he says, you better be vigilant. You better be sober. You better be taking this seriously. Because in those last days It's not going to be a game. It's not going to be a carnival. It is for real. This spiritual warfare. Now, let's look at our text here. He says, be ye therefore sober and watch unto prayer. Watch unto prayer. I got looking at that word watch Interesting. I did a little study on that as I always do, and I found that the word watch is very similar to the word sober just before it. Kind of comes from the same root word. And it means this: to be alert. It means to be awake. It is the opposite of being drowsy or drunken. Is there anybody here, when you wake up in the morning, it takes you a few minutes to figure out where you are and who you are and what planet you're on? Anybody? Yeah, you wake up and it's like, oh, who am I? And uh which side's up, which sides down? And then you get that cup of coffee in you, and then everything settles in and things get back in line. Well, that's the idea here when it says watch, it's the opposite of that confusion, that cloudy mind That very uh clouded up thinking. He says, you gotta have your you gotta have your head on straight You gotta be alert. You gotta be awake. And he's saying, watch under prayer. He's saying, pray very earnestly. Pray very intelligently. Don't be s don't slumber in this matter of prayer. I don't know, and you and I have to answer this for ourselves before God But I wonder how we would rate our prayer lives, our personal prayer life, on a scale of one to ten. Ten would be fervent, on fire, disciplined, consistent. Earnest prayer. Zero would be it don't happen at all. I wonder where we'd put our prayer life in there. He says Watch and pray. Be alert. Be vigilant. That's not the first time that phrase is used in the Bible. Jesus has used it a few times. Would you come with me back to Matthew? chapter number 26. Now keep your place here in Peter. Come back to Matthew chapter 26. And here the Lord is up in the Garden of Gethsemane. What an event that is, and what a study in prayer our Lord's Prayer up in the Garden of Gethsemane is. And in Matthew 26, if you would notice, I want to begin reading in verse 36. Everybody got it there. Matthew 26, verse 36. Notice what it says. Then cometh Jesus, verse 36 Then cometh Jesus with them into a place called Gethsemane, and saith unto his disciples, Sit ye here while I go and pray yonder. And he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, and began to be very sorrowful and very heavy. Then saith he unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death. Tarry ye here, and what? Watch with me. And he went a little further, and fell on his face And pray. Now here's this fantastic prayer. Our Lord prayed. O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not as I will, but as Thou wilt. Look at verse 40. And he cometh to the disciples and findeth them what? They fell asleep. The Lord's praying this powerful prayer. Now they didn't know what the next few hours held. You know, we'll give them that. But the Lord is pleading with God, if there's any way possible, let this cup pass from me. And then he makes that great prayer of submission. Nevertheless, not my will, but thy will be done. What a prayer. And he comes back, and these guys are asleep. And he saith unto Peter, verse 40, What? Could ye not watch with me one hour? I wonder how many of us would hold up for an hour in prayer. An hour? Some of us do good if we get five minutes in prayer. He says, you couldn't, he's dumbfounded. You couldn't pray one hour with me? And then he makes a statement. Look what he says. Watch and pray. That's what Peter says That ye enter not into temptation. The spirit is indeed willing, but the flesh is weak. I think it's interesting what he says there. He says, watch and pray And then he tacks on that next statement. Did you notice it? That ye enter not into temptation. Now I take away from that this thought. Prayer, if I watch and I take very seriously my prayer life, and I focus on it, and I don't get sleepy about it, and I don't get reckless with it or careless about it, but I watch and pray It'll help guard me against temptation. Just watch and pray that you enter not in temptation. I'm telling you, an effective prayer life, it won't eliminate temptation completely. But it sure can protect us from a lot of temptation. I'll be honest with you. I've said this before. I've never got up off my knees after a time of earnest prayer and want to go drink a bottle of whiskey. I never get up off my knees or I've spent a time in prayer and want to go and do some filthy thing or some sinful thing. You know what prayer does? It gets our heart in tune with the Lord. It's a defense, it's a hedge about uh about us for temptation and keeps it minimal. So the Lord, this isn't the first time we hear this phrase, watch unto prayer. Peter says it. Maybe he picked it up from the Lord Jesus when he was with them. He heard that statement Now, years later, he's passing it on to his disciples, to those who are under his tutelage. He says, watch and pray. Come over, if you would, to Mark, or I'm sorry, Luke, chapter number 34. I'm sorry, Luke chapter 21 and verse 34, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and chapter 21, right after chapter 20. And notice with me, if you would, verse number 34. Now, the context here: Jesus is talking to his disciples, and he's talking about the last days. He's given characteristics. And things that are going to be true before his second advent. And then he makes this statement in verse 34. He says, And take heed unto yourselves Lest at any time your hearts be overcharged with surfeiting, that's uh debauchery, wickedness And drunkenness and cares of life, so that that day, and so that day come upon you unawares. Talk about the end of all things when the Lord comes back. For as a snare it shall come on all them that dwell on the face of the whole earth. Now look at verse 36. What's he say? Watch ye therefore and what? Pray. Here you have it again. Watch and pray. Watch and pray. The context is the end days. I hear people say sometimes uh folks, not in our church, other churches I've heard this say this before, that says, oh, there's nowhere in the Bible you're told to have uh church on Sunday nights Ah, the Bible doesn't say you have to have church on Wednesday nights. All right, let's do it the way they did in the Bible They had church when every day they were assembling together. They're going out soul winning every day. Every day they're getting people saved. So he says, well, you don't have to pray. Preacher pray. We got Wednesday night prayer meeting, Monday, and men's prayer, breakfast, and ladies' prayer, luncheon, and And uh men's prayer meeting and Sunday school teacher teacher prayer meeting, good night. Pray, pray, pray, pray, pray. All we ever do around here is pray. Hey, I'm here to tell you that's Bible. That's Bible. Watch and pray. What did Jesus rebuke the Pharisees when they were selling stuff in the temple? He says, My father's house is to be called a house of Prayer, prayer, prayer. As we see these last days approaching, and we look and we see signs of the times. I was with Brother John Leatherman this past Monday. He preached on signs of the times. Great message. And we look around and we see all this coming together. You know what it ought to do? It ought to drive us to prayer. To watch and take it seriously. Pray. Pray. As wickedness intensifies, our prayer life must intensify. Uh anybody here, come on, but it's just it's just a few of us tonight, so, and I won't tell anybody Um, anybody here catch yourself complaining about what's going on in our country? And come on now. Anyone, uh Uh anybody here whining and grating and moaning? Ah these stinking Democrats, oh the any b come on now, talk to me Yeah, the liberals taking or destroying our co yeah. Uh you know what, if we could take all that complaining and turn it into earnest prayer, I think it'd make more of a difference than just scraping and and getting all mad and bitter and and hating one. Come on, are am I right or wrong? And so uh as uh as we see wickedness around us and things terr uh uh intensify, man let's step up, let's put fire to our prayer light. Uh uh what's that what are those cars? Uh I don't know if they still do this or not. Pastor Matt knows all this stuff. But these fancy race uh sports cars, and they put, is it nitro? Nitrous what is it? Hydrogen peroxide. They put that little booster thing in there, nitrous. And man, they're driving down the road, and all of a sudden, uh, you know, some fancy car comes up and they hit that button and zoom! Anybody know what I'm talking about? Huh? Turbo, nitros turbo. And I'm telling you, they hit that thing, and that's what am I do I have any clue what I'm talking about? Yes, Mark said yes. Do you guys know what I'm talking about? They hit a little button and boom that card takes off. I'm telling you, it's time to hit the prayer button It's time to take this seriously. Peter said the end of all things is at hand. Be sober. You need to take this seriously and watch. Be alert. Be vigilant in your prayer life. Don't get drowsy and sleepy about it. Need to hit that prayer button and boom! Let that thing go forward. We need to get a serious prayer life is a powerful prayer life. So let me give you a few thoughts here, real quick. How to watch and pray. To watch and pray, number one, I put this down. We've got to actually pray. Make sense? If I've got to watch them pray, then I need to actually pray. I think if we could just get Christians praying, it would make a world of difference. Actually pray. In 1 Samuel chapter 12, verse 23, the great prophet Samuel said, get this, listen to this. He said that failure to pray is sin against God. That's what he said. He said, God forbid that I should sin against the Lord in ceasing to pray for you. He considered it sin against God. I tell you what, there's a lot of churches going to have to answer to God that are shutting down their Wednesday night prayer meeting, that are not emphasizing prayer. It's sin against God when we don't pray We jump up in the morning, run, get our coffee, eat a bowl of cereal, run off to work, go through the day, gripe and complain, come back home, sit down, watch gunsmoke, whatever. Get together. Lord, thank you for the day. Bless it. Amen. And go to bed. I'm telling you what, that's a pretty anemic prayer life right there. We can do better than that, yes or no? Just pray. Just pray. So number one, I put down to watch and to pray. We've got to actually pray. Number two, I put down this. We need to prepare our hearts to pray. Now I don't know about you, but I'm glad that I can just pray on the spur of the moment. Anybody here come up to a stop sign and the road's icy and you're starting to slide a little bit and there's other cars? And you're saying without even thinking, you say, oh Lord, help me stop this thing. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I'm glad we can pray like that. Remember when Peter was walking on water? Pretty impressive And he saw the wind and the waves, and he began to sink, and uh there wasn't much preparation going into that prayer. He just yelled out, Lord, save me! I'm glad we can pray just spontaneously. Amen? But what I'm saying is, if we're going to watch him pray, if we're going to be serious about it, it's going to become effective to actually change things. We've got to prepare ourselves for that prayer time. And what I mean by that is put some thought into it. What am I going to pray for? How am I going to approach the Lord? Think things through. What do I want to say to the Lord? I remember I worked in the. in the hospital uh up in the surgery department of the hospital and uh in the evenings it was sometimes there wasn't any surgeries going on for hours and it was just quiet up there. I'd get my work done and so I do a little uh study them for school and do some homework and write papers or whatever. I did a lot of schoolwork on operating tables and an operating room work and just spread my books out But um I don't remember what it was, but something came to mind and I had a little closet in the back. There was they had nine operating rooms. I had a little closet where all my stuff was all the way in the back I don't remember what the situation was, but I had to pray, and I went racing back to that closet. I got in there, I closed the door, and I just started running my mouth to God. And I don't know what it was, I think it was the Holy Spirit smote me. And so, wait a minute, you're entering the presence of the God of the universe. And I just shut my mouth and I stopped and I bowed my head and I paused. I took a breath. And then I thought through what I wanted to say, and then I brought it to the Lord. You follow what I'm saying? I think sometimes we need to just stop and think through what exactly Do I need to say to God? And so prepare our hearts for God. I have a little thing. I heard it from an old, old preacher. Years ago, he gave this. It has helped me. I've got it in the front of my Bible. Now I have it in my cell phone. I have my prayer list on my cell phone every morning. I go through that. And he broke that down to have an effective prayer life. And I found if you follow that pattern. If you think it through a little bit and follow that pattern, you can pray for an hour, hour and a half easily. Just praying down through there. Here's what it is. You might want to jot it down. I've shared it before. But first of all, when I'm going to take serious my prayer time, I'm going to take this seriously. I want to think it through and prepare my heart. First thing I do is I stop and I just worship God for a little bit Now that sounds real spiritual, but worshiping God is simply stopping and thinking about who all God is And what he is. For instance, uh uh I p uh let me uh let me just show you this here. Um And I have it in the front of my Bible also. But the first thing is worship. I put these down, and what I want to do when I pray, I just stop and I go through this and I tell it back to God. God, you're my creator. You're the heavenly Father. You are holy. And I just rehearsed back to God all these characteristics. You're all powerful. God, you are all wise You're omniscient. You're eternal. God, you are judge of all the earth. You're faithful. You're good. You're just. And just pour my heart out telling God who and what he is I'll tell you what, that'll get your heart in tune when you come. You know what I found out? A lot of times I have things I want to ask God, and I go through that list of all these attributes of God, and my desires change. And my requests change because I realized some of them really don't fall in line with who and what God is. You follow what I'm saying? And so you take some time and do that. Then the next thing is the time of praise And that is just thanking God for stuff he's given me and what he's done for me. I have down spiritual things, my salvation, security, chastisement. Thank you for chastening when I need it, Lord. Ministry. Thank you for giving me a ministry to serve you. And then physical and material things. I thank God for people that He's brought in my life. You know what? That changes. Every morning get up. That just prepares your heart. And then the next thing is confession time. And I have different categories here. By the way, it's none of your business what they are. But I have certain categories here, words and deeds and thoughts. And just bring them to the Lord. Now, usually it's very short. That part is just brief. And then I have a time of surrender. And I try to pray like the Lord did. Lord, not my will today, but your will. God, I want your will to be done in my life today. Brother, I haven't even got to request yet. And then um surrender, and then the requests start, and I pray for my family, then our church family. I got all the names here, all y'all's names here, then our missionaries, and I go through preacher friends, and then go through miscellaneous other things. And what I'm trying to say is this, we need to take our prayer time seriously. And at some point, we've got to get beyond God is great and God is good, and I thank Him for the food. Bless all the people in the whole world. Amen. You follow what I'm saying? We got to get past that. We're coming to the creator of the universe. We're coming to a God that is all powerful. And I need to think this through and come to him with my heart prepared, realizing who I'm praying to and what he's done for me and what I am. And then lift my requests up to them. So number one, actually pray. Number two, prepare my heart to pray. Have a plan and a pro a reproach. That's what I do. You can come up with your own approach But I think if we're going to be serious about it, watch and pray, we need to give some thought in preparing our heart. Then I put, last of all, I put this down, follow biblical patterns. Man, the Psalms, David's prayers and Psalms are powerful. Psalm 51. You messed up? Man, I get 51. Psalm 51 and follow that as I A pattern for confession of sin. You've got psalms of praise. You want to praise God did something for you? Whatever it may be? Man, find some of these psalms and just follow those patterns. I'm not saying just repeat them, wrote, you know, just say words. The Lord said, After this manner pray, our Father, which art in heaven. And he gave a pattern to follow, not just a poem to recite, but we follow that pattern. It's more than one time, more than one occasion reading through Psalms or somewhere, and I some prayer that's recorded in the Bible, and I think, man, that's exactly my heart right there That's what I want to say. That's my desire. That's my feelings right there. I can take that and make it my prayer and bring it up to the Lord. What a powerful thing that is So watch unto prayer. Watch unto prayer. The victorious Christian life begins with a vibrant, earnest prayer life. I put this down. Effective soul winners are earnest prayer warriors. And I'll end with this. If you'll study the book of Acts very carefully, They preached the gospel. People were saved by the thousands and thousands and thousands, tens of thousands, people saved, lives changed. But if you'll watch, if you'll look carefully, you'll notice every time there was prayer before the preaching took place. Prayer, prayer. Before the Holy Spirit fell in Acts chapter 2, you find them in the upper room spending days in prayer to the Lord Prayer, then preaching. I'm so grateful for the soul-winning class on Thursday night. I am excited about that. People are responding. People are witnessing. Young people. Others are out sharing the gospel. But what I want to say is this, let's make sure we watch unto prayer and saturate our efforts with prayer, our Sunday school class our master club class, our teens, our adult classes, institute, saturate them with prayer. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to take this challenge. Lord, the end of all things is at hand. We see it. We're anticipating that. Any day now you come back. I pray you'd help us take our Christian life seriously. And I pray you'd help us to watch into prayer just exactly as you instruct us here. When over their heads bowed and eyes closed, how many, along with me, would say, preacher, my prayer life sure needs attention? My prayer life needs that nitra shot And get it back where I'd be anybody like that by the uplifted hand, sure. Sure, it's it's uh it takes discipline And it doesn't always come natural. We gotta apply it. We gotta determine. And maybe tonight, as we finish out the Lord's day, maybe we come and make some sort of Determination, just decide for at least the next seven days until next Sunday, I'm going to do all I can, commit myself to spend time earnest. Diligent, fervent time in prayer for the next seven days. Anybody like that? Preacher, I want that. That's what I want. That's what I want. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen