This uh song ties right in with the subject of our study in Zechariah chapter fourteen, if you would turn there. Zechariah fourteen. While you're turning there, I have a couple announcements that uh Uh better make them while I'm thinking about them. Actually there's three. One is we have the CDs from the Summer Revival available. Now there is one message missing out of the album inadvertently was left out. That's being corrected. And so if you already got your album and I think it was the Tuesday night message, I'm not sure, but if there's one missing, we're aware of that, and uh we'll get them and get them back to get to you as uh as soon as we can And then the other announcement is we are getting the the fellowship hall is getting uh not waxed, but they're going to buff it tomorrow and clean it up real good. And so if there was a If there's a few strong guys or ladies that would be able to help us uh move uh tables and chairs and everything, we got to get it out of the fellowship hall. And so if you'd be able to give us a few minutes, I think if five or six of us could do it, it won't take ten minutes at the most. We just got to clear the thing out. I guess we'll put it all in the lobby and uh because they're gonna I think they're gonna hit the nursery also, Jackie. Do you know? I think they're gonna while they might as well while they're there. And so um if some guys could help with that. And the third one is Our couples retreat at the end of October is creeping up on us. I got a phone call from Pastor Don Leatherman, who was heading it up this year, and they he got found out word today that the Willow Valley place needs the money for our trip by next Wednesday, the twenty-ninth of September. So if you're signed up and good to go Uh if there's any way possible, uh we need to get the 185 from you as soon as possible. If you can't get all of that right away, If you could give us a good portion of that and we can cover it till you get it later. But uh we need a definite commitment from you. We'd really like to have ten couples go. Now I don't know after the deadline next week uh if it's possible to get in on that or not. I didn't think to ask them that, but uh they we need to be locked in and they have to have the money by next Wednesday, so we've got to get it to us, to Brother Leatherman and then he gets it there. So uh anything you can do if you have any questions, uh see me. I think it's uh what was it called a 185 I think was the retreat. Dave Yeah, make it to the church, and then we'll send one check uh that covers everybody. And um that does not include the the um uh And so whatever that is, I don't have the information on that. So Folks, if you would get in on this and uh we really want it would be worth your money. It is a great investment. I'm telling you, it is that $185 is nothing compared to divorce lawyers, alimony and all that stuff, your your marriage goes south on you. So go to this thing, keep that thing together, and uh it'll save you money in the long run. It's an investment. Zechariah chapter 14, you're going to be pleasantly surprised tonight, I think. Just going to look at verse number 8. I just want to take a little time. I was going to go all the way down through verse 15. The more I got working on it The more I decided to zero in on these living waters. Zechariah chapter 14, look at verse 8. It says, And in and it shall be in that day that living waters shall go out from Jerusalem. half of them toward the former sea, and half of them toward the hinder sea. In summer and in winter it shall be. I want to look at these living waters. Let's pray once again. Ask the Lord to bless. Father, we ask now you bless our study in your word. You apply it to our lives, we ask, young and old. And help us, Father, to uh give our attention up here and uh uh give our attention to your word, we ask in Jesus' name. Amen I did have a complaint Sunday recently about folks texting during the services, so I'm going to ask that you please not text and I'm going to instruct the ushers to confiscate Phones when they find them. And we'll sell them on eBay and support our missionaries with it. I'm kidding on the uh confiscation part, but I do ask that you not text. I had people others uh that said that it was very distracting that there was folks texting. So please Don't do that. Alright, Zechariah chapter 14, we have reference here to the living waters. You cannot take the Bible seriously And not come to the conclusion that Jesus Christ is coming back again. You can't take the Bible literally. If we're going to take the Bible that it means what it says, says what it means, and we're going to have to come to the conclusion Jesus Christ is coming back. There's no other way you can do that. You're going to have to spiritualize you're going to have to deny huge portions of scripture are correct, mean what they say, to come to any other conclusion. Now, it is possible We may debate about some minor some incidental aspects of the Lord's return. I hate to use the word minor when we're talking about Bible teaching, but some things that are what I'll call incidental about his return But the major aspects of the return of the Lord Jesus Christ are very, very clear. There's no disputing about the fact, again, if we're going to take the Bible literally, if we're going to take the Bible at face value seriously, there's no disputing the fact that the rapture of the church is a part of the teaching of the second coming of Jesus Christ. Right? There's no disputing that. That there will be a seven-year tribulation period following the rapture of the church. That's very clear in Scripture. If we take it for what it means, we can't come to any other conclusion. Now, maybe some of the uh different aspects within there, the vials and uh uh the seals and um what's the other one, vials, seals, and Bowls, uh vial seals and bowls. Uh there may be some variations and interpretations of what exactly are and what all plays out, but the fact that the seven-year tribulation is not indisputable The fact of the second advent of Christ at the end of the tribulation period when he comes back physically and literally to earth is indisputable. Judgment of Nations is there. The one-year millennial reign of Christ is an indisputable fact if you take the Bible literally. And so all these things. are very, very clearly given in Scripture. And all these things, with the exception of the rapture of the church, are touched on in the book of Zechariah. And the closer we get to the end of the book, the more detail he gives us, particularly about the millennial reign of Christ, the events leading into it, and the characteristics of the millennial reign of Christ. Now, I want to repeat something that I've repeated repeatedly. Alright? And that is this. The prophecies in the Bible about Christ and about future events that have already been fulfilled. Have been fulfilled exactly as the Bible says they would be fulfilled. Right? The ones that have already uh the prophecies in the Old Testament concerning the first coming of Christ, the incarnation of Christ Were fulfilled exactly as the prophecies were given. Alright? Everybody on board there with that? Therefore, there is no reason for us to assume Anything other than the prophecies given in the Bible that are yet to be fulfilled will be fulfilled any other way than literally, just as the fulfilled prophecies were fulfilled. Do I have everybody totally confused? Yes. So we if if the Bible says this is going to happen, we can assume it's going to happen that way because the things that have already happened the Bible said would happen happened the way they were said. No reason to doubt that the events described in the last chapters of Zechariah will be fulfilled exactly as they're stated. No reason to doubt that. Also, there's a lot of other scriptures related to the events at the end of Zechariah that deal with these same events, and we can take them literally. Now, I wanted to break these eight chapters down, eight through fifteen. I wanted to break them all down and do all that, but I'm going to zero in on verse 8, as I said, and I want us to look at these rivers of living water. Let me read this again, verse 8. I'll probably end up reading it several times before we're done. It shall be in that day. Now remember we made reference to that day, in that day, previous chapter It's the day Christ comes back, the day of arm again, the day he defeats the enemies of Israel as they're about to be exterminated. Christ intervenes at the very last second. In that day That living waters shall go out from Jerusalem. Now look at this. Half of them toward the former sea, half of them toward the hinder sea, in summertime and winter shall it be Now there's I read of a Bible scholar, and I don't know the guy, he's been dead for years, no doubt, but I read of a Bible scholar from England and apparently was highly respected at the time, and he made this statement He said this verse here is impossible to take place as it's given to us. And the reason he said it is impossible for this verse to happen, and this was his reasoning. Because the physical nature of the whole region would have to be altered for this to happen. In other words, if these rivers are going to flow out of Egypt, uh, and out of Egypt, out of uh Jerusalem If these rivers are going to flow out, and one go to the Hinder Sea, one to the uh the uh other sea, and uh if they're gonna happen that way, that whole physical geography of that area would have to be altered. When I read that, I thought No duh. If you read the verses right before that, now I thought that was funnier than what you guys responded, but nevertheless. If you read the verses before it in our previous message last Wednesday night, what happens to that whole physical geography of that area in the verses preceding verse 8? It's all altered. Exactly what this guy says would have to happen for verse 8 to be true. The Bible says will happen in the previous verses. And so, uh exactly what is described in the previous chapters or in the previous verses is what has to take place for these rivers to come out of Jerusalem. Listen We must not doubt God's ability to alter Earth's geography. You study the book of Revelation and you study the teaching on the tribulation period And Brian and I were talking about this after church last Sunday night. If you study it, there is tremendous cataclysmic Upheavals throughout the whole world, and I'm telling you, at the end of the tribulation period, if somebody would survive From the beginning of the tribulation period to the end of the tribulation period, they would not recognize the world at the end of the tribulation period as being the same world that was at the beginning of the tribulation period. Listen This isn't just a couple earthquakes like Haiti had and stuff like that. This is total earth devastation. This is uh Brian was figuring, uh we came to the conclusion, he came to the conclusion, and I agreed with him So he must be right if I agree with him. If uh if I would agree I he I came across this statement this week. This is unrelated. Uh if I agree with you, then we'd both be wrong I like that. But anyway, uh we got figuring and um we came to the conclusion that only about twenty-five percent, I think, of the Earth's population is still alive at the end of the tribulation period what was alive at the beginning. Now think about that. You have 25% wiped out in one in one series of events, then you have a third of them wiped out in another series of events. That leaves 25% of the earth's population alive. So for God to make some rivers come out of Jerusalem which is actually on a hill, on a to on a mountain type thing, for God to split that thing open and make some rivers come out, hey, that's no problem. He's just practically split the whole world in half In the tribulation period. So we must not doubt God's ability to alter the earth's geography. Listen, I'm afraid, I'm afraid we underestimate our God. We underestimate what he is capable of doing and what he is willing to do. I thought of this. And this all stems from this guy's statement that, you know, this the whole geography would have to be altered for these rivers to come out. And um and if you understand who and what God is, you say, yeah, that's not a problem. I got thinking about God altering the Earth's geography. About I got thinking about the flood, the Genesis flood. Now stop and think about that for a moment. That flood, regardless of what some people suggest, that flood was a universal flood. The whole world was flooded. The Bible says all mountains. In fact, he goes at great lengths in Genesis. To emphasize the fact that all the mountains were covered. All the people died. Everything that Brays there was died. He goes overboard in emphasizing that Now, what happens to a little area when a flood comes through? It devastates it I mean it moves boulders, channels, rivers are made that were not there before. Just one localized flood can alter the landscape in unimaginable ways Now think about this. The entire world is covered with water. Think about the water pressure at the lower levels of that. How that would simply crush things. How entire islands would be wiped away. Imagine the entire world is covered. Imagine the currents Water currents that would be generated by the rotation of the earth, and that whole thing's covered with water. And what that would be doing to the landscape of this planet. Um don't tell me God can't alter the geography of an area. I if somebody was uh when mu when when When uh Moses got out of the ark. When uh Noah got out of the ark, he got out on a completely different world than what he got in on. Nothing was the same. In fact, there are a lot of scientists that suggest that the Earth's axis during the the worldwide flood that the earth's axis literally shifted and that is why we have our earth's axes are on an angle. Are not straight north and south, they're on angle. Many scientists believe the Bible, study geography and all that, believe when that flood happened, when those waters came crashing down, the entire earth shifted Man, don't tell me God can't do what this says here. Um the Bible says in Psalms in various places that during the flood Uh water came up from beneath. The earth opened up and water came up from beneath. And and uh the water came, I believe there's a canopy, came crashing down The Bible says that mountains were formed and valleys, when the water was receding, mountains were formed, and valleys opened up and swallowed the water up, and that's how it diminished so rapidly. So again, I say this: we must never underestimate or doubt God's ability to alter the earth's geography. Our God is a powerful God. And if he says there's going to be rivers coming out of the city of Jerusalem, we can mark it down. There will be rivers coming out of the city of Jerusalem, regardless of what it takes. So we have this river, these uh uh living waters coming out. Now let's look at first of all, I want us to notice their source. Now there's a lot of verses in the Bible that make reference to these rivers of living water. These living waters. Keep your Bibles handy because we're going to look several of them up. We're not told a whole lot about it here in Zechariah chapter 14 verse 8 about these uh living waters, but we are told some about them in other places, and we're told about I think another river of living water that is mentioned that is very similar to this. I think it's a different one, but has many of the same characteristics and we can learn some things. Number one, the source of this These living waters. Turn with me if you would. Keep your place here in Zechariah. Turn with me if you would to Isaiah chapter 33. Isaiah 33. There's a lot of scripture. I was, I think I knew this before, but I was reminded of how much scripture there is dealing with these living waters. Isaiah 33 and verse 21. Isaiah 33, verse 21. Notice what the Bible says. For there the glorious Lord And speaking of the millennial reign, there the glorious Lord will be unto us a place of broad rivers and streams. Wherein shall go no galley with oars, neither shall gallant ship pass thereby. Now notice the wording on the first part of that verse very carefully. But there the glorious Lord will be unto us a place of broad rivers. What broad rivers there find their source where? Look at it very carefully. What is the source of these glorious rivers of these rivers? The Lord Himself. These living waters, and we're going to study what they are a little bit later, and maybe this will click a little better for you, but these living waters find their source in God Himself. If you would come back to Revelation. Now, after I got studying this a little bit, I'm thinking this one in Revelation is not speaking of the same river, but there are many same characteristics. Revelation twenty-two and look with me at verse one Revelation 22 and verse 1. Now this is in the new heaven and new earth, so it has to be a different living waters than what we're seeing in Zechariah. Nevertheless, notice what it says. And he showed me a pure river of water of life. Zechariah are living waters. Clear as crystal, proceeding out of what? The throne of God and of the land. Now, these living waters in Zechariah chapter 14. Again, we're going to notice some more of their effects on people and the planet. But where is their source? They're flowing out of Jerusalem. Now we know from previous passages in Zechariah, in Jerusalem is where the Lord is going to reside. That's where his throne is going to be set up during the millennial reign. I believe taking these scriptures, putting together, uh collating the rep- the characteristics of the rivers of life in uh the new heaven and new earth and with this I believe that these waters find their source from God himself He is the source of living waters. We must never forget that God Himself, it is God Himself that gives us both physical and eternal life. We talked about this in Bible Institute on Monday night. Jesus says, I am the way, I am the truth, and I am the what? Life. He said he told um uh he told Martha and Mary, Lazarus' sisters, I am the resurrection and uh Now it's interesting to note what he doesn't say. He doesn't say I have life. He doesn't say I provide life. He says, I what? I am life. He is life itself. There is only one source for life in existence. And that is God Almighty. Mankind, for all they claim, I'm telling you, cannot produce life. Only God can. I was out, not this week, but last week, I was out in the woods and um I just decided to sit up in a tree about 20 foot and just look around for a couple hours and get down and go home. And um I was sitting there and uh there was a tree came up in front of me right here, and there was another one about the same size here. This one had all the bark on, there was leaves on it. This one, all the branches fell off, there was no leaves, and all the bark had come off. One was alive and one was dead. And I got sit there and I get and when you're out like that hunting you get real phil philosophical, you know Anybody else do that? You start analyzing everything and thinking all these great thoughts. Then you get home and they don't make any sense. But uh I'm sitting there looking at it and I got thinking, there's something inside this trunk That is not inside this trunk. There's something that makes this one grow and produce fruit, acorns, and leaves, that's not in that one there. There's an element here in this one that is not that's missing in this one. It used to be there, but it's gone And it is a very strange thing that's impossible to define, and I don't think you can find it under a microscope, but it's called life. Now what is that? I read F. B. Meyer, this was a hundred years ago almost, in the late 1800s, so it would be more than a hundred years ago But apparently some scientists in England somewhere at that point and uh had put together, had taken all the elements of a corn grain. And they had reproduced it, I mean, exactly as the one they picked off of Ericorn, they reproduced it exactly and they put them both in the ground. But only one of them grew They all had the exact chemical makeup. They all had exact everything was exactly the same, but one grew and one did. Because one had a mysterious thing called life. We can't define it, we can't grasp it, we can't produce it. The Bible says that these living waters, and I'm getting ahead of myself, but the later on, they produce life. This water produces life. And they come from God Himself. And in every one of us, now don't misunderstand what I'm saying, and I'm not We never go to seed with this. I'm not suggesting we have any type of spark of divinity within us. But every one of us that are alive has something that only God Can give that comes directly and only from God. And that's called life. What a precious thing. What a what a sacred thing life is. It comes from God. And so these rivers of living water, these rivers that produce life, find their source no other place than God Himself. So the first thing I notice I get studying this, their source, I believe is God Almighty, the Lord God. And then second of all, notice, and I use this, oh, by the way, what we're noticing here about these rivers of living water is these will be physical realities of spiritual truths at this point in time. During this millennial reign, there will be what we know to be true spiritually will be physic physical realities. And I'll explain what I mean by that. Notice second of all their sufficiency. Now for this we've got to go to Psalms chapter 65. If you would turn back there with me. Psalm 65 Is a reference, I believe, to these rivers, or at least gives us information about these rivers. Psalm 65, and notice with me verse 9. Psalm 65 verse 9, page 629. Notice what the Bible says, Thou visitest the earth and waterest it. Thou greatly enrichest it with the r with the river of God, which is what Full of water. Thou prepares them corn when thou hast so provided for it. In other words, the river of God, the rivers that God produces are full of water. There's plenty. Come to Ezekiel chapter 45, if you would. Ezekiel 45. I'm sorry, 47. Ezekiel 47. And verse number one. Here we have, I believe, the most detailed description of these rivers referred to in Zechariah chapter 14. Ezekiel 47 and verse 1. Can we ever by chance to find it? Alright. Begins like this. Afterward he brought me again unto the door of the house, and behold. Waters issued out from under the threshold of the house eastward, for the forefront of the house stood toward the east, and the waters came down from under the right side of the house at the south side of the altar Then brought he me out of the way of the gate northward, and led me about the way without unto the utter gate by the way that looketh eastward, and behold, there ran out waters on the right side. And when the man that had the line in his hand went forth eastward, he measured a thousand cubits, and he brought me through the waters. I believe this is the description of these rivers. Water of light. The waters were to the ankles. Alright, that's not very deep. But he reads on. But he goes on. And again he measured a thousand and brought me through the waters. The waters were to the knees. Alright, this river is getting deeper. Again he measured a thousand and brought me through, and the waters were to the loins. It's up to his waist. Afterward he measured a thousand, and it was a river that I could not pass over. Look at this. For the river for the waters were risen. Waters to swim in, a river that could not be passed over. In other words, you couldn't walk across this thing. This thing is huge And so the supply of this, now keep your place in Ezekiel there. Don't lose that because we're going to come back to that in just a moment. But these rivers In Zechariah at the end of verse 8 again, it says, In summer and in winter shall it be. You know what he's saying? These waters have plenty of water. They're going to be sufficient for whatever their purpose is in existence. They've got plenty for it, and there's never going to be a drought. Summertime, that river's full. Wintertime, that river's full It is always there. It is always available. Now, on planet Earth, this time of year, what happens to the rivers? At the end of the fall and winter, they usually what? Yeah, they get real low. They dry up. Spring it rains, the snow melts, they get high, and so they're up and down. Not so with this river of li uh living water. It's sufficient all the time. You know what that tells me? That tells me God can meet my needs regardless of what my personal circumstances are God can take care of me. These are rivers of light. God can save a soul. Doesn't matter how wicked society is, the power of the gospel is still able to save lost people Amen? The river of life from God never dries up, never goes low. And so this is a physical reality of a spiritual truth. Now the last thing I want us to notice is their strength. Are you still at Ezekiel? Look at verse 6 of Ezekiel 47. And he said unto me, Son of man, hast thou seen this? Then brought he me and caused me to return to the brink of the river. Now when I had returned, behold, at the bank of the river were very many trees on one side and on the other And then he said unto me, These waters issue out toward the east country, and go down into the desert, and go to the sea, which being brought forth unto the sea, the waters shall be healed And it shall come to pass that everything that liveth and move, which moveth, whithersoever the river shall come, shall live. And there shall be a very great multitude of fish, because these waters shall come thither, for they shall be healed. And everything shall live whither the river cometh. Down to verse verse 10. And it shall come to pass that the fishers shall stand upon it from Engedi even unto En uh En and egg lamb, and they shall be a s place to spread forth nets, their fish shall be according to their kinds, as the fish of the great sea, exceeding many. One good thing I take from this is we'll be able to go fishing in the millennial pain period. Praise the Lord for that. But look at verse eleven. The miry places thereof and the marshes thereof shall not be healed, they shall be given to salt, and by the river upon the bank thereof, on this side and on that side, shall grow all trees for meat whose leaf shall not fade, neither shall the fruit thereof be consumed, it shall bring forth new fruit, according to its month, because their water because of their waters, and they'd issue it out of the sanctuary, the fruit thereof shall be for meat, and the leaf thereof for what? Medicine. These waters have a have a strength to them. There is something about them. That produces the trees and the plants that get their moisture from these living waters produce fruit year-round. You can eat the fruit off of it, and it continually replenishes itself. You can live off the fruit of these trees. You can survive. It says they'll be for medicine. There's a healing power in these rivers. I mean, these are amazing. These living waters come forth from God. Now, try and picture, put yourself in this setting in the millennial period. There's no more sickness. A child lives to be a thousand years. A person that's a hundred years old is considered a child. Um there's no more snake bites, there's no more spider bites, there's no more uh horse flies biting people, there is no more um Deer flies, there's no more uh fleas and all doggunner said, praise the Lord for that. Uh no more bed bugs Who'd ever dreamed in 2010 bed bugs would be making the news? None of that. It's all gone. And these rivers are a key source of it. Life, healing, health, and sustenance. Chapter 22 of Revelation, and I end with this one. I don't know. This stirred me up. I got reading about these rivers. I said, man, I can't wait to see them. I'm going to go swimming in them. Revelation 22 and verse 2. Now this is the river in the new heaven and new earth. But it bears striking resemblance to the rivers that are in during the millennial. And very much very similar characteristics. Look at verse 2. In the midst of the street of it, and on either side of the river, was there the tree of life? Where have we heard of the tree of life before? The Garden of Eden. It's back, which bare twelve manner of fruits, and yielded her fruit every month. And the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations. And there shall be no more curse. Now there is something about these waters. I Tend to think that the waters flowing in the millennial period, Zechariah chapter 14, is talking about, are waters identical to the waters that are flowing in this river in the new heaven, new earth Because, and the reason I say that is this, because they both have the same source. God Himself. This is what song came to my mind when I read about the effects, the strength of these waters, and how you can survive on them. They'll heal you if you're sick. The fruit that draws moisture from these can sustain life. I thought of this song. Christ is all I need. Christ is all I need. All, all I need. If I understand this correctly, in that time frame, this water will be all you really need. This river has everything you need to survive. I think it's a picture. Jesus says that he was living waters. If you believe in him, they swell up within you. And you'd have no need of, you would never thirst again. Now that's a spiritual truth. Here you have a physical reality that illustrates that spiritual truth. If we have the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, question: For us to survive, is Christ all we need at this point for us to survive? You think it's a trick question, it's not. No. We need cheeseburgers and we need to eat some food, right? You say, oh, all I'm going to do is my Bible and I'm going to survive. You'll be dead. If you don't eat something, drink some water, right? You need a house to live in. So for your salvation, right, Christ is all you need But in this time, in this frame, here you will have physical realities of spiritual truths. And all you will really need is this water of life. And what it produces. And Christ is all we need spiritually. If there's one thing I can leave with you with this, and I hope I don't think I'm making a stretch. There's one thing I can leave this. We have got to get to the point in our Christian lives, understand how much we need the Lord Jesus Christ. We have got to read the Bible every day. Come on, help me. We've got to read the Bible every day. That is our source of nutrition. That is like the river of life to us We've got to spend time in prayer. We need the church services, not because you get the greatest preaching in the world here, but because we get the word of God. That is our source of strength. That is our sustenance. Just like this river that Ezekiel, that uh uh Zechariah is making reference to. Uh we have I I may I may I thought I was driving down to pick up my wife at lunch today. My mind was just working over things and I thought of this. And this may not be very profound, but to me it was very profound. May not be profound to you, but to me it was. The older I get, the more I'm realizing how desperately I need Christ to help me to meet my needs. needs. When I was younger, I was saved and all that, but you know, I felt like when I was younger, I don't think I consciously thought this, but it worked itself out this way. I've got the I've got the tiger by the tail Huh? Man, I've got it. I know I I knew I came out of college. I knew all the answers. Uh I everything. I was assistant pastor and um Uh, you know, I thought I knew everything the pastor was doing wrong. I thought, why isn't he doing this? Why did he do that? Why didn't he do this? Oh, boy, if I was pastor, this is the way it would be And then I became pastor, and guess what I find myself doing? The same things he did. What I'm trying to say is this. Just like that river life is so vital to life in the millennial reign, Jesus Christ is vital to us now. We've got to trust him. We've got to lean on him. We've got to look to him. We've got to read his word, feed it into our lives. So I hope this helps you. Father in heaven. Lord, you stir my heart as I prepare this, and I trust you'd help us to see Christ, to see how much we need you in our lives to deal with issues and problems. Lord, we need to come to you in prayer in times of sickness and need, just like folks came to this river. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I really Need Christ more than I probably give attention to. I really need the Lord to help me. Maybe as a parent, I need the Lord to help me raise my children. Maybe in your own struggle against various issues, and we all have our besetting sins. And you say, preacher, I really need God. I need Christ to give me victory in this area. I need Christ to give me wisdom. I need Christ to strengthen me, help me bear this burden Wherever it may be, you say, preacher, pray with me. I'm aware of that. I need the Lord, just like in the millennial rain, they'll need that river. Is there any like that by the uplifting? God bless you.