Christians. And Peter was convinced that he was living in the last days. Notice in verse number seven there he says, but the end of all things is at hand. Now he uses that, I believe he's using that statement, the end of all things. It's just a general reference to the return of Christ, the end of all the series of events that make up the last days till the new heaven, new earth And he says, it's all at hand. So they were looking for it. They were anticipating it. Just like we're trying to do, anticipate the rapture of the church. And then notice he says here He says, be ye therefore, because the end of all things is at hand. And he gives a list of what I believe four things here. That ought to be true, that ought to characterize our lives as Christians in these last days. I'm calling it in the shadow of Christ's return. As we are watching and waiting. And he lists these four things. So let's pray. We've already looked at three of them. I want to touch on one very quickly this evening, and then we'll have Lord's Supper. Notice he let's pray. Father, we ask now you'd bless our time in your word. And Lord, it sure is good to be back at Mountain Lake with your people. And I pray you'd bless us, Lord. I pray you'd revive us. Me. And I pray that you would just touch our hearts, Lord, that we would trust you and follow your leadership in our lives and let you bless us and use us and mold us and change us. And Lord, maybe you'll come back this week. We don't know. But if you do, we sure want to be ready. And so fill me with your spirit, I ask, Lord, I yield my will to you. Is that my body anew now? Speak through me as always my prayer. In Jesus' name. Amen. So he lists these four things that ought to be true. I think it's kind of interesting to note In the light of the fact that the end of all things is at hand, he doesn't tell the believers to withdraw themselves. Doesn't tell us go up in the mountains. You know, at the end times, withdraw yourself. He doesn't tell the believers to build big walls up around your hell around your house and arm yourselves to the teeth. Get ready, it's going to be ugly in these last days. He doesn't say any of that I don't know about you, that would be kind of a normal reaction, maybe for me. Good night, evil men, seducers wax worse and worse, perilous times, violence. We better build bigger walls and get bigger guns. But he doesn't say that He says four things that ought to characterize us in these last days. The first one was he ought to be what I called self-controlled. Look there in verse 7 again. He says, Be ye therefore sober. All he's saying is, as we mentioned before, is don't be loose in your living. Don't be careless in your Christian life. Don't be stupid in your Christian life. Be wise. Be smart. Be sober. Discipline ourselves. That we do right and follow God's instructions. And then he says there, the end of verse 7, he says, be sober and watch under prayer. And I put it this way: be serious in our prayers. We preached about that this morning. And as the days of the Lord's return draw nigh, we ought to be more in prayer, not less. And I don't know about you, but I just see prayer. You know, prayer meetings are getting smaller and smaller. Some churches are dropping them. You know, all night prayer meetings are very rare. Fasting is very rare. And he says, as the day approaches, we ought to be taking our prayers more seriously, not less. And then you notice he said there in verse number 8, he says, above all these things, above all things Have fervent charity among yourselves. And I put it this way, we ought to be sincere in our charity. We preached on that my last Sunday here, last Sunday night here a couple weeks ago But just being charitable, loving people. Now I want to end tonight, and I got a few minutes. Look there at verse number nine. I think this is the fourth one in these lists he gives. He says, use hospitality one to another. Now don't leave off those last two words Without grudging. Without grudging. I put it this way: living in the shadow of the Lord's return, the end of all things is at hand. Be ye therefore unselfish. Unselfish, unselfish. The end days, as I said, are not days to withdraw ourselves out of society. We're not to put up barriers and arm ourselves, but rather we're to love others. As the day of the Lord's coming approaches, We're to be more and more loving towards other people. We are to give of ourselves in greater ways as the end time approaches. We're to serve one another. As we see the time of the Lord reproaching. The last days, as I said, are going to be characterized in the world, are going to be characterized by selfishness. Violence on every hand. Are we not seeing that on the news? Anybody pay any attention at all what's going on? Um greed on every hand. But Christians, all right, in the world, as the Lord's approaching, the world's deteriorating, the moral fabric of the world is coming apart, spiritually, the world's a mess. As we said, violence, selfishness, greed, but you and I as Christians are to be the polar opposites of that. We're to be exactly opposite of what the world is. We're not to mimic the world. We're not to embrace the world. We're not to emulate the world. We're to be a polar opposite from the world. Where the world hates, Christians are to love. When the world is selfish, Christians are to be unselfish. We're to be distinctive in a very sinful world. And that's what he's telling us here. And notice he says, use hospitality one to another. Three thoughts real quickly I want to give to you in the few moments we have. Number one, I want to give a definition of hospitality It's almost a foreign word today, hospitality. I think hospitality, verse number nine, I think, is a fruit that grows out of verse number eight. Charity Unconditional love in action will produce hospitality. It means to extend, it comes from the word Philaleo, Philadelphia, brotherly love. But it means this brotherly love extended to another person. It has the idea, and by the way, extended to strangers in particular. It has the idea of sharing the blessings that God has blessed me. Let me ask you this. How many folks here God's blessed you? Let's be honest. All right? Let's just be honest for a change. How many people here, God's blessed us with more than what we really need? Come on now. Come on. And using hospitality, the definition, the thought behind that is this. The blessings that God has blessed me with, I'm to use that to help my fellow man. To extend to others. The blessings that God has blessed me with, I use that to be a blessing to others. That's the idea behind hospitality. It's offering friendship. to others. It's opening myself up to the needs of others. We live in such a world And if we're not careful, we adopt the thinking of the world on this. We adopt the view of the world, the approach of the world, the attitude of the world. We adopt that if we're not careful, and is this what can I get out of this? Did you ever hear this statement? What's in it for me? Anybody ever hear that? What do I get out of this? What's my benefit in this whole thing? Hospitality is that reversed. It's not what can this person do for me, what can I get out of this, it's how can I benefit that person? What can I invest in this situation to make it better? It's giving of myself. Um the historical context where he says use hospitality The historical context here is the uh is that it was a very, very important part of their life in this day and age. In fact, hospitality was just part of life at the time You know, when this was penned, there were no, for the most part, there were no restaurants. There was no Motel 6. They didn't leave lights on for anybody. Uh there was no uh comfort ins, uh Marriott's um what else? Uh what other motels are there? What Hampton Inns, Sheridan's, Ramadan, I mean Ramada, that's the Islam motel. They didn't have any of that. And so when people were traveling, now they would have ends, but they were very few and far between, and for the most part, most people couldn't afford them. So when they would travel, how would they find how where would they stay? How would they have their needs met as they were traveling They were dependent on the hospitality of the people that lived in the area where they were. If you remember, we show every now and then on New Year's Eve, we show the film Sheffi. Anyone remember that And you see that portrayed in that film as he is traveling, he'll come up to a house and say, uh, you know, they'll ask, who are you, where are you? And they're they're real cautious. They get talking. It's all right, come on in, join us for a meal, we'll put you up for the night. Total strangers. That's hospitality. And in the context here that Peter is writing this, it was part of life. That is what they did. They exercised hospitality. People opened up their homes to those that were traveling and had needs. Now, this isn't exactly the same, but I still remember as a very small child back in Pennsylvania that on rare occasions somebody would come by the house They would knock on the door. Now back then, I don't know what they have different names for them now. Back then we called them hobos. Anyone know what I'm talking about? And this guy would be coming through and he'd knock on the door and he'd say, Would you have a meal? Would you have something I'm traveling through? And as a small child, and it didn't happen often, small child, I remember mom would open the door, he'd come in and she'd make a meal for him And he'd eat a meal. Thank you so much. Thank you. He'd go out and he'd travel on. Anybody know what I'm talking about? That's hospitality. That was part of life. It was very, very common. It was an important part of society. And so when Peter writes to them, the end of all things is at hand, be ye therefore. Hospitable. Use hospitality. I think what he's saying is this as the time of the Lord's coming approaches As the end time draws nearer and near, God's people ought to be kinder and kinder and kinder. What's our natural reaction? Put our defenses up. Somebody comes to the door, you get a gun. You know, who are you? What do you want? And I'm not saying we shouldn't be careless, but I am saying we ought to have asked God to give us a heart of hospitality. To help others, to use what God has blessed us with to help and be a blessing to others. So the definition of hospitality technically is Brotherly love extended to others and strangers in particular. Brotherly love extended to others. Now, what's the display of hospitality? Now I put a few things down here And some verses I wanted to look at. I don't know if we'll get to all of them. But the fact is, Christian hospitality is rooted in our relationship with the Lord. In God's kindness that He shows to us, that is what our kindness to others is rooted in. Be ye therefore kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. Would you agree with me? God has been awfully hospitable to us. God has used his blessings, which are unlimited, and used his blessings to better our lives and enable us And so that is the basis, that is the root of our hospitality to others. You say, well, they really don't deserve it. You might be right, but did we deserve God's hospitality? No, no. Again, I'm not suggesting be careless, but I am saying this. Let's not be selfish. And sometimes selfishness is justified by say I'm being careful Follow what I'm saying? Oh, I don't want to be careless. No, we don't want to be careless, but we don't want to be selfish either. We don't want to be selfish. So the display of hospitality. Can you look up verses really quick How many people here can look up verses really fast? How many people here look up verses really slow? There's more slow than fast. Alright, let's try. Go back to Exodus. Keep your place here. Go back real quick. We'll just buzz through these. Exodus chapter 22. Did you know that hospitality was part of God's law for Israel? Is required by law of God for the nation of Israel to be hospitable to people. Exodus 22, second book of your Old Testament, if that helps you. 22 is right after 21, if that helps you. Exodus, I'm not even there myself. Look there, verse twenty-two, uh chapter twenty-two, look down at verse twenty-one. Notice what he says. Thou shalt neither vex a stranger nor oppress him. If you're not going to vex him and oppress him, what are you going to do? You're going to be kind to them. You're going to help them. You're going to be a blessing to them. Why? For you were strangers in the land of Egypt. So what he's saying here is: I put in the marks in my Bible, be kind. Be kind, be hospitable to people. Come over to Deuteronomy chapter number 14. Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, fifth book of the Old Testament. And look at verse fourteen, or chapter fourteen, I'm sorry, and verse twenty-eight Deuteronomy 14, verse 28, he says, At the end of three years thou shalt bring forth all the tithe of thine increase the same year. And shall lay it up within thy gates. And the Levite, because he hath no part in inheritance with thee. Look at this. And the stranger And the fatherless and the widows widow which are within thy gate shall come and shall eat and be satisfied. You know what he's saying? You make sure the needs of others are met That the Lord thy God may bless thee in all the work of thine hand which thou doest. You know he's telling the nation of Israel, you be hospitable. There's somebody who has a need. You put some money up, there's somebody who has a need. You put some grain up, there's somebody who has a need. You help meet that need. You help take care of them. The blessings that God has blessed you with You use that to help others and be a blessing to others. That's hospitality. Come over, if you would, to the book of Romans, all the way back in the New Testament. Romans And chapter number twelve, Romans chapter twelve We ought to do Bible quizzes more, you know, Bible drills. That would help us. Romans chapter 12 and verse number 13. Now, he's not suggesting this. He is instructing the church at Rome, distributing to the necessity of saints, given to what? He's saying, listen, your church ought to be given to hospitality, ought to be part of it. You as believers ought to give yourselves to hospitality. Flip over to chapter 15 and notice verse 7. He says, wherefore receive ye one another. Welcome into your home. Receive them. Take them as part of your family, part of you. Wherefore receive ye one another as Christ also received us. For the glory of God. So hospitality, and there's a score of other verses we go to. I just pulled a few out, Old Testament, New Testament. So we're commanded in Scripture to be hospitable to others. Hospitality is commanded in Scripture. Hospitality is displayed all through Scripture. Did you ever pay attention when you're reading through the Old Testament, particularly back in Genesis, and then you get into the historical books, 1 2 Kings, 1 Chronicles, 1 Sam, 2 Samuel? Do you ever notice when there's travelers coming by, many times God's people will welcome them into their home. I was thinking about Abraham. Remember before uh while Abraham was there, before God judged Sodom and Gomorrah? The three men came by, they're actually angels, and uh they showed up and Abraham re ran out to meet 'em. Quick, come on in, I'll I'll provide and they killed anybody remember that And he had Sarah get some k Sarah, make some cakes real quick, get some food together. He went out and killed a lamb and uh prepared it and cooked it up. These were total strangers And Abraham extended hospitality to them. And lo and behold, they were angels of God. It made me think about. where it says that we should entertain strangers because we may be entertaining angels unawares. That person that has a need, you have no idea who they are, and you have an opportunity to help them, that could be an angel of God God giving you opportunity. And so all through the Bible you find that. Lot did that. And all through scripture you find people showing hospitality, inviting people in. It was part of life Then you get into the New Testament, the Lord Jesus Christ. Did you ever pay attention how many times Jesus Christ ate in other people's homes? He said, Foxes have holes, birds have nests, but the Son of Man hath nowhere to lay his head. And people would invite him over into their homes, and he would enjoy a meal with them. In fact, he got criticized because of some of the folks he would Enjoy their hospitality. So it's all through Scripture. Old Testament, New Testament, you get into the book of Acts Lydia and other people in Acts would invite the apostles. They would come in, they'd invite them into their home, they'd stay with them, meet their needs. It was part of scriptural culture to extend hospitality to others. I thought about Elijah. Remember the Shunammite woman built a little place for him to stay? She wanted to make sure he was taken care of. And um so hospitality displayed all through scripture. Hospitality reflects the Lord's hospitality to us Would you go with me to Matthew 11 very quickly? I know we're looking at a lot of verses. By the way, I don't mind getting criticized for looking at a lot of verses. Matthew chapter 11, the end of the chapter there, the last couple verses at the end of Matthew 11. Notice what it says. Now I never really looked at it this way before until I got studying this. And this came to mind. It says, verse 28, come unto me, all ye that what? Labor and what? And I will give you rest. You know what that sounds like to me? Hospitality. Oh, you're working hard, you're tired. Now he's talking the spiritual aspect here. But he says, you come to me, I'll take care of you, I'll give you rest, I'll meet your need. He goes on and talks about discipleship, take my yoke upon you, and meek and lowly in heart, but he's extending hospitality, spiritual hospitality. To those who are spiritually needy. And that reflects, when we show hospitality to others, we're reflecting the spiritual hospitality the Lord has shown us. Now, I want you to notice another verse here real quick, Matthew 25. Hospitality is commanded in Scripture. Hospitality is displayed all throughout Scripture. Hospitality reflects the Lord's hospitality to us. And verse in chapter 25 of Matthew, I see that hospitality is recognized and rewarded by God. Now he's talking to nations here. I understand what he's saying. But notice how he says this in verse number 34. Then shall the king say unto them on his right hand. Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. Now look what he says. For I was hungered, and ye what? You gave me meat. I was thirsty, and you gave me drink. I was a stranger, and you took me in. Naked, and ye clothed me. I was sick, and you visited me. I was in prison and ye came unto me. Does that sound like hospitality to you? He recognized it. Notice how they respond. Then shall the righteous answer him saying, Lord, when shall we be hunger? And fed thee or thirsty or gave thee. What are you talking about? When when did you ever see any of us do any of this? Look what he said Well uh when saw we when saw when saw we thee a stranger and took thee in or naked and clothed thee? Or when saw we sick? Verse 40 And the king shall answer and say, Verily, verily I say unto you, listen to this For inasmuch as ye have done it unto the least of these my brethren, what's he say? Ye have done it unto me. You've done it unto me. Then shall he say also on them on the left, depart from me. And he goes down. They didn't do it. They do not extend hospitality. And he says, You didn't do it to them. You didn't do it to me When you and I decide that we're going to be hospitable Christians, that we're going to use hospitality. The Lord says it's just like you're doing it to me. And he recognizes that and he rewards that. He rewards that. Do you agree with me? We live in an unhospitable world. And you and I are to stand out as hospitable people. Now he gives one more caution there. I am with this. Look at look come back to Peter. And he adds a little two words at the end there. I tell you, Peter knew human nature. Peter understood human nature. Verse 9, use hospitality one to another. He could have put a period there and ended the sentence, but he knows human nature and he says, without grudging. So I put this down. Number one, the definition of hospitality. We looked at that. Brotherly love extended to others. Brotherly kindness. The display, we see it all through Scripture, and the Lord recognizes it. And then I put this down, our demeanor in hospital in hospitality. We're to do it without grudging. I got looking up that word grudging. I don't know. That's kind of a That word just kind of caught my attention, grudging. Without grudging. It means this. Grudging means to have internal murmurings. Have in my head and my heart complaining and criticizing. And he's what he's I think what he's saying is this When you show hospitality, something God has blessed you with, and you take and use that to help another, to make another person's life better, invest in the well-being of another. Be very very careful. You're not while you're doing it you're not saying, good grief, I could have used this or I could have built a new garage with this and oh I could have bought a four-wheeler with that. I could have bought a coach purse with this money. And uh I and he says, be very, very careful that you don't get inside. Even though you're doing it outwardly, don't let internally be griping and murmuring and complaining. Y'all look like you don't even know what I'm talking about. I know y'all been there. Do you ever you ever somewhere and uh God touches your heart and you say boy I ought to put that money towards that? Anybody know I'm talking about And uh and you're s and what happens immediately? You start debating. Oh, well, you know this? I could use that. I was gonna do it. We were down here. And um I you know I had a bunch of money I transferred over into pesos and Dominican the first day and we started visiting these churches and these pastors I'm telling you, I just smelled it and I just started pouring the money out. I just gave it in and by the time we got back the first day, I gave all my money away. It was like Huh. And uh but he says do it without grudging. We do that. He says uh uh uh uh uh don't do that You do it. What's the opposite of grudging? God loveth a cheerful giver. Cheerfully. Ah, an opportunity. Here's what I think that would help us. Don't view it as giving it or throwing it away. View it as this. Investing in God's glory. Investing in God's glory. Use hospitality one to another. Lord's coming back maybe today. If not today, maybe tomorrow. Maybe Friday. And as we see that day approaching, let's use hospitality. Here's my invitation tonight. The next seven days from Sunday till next Sunday, let's ask the Lord to give us a heart of hospitality and look for opportunities. to help him be a blessing. Let me say this. Can I just get one thing? You know, do you ever ever see this? And maybe some of you don't, and I'm not against it. Alright? So don't I'm not against it. But you go into a drive-thru, McDonald's, and you say, I'm going to pay for the guy's meal behind me. Anybody know what I'm talking about? It's called pay it forward, but I think it's actually backwards. Alright, pay that and that's fine. Don't I'm not criticizing, I'm not saying that. But what that usually boils down to is one person that has more than they need, paying for someone else has that has more than they need And it's really not getting into the hands of somebody that really needs it. I mean they wouldn't be in line if they couldn't afford what they're doing, right? And so it has nothing to do with anything. I just want to say that Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray, dear Lord, you would give us heart of hospitality. I pray our church and our personal testimonies, lives. Would be evidenced by the love of God and the hospitality of our Lord. Wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would join me in praying that the Lord would help us this next seven days? To exercise hospitality. Anybody anybody here? And maybe just give ourselves the old altar and say, here I am, Lord, take me. Use me to help others. Use me to be a blessing to others. Of course it would include soul-winning and witnessing and all of that. But use hospitality. Father, bless our imitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed up