And it's not really an orchestra, it'd be wood be uh what would you call it, Jerry? Just woodwinds? Uh wood I call it nice. I like it. Ecclesiastes chapter 9. How many people know what a kleptomaniac is? Kleptomaniac is somebody that can't control themselves, they always what? Steal. You know why you can't tell a kleptomaniac any puns? Because they always take things literally I can tell you did not like that one very much. Ecclesiastes chapter nine, verse four through six. I just want to kind of I want to try and bring one thought tonight from this verse. There's a little phrase in this verse that every time I read through here, it just catches my attention and uh it kind of sparks your imagination a little bit. I'm going to begin reading in verse 4, and that's where the statement is I'm going to read down through verse 6. We're not going to get to any verse 5 or 6, but just that little phrase in verse 4. Look what it says here. For him uh for to him that is joined to all the living, there's hope. Now look at this. For a living dog is better than what? A dead lion. That's something. Now let me read the rest of the verse just so we have context. We're not going to pay a whole lot of attention to the context tonight, but I want to look at that But look at verse five. For the living know that they shall die, but the dead know not anything, neither have they any more reward, for the memory of them is forgotten. Also, their love and their hatred and their envy is now perished. Neither have they any more a portion forever in anything that is done under the sun. A living dog is better than a dead lion Let's pray and see what in the word if we can figure out what that means. Father, I ask you to bless our time in your word tonight. Lord, I sure enjoyed studying this And so I pray that maybe you could uh through me, Lord, if you take me and fill me with your Spirit and speak through me, uh we could understand this a little bit and we'd walk out of here with something to rejoice in. And something to praise the Lord for, so please fill me with your spirit and work through me, I ask, Lord, as I yield myself to you In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Now, Dave Heath is not here tonight, but he has said this to me publicly many, many times. So I'm going to presume upon it, and he may be listening. I do not know. But he has said, Dave, if you know Dave very well, sometimes he has the tendency to be a little negative Anybody notice that? Family is not allowed to vote on that, by the way. And he said one of his nicknames, now he told me this many times, so I'm not revealing anything secret. He told me one of his nicknames' work was Chief Black Cloud. Now he's not the only Chief in that tribe. I've met a bunch. And I think as I'm studying Ecclesiastes here and we get to some of this. I thought Solomon at this point in his life, we could refer to Solomon as chief black cloud. This is pretty morbid stuff, isn't it? Some of the stuff he's dealing with, it is dark, and to be honest with you, some of it's very troubling. The last message we looked at early part of verse 9, chapter 9. You know, he's asking some troubling uh questions, disturbing questions that many times we have, but we don't want to verbalize. And so, but now we come to verse 4, and it's almost, as I'm looking at this, it's almost like a ray of positive light shines through This cloud that is over Solomon's head at this point in his life. He's looking at everything under the sun. He's looking everything from human perspective He's looking at everything as if God was not a part of it at all. And I'll tell you what, that's depressing. You know the most discouraging place in the world is in the world. And Solomon, he's all seeing all this from Earth's perspective, from the world's perspective, not from God. But now he makes this statement In the midst of all this, and the first part of verse 4, he says, to him that is joined to all the living. So that's just an unusual way of saying somebody that's still alive. To him that's joined to all the living. How many folks here tonight are joined to all the living? Alright, if you're not, that's an issue then. We've got to deal with that. So he's talking about folks who are alive, and look what he says here. To him that is joined to all the living, the person that's still alive, there is what? There's hope. There's hope. Uh we have some EMTs in our church and medical people a little bit And I notice that whenever there's a wreck or somebody comes in and they're not well, one of the first things they want to do, if they're lying there and they're motionless, one of the first things they want to do is what? Find out if they're still bringing. Find out are they still alive? And if they're still alive, then there's what? There's hope. We can bring them around. If they're still alive. That heart's still beating. If those lungs are still working, they're still alive. I heard about a fella that um Uh they were out him and his buddy were out hunting and his buddy uh fell and uh uh look had a parent heart attack and uh he called 911 to 911 and he says, My buddy, I I I think he's dead And uh she says, uh, well, are you sure? He goes, uh hold on a second. She heard, Capal! Yep, he's dead, all right. And um I know that one was terrible. I I know what you're thinking. You're thinking, Leatherman, drop the jokes and get to the message, right? But as long as somebody's alive, as long as they're breathing, Solomon says, hey, there's still hope there And this is my thinking, and I'm getting off track here a little bit, but this is my thinking at this point. You know, a church may be dried up. It may not be winning souls, it may not have much influence, it may not be much left of a church, but if there's one or two people in there that are alive spiritually, there's still hope for that church to have revival There's still hope for that church. You know, you might have a ministry, a Sunday school class, and nothing's happened, nothing's happened. But if you got a Sunday school teacher or somebody in there that's still alive spiritually, and they got a vision, they got a burden, there's still hope for that class. You know, a marriage may be well nigh dead That marriage may just be shot. But I'm convinced if one person, one of them one spouse, one of those spouse Would determine, I'm going to get God in this, and I'm going to see God do something. If there's just some life there still that marriage can become and be exactly what it ought to be. Amen or not? I believe that with all my heart. Where there's life, there's hope. There's hope. There's hope. Um when I was in hospice, I'm referenced working with hospice this morning a little bit, and sometimes I would be given somebody's name, I'd go visit them, and the people I got were always people that had no No pastor, no church, a lot of them had no spiritual concern at all their whole life. And now they're given four months, five, six months to live. And I'd show up and they'd They would ask them, do you want some spiritual counsel? Do you want a pastor if something come by? They'd say yes or like. So then I would show up. And um A lot of times they would ask me this. They said, Pastor, why am I in this condition? Why am I on hospice? Why do I only have three or four months to live? And I would try to convey to them as compassionately as I could That is something that they can rejoice in. That God has given them an opportunity to make things right with their God and prepare to meet their God before they go off. And so God in His wisdom and mercy says, all right, you're going to have two to four months to live. I'm giving you a little opportunity here to make things right. They're still alive, and so there's what? There's hope that they can be saved. And I saw many of them profess to trust Christ as Savior. So he makes this tremendous statement here. For to him that is joined to all the living, there is hope. I want to encourage you to jot a few things down. I don't really have an organized outline. But just a few statements I want to make and then share a couple other things. Would you write this down? Life is a precious thing. Life is a precious thing. I'm afraid too often we take our lives for granted. Life is a precious thing. Write this down. Life is a gift from God. It is a gift from God. If you would, turn with me to the first book of the Bible and the second chapter. Genesis chapter number two. You'll excuse me for drinking the water. I've developed a horrendous cold here. And so uh I'm gonna have to drink a little water. But Genesis chapter 2, and look at verse 7. This is an amazing thing. How many people here ever read the Bible and you try and visualize in your mind what happening. Anybody ever do that? I like to do that. Try and picture this event taking place. Now try and try and visualize verse number seven of Genesis 2. And it says, and the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground. Alright, so God takes this dust and he makes this body out of the dirt, out of the clay, the dust of the ground. Now look at this. This is an amazing, amazing thing to me. And to me, this shows the preciousness of this gift of life. Listen what it says. The Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground. Look at this. And breathed into his nostrils the breath of life. And man became a living soul. Everything else that God created, he simply spoke into existence. He spoke into existence. He spoke into existence. Just said the word and it existed. My what power Is behind the Word of God, that He can just speak things into existence. But when it comes to man and man's life, God formed this body of the dust of the ground, and then God himself, now try and picture, I don't even know how we can picture this. But God Himself comes down and to the face of that lifeless body made of the clay, God comes down and he breathes into the nostrils life. And that man becomes a living soul. Now, what does that tell us about what life is? This mysterious thing called life. It is something that comes to us directly from the being of God. From God's being breathed into us. And what I'm trying to say is this, life is something that is tremendously precious. Life is something that God, in his compassion, it offers to us as a gift. Write this down. Life is a privilege. It is a tremendous privilege for you and I to be alive. I believe God created us to live. I say this often at funerals. I mention it at Jack's funeral the other week. God did not create man to die. I don't see that anywhere in Scripture. So I'm going to make him so he dies. No, God created man to live. I'm convinced God's intention is creation of man, when he breathed into man the breath of life, was for man to live and live eternally. Death was not part of it. In fact, we learn from the Bible that death is an intruder into God's plan. God created us to live, but by one man sin entered the world and death by sin, and so death passed upon all men. So death is the intruder, and God, in his wisdom and foreknowledge, he knew how it would play out. But I'm convinced God's purpose in creating you and me, in creating Adam, wasn't so that we would die Create us to live. And what a privilege it is to be given by God this precious thing called life. I've heard people say, and uh every now and then over the years, I've heard folks say, Oh, I wish I'd never been born. Anyone ever hear that? Wonder how many of us have ever said that. I think that's a terrible thing to say And usually when somebody says, oh, I wish I'd never been born, it's over some trivial little thing where they had a flat tire and they're late for work. Oh, I wish I'd never been born. You know what that is? That's a knucklehead. That does not understand how valuable and precious life really is. You say, preacher, I've had some hard times in my life. Yeah, I have two. Everyone here would stand up and say I'd venture to say I'm no different than most, if not all of you. But I've had times, like you, no doubt, where I've absolutely sobbed my eyes out. Anybody know what I'm talking about I mean so broken and wept so hard at this altar here I'm thinking years ago. I mean I was broken sobbing. We know what it's like to hurt. We know what it's like to be broken. We know what it's like to experience heartache. But you know, there's times where I absolutely laughed till I couldn't breathe anymore. There's times where I just so thoroughly enjoyed being alive I couldn't stand it Anybody know what I'm talking about? And uh, you know, just going down to Devlars and getting a twist with sprinkles on is just fantastic. That came out of nowhere, but uh Life is a precious thing. We should never, ever take it for granted. And the very fact that we're alive tells us we have hope. Don't ever say it's hopeless. Don't ever say, I preached on this not long ago. The only hopeless situation a person can ever be in is after they die in their sins and they're in hell. That is hopeless. But if I'm alive, and if God is alive, doesn't matter what the situation is, there's hope And God can turn that thing around. God is tremendous. God specializes in taking total messes and turning them into something precious. That's something. He can take just a bunch of dust and he can form it and breathe into it and it becomes a living soul. What a God we serve. Where there's life, there's hope. Life is a precious thing. I I wrote this down. Life is a precious thing. Cherish it. We get up in the morning, say, Thank God for a new day. Thank God I'm alive. Cherish this thing called life. You say, oh, but I'm in a dark time and I'm a valley. Listen, cherish it. What an opportunity to experience brokenness and heartache. What an opportunity to experience what Christ did for us. Be grateful for it. When's the last time you got on your knees and said, Thank you, God, for giving me my life and the things I experience in my life. Cherish it. Be grateful for it. I put this down. Experience it. You know what gets on my nerves? A lot of things. But um is folks that'll just sit around and do nothing. You know, I mean there's opportunities and here's a life out there. Oh, I just want to sit here and play my little thing. You know what I think? I say, do you ever see hear this? Get a life. Right? I don't think God I can I just vent a little I don't think God created us and put us in this amazing world. So we sit around and look at a little screen. Right or wrong? God's given us life. I don't believe He created mountains and rivers and oceans and prairies and valleys and meadows. I don't think he created all that so we sit inside a little room and uh I think he wants us to get out there and see it. And experience it. Be a part of it. And so cherish life and be grateful for life. Experience life. Invest your life. Paul said, for I am crucified with Christ, nevertheless I live. Yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God. What was he saying? It's Christ living for me to serve and serve him. Investor life, Jesus made a tremendous statement Jesus made a lot of tremendous statements. But I like the one where he says, for the Son of Man has come not to be ministered unto, but to what? Minister. And I think he gave us an example in that. And we have this life. And let's live it and let's experience it and let's cherish it. Let's be grateful for it. But let's invest it And the lives of others and point others to Christ and share this message of the gospel. I tell you, the highlight of my week, without a doubt, was with Charlie for about 20 minutes on a Thursday night sitting on a porch in Teralda With two folks that didn't know God, a little rough around the edges, and to be able to open a Bible and tell them what Jesus Christ did for them To invest your life in others. We've got an opportunity here in two weeks to go and sit at a fair. And you know what? Sit behind that booth, and we've got all kinds of little gimmicks to get their attention. And people will come by. They'll come to us. We'll be able to talk to them about Christ and invest a little bit in him. Invest your life. Don't waste it. Don't waste it on yourself. Where there's life, there's hope. And then we come to this interesting statement. And I was telling Rissa about this. I'm so excited about this statement here. Notice what he says. For him that is joined to all the living, there is hope. And he says this, for a living dog is better than a dead lion. Now he's he's trying to illustrate the point that life is precious. It's even if you're just a dog, but you've got life, you're better off than a lion. That's dead. Now I got looking, and you know the Bible talks a lot about dogs. It really does. Look it up sometime. Do a dog study. It's fascinating. But I I notice oh I've I've been waiting to get to this part so bad. I study this as thoroughly as I can, and I cannot find one mention of cats in the Bible. Nothing. It's like they don't exist. I thought I wonder why that is. I mean he talks about dogs, dogs, dogs, dogs, all the way through, dogs. What about cats? Huh? Now why I got I think why in the world won't eat one why in the world doesn't God talk about cats? I think primarily because cats are basically just decorative things, you know. What do you do with a cat? It just half the time. Did I ever tell you the time our cat got saved? I I'll save it for another time. It's a true story. I thought why doesn't he have cats in the Bible? Well, they're useless. One, they don't do anything. We had a cat and I threw a stick, said fetch, just laid there. But another thing, cats are primarily, in the ancient history, cats are primarily associated with Egypt. Egyptians, cats, Egyptians were the enemies of God. So by association Cats are the enemies of God, of God's people. So, anyway But he says a dead a living dog is better than a dead lion. In our world today, dogs are considered man's best friend. You ever hear that saying? Uh dogs uh sometimes um they're they're almost like family, aren't they? Anybody know what I'm talking about? I'll always my whole attitude all these years was, ah dog, it's an animal, I'll just get sick, I'll take it out back and shoot it And then we got lucky. I don't know if you remember, we had that big golden retriever Lucky. And that was a good dog. And he got cancer and we came home one day and he was fellover. He couldn't walk. I didn't take it out back. I was crying, oh lucky. Running them off to the veterinarian Dogs are referred to as man's best friend. Dogs are referred to as part of the family sometimes. Somebody said all dogs go to heaven. I know that's not true. I met a few that are going the other place, I guarantee it. I'm telling you. But what does the Bible say about dogs? He says a dead dog is better than a lion a living dog is better than a dead lion. Now I'm going somewhere with this. But the Bible, I got studying what the Bible says about dogs, and one thing, dogs in Bible in the Bible in ancient days were despised. Jesus said in Matthew chapter 7 and verse 6, give not that which is holy to the dogs. They were thought very ill of. They were despised. Throughout the Bible, Israel would refer to their enemies as dogs. Sometimes poor people and low-class people would refer to as dogs. Remember when the I think it was the Syrophonician woman came to Jesus and she said, would you heal my daughter? And Jesus says it's not fit to give the food, bread to the dogs. And she very humbly, and the Lord had a purpose for that, she very humbly said, yay, but even the dogs can have the crumbs from the table. So that tells us a little bit about their attitude towards dogs. They were despised. Criminals and thieves were referred to as dogs. They were disease infested and they were scavengers. In Revelation 22, 15, he talks about outside of the gates of heaven are dogs and murderers. And so dogs were very despised. In the Bible, in Bible times, dogs were considered very disgusting In Proverbs chapter 26 and verse 11, he says, as the dog returneth to his vomit. 2 Peter 2. 22, he makes the same statement. Some people agree with me. That's disgusting. Ever see a dog? Well, I won't get graphic, but and then they turn around and go back and they eat it. Seriously? Uh Saw uh dogs uh were considered disgusting and even they still are to be honest with you in a lot of ways. They'll roll I take my dog, try to take my dog for a walk every night about 10 o'clock. We'll go out and walk a little route we got around here Inevitably there's a dead squirrel or rabbit or possum or something on the side of the road. This time of year, they don't have to sit there long until they get pretty that gets nasty. Guess what my dog cannot resist? He wants to eat it, but worse than that, he'll want to get down and roll around in it. And the more splattered it is, the better he likes it. That is nasty. He he eats nasty stuff. I uh back in the winter, uh, I'd take him walking back in along the edge of the yard back here, I don't know in the summer 'cause we use it But um deer go back there a lot in the backfield here and deer leave little gifts. Guess what our dog wants to eat? I see you you make me sick. I told Kathy, we would quit buying dog food and just collect beer stuff. So dogs dogs were despised, uh, they were disgusting, and dogs were dangerous. Back in the day, they would roam the streets. Proverbs 22, David said that he is encompassed about by dogs fearfully. 1 Kings chapter 22, verse 38, the dogs licked up Ahab's blood when they came and cleaned out the chariot and his armor after he had been killed. In 2 Kings 9 verse 36, the dogs ate Jezebel's body, left her palms of her hands and her feet. Now listen, and I'm not trying to be funny here, but you have a dog, what happens if your dog gets into the chicken eggs and gets a taste for eggs? Well once that gets that taste, you're gonna have a hard time with that dog. What about when a dog gets a taste of human blood? What does that tell us those dogs are gonna be? Those are gonna be dangerous dogs And so the point I'm trying to make is when Solomon says a living dog is better than a dead lion. He's making a pretty significant statement. Dogs were not thought highly of. Dogs were despised. They were disgusting. They were dangerous. But then he says a dead lion. Now I got studying about a lion. I don't have time to go through it, but in the Bible to summarize it, lions were very regal. They were powerful. The Bible refers to Jesus as the Lion of the tribe of Judah. Solomon's thrones had lions, statutes of lions. They're very regal, they're very respected, they are very powerful, majestic beings. And Solomon says a dog that is alive. is better off than a lion that's dead. Now let me leave you with some spiritual truths I think are here. To be the least, to be a dog in the kingdom of God is better than being a lion in the kingdom of this world. Follow what I'm saying? You and I may be despised. This world may be disgusted with us. This world sometimes thinks we're dangerous. I'm telling you, we're going to talk about this in our conference with Dr. Harding, but it's getting to the point in some circles where Christians are considered the enemy of the state. We're considered dangerous, disgusting, despised. I tell you what This world can think about that all we want, but if we have Jesus Christ our Savior, we're better off than a majestic, most popular people in the world that are lost in their sins, doomed to a devil's hell. A living dog's better than, oh, dogs are disgusting. They're terrible. Ah, but if he's got life, he's got something that the lion does not have. And so the least in the kingdom of God is greater than those who are the greatest in the kingdom of the world. I thought about uh when he says a living dog is better than a Dead line. I thought about that thief on the cross I referenced this morning. Man, you don't get much lower than this guy. He's he's condemned for murder and uh and uh crimes and he's about to die, he's nailed to a cross. And he turns in the last moments of his life and he puts his faith and trust in Jesus Christ. And Jesus made a statement. He said, today Thou shalt be with me in paradise. You know what that tells me? That old sorry dog of a thief had life. And I'm telling you, that thief on the cross that found forgiveness and salvation in Christ was better than Pilate sitting in his throne trying to wash the guilt of his rejection off his hands. A living thief on a cross is better than a dead king in a throne. Right? Follow what I'm saying? And um I thought about I thought about the rich man and Lazarus. Rich man fared sumptuously, Luke chapter 16 tells us. And he had all kinds of this world's good. And what Lazarus had, he was like a dog. He sat under his table and ate the crumbs that the rich man would rich man would push off for him. I'll tell you what. I'll tell you what, it's a whole lot better to be Lazarus. under his table eating crumbs and end up in the presence of God in heaven than that rich man and die in his sins and end up in hell. Who do you think is better off now, Lazarus or the rich man today? Lazarus by far. A living dog's a whole lot better than a dead lion. The poorest and most despised Christian is far greater than the wealthiest and most popular heathen. I'll take some poor little bus kid that knows Jesus and trying to please God. I tell you what, in God's eyes, that kid's far greater. than Johnny Depp or any of these millionaire pervert, filthy mouth, ungodly living sinners in Hollywood. Amen or not. I'd rather be that poor bus kid that knows Jesus than that popular perverted movie star that's lost in his sins and headed to a devil's hell A living dog's a whole lot better than a dead lion. I thought as I was thinking about this, I thought about some uneducated preacher in some back hills of Kentucky and he's got a little church full of folks or and uh boy he he's not a great speaker and he stumbles over his words and he's trying his best but boy he loves God And he's pouring his heart out and trying to tell people how to be saved and he's trying to teach the word of God. I tell you, that guy's far better off. Some guy has a hundred has a ten thousand people in a in a auditorium and he's preaching false doctrine And he's point pointing people to a devil's hell through his false gospel. Say that old little old poor preacher hadn't any of any cage education, he's better off than that big millionaire popular preacher A living dog's a whole lot better than a dead lion. There was a guy out when I was in Indianapolis as youth pastor for four years, there was a fella And uh we were we would give out tracts. I've always ever since I got saved, just giving out tracts has just captivated me. And it's been such a part of my attempt trying to be a witness in this world. And we were giving out tracts there and I was pushing it as a youth pastor, and there was a guy in the church, Art Wilmouth. And Art Wilmouth was a good guy. He became a good friend. But art was just a little rough around the edges. And he was very spontaneous. He'd get an idea, boom, he's running with it. Say, Art, you know, maybe you need to think this through a little bit. So anyway, we were giving out tracts and he said, I'm gonna write a tract. I said, go for it. So he wrote a track. It's pretty good. He put a little tombstone on the front if you if you die today. And it was just a simple, good little track. And so he had some printed up. He got stirred up. He came home one day, told his wife, he said, I bought a bake ink press. We're gonna start printing tracks. Where are you gonna put it? In the living room? He drugged the sofa out, all this stuff, tore it all out. They had to put braces underneath the living room floor because to hold the weight of the press. Ink on the carpet, ink on the walls. He started printing those things like crazy. I said, or maybe you should have talked to your wife a little bit first before all this stuff. Ah, she's fine. She was eventually. And we started getting this he put a little thing on there. If you read this track and you pro calling the Lord right back, we started getting these little tracks back from all over the place. People sign them I tell you what, I'll take an Art Wilmouth that brings a printing press home, puts it in his living room over some dead, high-falutin, self-righteous Christian that won't speak a word for the Lord Jesus Christ. Old art had some life. He had a little vision, a burden for the loss. I tell you, a living dog is better than a dead lion. And uh let me look here what I got. I thought about, and I'll end with this. I thought about the saddest funeral I ever did in my life. Probably will ever be. Before that, I had when I was out there, the very first funeral I ever did was in Indianapolis. It was one of the kids, teenage boys that came in on the bus. His name was William. He's about 17, 16, 17 years old William got saved and baptized, and he got on fire for God. His family wasn't saved. His family was fairly well-to-do. He rode the bus, but they were fairly well-to-do. Old William started witnessing it. He he he l he was living for God. He's doing pretty good. He'd been witness to him to his daddy, and his daddy told him on New Year's Eve, William, on New Year's, after New Year's Eve, on the New Year, I'll start coming to church. with you. I'll bring you. William was so excited. The night before New Year's Eve, his dad fell over dead of a heart attack, 40-some years old. Gone. But they had a fancy casket. They had ornate stuff. I mean they they spent some bucks to make that a fancy funeral. Old William was so broken over his daddy, dying before he got saved. I can still see him in that funeral home. He was sobbing and sobbing until the point he started hyperventilating. He passed out. They called the ambulance to come in and get him. He was so broken that his daddy died without Christ. That was a sad funeral. Several years ago, when I was on with hospice again, I don't know why this keeps coming up, but there was a I got a call. They said we got a fellow in the nursing home here at Dennett Road. He doesn't have family. He doesn't have nothing. Would you go by and visit with him, try and minister? I said I'd be glad to. I went by and introduced me, brought me in the room. Here was Isaac Brown. Isaac Brown had nothing. He was a black fellow. Had been moved up here for whatever reason from D. C. They put him in the nursing home up here. I don't know why they they put him up here. They did Old uh got talking a little bit. I introduced myself and we kind of became buddies. And uh one day I asked Isaac, I said, Isaac, you know, the day's coming. You know for sure when you die you're going to heaven? No. He didn't talk much. I said, well, let me show you from the Bible. He said, I'd like that. I took my Bible and I showed Isaac how to be saved And he bowed his head, and I still remember tears on those old black cheeks coming down. He called the Lord Jesus to be his Savior. Isaac, God saved you. Oh, it's wonderful. And I'd visit with him. One day I came in. I didn't know much about him, and there's no family or anything. Nobody around. It's just him. I think I was the only person that visited him I said, Isaac, you've got any kids? He goes, no, but I got two children. I said, all right. It's true. They called me up, the funeral director called me up one day, Thurst down there. He called me up and he said, Pastor Leatherman, I got a fella here, passed away, we're gonna bury him, but he has no family There's nothing. We're putting them back in the Oakland cemetery in the back where people don't have any money. We'll bury them there. He said, but I just feel bad. He said, I think he ought to have a Christian burial. I said, all right, what's his name? He said, his name's Isaac Brown. I said, I know Isaac. It's January. And uh he goes, all right. Well he says, well, we'll meet you down there in the cemetery, and we'll maybe you can just have a little service. I said, I would be honored. So I got my little Bible, went out, and it was a snowy, cold, snowy overcast, and it was the kind of snow i you know where it's just the the flakes just float. You know what I'm talking about? Just here and there, just floating down. And here's this poor man's casket. Nobody around. We're just about uh just about to read some verses. And then a couple ladies from hospice came down. She brought a rose. The lady said this, I'll never forget it. She says, every person ought to have a rose and a prayer at their funeral. I thought that was sweet. I said, Amen. She put it there. I read some verses, and there was the gravediggers there, and the funeral director, and the lady or two with hospice. And I said, by the way, before we bury Isaac I said, I want to tell you all here, before he died, Isaac prayed and trusted Jesus Christ as his personal Savior. And the two grave diggers went like this. Amen. And we buried Isaac. And what I've got to think about is a living dog is better than a dead lion. And that big fancy funeral in Indianapolis, and the thousands of dollars they spent, the guy was lost And here you have Isaac. Just a pauper's funeral. And two or three people there. But I'm telling you, Isaac's better off than the other fella. Follow what I'm saying? God has given us a gift of life. Let's not waste it. Let's not be stupid. Let's not waste our life by being bitter and angry. Hateful. Fighting. How ungrateful is that? And then we have this privilege of having Jesus Christ as Savior. And you say, oh, my life is so terrible. I'm treated so bad. No, no, no. Even if you're a dog, you've got life, you've got more than a dead lion. I hope I'm making sense. Let's pray. Father, I ask you'd help us to rejoice in what you've given us. God, I pray your Holy Spirit would bring great conviction. And we would humble ourselves and learn to thank you and to love you and to invest in others and get our eyes and our obsession off of ourselves. Rejoice in you and what you've done and love others and give. Heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, and I don't know how, but how many would say, God spoke to my heart tonight? Anybody at all? God spoke to my heart. God bless you. Let's get off of ourselves. Let's give our life to the Lord and to serve others. Amen. Maybe there's someone, there's someone here at night and say, Preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved I mean the most important thing in the world is getting that settled. Is there anyone like that? Preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved. I need Jesus Christ to be my Savior. Forgive me and give me eternal life. Any like that by the uplifted hand. I know most, if not all of us. We know others that are unsaved. Let's commit ourselves to reach them. Father, bless our imitation time now, I ask, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. There's imitation time, this is just it