Are you ready? Good. Three or four of us are ready. Good. Can't get a word in, I know. Just get one in every now and again. All right. Hebrews chapter 10, verse 38. Now The just shall live by what? Faith. We need a revival of faith tonight. Soul winning and revival. There's a revival that Christians need tonight, a revival of giant faith in our Lord. Now the just shall live by faith. But if any man draw back, my soul shall have no pleasure in him. Chapter 11, verse 1. Now, faith. It's the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen, for by it, by faith, the elders obtained a good report through Faith, we understand that the worlds were framed by the Word of God, so that things which are seen were not made of things which do appear. Chapter twelve. Chapter twelve, verse one. Hebrews twelve, verse one. Wherefore, seeing we also are encompassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, Let us lay aside every weight. And the sin, oh yes, please lay aside that sin which doth so easily beset us. And let us run with patience. The race that is set before us, looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith Who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. Friends, the only way The only way to please God, there's only one way to please God, and that's by faith. Can't please him any other way. It's impossible to please him without faith But when we have faith in him and we were faithful to him, the Lord is pleased. Back in chapter 10, verse 38, the just shall live by faith. 1038, the just shall live by faith. I just read the book of Habakkuk today, and uh that expression is in Habakkuk. You know, Habakkuk lived in a day in the Old Testament, the Old Testament prophet Habakkuk, he lived in a day of violence and apostasy. As I think about that, I think about our country, the violence I see going on, destroying each other's property Uh and uh apostasy that I see right now. Y'all listening? I'll turn the volume up if I need to. Um our sound man is doing a great job, isn't he? It's still pretty loud here, man. Testing four five, one five, two, five, six, five. He's looking around. What button did I push? What fader? What knob? He's still looking around like a mad scientist, you know what I'm saying? When I was a boy, yeah, the monitors were pretty loud. Hey, there we go. Right. Y'all y'all good? Alright. Where was I? Habakkuk. Habakkuk. Habakkuk. Habakkuk lived in a day of violence. And that we have mic on now. Did I lose my microphone? Here we go. Whoo. Faith cometh by hearing Hearing by the word of God. Let me work on this microphone myself here. Alright. Habakkuk. He lived in this day of violence, apostasy, all that. And he was perplexed. Yes, he was. I mean, why was his country acting like this? It is perplexing to me why my country be acting the way we are. It's confusing to me. And uh Habakkuk said, Lord, I don't understand. And so Habakkuk got his eyes fixed on God. He looked to God for some understanding. And uh God assured Habakkuk, Habakkuk, I am at work. God is at work right now in America. God's at work. There's nothing for you to chafe about. There's nothing to be paranoid about. It's all falling apart. No, it's falling together, friends. Um history does not happen by random chance. No, God is in charge and he will have his way. And so uh God says that uh Habakkuk You believe me, you have your faith in me, the just shall live by faith, Habakkuk. You and I, ladies and gentlemen, here in Maryland, you and I must simply live by faith. Uh we look at the problems a little bit, but we keep our eyes on Jesus. Amen. Glance over the problems, but keep your gaze on Jesus. And uh like Habakkuk, we you and I are supposed to live by faith. Uh now And why do we worry? Why do Christians worry? It's a lack of faith. We believe that our problems are just too big for God. Oh Lord, my problem's just too big. Too big for God? There's no problem too big for God. Faith is the opposite of worry. Worry is the opposite of faith. Faith is the cure for worry. Faith is a cure for a lot of things. Guilt. Oh, I'm so guilty for things I've done. Did you ask God to forgive you Did you get born again? Are you sanctified? Are you are are are you in Jesus? Are you in Christ? Are you hidden Christ? Faith is the cure for guilt. That's what I used to be, but now hallelujah, I'm a child of God Faith is the cure for shame. For all your past, oh, faith is the cure for all the shame. Faith is the victory. We sing that song, and it's true. Now, why don't we obey God? Every time we disobey God, it's a lack of faith. Every single time it's that we don't believe God. Every time we disobey Him, we don't truly believe God as we ought. Uh, do you believe in tithing? Yes, I do. Great, let's get your tithing record out and see if you do. Uh according to this, you don't believe in tithing. Do you believe in giving out gospel tracts? Yes, I do. All right, let's see how the gospel track uh distribution doesn't look like you believe it. See, actions speak louder than words, don't they? And so let's uh work out our faith. You know, the book of James in the Bible talks about doing. There's a lot of people who would like to take the book of James Out because there's a lot of emphasis on doing. Your faith leads to doing. Amen to that. And so the reason that people aren't saved, no faith in God. No faith in God. Alright, so I've got four D's for you tonight. You go home with your report card, kids. I was thinking about you kids, go home and say, Dad, look at my report card. Four D's not good. Not good. No, that's bad, okay? You won't get better grades than D's, but here's four D's of the memory device. Number one, the details of faith. Look at chapter 11, verse 1 and 2. Faith is the substance of things hoped for. The evidence of things not seen, for by it the elders obtained a good report. So, what are the details of faith? What is faith? First, let's talk about what faith is not. Faith is not blind superstition. Oh, those people down there Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, they they're just led by a preacher into some blind superstition. No, it is not. No, no, I reject that. We reject that. It's not blind superstition that we're living by. Say, no, it's the power of positive thinking. No, it's not. As a m so-called preacher, that was his message. No, no, no. I I think positive. I I I'm on the winning side, all that sort of thing, but no, it's not the power of positive thinking So, well, you Christians, you're just idealist. We are not. God is not an idealist God God is a realist God. And we Christians, we're not a bunch of idealists. We are realist We're living by real faith. We're living in a real world. We're trying to do real things for God. Amen. We are realists. We're not just idealists. So what is faith? Faith is confidence in God. I don't have any confidence in me. I'm a failure. I'm a total failure. But God's a total success, friends. And we can rest in him. We can have confidence in him. We can depend on the Bible. We can have conviction. This word substance. Faith is a substance. It's that rock solid substance, the assurance that gives us this hope. And faith is not altered by appearances. You look at the Christians in the Bible. Those that had faith in God, oh my, it didn't matter what their circumstances. They just kept their faith in God. Oh, Daniel, we've passed a new law. Daniel, we've got a statutory law. No more praying to anyone but the king. What you gonna do? Daniel, what you gonna do? Well, yeah, the Bible says that he just got down on his knees toward Jerusalem like he had done aforetime, that's the Bible word, and he just kept praying. There is a law higher than man's law, that's God's law. I don't want to disobey my government unless they start telling me disobey my God, my Lord, my master. And so, old Daniel You gonna keep your faith, Daniel, in this kind of situation? Look at the appearance. How many of you want to be eaten by lions? Uh no. Want to be burned up by fire? No. Want to drown? No. How you want to die, Brother Fox? Easy as possible. Eaten by lions is not on the list. Did God take care of his servant Daniel? Oh yes, he did. See, faith doesn't alter in appearances. It looked bad Think about being burned by fire. How about those three Hebrew children? Alright, we got this great big image. Come on, everybody. When you hear the music, our orchestra's going to start up, and when you hear the music, bow down to the image There's some boys there, some young men there. No. They have what you call fireproof faith. Yeah. Boys, I'll give you another chance. We don't need another chance, King. We're not bowing down. We're not going to do that. Get that thing seven times hotter than it's ever been. Boys, I'm gonna make an example out of you. They threw those three Hebrew children in there. These boys so full of faith in God who you can put all your faith in. Threw him in there. Throw them in there. The big old soldiers that threw them in, they died because that furnace was so out of control And the king looks. Oh, oh, I thought we put three in there. It looks like there's four. And the fourth looks like the Son of God. Boys, come out. You couldn't even smell smoke on them. The Lord knoweth how to deliver, the Bible says. Yeah. See these boys just kept their faith in God. David against big old Goliath. Oh, he just kept his faith in God. God had already delivered him from a lion, or delivered him from a bear, this little this big old giant. God can give me victory here. And so they just kept their faith. That's what you and I must do is live by faith. We must have a faith tonight, a big faith, and an almighty God And so faith is the well the the world says seeing is believing. The Bible says faith is believing to see. You believe to see. Is faith measured by feelings? No. I just feel. Feelings are pretty fickle. You know what I'm saying? They're up and down. Don't trust your feelings. Um Faith is confidence that goes way beyond mining your little emotions. Faith uh is it limited to logic? No, it goes along with logic, but it's not limited to my logic. No. Number one, the details of faith. Number two, the dynamics of faith. The dynamics, verse three. Hebrews 11, verse 3. Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed. By the word of God. Brother Fox, why did God go to so much trouble to create this entire universe? You don't understand God. You don't understand God. It was no trouble. It was no trouble. He spoke it all into existence. When you have all power, it's not a tr not trouble Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the Word of God, so that the things which are seen were not made of things which do appear. Faith in God it uh it brings wisdom When you put your faith in God, it brings wisdom. Now, in the Bible, is God explained? No In the Bible, has God argued for it? No. In the Bible, God just presented, and you believe him. You just take him by faith. You accept God by faith, with trust, with dependence. Um, is everybody a person of faith? Oh, yeah. Of some sort. Everybody's a believer of something. We better have our faith right in the Lord. Don't believe man. Don't believe man-made religion. Faith in yourself, you're no, you better not do that. Some people say, well, well, I believe that there is no God. I was outdoor knocking out in Iowa a while back. Took a youth guy with me And we're out knocking doors, and a young man 25 years old named Joshua comes to the door and we're chatting with him a little bit. He tells me he's an atheist. I said, you're an atheist. At 25? You're an atheist? You don't believe there's a God? That's right. I said, young man, do you know everything in the whole world? Well, no. I said, maybe maybe do you know two-thirds of everything in the world? No, probably not. Well, let's just guess you know half of everything in the world. How do you know there's no God? Oh, these poor folk that try to believe there is no God. Man, open your eyes. I've been to Montana. I've just looked at Montana and said, there's a God. You go out here tonight and look at the sky. You know there's a God. This did not come from some primordial ooze, man. No. There is a God. Our faith needs to be in Him. Put your faith in Him. Faith brings wisdom. It it leads you to worshiping God. Look at chapter 11, verse 6. 11 6 without faith it is impossible to please him. You can't please God without faith. For he that cometh to God must believe that he is And that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Friends, when your eyes work properly, they respond to light And when your ears work properly, they respond to sound. And when your heart works properly, it responds to God. Oh, there is a God. And our faith needs to be in him. Tonight, faith honors God And God honors faith in a man. Faith brings wealth to your life. Did you notice in verse 6? He is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. The currency of heaven It's not American currency, it's faith. That's the currency of heaven. Number one, the Number one, the the details of faith. Number two, the dynamics of faith. Number three, the duty of faith. So what is my duty? Now that I'm born again, what is my duty? My faith is in God. Chapter twelve, verse one. What's my duty? Wherefore, see, and we're also compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses Whew, I've got a cloud of witnesses. Let us lay aside every weight and the sin that does so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us. What is my duty? My duty is to find, follow, and finish God's will for my life. What's the first step of God's will for my life? Getting saved. That's the first step. That's only the first step. Then I'm supposed to just keep growing as a Christian. Get baptized, read the Bible, study the Bible, live for God, be a soul winner, be in church, all these things that are that are uh part of the growth of a Christian God's goal for our lives is to be conformed to the image of Christ. And uh so I must find God's will for my life, and then I must do it. So how do I do it? Well, one thing you gotta do. Is drop off all the things that are trivial. It says, wherefore, seeing we're compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us say it lay aside every weight. All those little superfluous things. I see men caught up way beyond what's normal, way beyond what's right, caught up in the most trivial things that will be meaningless in eternity. Well I've just got to add to my baseball card collection all these pieces of cardboard. I've just got to add to it. I I gotta I need some more money. I just I see grown men, all they can think about is baseball cards. I got a baseball card collection. I've got three cards. Got one as a boy. I got a Johnny Bench card. I got another Johnny Bench card. And I've got one more Johnny Bench card. I got three Johnny Bench cards. Grand total worth 25 cent. You know what I'm saying? Working on cars, acquiring this, acquiring that. All these little trivial things. Nothing wrong with going fishing unless fishing becomes your God. Nothing wrong with certain things. But oh, look, uh the those taps in the way of serving God, those weights that slow you down in serving God, and the thing that stops you from serving God. Oh, drop it off. Get rid of it. The greatest enemy of being faithful to God is sin. We need to confess all known sin to God. And get thoroughly right with God tonight. And get filled with the Holy Ghost tonight. And go forward by faith. Oh, I want you to find God's will for your life, and I want you to put everything you've got into it. What's the destination of faith? Our last day, wherefore seeing we are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses. Uh do you have a cloud of witnesses? Boy, I do. I got people watching me. Um I remember when when my daughter was little. She's uh thirty, thirty-three years old now. Works over there at the hospital in the administration. Remember she is little. Had that candy bar sale for the Christian school, you know what I'd take Sell them candy bars, you know. I remember we knocked on this one policeman's door and had a big old police dog and that dog came right. And uh Scared my daughter, and my daughter climbed to me. Woo! She was up here. And she said it was an orange-colored dog. She said, Daddy, a lion! She thought a lion was about to get us That policeman came, boy, he got his bill folded out. He started buying the candy, you know. Them tears just kept dripping down Rachel's buying it, you know. Let me buy some more candy. It worked. We went on down the road. We got to a new neighbor, several blocks from us, three blocks or so from us. I'd not met these people. Knocked on the door, an older gentleman came to the door. He said, Well, Brother Fox. Hmm. He said, come on in. I said, oh, we're out selling this candy He said, come on in, Brother Fox. I said, you call me Brother Fox. Went inside and there in the living room was his invalid wife in a hospital bed. He said, Oh, Brother Fox, we talk about you in the neighborhood. They do. They're watching. He said, me and my wife, we see y'all get in the car and we see you go to church. Brother Fox, just keep serving God. I hadn't even met him. We'd been watching, he'd been impacted by our family trying to be faithful. Kids are watching us. Our neighbors are watching us. Our friends are watching us. Our family members are watching us. One of my family members, one of the young ones, got so far from God, and I remember he took me out to eat and said, you're just like a hero to me. I said, what? He said, you just love God. They're watching us, you know that? We need to be faithful to God, don't we? Let's run this race with patience. Patience. Some perseverance. Some steadfastness. Some stick to in it. Now look at running's always forward. God's people are always advancing. We're never retreating. We're always going forward. And what is my destination, friends? My destination is heaven. How are you getting there? It's by faith in God. Brother Fox, are you going to heaven? Yep, I'm going. Why do you get to go? Because as an eight-year-old, the church came to my house. And begged my dad to go, and he said no. And they said, How about the young'un? Can the young'un, that's interpreted young one Can the young'un come? Taking. For the first time in my life I heard preaching The preacher, the first sermon I ever heard, he preached on hell. I'm glad he preached on hell, because there is a hell. I wanted to get saved that first service and I didn't. But the very next service that I attended, the preacher preached on the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. The whole sermon was on the crucifixion. Man, I went down that aisle and I got born again. I put my f So Brother Fox, you're you're going to heaven because as an eight-year-old, yes. As an eight-year-old boy, I put my faith in him, my faith's in him tonight. How's your faith? How's your faithfulness to God? Are you trying to be faithful to God? Do you want to be faithful to God? What's your goal? What's your goal today? Would you stand? Those who want to come to the altar, do that now. Come on. All the men and women and young people that just want to say, Lord, I want a big revival of faith. I want my faith to be revived and grow. I want to be more faithful to God. Come on, all that want to, all that need to, just come on, and let's give ourselves to the Lord. Let's get ourselves faithful to giving out gospel tracts, faithful to reading the Bible. We sing sweet Ar of Prayer Are we faithful to pray? Prayer makes the difference. God's people go forward by prayer. Do you have a prayer list? Should every Christian actually have a prayer list? Yes. I think so. I have one. I've got it typed up inside of my computer. Shelton Smith is on my daily prayer list, and it has been for a very long time. Leading the sword of the Lord's a big job. Somebody ought to be faithful to try to pray for him. I haven't done nearly as much as much for the sword as I wish I could But I can pray for the editor. What are you doing? What do you want to do? Hey kids, what do you want to do? Our pastor's coming to continue as he sees fit. Let's just make up our minds. We're going to be faithful to God.