Chapter 4, I want to read verse 7, 8, and 9. And we're working our way through the book of 1 Peter, and we hit verse 7, and we've kind of parked it here the last probably a month now And we're just taking these statements that Peter is making under the inspiration of God to these believers who are persecuted And we're just taking it apart in bite-sized pieces because I think it's very vital. I believe that we are living in the last days. Now I know that biblically because the whole church age is considered technically the last days, the end times. But I believe that we are living in the last days of the last days. The end times of that period referred to as the end times. And so whatever the Bible references the end times, and particularly our response to it. I want to stop and pay attention because I think that's the time frame we're living in. So if you would, look at verse 7. He says, But the end of all things is at hand. Now, all he's doing here, he's making just a general reference to the end times, the return of Christ. He doesn't give specifics or details You know, the rapture, the tribulation, the second advent. He's not given the timeline. He's just a general statement, the end of all things is at hand. Look what he says. Be ye therefore. Now that catches our attention. All right. Therefore, this is how we need to respond. Be therefore sober and watch under prayer, and above all things, have fervent charity among yourselves For charity shall cover the multitude of sins. And then verse 9 he says this, use hospitality one to another without grudging. And so we're looking at the title of this whole section I've given to this is Living in the Shadow of Christ's Return. You can say Living in the Shadow of the End Days. And we want to look at this now. Let's pray. Father, we ask now you would bless our little time we have in your word. I pray you challenge us and help us. To be the disciples of Christ you've called us to be in these end times, in these last days. And uh fill me with your spirit is my prayer. I yield my will to you, present my body. I pray you be the preacher tonight, Holy Spirit, and you speak and and preach through me and help us to be open-hearted, open-minded to your will for us. From your word. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We all know, I think I can say for the most part anyway, probably maybe all of us know what the characteristics of the world are going to be in the end times. Right? Everybody familiar with that? Read Matthew 24 and others. You know, in the last days there's going to be earthquakes in diverse places. How many people ever heard that? Yeah. It's going to be earthquakes, increase in earthquakes. There's going to be wars and what? Rumors of wars We see that. We hear of earthquakes almost every week, earthquake somewhere, tsunami. There's going to be pestilence uh pandemics we could say today, sicknesses. Uh there's gonna be um uh famines The Bible says I had the privilege this past Monday and Tuesday we had our neighborhood Bible Time board meeting and Who in the world thought this? We had it in Wisconsin on the third week of January. Who in the world goes to Wisconsin on the third week of January? The warmest it got was five below the whole time I was there And uh but I had the privilege to meet a young man who went last summer, he was a Bible time evangelist, he went last summer to South Sudan in Africa. How many people remember us praying for their Bible time rallies? Now it wasn't anything like what we picture a rally. And the famine and the death And the violence. I could tell you for hours that he picked me up at the airport and drove me and and things he told me is just amazing. And so we know what the characteristics of the world is going to be like in the last days. We see that. That catches our attention. Preachers like to preach on that. We know what the conduct of the unsaved is going to be like in the last days. Paul told Peter, he said, uh evil men and seducers shall what? Wax worse and worse. Blasphemous, proud, disobedient to their parents. Murders, all this. We know how the society. We know we know what society is going to be like in the days leading up to the rapture of the church. We understand that. But here's here's the point I'm trying to get at. Here's the question We know what the world's going to be like, the characteristic worlds. We know what the conduct of the world's going to be like. Here's the question. What about the conduct of God's people in the last days? We don't talk about that much. How should we be behaving when this world is becoming unraveled morally and spiritually? And when we see destruction increasing as years go by, how do you and I react to that? How are you and I to behave? And that's what Peter's telling us. And he says, the end of all things is at hand. Be ye therefore, and he lists a number of things here that ought to be characteristic of you and I as disciples of Christ. In the days leading up to the coming of Christ. I really do believe, our little theme for this year, I really do believe that maybe today the Lord may come for me. I mean, that's a very real possibility. And so how do we conduct ourselves? Well, he said, first of all, if you'll notice there, he says, being sober. Be ye therefore sober. And we looked at this and we preached a message on that, and we said this simply means have self-control. When society is unraveling morally. You and I cannot afford to be living loose lives spiritually. In these days leading up to the rapture of the church, in these days as the world Is declining into an anti-Christ mentality. You and I cannot be careless in our Christian lives. We need to be sober. We looked at that. Then the second thing he says, be ye therefore sober and watch unto prayer. So we said, first of all, I need to be self-controlled, is the point I used. Second of all, we said we need to be serious in our prayer life. It says, uh, watch unto prayer. And one of the most important things we can do in the last days and in our days is to pray. I believe with all my heart the midweek prayer service, the most important service this church has all week long. You say, oh, what about the soul winning? I'm telling you, the soul winning is powerless if there isn't prayer behind it. The preaching is powerless if there isn't prayer behind it. Charles Spurgeon was asked one time, what's the secret to your power? And man, thousands of people were saved. Biggest church in the world at the time. Soul winners and church planners going out. Somebody asked him, what's the secret to your power? He said, This: my people pray for me. That ought to be true in the last days. Prayer. Be serious in our prayer. Now that brings us to our third point, tonight I want to get us uh very quickly. So number one, be self-controlled. That ought to characterize the people of God in the last days. Be serious in our prayer life. Thirdly, I put this, be sincere in our charity. I get that from verse number eight. And above all things, have fervent charity among yourselves. Now he's saying this in response to the fact the end of all things is at hand. Now, real quickly, just a few thoughts here. One, what is the definition of charity? Now we have our thinking, what it is. I tell you something that kind of irks me a little bit. It's a lot of these modern perversions, I call them, will take that word charity and they will translate it. Anybody know as what? Love. They'll say, oh, well it's love. 1 Corinthians 13. Charity suffered long charity. And they'll translate that love Now, charity, biblical charity, as it's used in the Bible, is love, but that is not the correct word for that word charity. It's not complete. It touches a little bit on what biblical charity is, but it's not complete. The word used here is the word agape. How many people have ever heard that Greek word before? Agape. That simply means uh unconditional love It means loving someone and no requirements on their end for me to love them. No conditions have to be met before I love that person Here's what natural love is. I'll love you if you love me. That's Phileo. That's natural love. Oh, I just love him. He does a lot of good things for me. A nice thing he's pleasant to be around. I just love him. That's not charity. Charity is the guy's nasty, the guy's hateful, he's rude, he's unkind, he doesn't show any kindness to me at all, and I love him. Or her, or him, whoever. You follow my saying, it's unconditional love. It's the love that God has for you and I as sinners How many people here have ever sinned? Some of you all sinned right now, you didn't raise your hand. And yet God what? He loves us. God doesn't love you and me because we're so lovable. God loves me because He is love and He loves unconditionally. Now we all how many people have heard that before? Alright, that's charity. The definition of charity is love, is unconditional love, but that's still not the full definition of biblical charity. Biblical charity, the word is a very specific word. And it means this: unconditional love. Love that has no requirements, no conditions. It loves regardless, but it is that love in action. It's that love being displayed. If you would turn with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 13. And I want you to notice something. Now keep your place here because we're coming back. But 1 Corinthians 13, I usually, whenever there's a wedding, I usually reference 1 Corinthians 13 because it's so it's so important. He comes down here, though I speak, uh 1 Corinthians 13, though I speak with the tongues of men and angels and have not charity. I am become as a sounding brass or a tinkling symbol. Though I have the gift of prophecy and understand all mysteries and knowledge. And he goes on down through there. But look at verse 4. He starts defining What charity is. Now, what I want you to do is pay attention to the words that are used when he's describing and defining what charity is. Verse four charity suffereth long, is kind, envieth not. Charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up, doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil Rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth. Beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. Did you notice something about his description of charity? Those are all action words. It's all something being done. It's all a type it's all a behavior. And so when Peter is writing to these believers, and he's writing The end of all things is the hand. Be ye therefore. And he says, charity, have fervent charity ones another. He's talking a very specific definition of unconditional love. Love that is displayed. Love that acts out, that love that manifests itself. Um Charity is not talking about unconditional love. Charity is not singing about unconditional love. It is not preaching about unconditional love. Charity isn't even feeling some unconditional love. Whoa, I just got this shivers all over me. I'm so in love. Charity is behavior. It's an action. It's a treatment. It's the way I treat somebody. I put this is how I put it down. Charity is a decision to love someone regardless of their response In action. A decision that produces action. I hope you're aware, love is not a feeling. Right? How many people remember back uh when you were dating your spouse and uh you just saw them and that your liver started flipping? Anyone? And there do you ever notice when there's some young people in love, there's little Tweety birds flying around and little hearts floating up and popping. That is not love That is probably more like infatuation. It's an emotional reaction to somebody that brings me pleasure in one way or another It's an emotional response to something somebody is doing that I like a whole lot. It's an emotional response to something that somebody draws out of uh out of me. That's not charity. That's not love. Love is a decision to behave a certain way, to treat someone a certain way, to act a certain way. You know what I found? When I decide I'm going to love like the Bible tells me, I decide to, a lot of times that feeling comes behind. And then my actions will produce that warm feeling. And so it's a command he's telling us here: the end of all things is at hand. Come on back here. The end of all things is at hand. Be ye therefore Sober, watching the prayer, and above all things, have fervent charity among yourselves. It's a decision you and I have to make. It's loving unconditionally. Charity is how unconditional treats another person, how it behaves. Can I say this? Some of us need to decide. To start loving that person that is not very lovely. Some of us need to decide that I'm going to love my neighbor unconditionally. You say, you don't know what a knucklehead my neighbor is. That's not the point. In fact, that is the point. I love someone even if they're a knucklehead Some of us need to start loving our neighbors fervently with charity, like he tells us to here. The end of all things is at hand. Some of us some of us need to love our brothers and sisters unconditionally. I mean treat them the way 1 Corinthians tells us. Be kind, don't think evil. Don't throw rocks at them, brothers and sisters. Now I I always loved my sisters unconditionally And even though they treated me so awfully and were so hateful to me and I loved them unconditionally, that was being facetious. But I that's what we're supposed to do, right? Some of us need to start loving our spouses. As God tells us to. You say, you don't know, you don't know my wife. You don't know what she is. You're right, I don't, I don't want to. But I know the end of all things is at hand. And I know that God tells us that we are to love our spouse regardless of the quality of spouse they may or may not be. Am I right or wrong? Come on, don't leave me hanging up here. Unconditional love Oh, you don't know where my husband is. He's such a moron. Yeah, probably most are But he said the Bible says the end of all things is a hand, and God tells us you need to love them unconditionally. And if you say, well, I don't know how to do that, read 1 Corinthians 13. It's laid out point by point, bullet points, right there Some kids need to love your parents unconditionally. Now, I trust and hope this isn't the case in our body of believers here at Mountain Lake. But maybe some church members need to love church members as described here. Huh? The end of all things is a ham. What is charity? What does he mean when he uses that charity? It's a decision to obey God. And to manifest, show, display a behavior towards the one that is loved unconditionally. Not waiting to get something back. Well, if they did this, then I would. No, that's not charity. Well, if they would quit doing that, then no, that's not charity. Well, they would start to- No, that's not charity. You're disobeying God If I don't love them unconditionally, regardless of whether they do or don't. There's a heap of Christians in the end days, right now, in these last days, I believe, are living in disobedience to God Because we gotta learn to love. I'm talking about us, me, including us in the whole shebang. We gotta take this seriously because the end of all things is at hand We might not have two years to get this worked out. We might not have two days to work this out. So he's being very emphatic here. So the definition of charity, notice, second of all, the distinction of charity. I want to go through these quickly. Come back here. Notice he says, and above all these things. Charity is the one thing that should be distinctive about believers in the last days. That phrase, above all things, means first in priority. On the top of the list. Before anything else is done, I get charity in place. This unconditional manifestation of love of God. I've got to get that in place. What did Jesus say in John 13, 35? By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples if ye have Come on now, help me. If ye have love one to another. Listen, I believe that old King James Bible is God's word for the English-speaking people. There's no doubt in my mind. But don't say, by this shall all men know you're my disciples if you carry a big black five-pound King James Bible around with you. I believe, this is me, I believe men ought to look like men. I think men ought to dress like men. I think people are glad I don't wear a dress. I don't I mean it I seriously I don't. How many people would if you saw me at Walmart in a skirt you'd be disappointed? Me too On the other hand, I believe women ought to dress like women. Yeah. But it doesn't say by this shall all men know you're my disciples by how you dress. And we could go down the list. He's very specific. He makes it very clear. It is charity, unconditional love one for another that ought to distinguish us first and foremost above everything else. You know what it would be wonderful? I'd like to think this is true to some extent. Wouldn't it be wonderful? Somebody comes to Oakland, they stop down at Sheets and they say I'm looking for a church. I heard of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. What can you tell me about this church? What do you know about this church? Wouldn't it be wonderful if they said something like this? I don't know a whole lot about it, but the thing I do know, they love each other up there. Those folks love each other. You know what? That's what he's talking about. Above all else. First and foremost. Wouldn't it be wonderful our kids grew up They'd say, Boy Daddy sure loved mama. I remember, oh daddy, he sure loved mommy. Mommy sure loved daddy That's what he's saying, first and foremost, above all else. I wonder how many grow up, boy, mama hated daddy. Mama hated him. Daddy hated Mama. That's not charity. Can I say this? I know I'm I know what I'm doing. And I say this, that's a poor testament to an old world to see that God's people can't love each other. He says, the end of all things is hand. Listen, folks, you need to be sober. This is for real. The Lord's coming back. This isn't a game. This isn't a show. It's not just a story. We've got to be sober. We've got to be serious about our prayer life. And above all else, we've got to have fervent charity one for another. Brothers and sisters, man, those kids sure love each other, those brothers and sisters. I know how it is. You know, the kids get going. But he's telling us here that the distinction of charity ought to be first and foremost. One thing that should stand out about the people of God is their love for one another. One thing that ought to be the first thing that people notice about a disciple of Christ is that they love one another. Above all else, above all else. I circle that phrase in my Bible, above all else. Thirdly, the degree of charity. I'll just touch on this. Notice he says, above all things, have, he doesn't just say charity, he says what? Fervent charity. The word fervent means intense, persistent, extensive. It won't quit. It just keeps coming and coming and coming. It's actually an athletic term they would use, the Greeks would use, in a race or some sort of activity, athletic event. And where they are putting every ounce of their energy in it. I mean everything. Did you ever see these guys running that sprint or something? I mean, they're not just casually strolling down there. Every muscle in their body is pressing towards, get towards that mark. And the closer they get to the goal, the more they push it The more intense it becomes, the more fervent they are about crossing that line. And he says, that's the way you ought to be about your love one for another, unconditional love one for another. It ought to be intense. It ought to involve everything in us, working towards loving folks unconditionally. That ought to be the first and foremost. And then last of all, the dynamite Of charity. Notice what he says at the end of the verse. For charity shall cover the multitude of what? Sins. That's an ugly word. He's actually quoting Proverbs 10, verse 12, says almost identical that Charity is a forgiving love. Charity is a covering love. Now don't don't mistake covering sins with condoning sins. It's a world of difference. Charity does not condone sins, but it grieves over sins. But here's what he's saying here: it covers a multitude of sins. What does it mean that it covers a multitude of sins? In other words, the object being love, the one that I'm loving, is a sinner. If you're looking for somebody that's not a sinner to love, you're never going to love anybody. So that one, the object, the one that I'm supposed to love unconditionally is a sinner. That means, if they're a sinner, that means they have sins. And he says this. For love, charity, covers a multitude of sins. Covers means this. I'm not broadcasting them You remove charity and gossip steps right in. By the way, if gossip is going on, then charity is not there. If malice, slander, accusations are being made, then charity is absent. Because where charity is, those sins are not accused, they're not broadcast, they're not gossip, they're not talked about, they're not shared, they're covered. Doesn't mean we condone sin. We grieve over its sin in someone's way. We try to help them, we point them to Christ. And he says the multitude of sins. That word multitude means an excessive amount. In other words, there's no limit. Years ago, we had a situation, one of my ministries, and somebody had messed up pretty seriously. They came to me and they acknowledged it. They were repenting. They did everything that I saw in the Bible. I instructed them from the Bible. They did everything. I'm telling you, they wanted to make things right. It's between us. I said, how many people know about this? They said, as far as we know, it's just a couple involved, a few people involved. I said, I will keep it that way. Amen? We keep it that way. Well, they made a mistake. They told somebody about what happened. And that person did not love them. And began running their mouth. Now they said they loved them. They said they were a good friend. But the fact that they were broadcasting what they did tells me they were not a good friend. And they didn't love them. They loved the attention that broadcasting their sin would bring to themselves So then I had somebody come to me and they said this to me, angrily, you're covering up sin. You know what I said? I said, you're absolutely right. Because love covers a multitude of sins. Oh, I got a dish on someone. That's not love. That's hatred. The end of all things is at hand, folks. Maybe today. The Lord may very well come back this week. And he says, therefore Love one another fervently. Above all things, love one another. Charity. Have fervent charity one to another because it covers multitude of sins. Now don't raise your hand. I wonder how many how many of us here know some sins that someone else committed. Ooh, juicy. No, if we love them, we keep our mouth shut. Now maybe we go to them, try and help them. Amen. If they want some help, bring someone in. Sure. It doesn't mean we don't deal with it. It doesn't mean we condone it. But it does mean we don't relish it and broadcast it and get on the phone and get on the internet and get on social media. It's ridiculous. It's ridiculous. Above all things, I'm trying to land this plane here somewhere. But maybe we need to just hit an altar and say, Holy Spirit of God, I need you to give me that love in my heart. Because I tell you, it doesn't come naturally. It doesn't come naturally. And the love of God, the Bible says, the Holy Spirit, by the Holy Spirit, the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts. If we'll yield ourselves and say, Lord, here I am, take me, fill me with this love, empower me to do what you've instructed me to do here, I know God will help us. Father, bless now the invitation. Pray you'd use this challenge, serious challenge. That we stand strong in our convictions, hold our standards, but Lord help us to love fervently, charity above all else. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many say, Preacher, I need God to help me love like that? I need God to help me. My hand's the first to go up, I'm telling you right now. I need God to help me love like that Whoever it may be, maybe God has somebody on your heart right now. The Holy Spirit of God is saying, all right, bingo, this is the one. You need to get it. You need to make a decision one way or another And I encourage you to come, whatever God speaks to your heart, you come make that decision. You're going to love them. You're going to love them. Father, bless their invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together.