I'm glad to report that I was addicted to the hokey pokey, but I've turned myself around. Praise the Lord for that. How was that, Tom? Alright. Ecclesiastes chapter two. I'm gonna try and uh really want to try and be to the point. this evening. And uh I want to just share some thoughts from this that um uh I I I see here. Uh but I want I want you to really pay attention we get to the invitation time. I want to do something special. I think I'm on here, Jamie, but I don't know. Um so I want to try and and give this and try and make application. And I really uh would like for everyone, just when we get to the imitation time, pay special close attention and um something that uh uh I'd like for us to see us to do this evening. Ecclesiastes chapter two. I'm gonna read the first three verses Of course, this is Solomon writing under the inspiration of God, a very disturbing and really a dark picture he's painting here And notice he says, and we've been working our way through, we're up to chapter two here, he says, I said in mine heart, go to now, I will prove thee with mirth. Therefore, enjoy pleasure, and behold, this also is vanity. I said of laughter, it is mad, and of mirth. What doeth it? I sought in mine heart to give myself untoining my heart with wisdom and to lay hold on folly. Till I might see what was the good for the sons of men which they should do under heaven all the days of their life I've entitled this, and I don't know if this title really captures what he's saying here. I think it does, but I've entitled it Living It Up. Living it up. Let's pray. Father, we look here at this portion of Scripture. I ask that you would speak to our hearts. This is your word, Lord. And we're praying that your Holy Spirit would Open our eyes and our hearts to underst first understand what is being said to us, and then I pray you'd apply it to our lives. I ask again, as I always do, Lord, I plead with you to fill me with your Spirit, and that you would speak through me your word. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Solomon really here is attempting the impossible He is trying desperately to find purpose in life without God. He's trying to find some meaning or fulfillment in life, at the same time excluding God from the factor, factoring God out But yet still trying to find purpose and meaning and fulfillment in life. And he's finding it very, very frustrating. And he's coming up with empty hands. He's pretty much trying to put, you've heard the old saying, trying to put a square peg in a round hole. He's trying to put a world-shaped peg in a God-shaped hole. And it's vain. It's not working. That vacuum is not being filled. And we noticed in the previous passage that he tried to find purpose and fulfillment in academics. At the end of chapter one, he said, I'm going to get all wisdom. I'm going to study all that there is the fields of academics, all the arts and sciences. And of course he had the means to do that. He had the resources He had the opportunity, his nation was at peace, and so he had the time to invest in that. He had the finances to invest in that. God had supernaturally gifted him with wisdom So he had the capabilities, the facilities mentally to pursue all these academics, but he pursued them all at the exclusion of God. And just knowledge for knowledge's sake. And worldly wisdom just for worldly wisdom's sake. And what was his conclusion? His conclusion was, it's all vain. Sorrow, empty. There's nothing there. There's no purpose. There's no meaning. It's interesting if you follow, and I try to a little bit some of some of the quote unquote great thinkers, atheistic thinkers of our day, the evolutionary scientists of our day. And if you hear that and if you follow them and when they're pressed They've excluded God, they've discounted any possibility, isn't even a God, and when they're pressed, they always come up to the conclusion, well life is meaningless. There's no purpose, there's nothing. We're just random chance nothing And they have empty, shallow, meaningless lives. And Solomon found that out. And so academics failed him. He failed to find any purpose and meaning. And so he makes a transition here, and he is transitioning over from the world of academics. To sensual indulgence. And he is going to live it up He is going to indulge in every worldly base sensual pleasures there are. And he has a purpose in mind. He's not doing it just for pleasure's sake. He's looking for purpose. He's looking, is there anything under the sun That's the theme through the book, you remember. Is there anything that brings meaningful fulfillment That fills that gap, that vacuum that is in our hearts and lives. I think that's kind of a strange twist, to be honest with you. I think the direction he's going is kind of out of the ordinary. Now this is my thinking, but I think generally, worldwise, you know we're excluding God from the our reasoning here, but worldwise, usually it's young people party it up They're gonna live it up, enjoy, and go out and chase their desires and and pleasures, and then all that fails, they kind of settle down, then they get into more academics and they get more serious and they study things. Generally that's the way it comes. Solomon's going the opposite. He's got his all his degrees. He's got all his academics his studying in, and he came up empty. So now he's going the other way. He's degrad he's digressing. And he is pursuing uh he's indulging sexual pleasures Without reservation. And so he's digressing. As I was studying this and reading on this and looking around through the book Ecclesiastes. My heart got sad. Here is Solomon, one of the greatest spiritual giants in Scripture And he's come to this point where he is living like this. He is indulging himself in such base Activity. And as I studied, I thought, Solomon, come on. And uh it it was uh it was discouraging from a spiritual giant to an immoral hypocrite. You read the book of Proverbs, what he says under the inspiration of God in Proverbs, and you read what he's doing here, and it's like you're doing the exact opposite of what you taught your son in Proverbs. And so it it's a real tragedy. I have three thoughts here. I want to give them to you very quickly because, like I said, I want to get to our imitation. I want us to notice, first of all, his reasoning. I see this in verse 1, the first part, he says this. I said in my heart, I put in the margin of my Bible, I put in the margin of my study Bible that I got at Source of Bearing Precious Seed that has wide margins for only fifty dollars. Um Little uh little product place that is what that's called. But I put in the margin of my Bible where my problems start. He said, I said in my what? Heart, that's where our problems begin. That's where they begin. I would like for you to take your Bible and I want to quickly go to several verses. I'd like for you to see them. I'll try and put these in uh in chronological order through the Bible. Turn to Proverbs chapter 3. Some of you probably don't need to turn there But it'd be good if you don't have this verse marked in your Bible. I highly recommend it. Proverbs chapter three And if you're reading a chapter of Proverbs every day through the month, one chapter for that day, you would have read this just a couple days ago. Proverbs chapter 3. Anybody want to guess what verse I'm going to? Chapter 3, verse 5 and 6. Look what Solomon is telling his son. Under the inspiration of God, Solomon is telling this to his son. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart and lean not unto what? Thine own understanding. I thought it was tragic that in Proverbs chapter 3 verse 5 Telling his son, my son, trust in the Lord with all your heart. Don't lean on your own understanding. Ecclesiastes chapter 2, verse 1, we find Solomon doing what? Leaning on his own understanding. Next end, come over to Proverbs chapter twenty-eighths. Again, the book of Proverbs is Solomon writing to his son, warning him, giving him advice, tremendous inspired advice, of course, God through Solomon. Chapter 28, notice verse number 26. This is Solomon. I have this underlined in my Bible with red ink. He that trusteth in his own heart is what? It's a fool. I looked up that word fool and tried to do a little word study on it. I found out it means this. Stupid. It's translated sometimes simpleton. Isn't that sad? Proverbs chapter 28, verse 26, Solomon's telling his son, listen, you trust in your own heart, you're full, you're full. Yastes chapter two verse one, Solomon's trusting in his own heart. I'm going to give you two more real quick. Jeremiah chapter 17. A little farther back in your Old Testament, some of y'all know what verse I'm going to Jeremiah chapter 17. Again, this is a good verse to underline in your Bible if you don't have it highlighted. Good verse to memorize. You can use this soul winning. Jeremiah 17. Anybody want to get what verse? 9. Jeremiah 17, verse 9. Look at this. The heart is what? Deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked. Who can know it Uh, just that verse right there, how many people agree with me? Knowing taking that verse at face value for what it says, how many people agree with me, it'd be dumb to trust in your heart. If it's deceitful above all things and desperately wicked, why in the world would I trust my own heart? One more. Mark chapter number seven. New Testament. There's actually several of the Gospels where it has a record of our Lord's statement concerning the heart. Mark chapter seven, I want to begin reading in verse twenty-one. But what our Lord says, this is what the Lord Jesus says about your heart and my heart, the very core of our being, what we are. For from within, out of the what? Heart of man Look at this. Proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, fornication, murders, thefts. Covetousness, wickedness, deceit, lasciviousness. You know what that word lasciviousness means? It has this idea, living it up. No rules, just indulging whatever desire I want, no restrictions. Lasciviousness, an evil eye, blasphemy, pride Foolishness. All these evil things come from within and defile the man. Don't you think it's interesting that Solomon says in chapter 2, verse 1, I said in my heart, Jesus says, out of the heart comes all this Wicked living. And it's the very thing that Solomon is indulging in. He is confirming that what Jesus said about the heart is true. Anybody ever hear someone say, well, just follow your heart? Anybody ever hear that? Just follow your heart. That's the worst thing you and I can do. Do not trust in our heart. It's deceitful. Come back to Ecclesiastes with me. So we see a serious problem right here. His reasoning, he's following his heart, he's saying in his heart, he's talking to himself, he's like, I'm gonna do what my heart wants. I'm gonna do what I want for a change I'm going to pursue my desires for a change. I think it's interesting he did not seek the advice of older fellows with advice that had some experience. You and I, those of us that are a little younger, those of us that are a little younger, uh we have a tremendous resource. We have a lot of folks that are older than us that have been through life and have experienced a few things and learned a few things. And it behooves us It behooves us to listen to those who are older than us. Amen? That doesn't mean everything they say is right or everything they say is necessarily a course I ought to follow, but I ought to listen to them. If I got someone like Tom that's old and work on his he's older than me, right? Yeah, good. Um Yeah, yeah, I respect him. But he is older than me. But um Tom's been working on motors for a long time. Here I come along and I'm gonna I think you agree with me and be smart say about that motor. Right? Yeah. Uh uh Solomon, he doesn't go to folks that have been through it. He had a lot of resources available. Um He could have listened, he could have paid attention to his own father's experience. Huh? Didn't David follow his heart when he saw Bathsheba? desired her and he gave in, indulged in exactly what Solomon's talking about here. How'd that turn out? That was horrendous Testimony scarred, people dead, lost his family, his kids. Solomon, why are you going after your own heart? Why don't you just pay attention to what your daddy went through? Well you learn from that. He didn't consult the Word of God, his own writings. What God had used him earlier to record in Proverbs, he disregarded that. He's not listening to the truth. He's not listening to reality He's following the fantasy of his heart that somehow I can find fulfillment, I can find purpose, I can find meaning in my life, that's substance there, by pursuing these pleasures. And I'm going to exclude God from it. So his reasoning was flawed. He leaned on his own understanding. He trusted in his own heart. And it's disaster. Then notice, I want us to notice, second of all, his revelry. First was his reasoning, I said in my heart, and then his reverence, he says, go to now, I will prove thee with mirth. Therefore, enjoy pleasure, laughter, wine, folly I'm going after it. You know what he's doing? He's entering the ancient Middle East Las Vegas. He's going to go to Sin City. And he is going to indulge and engage and enjoy everything it has to offer. I notice there's four, primarily four areas here that he reveled in. First of all was mirth. Do you see that in verse 1? I will prove thee with mirth. Alright, I'm going to see what it has to offer. What it does. What does it do for me? And when it's all said and done, how's this turn out? Am I going to be fulfilled? Is there going to be needing in my life? Is there going to be happiness there? and a substance to my life if I engage in mirth. The word mirth, this is my definition when I looked at it and came up with this. Shallow happiness It's like the froth on top of the root beer. The shallow happiness, oh, just mirth. This would be the comedy shows. This would be anything that makes me laugh. Just lift my spirit somehow. What I thought of when I was studying this, I thought of, and this irks me, I don't ever watch situation comedy, I haven't watched them in years. There's just to me they're ridiculous. But they always have in the background a little laugh track. Does anybody know what I'm talking about? And somebody will say the stupidest thing, there's not even anything even remotely funny about it, and the background will be people just falling out laughing like it's the most hilarious thing ever in the world. That's mirth Just shallow, just shallow. Enjoyment, shallow laughter, shallow So he says, I enjoyed mirth, he reveled in mirth, then he says, and therefore enjoy pleasure He reveled in, and the idea behind that there, from all my studying, I can understand, the idea behind that there is sensual pleasure And again, we're in Sunday school we're studying sec uh the Corinthian church there, 1 Corinthians 5, and hear it. This is stuff that I'd be honest with you, I'm not even I don't even like talking about from the pulpit He is indulging in what we might call the Playboy lifestyle. I mean, he is just after sensual pleasure It has the idea, that word there has this idea, unreserved indulgence in sensual pleasure. And the word enjoy says, therefore, enjoy pleasure. The word enjoy, I thought this was interesting, means to please myself completely into it without restriction. James Kent, when he was here, we were talking about this. He was studying on this. I guess he did in school or something. He actually preached a message from I think this passage. a number of years ago, and he pointed out something that I really hadn't thought of. He says, it's possible that Solomon indulged in activities that are absolutely abominable In the eyes of God. I mean, he's going unreserved. He's trying to deter if the Playboy lifestyle will bring any meaning to life. If there'll be fulfillment. When I indulge in this and I engage in this and I enjoy this pleasure to its fullest, I drink it the cup dry. What's going to be in my heart and soul? What's it going to produce in my life? What comes out of that? That's what he's trying to figure out. Is there anything there? It's all said and done. Is there any meaning? Is there any fulfillment, contentment, and fulfillment and satisfaction? Anything there? So he Is indulging in that. Then he says laughter. Verse 2, I said of laughter. This is where everything's a joke. Now you know me, I enjoy joking. I think it's healthy to have a good sense of humor. But this is so far beyond that. This is where everything is a joke, where nothing is sacred. You laugh at and you mock fun at everything. I am going to see humor in every aspect of life. They say that comedians, famous comedians that go around are very good at making people laugh and saying funny things. And by the way, sometimes some horrendously sinful stuff is actually funny Because it's funny doesn't mean it's good. Alright. There are nasty things people say in humorous ways. And they say that comedians, these successful comedians that are very talented at Making funny things and making people laugh, they are often the saddest, most troubled people around. Many, if not most of them, are on drugs, drunkenness I read, I think this is an actual event I was reading where a fellow psychiatrist had a fellow come in and was extremely depressed And uh he poured out a very, very dark heart and a dark life, a dark mind, and just extreme depression and extreme emptiness in his life, and he was trying to find something and uh human psychiatrist who had no spiritual answers, didn't even recognize the spiritual makeup of the man. He says, well you know there's a new act town and there's a clown that's making everybody laugh. Maybe what you need to go down and go down to that show and see that clown and maybe he'll lighten your spirits a little bit. And he looked at the psychiatrist and he said, I am that clown. Well, there's nothing in that life. So Solomon says, I pursued mirth. I pursued sensual pleasure. I pursued laughter. Everything was funny. He says I pursued wine. Look at verse number three. I saw it in my heart, there it is again, to give myself unto why. Give myself. Again, that phrase give myself has this idea behind it. To place myself in the control of, to give wine control over me And by the way, that is exactly what liquor does. It takes control. It takes control. People say and do things under the control of liquor they would never say and do when they're sober. Um he says, I am going to let liquor take control of me And it always does. And I want to see if that brings meaning to my life. I want to see if that brings purpose to my life. By the way, and I say this often, and I feel very strongly about this, as I believe you understand, but the liquor industry is one of the most vile industries that are in existence One of the most deceitful, deadly industries there are. Everything that they advertise about their product is a blantant lie. It's gonna be fun, it's gonna make it better, everything's better, everything's more wonderful, you drink our product, you buy this and drink it And you're going to have more fun, you're going to have a better time, and everything is going to be better, and it is the biggest lie under the sun. Liquor has never, ever made everything better. It's never made a home happier. It has never made a marriage stronger. I don't know one reasonable, I don't know any sane counselor that ever advised somebody that's having marital problems to come out and drink liquor. It'll make it better. Never. Nobody says that. They advertise I I enjoy sports. You know I enjoyed like watching the I wa I enjoyed watching the um uh the World Series It was a great series, great games. I'd I hated watching Pittsburgh lose this afternoon. It was embarrassing. But they always have liquor advertisements, as if that's such an integral part of the game I don't know one coach in the world, I guarantee it's not one coach in the world says to his team players, go get drunk before you go out there and play. You'll be a better player. Nobody says that. No colleges are known for their drunkenness. What what professor in the world would tell his kid, listen, when you study for this exam, your your future degrees are going to depend upon it? Go out and get drunk. And then take this exam. You'll do better. Nobody says that. So Solomon, in his own reasoning, blinded reasoning by sin and it's and the deceptiveness of his own heart thinks. That giving himself to liquor is somehow going to bring fulfillment and purpose in life and give him real meaning. He's re reveling in this this debauchery. The simpleness. I we used to preach when I was with in Bible time with a young people, we used to preach this Don't ever, ever, ever make a vow to never, ever, ever bring a drop of liquor to the lips, your lips or your mouth. Don't ever do that. And if you have already, don't ever do it again. I think that's good advice. Not just for young people, but for all of us. So he gives himself to this mirth, sensual pleasure, laughter, wine. I got looking at these and I thought this is interesting. Every one of these is focused on self None of these involve being a blessing to others or giving of myself to others. All of it is for me, me, my pleasure, my mirth, my laughter, my indulgence, me, me, me. And I thought that is the world we live in today. Everything is new Every picture is of me. Every statement is about me. Every action is focused on me. Every thought is about me. And Solomon is becoming so self-absorbed, indulging all of this. Now, what are the results? Alright, Solomon, you did this, you engaged, you reveled in all of this. How'd it work out? Look what he says, verse 1. I'll prove thee with mirth, therefore enjoy pleasure, and behold, this also is what? Vanity. All these pleasures are fitting, they're artificial. When I'm done, I'm emptier than I was when I started Look at verse number two. I said of laughter, it is mad. The word mad there means what you think it would: insane. It has this idea of boasting of substance but having being void of any substance. Did ever use this statement about someone the lights on but nobody's home? That's kind of the idea behind that idea mad there. Oh the lights are on, boy it's it looks great, it looks wonderful, but when it's all said and done, this house is empty There ain't nothing. There ain't nothing. Where is purpose found? Where is there any meaning in life? Education says you won't find it in me. Mirth says you won't find any real fulfillment purpose in me Pleasure says you won't find any real purpose, substance, fulfillment in me. Laughter says you won't find it in me. Wine says you won't find it in me. And you look to these things for purpose and meaning, you indulge in these things, and you end up with an empty, vain, insanely empty life. We fill our lives with these things. We live in a society that fills their lives with these things, that live for these things. And their lives are empty, and they're frustrated, and they're getting increasingly angry all the time. And they want to take their lives and they want to end it. Because nothing under the sun does for us what only God above the sun can do for us. There is no meaning and no fulfillment in a life that's lived only under the sun. Now here's my invitation. Our nation is living under the sun. Right or wrong? Does this not does this not characterize the United States of America? Education, we have some of the greatest education institutions in the world. And drunkenness on these institutions is at an all-time high. I read a statistic the other day, suicide among college age students in America is at an all-time high. Emptiness. America is the leader in liquor production. America is the world leader in pornographic production. America is the world leader in Hollywood production, movies, that whole mentality, that whole lifestyle. America floods the world. With all of this that Solomon just said is empty and meaningless, our country has a distinct title of leader in all of this. We're in Mongolia. Mongolia, that's the end of the world. That's next to Mars. You know, I mean it is. Out there. We got in the room. I was in with uh one of the seminary professors from Crown College and we shared a room and uh we he says I wonder what they have on TV here Turn it on. You know what the first thing was? Some ungodly song on MTV from America. I thought that's what they think of us. That's what our country is doing Now what I would like to do for our invitation one is tonight, I would like for all of us, I I just think it's good on the Lord's Day to end the Lord's Day at an altar, start the new week. fresh with God at the altar, praying, asking God wisdom and lead and direct. I like that on Sunday nights. But this is the significant week in our country Uh I was in down at the Loving and Leading, Mark I was down there and I think you were in one of the classroom. I sat in some classes with uh David Gibbs from the CLA. He had taught two sessions, and Terry Hamilton from the Liberty uh Lighthouse. Legal ministries out of Ohio, he taught two sessions, I sat in then. Both of them gave very bleak reports for Christians in America Now David Gibbs said, he says, now I know this is bleak, he says dark, he said, but I do want to encourage you, he says we're still winning, and I want to say, I think he said 95% of the cases, we are still winning, defending churches, liberty, and freedom. So that was good to hear. He said, but we're being flooded. It's getting harder. Uh Terry Hamilton wasn't quite as promising. He said, we as Christians need to prepare ourselves for increasing opposition To our faith in God and our walk with God. Now, I would like for us to end today, especially with the week, what it is, with the election Tuesday and all that, seeking God to send revival. Now where we need revival isn't in Washington. Where we need revival is in the church house. Is at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church But I believe revival in our churches and a burden for lost getting out, we can have an impact on this country. Grant and I were talking just before church tonight, he was saying, you know, most of the countries of the world have not enjoyed the Christian liberties we have. We're kind of uh in a bubble here, with America being the way it was, and we look back and we see a tremendous Christian heritage and we enjoy tremendous Christian not just tolerance on the part of the government, but actually encouragement Christianity in our government in years going by. But that's gone. And we need to pray We need to humble ourselves and pray and seek God's face. And we need to turn from our wicked ways and no longer live under the sun, but set our eyes on that which is above Christ Jesus at the right hand of the Father. And live for him. Am I making sense? So it's a call to prayer. Prayer of refocusing our vision above the sun and get away from this stuff of the world And letting God fill us and use us and speak through us and we can be a witness to have an impact. Amen? And let's pray. Father, I hope I hope this uh strikes a chord in our hearts as it did in mine as I prepared it. We pray for revival. I pray for revival of my own heart, Lord. I pray for revival of my own spiritual life. I need it Pray for revival in our church. As much as we love and thankful and good church we have, Lord, we desperately need you to revive us. Our holiness, our godliness, our humility, walking with you, our concern for others. We need you to revive us. And Lord, we pray for our country tonight, as individuals and as a church, we pray you'd have mercy on us. We would like you to postpone your judgment. Turn this thing and make it what it at least it had a semblance of in years going by. And help us do our part. Help us to be what we ought to be In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. On this Sunday night, how about it? I want to encourage you, find someone to pray with. Jesus said two or three agreements