Chapter 4. I want to read verses 1 through 3. We started this oh several weeks ago. Last time we were looking in this on a Sunday night, and um We started this passage here, the context here, about three, four, or five verses are a unit in this book And uh we looked at verse one. I want to go back and look at verse one and tie in verse two and three a little bit. And really tonight, on giving, you're gonna be glad to hear this, on giving is the introduction to the message this evening. And then Lord will, and next week, um we'll look at that. My wife said, my wife, I said, this is going to give the introduction, she said, your introductions are an hour long But um uh I just want to set the stage because I'm really looking forward to the message that follows this. And I think you'll see what I mean here in a little bit. Verse number one of 1 Peter chapter 4 For as much then as Christ has suffered for us in the flesh, now here's the key, I think, to this passage, arm yourselves likewise with the same mind How many people remember a few weeks ago we looked at this and we said, armed with the mind of Christ? Anybody remember that? One person, praise the Lord. Armed with the mind of Christ. And then he says, arm yourselves likewise with the same mind, for that he that has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. That he no longer should live the rest of his time in the flesh to the lusts of man. Now look at this. But to the will of God, live the rest of his life for the will of God. Whatever's in the past, whatever decisions I made in the past Whatever condition I was in in the past, from this point on, for the rest of my life, I live in the will of God. Isn't that a great thought? Challenge. Then he goes on, verse 3. For the time past of our life may suffice us to have wrought the will of the Gentiles in time past, when we walked past tense in lasciviousness and lust excess of wine, revelings, banqueting, abominable idolatries, wherein they think it's strange that you run not with them to the same excess of riot, speaking evil of you You shall give an account to him that is ready to judge the wick the quick and the dead. Do you notice verse four? Anybody here when you got saved, your friends thought you were strange because of the change took place in your life? You're not doing that. Anybody here, your friends thought, hey, you've turned into a weirdo. And um I remember when I got saved at the meat packing plant on Monday night I came in Tuesday and they right away knew something was different. They said, What got into you, Leatherman? And uh I said I accepted Jesus as my Savior. Oh brother. That opened the floodgates. And uh leather men's Jesus freak us He's got religion. And uh so that happens. Uh living our lives in the will of God. Let's pray and we'll look at verse 2 here and look at this passage. Father. Lord, we're just so grateful for another Lord's Day. They just race by. And we're finishing out now the day and starting a new week. And we need you, Father, I do, to prepare our hearts for the week ahead that we can be a good witness every day throughout the day in our workplace, at school, at home, in our neighborhoods, the community, the market So we ask that you would give us what we need tonight to prepare us for another week of service, another week of Christian living. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. Pray that you would speak through me as I yield my will to you and present my body anew. And uh be our preacher tonight is my prayer, Lord, and have your way. Help us to be receptive. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. As I said, we noticed in verse number one that we're to arm ourselves with the mind of Christ. And we pointed out several weeks ago that to have the same mind, to have the mind of Christ, means to think the way Jesus thinks. To have his attitude, his perpet perspective on things, to have his va his his view and and value things the way Jesus values them. I got looking up this past week, I got looking up the word mind as it's used in the New Testament. And Paul particularly, now Peter uses it here, but Paul particularly would challenge the people he's writing to, these various churches and the letters he wrote under the inspiration of God. He would challenge them concerning their mind. Of course, in Romans chapter 12, verse 1 and 2, we're familiar with be not conformed to this world, but be ye what? Transformed by the renewing of your mind, the way you think, your perspective on things, the way you value things, the way you analyze things. the conclusions I come to as I think things through. He says, be transformed, renew that mind, have that change. He says several places. He writes sometimes to individuals and he names them And he says, be of the same mind one to another. In other words, have the same values Live by the same principles. Have the same perspective on things. And I think I mentioned this before, and I'm trying not to re-preach the previous message. But over the years, every now and then someone will come and say, and it's not so much now, but years ago we used to have a little bit, and I was thinking of one lady in particular. She always comes to me and she goes, Preacher, we need more unity in our church. And um and I think what she meant by that, we need more people to do what I say, is what I think she meant by that. But um we need more unity. You know how you get unity in a church You know how you get unity among Christians to have the same mind? It's if if I get the mind of Christ, if I have the the attitude And then perspective that Christ has. And Derek gets the mind of Christ, and he has the attitude and perspective and mind of Christ. So if I have the mind of Christ and he has the mind of Christ, then we're going to be what? We're going to be the same mind, right? That's the way you develop unity. Is everybody y yielding themselves to the Lord, conforming ourselves to the Lord? What happens is I I have my mind and I I see things from my perspective and I lean on my own understanding And uh Austin leads on his own understanding and he sees things from his perspective. Are we going to be of the same mind? No, because we're two different individuals. We have two different perspectives. But when we get the mind of Christ, then we can have that one mind. And so this matter of the mind is very, very prominent all through the New Testament particularly. And the way we think and the way we see things and our attitude and our our our worldview and our frame of mind is so important in the Christian life. I made the statement before, I'll make it again. Success and failure in the Christian life begins and ends in the mind. The way I think, the way I see things, the way I value things. And so he says, have this mind of Christ. And he says there, as we pointed out, arm yourselves likewise with the same mind, the mind Christ has. Reminds me a little bit of Ephesians chapter 6. Where he says, take unto you the whole armor of God. And there he goes through very specif uh specific characteristics. that help us in our spiritual warfare. In this place, he's talking about having a particular frame of mind, a particular mindset, a way of thinking And when I see things the way Christ sees them, when I have Jesus' perspective, when I have Jesus' attitude on life and the things that I experience and my circumstances Then I see three things here are going to take place. Now one of them we already looked at. First of all, when I arm myself with the mind of Christ, it purifies me from sin. And like I said, we already preached on that. The last part of verse 1, it says, For he that has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. Now the key there isn't talking about Christ, it's talking about any Christian in general, that when we go through suffering, we go through adversity, we go through some difficulty. If I'm armed with the mind of Christ, arm myself with the same mind that Christ has, then that adversity is going to help me grow in my Christian life. It's going to help me in my uh my my uh uh battle with sin and help me have victory. Uh David said this, it's good for me that I have been afflicted, that I might learn thy statutes He had the mind of God. He saw his affliction. He saw his pain. He saw his adversity. He saw his difficulty, his hardship, his setback. He saw it from God's perspective And it helped them grow. You know what happens if we look at adversity from our own perspective? If we see it from our value, our limited understanding, and we look at it, if we're not careful, we can get very bitter Huh? We get angry. We start lashing out because we're frustrated. I don't understand. Why is this happening to me? And we start demanding answers and we wanna uh we wanna understand it and we get aggravated. And um uh And so we have to be very, very careful that we arm ourselves from the mind of Christ. Probably all of us know somebody that has gotten bitter Because bad things happened, something disappointment, uh, or whatever, and they got bitter and they angry at God. I'm thinking of somebody in particular, got very, very angry at God Because he didn't say something they thought he should. And that means I don't have the mind of Christ. So when I'm armed with the mind of Christ, it purifies me from sin. It has a purifying effect on my life when I have the right attitude. Then The second thing it does, and this brings us into verse number two, notice it says here, that he no longer should live the rest of his time in the flesh to the lusts of men, but to the will of God He says, verse 1, arm yourselves with the same mind that Christ has. It'll enable you to cease from sin. It'll give you victory. But then he says here, it produces a change in my life. No longer living. in the uh uh the rest of my time, his time in the flesh to the lusts of men, but to the will of God. It brings about a change there. From the will of the flesh All right, we need to try and not walk in and out unless it's emergency, okay? If we could do that, that would help me a whole lot. But uh when I uh when I have the mind of Christ, it brings about a change in my life. I see my life, I see circumstances from God's perspective. And uh it produces this change from the living in the will of the flesh. Notice he says there in verse 3, uh From the time uh past of our lives, suffice us to have wrought the will of the Gentiles, will of the flesh, will of this world Living those things. And so it produces a change in my life. And then thirdly, I notice it puts the past in its place. Look with me at verse 3. For the time past of our life may suffice us. To have wrought the will of the Gentiles. And then he describes what that life was like, doing the will of Gentiles. He says lasciviousness, lust, excess of wines. We'll look at that in a coming message But he says we've enough of that. We lived in that way long enough. And now we see our life from God's perspective. We want to live in the will of God. And so how many people here, uh, there's things in your past you say, I had enough of that. I've had enough of that. I tell you, that's the way I got saved. I was so sick of living in that sin. I was so so scared of where it was taking me And I just came to the point, God, I need you to save me. I've had enough of that. I tell you, when a Christian gets to the point in their life when they've had enough Of the flesh and the sin of this world. It's suffice. I don't want any more of that. I tell you, they're on growing ground at that point. They're on growing ground. So three things. I get the mind of Christ, I start seeing things, my mind is renewed, I start seeing uh uh this world, I start valuing things the way Christ values it, I start uh uh seeing things the way Christ see things, the Christ's priorities are my priorities. brings about a tremendous change in my life. And um it purifies me from sin. It produces a change in my life and puts the past in its place. Now I want to look at verse number two. I buzzed through that as quick as I could. I want to look at verse two. And then we're going to build on this in a coming message. But look at verse 2. For he that should suffer in the flesh had no ceased from sin, verse 2, that he should no longer live the rest of his time in the flesh. To the lusts of man, now here it is, but to the will of God. The will of God. He says, All right, you got the mind of Christ. From here on out, the rest of your life. Think about this with me. For the rest of my life living in the will of God. Isn't that something? The rest of my life in the will of God. Three things about the will of God Tonight. I just want to give you real quickly. Number one, finding the will of God is the great battle in the Christian life. Attaining the will of God is the great battle in the Christian life. I looked at this here and I see a conflict between my will, the will of my flesh, and the will of God. Anybody see that? Time passed, enough of the will of the flesh. From now on, the rest of our time in the will of God. That's the big battle. My will versus God's will. The will of my flesh versus the will of God. And that's where the battle is in our Christian life. Success in the Christian life is fulfilling the will of God. We stand before the judge. How many folks here tonight? You're saved, you know it. Say amen. We stand before the judgment seat of Christ, and that is coming. We were talking about that a little bit earlier. That's coming. We're going to, a hundred years from now, all of us are going to be in the presence of the Lord. One day we're going to stand before the judgment seat of Christ as a believer. You know what? The judgment's not going to be about how successful of a businessman I was It's not going to be how much big a house I bought or how popular I was or how many likes I got on social media. Oh, you got 7,000 likes, you get a crown. Uh it's not going to be about how popular I was in school. It wasn't going to be and how big a buck I killed. That's not going to be or how uh how great a deal I got on a coach purse Coach, right? That's the one I always pick on. Oh, I got a coach purse. It was only $722. That's not what we're going to be judged for. You know, you know what the issue is going to be at the judgment seat of Christ? Did I do the will of God? Did I do the will of God? And how what a shame it would be to live my whole life according to my will, according to the will of the flesh. And get to the end of my life and have nothing. Nothing. I miss the will of God completely. What a sad thing that would be. That's the whole issue in life. Is fulfilling the will of God or my own will. That's the battle in life. My will, God's will. Anybody here, let's let me open this up a little bit. Anybody here ever You had a situation and you wanted to do something, but you knew that God's word says something else should be done, and there's a conflict there. Anybody know what I'm talking about? By the way, it happens all the time. Conflict. Oh, this is, oh, I really want to do this, but God says no. The will of the flesh, the will of God. And that's where that spiritual battle comes in. Paul struggled with it. Read Romans 7 He said, that which I would, that which I know is right, what I know God's will is, I end up not doing it. And that which I know isn't God's will, and I don't even want to do it, and I end up doing it. Oh, wretched man that I am If you ever read Romans 7, you'll see that battle there as clear as can be. The will of the old flesh wants to do wrong, but the will of God is there. And as a believer, I want to do the will of God, but the will of the flesh is over here. And that battle goes back and forth, back and forth. The battle is the will of God is a great battle in the Christian life. Failure in the Christian life is failing to do God's will We had time we could go through the Bible. The men and women the Bible that pleased God. Read read Hebrews eleven The men and women in the Bible that pleased God and were blessed of God decided to do God's will as opposed to their will. Without exception. You go through the Bible. Those that chose to do God's will said, Yes, Lord, I agree with you, Lord, this is your will. I'm going to trust you and do what your will is. God bless them. They please the Lord. And in the Bible, those that chose to do their own will and disregarded the will of God and went with the will of the flesh and went with their own will, as opposed to God's will, you notice every time they displeased God. And in many cases they made a total disaster of their life. Read the kings of Israel. And God would send prophets by and he'd tell them, this is the will of God. This is how they would word it. Thus saith the Lord. They were declaring the will of God. And those Old Testament kings, they would choose, Am I going to do my will or am I going to do God's will? And you look at those who chose their own will, it was disaster. It was disaster. And so that's the battle in the Christian life. My will versus God's will. My way or God's way? What my flesh wants or what God wants? And we have to decide. We have to decide. Number, well, I split this down. It's simple as that. It's really not that complicated. Is it my will or God's will? Tomorrow morning I get up, go through the day, I've got to make a decision. My will or God's will. My will or God's will. That's all it is. That's simple as that. Success and failure is determined by the decision I make. My will or God's will. Then number two, we have the great battle in the Christian life. Number two, I put this down. The great burden in the Christian life. And by that is, this is what I mean by that: determining what God's will is. You say, well, preacher, I there's a part of me as a believer, I'm this new nature, I want to do God's will. How do I know what God's will is for my life? That's a legitimate question. How do I know what God's will is right? I remember when I was in Bible college, and I had my will was to teach school, be a school teacher. And I wanted to teach elementary school. You've heard me say it a lot of times. I wanted to teach first or second graders, just where I could same IQ, we could get along. And um That was my will. Is there anything wrong with that? Yes or no? Is there anything wrong being a school teacher? No, there's nothing wrong with that It was a noble thing. It was a good thing. I loved kids. I wanted to give my life to help them. But it wasn't God's will. It wasn't God's will. And so I had to make a decision. So the burden in Christian life is determining how do I know what God's will is? I'd venture to say some of these young people now maybe are sitting here thinking, I don't know what God's will is for my life. How do I know what God's will? How do I make a decision if I don't know what it is? Now that's what I want to preach on on a future message. I want to take a message on determining the will of God. But let me give you the simple answer. And really, this is the sufficient answer, but I do want to elaborate on it. Here's the simple answer to determining the will of God for your life. Do today what God tells you to do today, and you will always be in the will of God. What am I supposed to do today? You do it sometimes we get so worried what God wants me to do when I get out of college, what God wants me to do when I retire, what does God want me to do when I get married? What does God want me to do uh when I graduate from high school. What uh uh that's not the issue. The issue is what does God want me to do today? If I'm not willing to do God's will today, then I'm probably not going to be willing to do God's will five years down the road And so the simple answer to the burden of the Christian life determining the will of God is do today what I know God tells me to do today. What his word tells me to do today. And just basically, we hammer this all the time. One thing, get up in the morning and spend some time meditating in the Bible. This book of the law shall not depart our mouths, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night. We know God wants us to do that. So do that. I know that's his will for me today. Be a witness. You shall be witnesses. All right. I know it's God's will for me to witness. Tell others about Jesus. Live pure life. I know that's God's will. And so what God wants me to do today, that He's revealed to me in His Word, And then he'll direct me. Would you take your Bible and turn to Proverbs, real quickly? Turn to Proverbs chapter 3. Now a lot of us are going to be familiar. You know where I'm going with this. But if you're not familiar with this passage, you really ought to become familiar with it. And I encourage the underscore it in your Bible. But if you ought to do more than underscore it in your Bible, you ought to get it in your head and heart and mind And live by this. Proverbs chapter 3, verse 5 and 6. What a great passage. Look what it says. It says, Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, and what? Lean not unto thine own understanding. That's my will. It suffice us to live the rest of our lives in my will, leaning on my own understanding. Lean not into the understanding, but all in all thy ways what? Acknowledge him. That means submit to his will. Say, yes, Lord, this is what your will is. Yes, Lord, this is what you want me to do. Yes, Lord, I acknowledge your authority. I acknowledge your existence Your directions, I acknowledge your instruct instructions, I acknowledge your will. I'm going to set aside my will And I'm going to fulfill your will. Lean not into their understanding. And all that ways acknowledge him. What's the next statement? Here it is. And he shall what? Direct thy past. He'll make sure you're in the will of God tomorrow. If I do his will today, set aside my will, lean not into my own understanding, my own mind, my own perspective. But in all my ways, acknowledge Him. Yes, Lord, this is what you want me to do. Lord, I know I shouldn't do that. I ought to do this. I'll follow your instructions. I trust you. In all my ways, I'm acknowledging you, and God will direct you right exactly where you ought to be. And God did that in my life. I can testify. Many of you all can testify the same thing. It's not God's will for everybody to be a preacher, but God does have a will for every one of us. And as I do what I know he wants me to do today, he'll direct my path, and when it's all said and done, I'll be right exactly where he wants me to be. Isn't that reassuring? So the great burden in the Christian life, the battle is deciding my will or God's will, will of the flesh or the will of God. I've got to make a decision. It's up to me. Success is based upon the decisions I make. If I'm going to be a good Christian, I'm going to please God with my life, I'm going to have his blessings, I've got to decide. Not my will, but thy will be done. And then the burden is: all right, what is God's will? And again, we'll look at some principles that will help us specifically, but generally speaking, do what he says today. And I'll be in as well. Then last of all, I want us to notice the great blessings. Of being in God's will. The great blessings. I'll tell you right now, and I'm telling you all across this auditorium, young and old, there's people who could stand up and testify that being in the will of God is the greatest thing in life To be in the will of God. The blessings, knowing that I'm in the will of God and doing the will of God, I'm in the will of God, I'm doing the will of God, I'll tell you that brings great purpose to life. You know what's miserable? You know who's miserable? People will feel like their life has no purpose. Why am I here? Why am I even alive? What's my purpose in life? I tell you, there's nothing emptier than There's nothing sadder than having a life and not thinking I have any purpose in life. And when I determine what God's will is for me, and then I'm doing it, I tell you, that brings a great confidence here. I'm in the will of God. My life has purpose, my life has meaning. Because I'm in God has a plan and purpose for my life. Isn't that a wonderful thing? I was back shaking hands, and one of the men uh uh was going out and he came by and made this statement. I hope you understand the spirit of this. He made this statement. He said, Pastor. He says, you are specifically designed to pastor this church. He goes, coming out of Philly and you're out here in Garrett County. And he says, God just designed you specifically for to pastor this church. And I've said it many times. I've felt like that all these years. I felt like the reason God gave me life was to pastor Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, at least up to this point. And so to have that purpose, I'll tell you, that uh knowing you're in the will of God, whatever it may be, driving a truck, working behind a desk. uh busting wrenches, busting knuckles with wrenches, whatever it may be. But to know that's God's will and that's my area of witness and that's my area of purpose, I tell you, that'll take you through the rough times. There's been times, I'll tell you, there's been times over the years, I was, uh, and there's more than a few occasions where I typed up a new resume. And I said, Oh! You know, I got it out, I typed it up, got it out, I read it. God spoke to my heart, and you know what I did with it? I crumbled up and threw away and I deleted it off the computer. I want God's will. The blessings of knowing I'm where God is. You know what the hammiest hammer the happiest hammers are? Hammers, you know what the happiest hammers are? Those that are hammering nails. Those are the happ you know what sad hammers are? Ones that are propping up, you stick it under a a block to hold the table straight and you stick a little hammer under there They're miserable. They weren't made to keep a is this a dumb illustration or what? I'm telling you There's nothing greater than knowing I'm doing what I was created to do. You know, God gave saved some people and God gave them life and gave them specific abilities to run a bus route. You know that? They're made for that. That's that's God's will. Or to lead the choir, lead singing, or to teach little uh uh four three and four year olds Joy and Charlotte down there. God bless them. Teaching those little kids. I love the little kids, but I'm I love other people teaching them right now, to be honest with you. How about the nursery? Praise the Lord for the nursery. Amen. Praise the Lord for the ladies that work in the nursery. One of the things I like about preaching is I don't have to work in the nursery. But uh that's a gift, that's a purpose to invest. I hope you understand what I'm trying to say. Uh knowing I'm in the will of God, doing the will of God, brings great purpose to my life. I have meaning It brings stability and assurance and satisfaction. I found people that don't know what their purpose is in life are always dissatisfied. This isn't good enough, and oh this isn't, and oh I don't they don't know. There's becomes great satisfaction. I like what Paul said. He said, I have learned in whatever state I am therewith to be content. You know what Science says, I'm in the will of God. If it's God's will for me to abound, I can rejoice in that. And if it's God's will for me to be abase, Then praise the Lord, I can rejoice in that. Did you notice in Acts chapter 16, Paul and Silas were imprisoned? Their feet were bound, it says. That's uncomfortable. That's miserable. They're in a prison, an ancient Middle Eastern prison Their feet are bound in stocks. They've been beaten. They're bloody. Pain, infection, no doubt. And at midnight of all times, what were they doing? Somebody tell me. Singing and praising God. You say, how in the world does somebody do that? I'll tell you somebody does that. Somebody that knows they're smack dab in the middle of the will of God. Doing exactly what God wants to do. And if they're in prison, they can sing and praise God. And if they're in a house and feeding lush uh sumptuously With Lazarus and Mary and Martha, or something like that, and they can still praise God, whether they abase or abound. Being in the will of God is a great blessing, great blessing. Pam said something that struck me just a moment ago. I thought of this message. There was a day when Dr. Don Williams had to make a decision. And he's talked about this with me many times over the years. He's working at Carnation, good job, technician there, or uh or something, whatever he did, technician. And uh making good money, good benefits. And he'd been serving the Lord in the church, preaching a little bit, teaching Sunday school And God was stirring his heart, stirring his heart about more, about stepping up. You know what the problem with some of us Christians? We're satisfied with just doing the best we can when God wants us to do more than we can. God wants to do miraculous things through us. God wants to use us in ways we would never imagine, but we're content. And Doc Williams, God was stirring his heart, stirring his heart about going into ministry. Going into evangelism. And finally it came a day where he had to make a decision. My will or God's will And I'm glad he chose God's will. And think of the thousands and thousands of people that have been saved. And then the folks that have been saved as a result of the witness of those who were saved under his direct ministry. And the ripple effect that he has had in churches for 45 years or more, serving God in the will of God. Let me ask you a question. Are you in God's will? Is it your will or my will or God's will? My will or God's will? I've got to decide that. No longer me. I'm satisfied. It's enough living in my own will. I've had enough of that. I want God's will from here out. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, we ask, dear Lord, you'd help us to be wise in our decisions. And I pray, dear Lord, that your Holy Spirit would stir us to say as Jesus did, not my will, Lord, but thy will be done. And Lord, what you can do and how you could use us if we just today decide I'm going to do what I know God wants me to do today, and where that road may lead us. Only God knows. But it'd be a wonderful thing. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, preacher, I know there's some areas in my life that are out of the will of God? There's some things that I know God's will and and and their omission. They're not there. I know it's the will of God and they're not being carried out. Or maybe there's some things I know it's not God's will, but yet it's part of my life. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me That I'd be able to say yes to God's will and no to my will. Any like that, any uplifted hand, I know they're there. I know they're there And God deals with our hearts. It's a lifelong battle deciding between the two. About tonight, as we go into a new week, just say, yes, Lord, your will, not mine. I've had enough of my will. From here on out, it's your will. Father, bless our mitation, I ask in Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stand together heads or bad