But because of marriage, we realize that that's not necessarily the case. Acts chapter six, I think that was a compliment to the ladies. I'm not sure. I'm going to read the first uh seven verses of Acts chapter six. Noah's still building the ark, and uh we'll get back to him probably next year. But um I wanted to uh stop tonight just with uh w in light of the fact that we are electing officers for next year and I've used to do this fairly regularly. I haven't much the last few years, but just stop and look at some principles of leadership. I'm not going to preach specifically on the office of pastor or on the office of the deacon. I just want to give some general principles of leadership and I want to glean some of them from Acts chapter 6. If you wouldn't notice verse number one, it says, In those days When the number of the disciples was multiplied, significant statement there, there arose a murmuring of the Grecians against the Hebrews. Why? Because their widows were neglected in the daily ministration. Then the twelve called the multitude of the disciples unto them and said, It is not reason that we should leave the Word of God and serve tables. Wherefore, brethren, look ye out among you seven men of honest report, full of the Holy Ghost and wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business. But we will give ourselves continually to prayer and to the ministry of the word. And the saying pleased the whole multitude, and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith. uh and of the Holy Ghost and Philip and Procurius and uh Nicanor and Timon and Parmenus and uh Nicholas a proselyte of Antioch whom they set before the apostles, and when they had prayed and laid their hands on them, and the word of the Lord increased. And the number of the disciples multiplied in Jerusalem greatly, and a great company of the priests were obedient to the faith. I want to talk about local church leadership. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, I do pray you'd help me tonight. Lord, I want to be faithful and true to your word. And God, I I know I'm not the only one that is concerned with this, Lord. Many of us are, that we want our church to be and operate the way you've instructed us to operate and what you've instructed us to be And so, Lord, I feel that responsibility lays heavily on my shoulder. And so as I share these truths tonight, these principles, I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit I pray that you would take my body and speak through me. I pray that nothing that I say tonight would uh be untrue or uh out of context or unscriptural in any way But you would raise us up, and uh we would be the church you intend for us to be. And help us, Lord, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. It's important to understand, and and uh I feel strongly, it's important to understand that the book of Acts is a historical book. It's giving a historical account of the church's tremendous explosive growth after the ascension of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's a historical account. It is a transitional period in our Bible Institute on the doctrine of the Church. And this is kind of my take and there's a little various views on this out there. But I see the church as in the in the Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, the church in embryotic form. Jesus is introducing the church. He's laying the foundation. Some people say the church started with John the Baptist. Others say with uh the resurrection of Christ. There's various ideas out there I don't see in the Gospels the church in established form yet. It's very embryotic. In the book of Acts, I see the church being energized. The Holy Spirit comes upon him. There's tremendous things happening. Verse number one, the number of disciples was multiplied. Now in Acts 3, Acts 2, we've had 3,000 added I think it's in chapter 5 there's 5,000. Now it's multiplying. You get over to verse number 7 of chapter 6, and uh that multiplication of the 5,000 is multiplied again, it says in Jerusalem. greatly. So this thing is exploding. But if you read through Acts, you find in the local churches you don't see a whole lot of organization. There's energy, there's explosive growth, but you don't find the role of the pastor being defined. You don't find the qualifications for deacons and leadership in the church explained. You don't get that till you get to the epistles. And then in the epistles you have the organization is established. And so I see this through New Testament. The church is in the beginning process. In the book of Acts, and this may not mean a whole lot to a lot of us, but in the book of Acts, it's a transitional period. Churches the church is obviously here. It's in existence at this point, but it is not highly organized. It has power. As I said, there's tremendous growth taking place, but again, not a lot of structure to it. It's being developed. And leadership within the church is being developed. You have the apostles, twelve apostles And this is just my thinking. I think one of the roles of the apostles was to provide leadership to the church until it was organized and the structure in the church, leadership structure in the church was established. And then once that was done, then of course the apostles died off and their their their ministry was no longer needed, their leadership was no longer needed. Now you've had a leadership structure within the churches, and um and uh that's kind of the way I see it. In the epistles, we find the organization for the church very clearly developed. You say, how is the church to be organized? We go to the epistles, Timothy, Titus. Some of these we find how the church is to be organized, how it's structured. What's the leadership in the church? We go to the epistles. There in the epistles we find that the leadership in the church is very clearly presented. A very clear structure is given Now, again, by way of introduction, in the epistles we find that Jesus Christ is the head of the church. As very clearly established. Jesus Christ. You say, who's the final authority in your church? That's easy. Jesus He's the head. He calls the shots. Now he's given us his word. That's the uh the word of God, the logos, the Jesus Christ gives us his word, and that's how we operate. But Jesus is the head of the church. Then in the epistles We find that Christ has given the pastor to be what we call the under-shepherd. He operates under the Lord Jesus Christ. There's a term used, and again, I really don't want to spend a lot of time on this, but there's a term used. I don't view it so much as a title for the pastor as more of a description of his responsibility, and that's this is the term, bishop. Now some denominations use that as a title. Bishop so and so Bishop so-and-so. Some other uh some denominations have it as a some churches call the pastor bishop. I would be Bishop Leatherman. Kind of has a ring to it. Some churches, denominations, they have it as an overseer of a district, perhaps, of a number of churches, and he'll be the bishop, the responsibility for that. I don't see that term so much as a title as it is a description of the pastor's responsibility. The pastor is given by God the responsibility to oversee The church's functionality, its direction, its teaching, the ministries of the church. The pastor is the bishop, the overseer of that. Christ is the head. The pastor is the under-shepherd, the overseer, to make sure things. He's the one, let me put it this way, he's the one held responsible by God For that church's obedience to Jesus Christ. God holds the pastor responsible. Hebrews chapter 13 makes that very, very clear. Pastor must give an account. Then we find in the epistles that God gives to the pastor deacons. As an office to assist him, to help him, to keep that church body functioning in such a way that the pastor can provide the leadership and the direction. And we see that here in Acts chapter 6. Let me back up. So you have the path, you have Jesus Christ ahead. You have pastor is the overseer, the or the under-shepherd, whatever term you want to use. And then you have the deacons as Kind of, in a sense, servants of the church helping the pastor, dealing with issues so the pastor can stay focused on the over the overview of the church, the leadership and the direction of the church Now, in our church and many others like it, we have other offices. You notice on our nomination, we have the office of treasurer. We have financial secretary, we have clerk, we have trustees. Churches sometimes will do on a Sunday school superintendents. We have one appointed. And uh So you have these other offices. You do not find them in the Bible. You can read that Bible through a hundred times like George Mueller did. You're not going to find any reference to trustees or that responsibility at all. It's not there Treasures, you don't find that office. Clerks, financial secretaries, Sunday school superintendents, all of the you don't find it. It's not there. Does that mean it's wrong? No. There's nothing wrong with it. It's just not a biblical office. Why do we have trustees? Well, because uh primarily because we want to be tax exempt To be tax exempt, you gotta be incorporated. To be incorporated, you've got to have trustees. Not one person is going to be held responsible for trusted the finances. So if we want to be tax exempt. Now there are some churches. They they that it's the unregistered church movement and they have the idea that uh we're not going to register, we're putting ourselves under the government, we're going to operate off of that And um, you know, I'm not against that. I don't think necessarily I don't see that in scripture anywhere at this point as necessary. So you have these peripheral offices that are there for organizational reasons, for uh government to deal with that and all of that. They're not biblical. There's nothing wrong with them. It's just they're not biblical. So the organization and a church. How many folks so far you're glad you came to church tonight. Is this helpful? Amen. Good. Um I don't care whether you think it is or not, I'm gonna preach it. I was just So that's the organization. Christ, head, uh pastor, under shepherd, overseer, term you want to use, and then deacons. That's all there is. Biblically speaking. Now, Acts chapter 6, that's getting back to our text. You read that through, you'll notice that the term deacon is not used one time in Acts chapter 6 We're not told that these seven men chosen out of the church to fulfill this role are deacons. But to me, it's very obvious that's what this is. The majority of your Bible students that look at this and study scriptures are going to say this is the introduction to deacons. And I believe that. The need for the deacons arises. But the interesting thing here is, as I mentioned, the book of Acts, the church is not organized very highly at this point And so they're choosing out these men that will eventually become the office of deacon. Of course, this is all under the sovereignty of God. And uh but they're not giving very specific requirements here. If you go back to Timothy, you have very detailed specific requirements for the pastor. I mean there's no question about it. And for the deacon also. There's no question about it. It's very specific. But you read here, they're very general. Look at verse number 3. He says, Wherefore, brethren, look ye out among you seven men, and this is the requirement of honest report, full of the Holy Ghost and wisdom, who can we appoint over this business? So they're just giving some general leadership requirements for this position. Again, more specific is given in 1 Timothy 3. Now, these, I want to suggest tonight that these requirements here, very general, would apply to anyone in leadership position. You would want these to be true of anybody that's in a leadership position. And in reality, all of us are leaders to some extent. You say, oh preacher, I'm not a leader. I'm just a housewife. Listen, if you have influence over anybody, you're a leader. To some extent, leadership is influence. And every one of us, whether you realize or not, whether you want to acknowledge it or not, you and every one of us, we have influence on people. And that is leadership. And so God has the church set up in such a way that there are certain positions filled by people that have a tremendous amount of influence. Would you agree with me on a local church if it's set up the way God wants it to be set up, the pastor has tremendous influence in that church? Would you agree with me on that? Absolutely. It's by design Would a Sunday school teacher have influence in a Sunday school class? Absolutely, by design. That's leadership. And so there's principles here that would apply across the board. So let me give a few of these. I'm going to be very general. I'll be honest with you, this is where the temptation is for me. This is where I want to be careful about because in dealing with something like this you can get so specific and go through and become so detailed in the areas that people would think, good night, nobody can fill that position. You can establish such a standard that it makes it beyond the reach of any Christian to be able to live up to that ideal And so we want to take the Bible for as it is and keep it in mind, it's designed for sinful people. Fallen mankind. Let me give you a few real quickly, and I'm aware of the time, and it means nothing to me. No, it does. Number one, local church leadership, first of all, I put this down, it requires commitment. Commitment. If you want people in positions of influence and positions of leadership, you want folks who are committed. Now this may rub some folks the wrong way, I don't know. But if you study the Bible, New Testament Church You find that the New Testament church was the leadership consisted of male leadership. The men were in the positions of leadership. Come on now, help me. A church with women with female leadership is an unscriptural church. That's not you don't see that in the Bible. Uh you find no you find no women pastors in the Bible. It's not there. Not in Acts. Not in the not in the Gospels. Certainly not in the epistles. Do you know that one of the qualifications to be a pastor is to be the husband of one wife? That narrows it down. Um women played vital roles in the New Testament church without a doubt. You read Romans chapter 16, and Paul references a number of women who had tremendous influence, who had tremendous ministries within the church. In fact The church could not have been what it was without these women. And I say this our church could not be what it is without the women who are part of this church. And the role they play and the influence that they have and the service they provide for our Lord Jesus, it's vital. But as far as the leadership, And office is concerned in the Bible, it's male leadership. Without exception. So we're talking about commitment. I would say for leadership in the church, if I understand the scriptures correctly, the intent of the scriptures, and I believe I do, there must be commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ. We certainly do not want people in leadership positions who are not committed to the Lord Jesus Christ. And this is where saying amen helps me probably more than it helps you. Jesus called twelve men to be his disciples. Now we all understand one of them was phony. One of them was a hypocrite, one of them in fact the Bible says he was a devil. Now he had so disguised himself, he would so blend it in that when Jesus came out and said, one of you is going to betray me, not one of the other eleven disciples thought of Judas. In fact, when Jesus dipped the sop, he said, the one that I dip the sop in and give it to, he's the one that's going to betray me. He dipped the bread in the sop, handed it to Judas, and they still didn't figure it out. In fact, who did the disciples think was the one that was going to betray the Lord? They all thought it was themselves. Is it I? Is it I? Is it him? Is it me? So Jesus had, he called twelve, let's say in reality was he had eleven men who had forsaken all And follow Jesus. And you know what happened? They reached the known world with the gospel You look at Acts chapter 1 and verse 8. You should be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem and Judea and in Samaria and Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth. And you read the book of Acts, and you know what we find out? They reached all four regions listed in Acts 1, verse 8. They accomplished the job for their generation. We read in Romans, Paul said, I have fully preached the gospel, a 1400-mile region, and Paul had reached that whole area, he said. Eleven men fully committed to Jesus Christ forsook all and follow Jesus Christ and they reach the world with the gospel. We want leadership in the church. Biblical leadership in the church consists of men who are committed to Jesus Christ. Keep your place here. Turn with him, if you would, real quickly, over to Luke. I want two passages in Luke. Listen to the standard that Jesus established to be his disciple. Now, would you agree with me? We want folks in leadership position who are disciples of Jesus. Right? We would certainly want that. You should have thought before you said that. Look at some of the look at the standard of discipleship, the Lord's Sabbath. Luke chapter 9 and verse 23. Luke 9, 23. Now pay close attention to what he says. 923, and he said unto them all. If any man will come after me, look at this, let him what? Deny himself. Now you could spend a series on that. What does that mean? Take up his cross daily. This is something he's choosing. This isn't something placed upon him. This isn't arthritis in a foot. I'm not belittling that, but it's not something Paul chose, right? It's something Christ saw. This cross here is something they're choosing. It is something, it is a decision they're making that I'm going to pay a price for my commitment to Jesus Christ. So look at this. Then I himself take up his cross daily and follow me. Now look at this. For whosoever will save his life shall lose it. But whosoever shall lose his life for my sake, the same shall save it. Then he goes off into the value of a soul. He says, What does a man advantage if he gain the whole world and lose himself or be cast away? Look at this. For whosoever shall be ashamed of me and my words, of him shall the Son of Man be ashamed, when he shall come in his own glory, and his fathers, and the holy angels. He said, if you want to be a follower of Jesus Christ, you've got to die to self, deny yourself, take up your cross every single day, and be a follower of him. Turn with me over to chapter number fourteen. Same book, Luke And chapter 14. He elaborates on this. Now, the believers here are following Jesus. He stopped and says, Alright, you want to be my follower, you want to be my disciples, you've got to do this. I can see some of them scratching their heads saying, man, that's asking a lot. Look at chapter 14, look at verse 26. He says, um, let me get there. If any man come to me, look at this, and hate not his father and mother and wife and children and brethren and sisters, yea, his own life also. Look at that next phrase. He cannot be my disciple. Whosoever doth not bear his cross and come after me, look at a very strong statement, cannot be my disciple. Come down if you would to uh let's skip a portion of this for sake of time. Uh verse 33. So likewise, whosoever he be of you that forsaketh not all that he hath He cannot be my disciple. Man, you talk about setting the standard high. You say, preacher, I've got to hate my family to be to be committed fully to Jesus Christ? Now, we take the verse in context. Studying other scriptures, obviously we're told in Ephesians the husbands are to love their wives as Christ loved the church. So what does he mean when he says I have to hate this? The best explanation I can come up with, and I've ever heard, is simply this. My devotion and my commitment and my love to the Lord Jesus Christ has to be such a degree That my love and concern and devotion to my family looks like I hate them. And the best way I know to describe that is in a missions setting. Where you have a young man, let's say perfect example, let's say Brother Joel Michel. Weird name I know, but he's a good guy. I think it's a weird name, but Joel Michelle. His lovely wife, two small children, two girls. Right, Kathy? Boy and a girl, two little children. Do you think Brother Joel Michelle loves his wife and children? No doubt about it. You couldn't watch them and not come to that conclusion. God has called Brother Joel Michel to go to the city of Amsterdam. The city that the world calls the Sodom of Europe You know what somebody would say? Good night. I thought you loved your family. I thought you loved your wife and kids. Why in the world would you take them to such a ungodly city? Drugs are legalized, prostitution is legalized, pornography publicly displayed everywhere. Why would you take your lovely children and wife into that environment Surely, if you loved them, you would never do that. Oh, he certainly loves them. But he's committed to Jesus Christ. And to the world, it looks like he doesn't care about his family. And that's what Jesus is saying here. He's saying now he's not saying that we've got to go to some ungodly city to be a Committed follower of Jesus Christ, what he is saying is our love and commitment to Jesus Christ so far exceeds our love and commitment to anything else It can be misconstrued as not loving those other things. Follow what I'm saying? That's a pretty high bar. How many of us would say, yes, I am willing to be committed to Jesus Christ to that degree? That's a hard saying. That's a hard saying. Commitment to Jesus Christ. The cause of Christ holds a very high standard. Now, now I hope you understand what I was saying at the beginning of the message. It's very there's a tendency to see this high standard and say nobody can attain to that. Nobody can reach that. I want to remind you that Brother Joel Michel and hundreds of thousands of other missionaries throughout history and people in local churches have been men and women just like you and I that have reached that level of community. Commitment. They're not superhuman Christians. They're just people like you and I. Uh, my wife and I were able to spend time with Joel and his wife, and you know what? They talked to us and asked questions and had struggles that every one of us here question and have struggles with. They're just people, but they're committed. They're committed. Church leadership. You imagine eleven men, eleven men in one church. Forsake all, take up their cross daily, so in love with Jesus Christ that they're fully committed to Him. That's the biblical leadership. Put down commitment to the Lord Jesus. I put down this also commitment to their local church. In Acts chapter 6, he says, choose out among you. Within your own church. Now, this may seem stupidly obvious, but the local church leadership, the people that hold positions of local church leadership ought to be members of that church. To me, that is stupidly obvious. I don't know if that's a phrase, I just made it up, but it sounds very intelligent. Of course they got it. Uh I can I can tell you of a church I know I know firsthand a church where a good friend of mine took the church and when he took the church they had trustees and I don't know maybe beacons Who were making decisions for the church having a powerful influence and were not even members of that church In fact, they didn't even agree with the doctrinal statement of the church. It was an independent Baptist church, and they had men who were members of the Church of God as trustees of that Baptist church. There's a doctrinal contradiction there. Now to me, that's stupidly obvious you don't do that. But what they're thinking was these men are tremendous businessmen These men are really good at making financial decisions. We want them to help us make the financial decisions. So they took people who were not. Listen, that may make sense in Wall Street, but that is unscriptural. Choose out among you. Uh I thought I stole my water. Uh so they ought to be committed to the church, church members. I put this down, committed to the church in the sense of church loyalty. If a person is going to hold a position of influence and leadership in a church, uh they ought to be loyal to the church services. Man. You want people making decisions face and church and aren't even in any in the services. They come one or two services and I found that you know what I found? I found a lot of times the Spirit of God moves in tremendous ways on Wednesday nights. And sometimes God will lead a church And God is using a series of sermons or whatever, the Spirit of God, and leading a church in another in a certain direction or to open a new ministry, and God, unbeknownst to us, is preparing our hearts and doing something for down the road. And uh uh You have somebody that's very significant in the in their influence and they're not even there. They're not even a part of what God's doing and preparing and leading the church. And so you want folks who are faithful and loyal to the church services, loyal to the church ministries. And by that I mean involved. Um leadership is just that leading, going out in front In the Bible, God's people are described as what? What type of animal? Sheep. Sheep. And in fact, Peter says, feed the flock of God. We are leaders. I'm not a shepherd, a shepherd in the literal sense. I've never had sheep. I'm trying to talk my wife into letting me get a goat, but um she won't let me But um you know what I find out about sheep? Paul, correct me if I'm wrong, or Stuart, you can't drive sheep very well. If you got a dog, maybe they'll run around. But you know what I found as I study the Bible, I study history, I found out that shepherds always led their sheep. They had to be out in front saying, all right, you you follow me, and they teach them and they look, and they follow them. If we're going to be leaders, we've got to lead. How many people agree with me? If a church is going to be biblical, it ought to be a soul-winning church. Agree with man? That means the leaders have to be what? Soul winners. I'm not going to influence other people. Listen, I can stand up here and preach to them blue in my face. If I don't go soul winning, I'm not going to have much influence on other people going soul winning. Huh? Uh in the ministries of the church, praying for the church, involved in the efforts of the church, the missions program, all of that Church loyalty, commitment, commitment to Jesus Christ, commitment to the church, and by that church loyalty, church services, church ministries, church leaders The leaders ought to be loyal to the leadership of the church. Amen. I ought to support. I ought to be able to say, yes, I'm in agreement with the direction the pastor is leading that church. I'm in agreement with what the positions the pastor takes in the Word of God. I can support that. I am loyal to that Jesus said, if a nation is divided against itself, what's going to happen to that nation? It's going to fall. A church divide if you have leadership that is divided, is not unified, and is not loyal to the Word of God and to the Son of God, it's not going to function. Now this message is not a reaction to anything. I thank God for the leadership team and the men God has raised up for our church We have dealt with some very difficult issues this year with the radio uh thing trying to deal with that and various other things, and without fail. The men that have served in this church have come together and we've worked in submission to Christ, I believe, and came and saw God do some great things. We talked about this in our last meeting. And so this is not a reaction. This is simply a biblical statement. There ought to be loyalty to the leadership. of the church. Leadership in a local church begins with commitment. Commitment to Jesus Christ in the church trumps wealth. Don't put somebody in a leadership position because they're rich. I've seen that in other situations, other churches. That does not work. We don't put them in because of their education or their popularity. When we take these nominations forms, it is not a popularity contest. It's commitment, commitment. The Lord refers to his servants, his leaders as servants In fact, the highest title you find in the Bible that God gives a man is when he calls him his servant. You know who he calls Moses? Moses my leader. No, he doesn't say that. Moses, my servant, my servant, my servant, my servant. David, one of the greatest, if not the greatest king Israel ever had. David, my king and my leader! No. David, my servant. Paul, the greatest Christian, church planner, missionary, extraordinaire. Every epistle he starts out, Paul, a leader in the church. No, Paul, a what? Servant of God. Servant. Servant. That word, that term servant implies commitment to the master. A servant's primary responsibility is to do what his master tells him. That's commitment. Now, that was the first point. I don't have time to give the rest. I don't want to drag this out of the series I put this down, I'll write them down, we'll quit. I put consistency. There must be consistency. Acts chapter 6 said, choose your mount men of honest report. Apparently they'd been this way for a while. They had a track record. One of the most important characteristics in spiritual leadership, spiritual influence is consistency. How many people, what happens to a house if you have an inconsistent foundation? Falls down. The foundation's moving, changing. You want a consistent foundation. And that's true in a church with his leadership. Then I put compassion, genuine concern for the well-being of others, both the lost and the saints. Compassion requires humility Compassion requires maturity, not self-willed. But the cause of Christ and the well-being of others is more important than my own cause or my own agenda. I put down courageous. Willing to trust God, willing to step out in faith, willing to follow the leadership that God has in endeavors. Now In many ways, you have to run a church a lot like a business, in many ways. But the church is not a business. It is the body of Christ. A church operates, the bottom line for a church is not necessarily the dollar. The bottom line for a church is not necessarily the balance in the bank. The bottom line for a church is faith in God. That doesn't mean we're we're reckless or what's the word I want? Um disregard the financial. But sometimes God is leading, God is directing, it becomes very, very clear, and you just have to say, you know, we've got to step out in faith. We just have to trust God Now again, I'm grateful for the team we have. Sometimes I say, you know, maybe this, and they'll say, well preacher, what about this? The money there, and we'll discuss it through. When it's all said and done, we want to try That's the bottom line. That's the bottom line. So courage, that takes courage sometimes. Conscience, I put down. By that I mean men of integrity. Thoroughly honest, he says, men of honest report, committed to the truth, not hypocritical, they are honest. If they say it so, you can count on it. Honesty. And then I put down last of all consecration. Men of consecration. It kind of goes along with commitment. But 1 John 2, verse 15 through 17 tells us to love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. For the love of the world, the lust of the eyes, the pride of light, the lust of the flesh is not of the Father And what we need in our leadership, in our church, starting with me on down, is people who are consecrated, Lord Jesus. We're not in love with this world or the things of this world. It doesn't control and dominate our thinking. It is the Lord Jesus Christ that we love. These are not super Christians. I've done it before. Dr. Creed did it one time years ago. It stirred my heart. He had 12 men stand up. Just 12 men out of the congregation at random. And he said, these are exactly like the 12 men Jesus called. Just everyday people who were sold out for Jesus Christ. Several years ago, you remember back in the 80s, the embassy in Beirut was bombed. How many people remember that? Some of you weren't even born then. People were killed. Some Marines were injured. According to this story, this account, there was one Marine, a young man, was injured pretty severely physically, but he was also blinded. There was a four-star general who was a commanding officer of that area when it exploded, and he went to the hospital He visited this young Marine who was blinded, physically injured severely, and he commended this man for his suffering. And the spirit of the young Marine just touched the heart of this four-star general. Several days went by and one of his assistants came and said, that young man that you mentioned that you were depressed by in the hospital, it's his birthday today. The general said, according to the account, he said, cancel everything on my schedule. He said, I'm going over to the hospital for this young man's birthday. He took his four stars. Went to the hospital, found the blind Marie, walked in and said, I understand it's your birthday today. The young man said, yes, sir. He said, give me your hand. He held his hand, and the general put in that young man's hand his four stars. He said, These are for you, young man. Happy birthday. The young Marine took them, opened his hands, saw what they were. He said, Sir, can I have your hand now? Four-star general put his hand out. The young man took his hand, put the four stars back in his general's hand, and he made this statement, Semter Phi. gave them back. Semter Phi means always faithful. What that young man was saying was I didn't do all this and pay this price to get some stars. I did it simply because I'm faithful to my country. You know what we need people in our church, whether they hold an office or not, Sunday school teachers, homemakers, teenagers. People who are faithful to Jesus Christ, not for reward or recognition, but simply because we love our Savior. Committed to them. Committed to them. Faithful. Biblical church leadership. All of us are leaders. The Lord, I read in Luke, he sets that standard so high, I look at it and I think, I can never attain to that. But God says, I give you the Holy Spirit. Spirit, I enable you to be the person I want you to be. So let's pray. Let's pray as God help us I've been praying, I don't know if I should say this. I've been praying, and this is God has to do it, so I'm not trying to influence anything. But I've been praying, wouldn't it be something if God would raise up eleven men Totally forsake all and follow the Lord Jesus. That's God's choosing. He chose the 12 disciples. No one else did. It's his choosing. What an impact. What an impact. Let's pray for those God puts in leadership. Let's pray for one another. Let's understand that all of us are leaders in some sense. people's lives. Father, bless now I pray. I've been challenged by the message I trust many others that have. And we ask your Holy Spirit to stir and help us. Not that we attain to be something, but God, just our walk with you, we become something. Sincerely and truly, men and women committed to you. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, my commitment to Jesus Christ is challenged tonight? My level of love and surrender and consecration, Lord, has been challenged. And I want God to take me to greater levels of commitment. Less of self, more of Christ. Less of this world and more of the things of God. You say, preacher, pray with me that God would help me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand all around? Certainly. As children of God, that would be our desire. Let's ask the Lord to help us. Enable us. Give us the desire to be what he wants us to be. Ask the Lord to make the world less appealing to us. and the things of God more appealing. Father, bless the invitation, I pray. Help us, we ask, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together.