Uh uh has gotten the word that Brother Jesse went home to be with the Lord this morning about three o'clock in the morning Uh he had been uh he had some sort of seizure I guess uh uh uh after a series of 'em on Monday evening, sometime Monday, and um he didn't eat or drink since then. It was very really very unresponsive since And so we pretty much knew it was time. And then um about 3 3 30 this morning, uh in his sleep, Helen came and checked on him and and he's been with the Lord. So um so we praise the Lord for Jesse's testimony. Faithful and uh what a sweet man. And uh going to be tough to uh somebody said fill his shoes and uh I don't think anybody's gonna So we thank God for him. We're I'm I'm so glad the Lord was so gracious and took him home so peacefully. And he'd been having a rough time, you know, the last year or whatever was very difficult. So pray for Helen and Jesse and Mary or uh Helen and uh uh Charlie and Mary and uh the family there. The funeral service is this Friday here at the church at eleven o'clock is the service. They're having an hour viewing before. Um and then there's a viewing down at the Fredlock funeral home, the old Durst funeral home at uh tomorrow evening from four o'clock till eight o'clock. Just straight on through, four o'clock till eight o'clock. So uh keep the family in your prayers and I know it means a lot to them So uh Matthew chapter 5. I want to begin reading in verse 27. I think this is the last message, the Lord will, and we'll bring. On this particular subject the Lord's addressing. He says in verse 27, You have heard that it was that it was said by them of old time, thou shalt not commit adultery. But I say unto you, that whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery with her already in his heart. And if thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out and cast it from thee For it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not that thy whole body should be cast into hell. Then he makes the same almost exact same statement again, except instead of Using the eye as an illustration, use the hand. He says, If thy right hand offend thee, cut it off and cast it from thee. It is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not that thy whole body should be cast into hell. In verse thirty-one he picks up his third subject illustrating this uh truth that we pointed out earlier. So let's pray and look at this these two verses, twenty Father, bless our study of your word, I ask. We uh thank you for the tremendous privilege we have to uh come to church, to have a Bible, to freely worship and sing and fellowship together and serve you. I pray that you would help us not take that for granted. I pray as we look at this passage, a difficult passage in some ways, that your Holy Spirit would apply this to our hearts, that we'd be stronger Christians. And that we would be the people you saved us to be. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. As we've been saying and pointing out over and over, the Lord's confronting the Pharisees, the teaching of the Pharisees. That's what he says when he says, you've heard it said of old. He's addressing what they had been teaching. And he's confronting the shallowness Of the Pharisees teaching, the superficiality. And he's saying, what he's saying is, what the Pharisees have been teaching you is inadequate to save your soul. If you're just trusting in the fact you've never killed anybody and you've never committed adultery, you've never performed the act of adultery, you've never killed anybody, you've ne Perform murder If you're trusting in that to save your soul and to make you righteous, you're falling short. It's not going to work. Simply not killing somebody, simply not committing adultery is not going to save your soul Does not mean you're not sinless. He says there's a whole lot more to that. In fact, work salvation is inadequate to save a person's soul Anytime a person is trusting in the fact that I do certain things or I don't do certain things, that's going to fall short. It's not going to save our soul. It's not the things we do or don't do that save our soul. It is the condition of our soul that saves us when we accept Christ. He gives us a new life. So the Lord's confronting this issue with them. And In doing so, he uses the sin of adultery to illustrate the fact that salvation is much more than that, and the law addresses more than just our outward actions. And he points out in verse 28. That there is such a thing as what I'm going to call heart adultery. He says, just committing uh the act of adultery, you say that's fine. No, you're right, you shouldn't But there's such a thing as heart adultery. And what he's pointing out here is that uh genuine salvation is really heart salvation. Genuine godliness, if I'm going to live a as a Christian, as a saved man, if I'm going to live a godly life, it has to begin in my heart. It has to be heart godliness. Not just external, outward. You follow what I'm saying? It has to come from the heart. It cannot just be a superficial thing out there. And we're going to see here the sin problem, the problem with sin. Is really a heart problem. The world wants to change the environment. They say, well, you know, if they lived in a better situation, if they lived in a nicer house, if they lived in a better neighborhood If they got a better education, if they had a higher income, if we raise their their the minimum wage, then there won't have as much crime, people won't be as so frustrated, and then we won't have as much crime. No, the problem isn't external, the problem's with the heart. And that's what the Lord's pointing out all down through here. And he's pointing out the fact that there is such a thing as heart adultery. The sin of adultery that is rooted in the sinful desires of the heart. Now, I don't want to repreach what we already have, but we did notice that adultery is a very common sin. Wasn't long into the book of Genesis and you find people uh engaged in this sin all the way through Revelation. You find them addressing the sin of adultery. It's a very common sin, but we pointed out also it's a very catastrophic sin. The consequences and the price the the result of this sin is absolutely devastating. Now we noted in verse number 27 I outlined it this way, the clarity of the command, very clearly commanded in Scripture, thou shalt not commit adultery. And we could give scores of passages that state almost verbatim that same command. It's one of the ten commandments, thou shalt not commit adultery. Very clear. We understand it. There's no fussing about it. There's no misconception. But then he points out the conception of the sin. Where does it come from? The act of adultery. Well, he points out in verse 28: it comes from the heart And that's where I was saying about heart adultery, that if a whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery already in his And so there is where the it is conceived. That's where that whole sin finds its root, finds its source. is from the sinful heart of man. Now we get to verse 29 and 30, and I I use this as a point for this, the third point of outlining this passage. is the completeness of our response. The clarity of the command, the conception of the sin is in the heart, then the completeness of our of our response He goes here to great lengths to point out, listen, you're going to have to deal with this sin very, very thoroughly. Maybe you have to go to extremes And what he's saying is the sin of adultery is such a devastating sin that we must be willing to take extreme measures. to keep it from happening. We have to uh in in in some people's minds and and uh go to extremes and it is extreme notice he says here uh verse 29 if thy right eye offend thee Now, how many people agree with me? Your eyesight's pretty precious. Yeah, there's a lot of things I would be willing to put out uh uh do without before I'd be willing to do without my eyesight Very, very precious. Um our right hand. How many folks here are right-handed? How many folks here? The overwhelming majority. So if we vote on anything, it has to do with right and left hand. Left-handers are outvoted every time But anyway, the right hand, how many people agree if you were going to lose one of your two hands, you would rather it would be your left hand rather than your right hand? All the right-handers would agree with that It's pretty precious stuff he's addressing here. Your right eye, uh, your right hand, eyesight hands, probably two most Precious, important parts of our body as far as being able to function. And he says here: if your right eye offends thee, pluck it out. If your right hand offends thee, uh cut it off. Um uh cut it off and cast it from thee. Um And that word offend, this is important to understand. The word offend here has this idea to cause one to stumble. If it's going to mess me up in my Christian life, if it's going to the uh and the other idea was to draw me away from where I'm supposed to be. If my right eye And my right hand are instruments that are going to draw me away from where I ought to be spiritually. If they're going to Draw me into a sin, into a situation that's going to hurt me and hurt people important to me, hurt the cause of Christ, disappoint my God, grieve the Holy Spirit If my right eye and my right hand are going to draw me into that, then I need to cut them off. Would you agree with me pulling your eyeball out of your head is pretty extreme? Cutting your right hand off is pretty extreme. I've told this before, but shortly after I got saved, I I mentioned two fellows, Terry uh um mus uh Arden Musselman and Terry Wilcox, two young men that discipled me. kind of took me in when I first got saved. Um uh Arden worked was a nurse in the emergency room. He came, he taught the Sunday school class. He came in a little late one Sunday morning, came flying in the last minute And he had to work over in the emergency room. He said a fellow came in that night, had literally tried to gouge his eye out of his head. He was on drugs and somehow he had come across this verse and in his Demented state had literally tried to do that. So what the Lord is saying here is it's pretty extreme. If there is something in my life If there is something in my life that is going to cause me, in this case, to commit heart adultery, if it's going to enable me. To sin against God. If there's something in my life that's going to enable me to sin against God, he's saying here, I need to be willing To get it out of my life, remove it from me, even if it is extreme. Now, no matter how valuable it may be, if it is hurting me spiritually If it is drawing me into sin, I need to be willing to separate that thing from my life, no matter how valuable it may be, no matter how important it may be. Hey, it might not even be sin in and of itself. Is there anything sinful about having a right eyeball? No That's a good thing. There's nothing sinful about having a right hand. But if it's going to cause me to sin, particularly into this matter of adultery, which is so devastating I need to be willing to go to extremes to eliminate that from my life so that I am not drawn into that and I do not do things that are harmful for me. It is possible for good things To be bad for me. It's possible for a good thing to draw me away from God's will for my life, to draw me away and end up being involved in things I do not want to be involved in. Now, uh I put it this down. I like this quote as I was studying through here. It is better to be handicapped in life than to be impure in my heart. It's better to be handicapped. He says it's better to go without an eyeball, go out of the right hand, uh than it is to uh be cast into hell, get involved in this sin. And we'll talk about all that there Now, obviously, how many people agree with me? I don't think he's saying we should take this literally. You agree with me? He's not saying that. Uh there's several reasons we've come to the conclusion he's not doesn't mean this literally Uh first of all, if I fuck my right eye off and I chop my right hand off, I still got a left eye and a left hand. Right? So that in and of itself isn't going to solve the problem Um, if uh I chop uh my right hand off, suppose I chop both my hands off and pull my eyeballs out, which I guess I would have to pull my eyeballs out first Because I wouldn't be able to do that if I chopped my hands off first, right? Um but if suppose I got rid of both my eyes and both my hands, hey, my heart's still evil. I can still think of evil things Right? Follow what I'm saying? You can be a blind. If he meant this literally, a blind paralegic would not be able to sit Right, because he uh he wouldn't be able to see and he wouldn't be able to use his hand. So obviously the Lord's not saying we literally pull our eye out and chop our hands off, but he is saying A number of things. There's a number of lessons here. I want to give these to you. I want to encourage you to jot these down. I think these are very, very helpful lessons. And it helped me as I went through and studied this, pulled these out. I see this passage here uh it it breaks it down for me and helps me to see what he's saying here a whole lot better. So let me give you, I have about five or six lessons to learn from this, and uh I think they're very helpful. Number one, I put this down We must understand the destructive nature of sin. We must understand the destructive nature of sin. As I said He is giving some extreme solutions to the problem of a sinful heart. Whenever we have a trivial view about sin, Wait a minute, let me back up. Let me rephrase that. A trivial view of sin is a chief cause of ungodliness. If I view sin as just trivial and I have a trait view of sin, I don't take it seriously, I'm going to end up living a godless life. You talk to people that you know are out there in blant and sin, living in blant and sin, they'll s you'll hear stuff like this. Well, what's wrong with this? Oh, there's nothing wrong with that. It's not that big of a deal. And they're living and doing things, making decisions that are very, very sinful and very, very destructive, yet they just don't see the seriousness of it. And we have got to, the Lord is telling us here, we have got to understand how destructive sin is and take it seriously. Most of the Bible history, you go back in the history books of the Bible, most of them are illustrating how horrendously destructive sin is. You get into Genesis and just for sake of illustration, you don't get very far in and you find Cain Taking a very light view, a very nonchalant view of offering a correct sacrifice to God. God had obviously made it very, very clear the sacrifice was to be a blood sacrifice. Cain brings fruit of the field, eggplants, and stuff like that. And uh he offers it instead I was somebody gave me an e uh Karen gave me an eggplant for church. She wasn't making a sacrifice, uh, but uh it may end up being a burnt sacrifice. I don't know. But uh anyway, Cain takes a very trivial view, very nonchalantly, disobeys God And God refuses his sacrifice. And what does that lead to? He murders his brother. I mean, you say, ah, what's the big deal whether it's exactly the way God said or not. Hey, it is a big deal. We've got to understand sin is terrible. And all through the history books of the Bible you find uh kings and and uh uh soldiers and farmers and different people that have a light view of sin and they pay devastating prices for that. Um We must never underestimate how horrendous sin is. We must never underestimate how destructive sin is. We had mentioned this Just recently, I forget what message or somewhere, but we're saying how that before while we're being tempted or we're being thinking about or we're going into a sinful act and leading into it We'll justify it, we'll minimize it. It's not that big a deal. It's not that much. Ah, I can't see it as wrong. Ah, this one time, you know, just now. And then afterward, and all the consequences come falling down on us and we And we stop and say, what in the world was I thinking? Why did I think that this wouldn't be serious? I'll tell you why. We don't see the destructiveness of sin. We don't see how horrendous it really is You say, well, you know, how do you see what the way sin is? I tell you, the best picture of how terrible sin is, is to look at the cross of Jesus Christ. And that, the cross, is the consequence, the ultimate consequence of sin, when Jesus Christ took all our sins on Himself, and how God responded to that. In pouring out his judgment and the wrath of God coming on Jesus Christ and suffering eternal hell in that period of time on the cross. Brother, when you and I are tempted, when you and I are being drawn away into something that we know is wrong, we know God clearly forbids And we sense our heart being drawn. One thing we ought to do is stop and say, wait a minute, sin is destructive. And look at the cross and say, that's what that sin costs Jesus Christ in my place. Um one of the most dangerous things we do, man does, is to play with sin It's to make light of sin. And so, as I look here, and the Lord says, hey, if your right eye is going to offend you, if your right eye is going to stumble you and mess you up and get you involved in sin, pluck it out. Good grief. Chop your hand off Sin is so horrendous. Sin is so horrendous. It's better to have a, lose an eye and lose a hand than get sucked into it. And so do you see here what he's saying? The seriousness of what sin is, how destructive it is? We've got to realize it. In fact, he's pointing out here the very thought, in this case, the very thought of adultery is deeply condemned. He says, you've already committed that in your heart. It's devastating in its consequences. He says it's better to lose your eye. And so the seriousness of sin. So the first lesson I see in these two verses is we need to understand the destructive nature of sin, how serious it really is. I got a second lesson here I put down. Number two, we must uh understand the importance of our soul's destiny Now he ties something in here. Notice in verse 29 at the last part He says, it's more profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not that thy whole body should be cast into Hell. And then he makes almost that identical statement in verse number 30. He says, uh, for it's more profitable it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not that thy whole body should be cast in to hell. Now he's talking about now he's not saying that if you lust after a woman uh to commit adultery with your heart, you're going to go to hell. He is saying that that sin could keep a person from trusting Christ. You follow what I'm saying? Committing that sin doesn't send me to hell, but if I want that sin, I don't want God to save me because I want to live in this sin or whatever, it could keep me from. And the point he's making here is, I believe, is we must be willing to do whatever is necessary to secure my soul's salvation. He's emphasizing here the importance of knowing that we're saved. Anything that comes between me and my soul salvation is my enemy. If it's a person, if it's an object, if it's an activity, if it's a sin, and that is between me and trusting Christ as my Savior then that thing immediately becomes my enemy, even if it's good in and of itself. Um, if even if it's like my eye or my hand, there's nothing bad in and of themselves. But if that comes between Me and salvation, I've got to put that aside. Anything that and and by the way, uh Wednesday night, I would assume most of us here claim to be saved. Amen. No the Lord is Savior. We've got that settled. You say, preacher, praise the Lord. I've already trusted Christ. That's a settled matter. I know the Lord is saving me. I know I'm on my way to heaven. Well let me take that same thought and apply it to you and I as Christians Though we cannot lose our salvation, we can get out of God's will for our lives. And I want to suggest to you: anything that comes between me and fulfilling God's will for my life must go. If there is something in my possession or something that is causing me to disobey God and draw even if it's good in and of itself. Nothing wrong with it, but it's drawing me away from my God's will for my life, then it is my enemy. And I cannot tolerate, I cannot let that drag me down. What happens if I as a Christian And uh I'm trying to live for God. Would you agree with me that that living for God and being in his will includes witnessing to lost people? Would you agree with me on that? Obviously. It's one of our primary purposes on life as a Christian is to be a witness. We're the light of the world. So if that being in the will of God It includes, and there's a major aspect of that, is being a witness to the loss, what happens if I get out of the will of God? Then I'm not the what? I'm not the witness I ought to be. Right? And if I'm not the witness I ought to be, some unsaved person is likely not going to hear the gospel And there's a very real possibility if they don't if I'm not the witness if I'm not in the will of God, I'm not the witness I ought to be, they don't hear the gospel, there's a very real possibility they could die in their sin Now each person is responsible for their own decision whether to accept or trust accept or not accept Jesus Christ their Savior. But as a Christian, I have responsibility to be in the will of God so I can be a witness and hopefully they get saved. Ezekiel was warned strongly by God that if somebody was lost and he did not warn them that their blood was what? On his hands. So my point is this. It is vitally important that you and I as Christians, that you and I, first of all, make sure of our salvation. Anything that keeps us from salvation is my enemy. Nothing in this world is worth going to hell for. Not eyesight, not functionality, not not one person, nothing in the world is worth going to hell for. And once I'm saved, there's nothing in this world that is worth getting out of the will of God for. I must, anything that's going to draw me out of the will of God, anything that's going to hinder my testimony, anything that's going to grieve my Savior is my enemy. Everything in life is secondary to number one, my soul salvation, and number one, my soul salvation, number two, my heart's purity. Being in the will of God. Can anybody here quote Mark 836? Mark 836. Anybody What shall it profit a man if he gain the whole world and lose his That verse is saying the exact same principle what the Lord's saying here. Nothing in the world is luth worth losing our soul over. Nothing in the world is worth losing my testimony over. over. And uh so the importance of our soul's destiny, our salvation, I put this down. It's better to be an invalid than to go to hell Better go to heaven, an invalid, than go to hell, be an athletic hero. It's better to be an invalid than to have an impure heart. Now remember the context is verse 28. Not committing adultery in my heart. And what he's saying is, if something, if my eye or my hand or whatever is going to make my heart impure, I have got to get rid of it It is vitally, oh, let me touch on this matter of hell. This is kind of on an aside. But um Jesus Christ was not Jesus Christ was very bold, I should say, in his preaching on hell. He preached more about hell than he did about heaven. He elaborated more. When he did preach on hell, he elaborated more about what hell was like than he did about what heaven was like. And I want to suggest to you, we desperately need preaching and warning about hell from our pulpits in America. I agree with old Bob Jones Sr. , I think it was that said that. It might have been Billy Sunny, one of those old-time preachers. I agree with them wholeheartedly that there's nothing a wrong with America That a bunch of pulpits set on fire from God, blasting the reality of hell, couldn't solve in America. Jesus Christ was a hell fire and brimstone preacher. Listen to what he's saying here. We need some, we vitally, it is vitally necessary that we warn men about hell from our pulpits, but let me take another step out on our doorsteps. We ought to be out there on the doorsteps and in our neighborhoods and and going through our community, going and telling people, warning them about hell. Suppose there was some sort of disease that was Sweeping through. Don't you think people would be outwarning the neighbors? Don't you think people would be out warning uh my wife said I didn't hear it. She heard on the news that apparently this past weekend that there was somebody who was breaking in all through here. Did anybody hear that in the news? Was it nineteen robberies or something uh going on and they were warned and make sure stuff is locked up but listen going to hell is worse than getting robbed We ought to be warning people. And that's what the Lord is doing here. Out on from the pulpit, in our Sunday school classes, on the doorsteps, in our homes. That's what Jesus did. He warned people about hell. Now let me throw this out. We've got to be tactful about it. You know, you don't knock on someone's door, you're going to hell. Uh you're probably not going to be very effective Right? We gotta be tactful about it. We ought to be diligent about it. We ought to in compassion and very wisely we need to warn people of this I like that I came up with a bunch of great quotes on preparing this. I impressed myself. And so I don't know if I'm going to impress you, but I like this quote. Our silence on the reality of hell. conveys a very dangerous message. Follow what I'm saying? If a preacher doesn't ever say anything about hell, what is he conveying to the people about that? It's not that big a deal. You don't have to worry about it too much. You know, it's not a it's not an issue. If a church and Christians never warn anybody, never say a word to lost people about hell, what message are we conveying to those people? Well, you're okay, it's fine. Don't worry about it. If it was a it should if it was important, I'd make a big deal about it. You know what I find as I study Jesus' messages? He made a big deal about it. He preached it and he confronted people and he warned people about it. And uh he conveyed a very strong message. And these pat these two verses here are some of the strongest statements he makes. He says, hey, it's better lose your eye, lose your hand, and go to hell. And so my second statement was this: the importance of our souls' destiny. Let me give you a couple more here, real quick. We'll finish this section up. I put this one down. We must make a priority of despising sin Man alive, if losing my eyeball is better than getting involved in this sin, then I hate that sin because I don't want to lose my eyeball Take your Bible if you would keep your place here, but come back to Psalm 97, verse 10. A great verse here along these lines. We just got to get to the place where we despise sin. Now we're not talking about so much running dis everyone else's sin. But despising sin where? In our own lives. Notice he doesn't say go pluck someone else's eyeball out. Oh, what did I say? Psalm 97. Turn over there. And look with me at verse number 10. Ye that love the Lord, how many folks here love the Lord tonight and say, Preacher, I love the Lord? God bless you. My hand's raised. I say that. I love the Lord. Look what it says. Ye that love the Lord, what? Hate evil! We've got to despise sin more than we love our own eyeballs, more than we love our hands. I want to suggest to you we've got to hate sin more than we love our own pleasures. And our own self-will and our own desire. We've got to get to the point where we despise that sin. And loving the Lord is a vital aspect in the hating sin. I think every one of us here, we say, I love my child very much. You know what? We love our children. You know what we hate? That which would hurt our children. Uh we're praying for brother Pi uh brother Fluge. Um Pim Fluge uh down in Dominican, his little daughter Brianna's rain can Uh I can tell you definitely and anybody that knows them or s and follows what their s the reports are getting back, you know one thing, Brother Tim loves little Brianna very, very much And it doesn't take you long to figure out Brother Tim hates cancer very, very much. That cancer has messed his kid up Now listen, that same principle applies. If we love the Lord, we're going to hate sin because it is sin that Jesus got on the cross for. He suffered for our sin. And we love the Lord, we hate sin. And we've got to get to the point where we hate sin more than we love this our eyeballs and hands and the things of this world and the pleasures that that we get, we gotta say, no, I w I'd rather I I would rather do without these things and please God and not be involved in sin That engage in sin and have all these things. So uh the more I know and understand the Lord, the greater I love Him And the more I know and understand about how awful sin is, the more I hate it. Number four, let me give you my fourth statement. I want to wind this down real quick. Number four, I put this down. Understand God's divine plan for our lives. As I look at these two verses where he says, if your right eye offend thee, pluck it out, cast it from me. If my right hand offend thee, cut it off, cast it from thee. I look at that, I come to the conclusion, it's God's will for our hearts and lives to be pure. If he's telling us to take such extreme measures to guard against sin, then that tells me it's God's will that my heart and my mind be pure before God. That is his will. Our highest goal in life, I believe, ought to be to have pure hearts. To live pure lives, to please God, not just with my outward, but in the very thoughts and recesses of my heart and mind. Every aspect of my being Pleases God. Living pure lives and having a pure heart. That's God's will. I believe we need to teach that to the coming generation. I I don't mean to be critical of school teachers. I know we have some school teachers and there's some good people in our public school systems, but I can guarantee you this, they're not taught they're not being taught to keep their hearts and minds pure I guarantee you that is not a major emphasis in our school. And you get into the state university, I double guarantee you They are not being taught that. This coming generation in America has to be taught it is God's will for their hearts and minds to be pure. And that's what uh you know if the Lord says cut your eye off cut cut your hand off and pull your eye out to stay to guard against sin, that tells me God feels pretty strongly he wants us to be be pure. I put number five down. I do I wrote this statement down. Understand the decisions that must be made. Now stop and think about this for a minute and this kind of got me. Alright, here's a fella. We'll just have Some hypothetical guy. And he's constantly struggling with looking on a woman to lust after her. He's committing adultery in his heart. He doesn't want to do that. He knows that's wrong. So he says, for whatever reason He s comes to the conclusion, the way to have victory over this, the way to keep my heart and mind pure, is to cut my eye out. cut my hand off. Do you agree with me? That would be a very, very difficult decision. Now the Lord's not telling us, we said, he's not telling us to literally do that But what he is saying, he's saying, this is a very, very difficult decision that needs to be made. That's not something you just flippantly do. This is a major alteration to my life. This may be, as far as functioning in this world, may be a severe setback. I might lose my job if I own I can't see, if I can't function with the right hand, if I'm a truck driver, I can't shift I mean, he's making a very, very difficult decision here. His life is being altered dramatically for the sake of being pure in his heart and mind. That's a tough decision. You know, I found out, I've learned in my life, and I've seen it in others, that spiritual growth often requires making very difficult decisions Sometimes, if I'm going to be the Christian God wants me to be, God saved me to be, if I'm going to be a Christian, sometimes I've got to make some tough decisions, decisions that may alter the way I live my life. If I'm going to be that person God wants me to be. What I'm trying to say this is this having a pure heart and growing spiritually doesn't just happen. I've got to make the decision sometimes very, very difficult decisions if I'm going to be the Christian God wants me to be, if I'm going to guard my heart and life and my testimony is going to be pure and clean. Sometimes I've got to make tough decisions. It is not an easy thing to decide I'm going to pull my eye out. That is tough And I've found that Christians who are not willing to make difficult decisions, Christians that are not willing to do the hard things in life, generally are not going to grow. They're not going to be that strong Christian that God intends to Last of all, number six, I put this one down. We must understand our absolute dependence upon the Holy Spirit. If I'm going to have victory over this issue here and my heart is going to be pure, then I need the Holy Spirit of God to help me. Because this old sinful flesh does not want to mortify itself. My eye does not want to cut itself out. My hand does not want to cut itself off. If I'm gonna make I'm gonna have to make some difficult decisions, make some alterations to my life so that my heart and li mind are pure. And I need God to help me. Let me give you a verse to go along with that, and then uh we end with this. Romans chapter eight, if you would turn there And I want us to look at verse number twelve, Romans chapter eight and verse twelve. Romans, give everybody a chance to find it. Look at verse number 12, Romans 8. He says this therefore, brethren, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live after the flesh. Alright, we don't want to give in to sinful desires of the flesh. Look what he says. For if ye live after the flesh, ye shall die. But if ye through the Spirit do what? Mortify the deeds of the flesh. Anybody want to take a shot? What does the word mortify mean? Anyway, what does that mean? Anybody? Put something to death. Somebody says, I'm mortified. Uh uh, you know, uh that doesn't have anything to do with this. But um The word mortify itself, particularly as it's used here, has the idea of putting it to death. He has the idea of pulling the eyeball out, cutting the hand off, putting it to death. I'm getting it out. It's not a factor in my life anymore If ye through the Spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall live. I believe what he's telling us here, tying it into what Jesus said in Matthew chapter 5. If I'm going to make that tough decision, I'm going to have to make some changes or some things, maybe even good things in my life, and in and of themselves are not wrong. In fact, they would be very helpful under normal circumstances, but they're hurting me. They're causing me to stumble. And I've got to get these things out of my life. The Bible tells us here that it is through the Spirit I am able to do those things. When you and I got saved, the Spirit of God moved inside our bodies. And we have an unlimited power source Dwelling ver uh within us. I am not a big fan of all this superhero stuff in the movies and all that. That something about that just bothers me. That's just me Maybe I'm jealous. I don't know. But um but something about I don't know. But I'm here to tell you, that's all fantasy and make believe. I'm here to tell you we've got the Holy Spirit of God dwelling within us And there is nothing that God expects us to do or asks of us or that we need to do to live for God that the Holy Spirit of God cannot enable us to do. So as God leads in my life and I'm struggling with different areas and I know there's some heart sins, in this case, heart adultery And I and there's only one way I can have victory or that there's one way to cut that thing off and shut that thing down is to make some very, very difficult, maybe life changing decisions. You say, you know, I don't know that I have it in me. I'm able to do that. I'm Well, we've got the Holy Spirit of God that dwells in us. And He is able to He He is He has the power to enable us to do what we need to do, to be the people God intends for us to be. Follow what I'm saying? I hope this was helpful. As I study this, I I see these two verses very, very differently than what I initially did I believe God will help us. When we get to the point, I want to be right with God. I want to be what I want to be the Christian God saved me be more than anything else in the world. Whatever it may cost me to be that Christian God wants me to be, I'm willing to pay it And when we're at that point, then the Holy Spirit will step in and help us. There's a fire, there is a fire of sin burning in every one of our hearts. And we must not let any fuel near that fire. Where no wood is, fire goes out. What we need to do is keep our hearts with all diligence and do not allow them to be inflamed with the sins that are touched here. And that may mean make some serious, serious decisions in our life and some very, very serious changes. But God will lead us and God will help us. So let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord is a strong passage here, and uh I pray you would use it to help us grow. I pray that a crowd on Wednesday night, myself included, we would be willing and we would desire to do whatever is necessary to be the Christians you intend to be. for us to be to get whatever out of our life that's hurting us that we would be willing to do that. Whether it's an electronic gadget or an activity or a hobby, whatever it may be That you'd help us be willing to make the hard decisions to be the Christians you intend for us to be. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, preacher, you know, the Spirit of God is your preaching and we're thinking over these things? The Spirit of God's touch my heart. And there are some areas in my life that really need to be reprioritized There's some areas in my life that I really need to readjust that I can guard my heart and that I can be that Christian. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Yes, the Spirit of God has touched on something God bless you. And even as I was preparing us, the Lord was dealing with my heart. And God will help us. It's not always easy. Some of these things we got to do are not always easy. They're always right. And God honors it and blesses us. Father, I pray you'd bless now. A good number of hands raised. Help us, Lord, to follow through and do what needs to be done in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed