Would turn in your Bibles. Um I know we're studying Ecclesiastes on Sunday night, but um I really wanted to preach this message this morning, and all I got to was the introduction. And so I want to pick up where we left off this morning and try and bring the rest of this. Um my heart for uh several months anticipating coming up to this point and um this is a real milestone for my wife and i um being here. I never dreamed and I'll probably say this the several times, but as a young preacher boy in nineteen eighty five Uh in October of 1985, God called me to preach. I surrendered it. I think he'd been calling me the whole time. I just was a knucklehead and didn't see it. And I had my plans how I was going to serve him. And 1985 I surrendered to God's call to preach. And uh You know, as a young fellow in a situation like that, you have these dreams and you anticipate and you just, you know, just dream of how things are going to be and and um you know where this is going to end up and how it's going to turn out. And I can honestly say that Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, uh to me personally, and I believe I'm speaking for my wife, has been so far beyond anything I ever dreamed that God would ever do, and the opportunities that God has given uh all these many years that this church has made possible And so I'm just so grateful to the Lord. And so I wanted to share with this with you. If you would come to Hebrews chapter 12. I read this passage this morning. And I just want to zero in on verse number two. What we're using for our motto, we have all these years, chapter two, the first couple words, it says this: looking unto Jesus. the author and finisher of our faith. And that has been, as I shared this morning, that has been our motto from the beginning. God pressed that on my heart heavily. I was actually out in Bible time and if I remember I was printing ribbons. And that passage would come to mind. Summer was winding down. We were getting ready for the next. And that passage came to mind. And I've tried to make looking unto Jesus to be more than just a motto. but actually a uh a reminder and a um uh what's the word I want a a uh to provoke me to keep our eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's pray and I'll share some more thoughts with you. Father in heaven, I ask that you'd bless our time and your word this evening. Lord, I trust that this is uh you were leading and directing and In this way, to bring these thoughts, I pray you challenge us. Lord, we want you to be glorified. We want the church to be stronger. We want our witness to be more effective And so we ask that you would stir us and challenge us and help us. Lord, my prayer for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is for a great sweeping revival. And we'd love you like we never loved you before. And we would be devoted to you and serve you with all our hearts. I pray, God, that you would call out missionaries and preachers and godly soul winners in all walks of life. From our young children all the way through, speak to hearts, call people to your ministry. Lord, call folks to nations around the world. We're asking you to do what we cannot do. is make us into the people you designed us to be, in the church you designed us to be. Father, I yield my will to you again tonight. I present my body anew With all my heart, I ask you to fill me again with your Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. One thing I failed to announce is uh our taking a trip to Philadelphia in October 11th through 13. I've got a great trip plan. I meant to mention that. And uh there's sign up list if you have any questions see Becky. She can fill you in on the details there Alright, this morning we looked at looking unto Jesus, and we pointed three things out about this. First of all, we noticed that phrase there, looking unto Jesus, that Jesus is the focus of our faith. And I like the idea there, as I mentioned this morning, of that word looking has the idea of looking away from everything else and looking solely and exclusively to the Lord Jesus Christ. Then we pointed out not only is our focus to be on Jesus Christ, but Jesus Christ is the finest example of faith If you want to know what it means to live by faith, if you want an object lesson of what it means to live by faith, you will find no greater object lesson than the Lord Jesus Christ. Now Hebrews chapter 11, we got all these great men and women who did amazing things, had faith in God, through faith did this, through faith, did that, through faith did this. And as great as these people were, when we come to the Lord Jesus Christ, nobody excels or exceeds the Lord Jesus Christ when it comes to living by faith. He is our finest example. And then we said that Jesus Christ is the finisher of our faith. When we put our faith in him We put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ, regardless of how strong or weak our faith may be. If it's in Jesus Christ, I think I'll put it this way, everything's going to be okay. Our faith is in Jesus Christ. Everything's going to be okay. We have a little song we used to sing with the kids on the bus. Everything's alright. In my father's house, in my father's house, in my father's house, everything's all right. In my father's house, where there's sing it with me. Joy, joy Joy. And when our faith is in the Lord Jesus Christ, everything's going to be alright. He finishes it and he brings it to a head. So I said all that to try and get to this point here When a church like Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church or any other church, when we are looking unto Jesus When we have turned we're we've taken our eyes off of everything else and we're looking unto Jesus, knowing that He is our example, He is our model He is the finisher of our faith. When we do that, certain things are going to be true about the church Now, some churches, they're looking to Jesus, but they are still got their eyes on other things. We live in a would you agree with me? We live in a strange day and age Very strange day. And I mean I'm talking about within Christianity. Strange things happening, strange things being done And I think what we're finding within some of the, even our independent fundamental Baptist circles, we have folks that are looking to Jesus But they haven't looked off. They haven't looked away from everything else. And they see they're also looking out there at the world. And the things of the world are enamoring them. The things of the world are capturing their attention. And so what they're doing is rather than staying focused on Christ exclusively They look at the world and then they start bringing some of these things about the world into the church. And you start seeing some worldly music coming in, you start seeing some worldly practices, you start a lack of separation because We're not looking away from all else and simply looking to the Lord Jesus Christ. And so what will be true of a church when they're looking unto Jesus. I put a few things down and I and I don't think these will be long. I just want to share them with you. Number one, I put this down. When a church is looking unto Jesus Number one, they give preeminence to Jesus Christ. Preeminence to Jesus Christ. Now, question: What do I mean by preeminence? What does that mean? Somebody talk to me tonight. What are we talking about? Preeminence to Jesus Christ. Alright, he's in the forefront. That's good. Anyone else want to take a shot? Uh he's a priority? That would fall within that. I use some of these big words sometimes just to remind you how highly intelligent I are. And um somebody else that I see another hand, preeminence Okay, he's overall, he's he's controlling all that. Anybody else? Preeminence means, uh this is my definition, basically is to be lifted above everything else. He is preeminent. He is the highest exalt. He is the highest. He is the greatest. He is exalted above anything and everything else. And when a church is looking unto Jesus, Jesus Christ will be preeminent in that church. If you would turn to Colossians with me, and I want to give you some verses for each of these thoughts here this evening. Colossians chapter 1. And uh want to look at verse number eighteen. Colossians chapter one And look with me, if you would, at verse number 18. Paul, under the inspiration of God, is writing to the church at Colossi, and he says this in verse number 18. Well, let's back up a little bit. Let's go up to verse number 16. Speaking of Jesus Christ, he says, for by him, Jesus Christ Were all things created? You know, back in Genesis 1:1, and when it says that God created the heaven and earth, that referenced God, you know which person of the Godhead is being referenced there? Jesus Christ. He is the creator. By him, the Bible says, were all things created that are in heaven, that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers. All things were created by him and for him. Now look at this. And he is before all things And by him all things consist. That word consist means hold together. Now look at verse 18. And he is the head of the body, the church. Who is the beginning, uh who is the begin who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in him, that in all things he might have the what Preeminence. Jesus Christ is the head of the church. Jesus Christ is the head of the church. Pastor Leatherman is not the head of the church. Jesus Christ is. No past There is the head of the church Jesus Christ is the head of the church. He owns it. It's his body. And we are simply members of that. And he delegates authority to pastors to oversee the church. To be bishop is what it means to oversee the church. Make sure things stay in line and follow the word of God. But he's the head. He has preeminence. He is above everything else. We understand, I mentioned this this morning. We understand that Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church is not Leatherman's Church. It's not the Deacon's Church. It's Jesus' church. It's his body. I mentioned this a number of times over the years. A church, our church, should be Christ centered. Everything we do, every activity, every event that takes place here Every lesson, every song we sing should be focused on the Lord Jesus Christ. He is to be preeminent. I get advertisements sometimes. And uh I remember one early on when I was here, I got this advertisement, and I'm telling you, it's it it was advertising printing literature for us. This is before we knew about Beacon or anything, but They print literature and they had these sample brochures that you could just get a template and you just fill in the church name and put a couple pictures in and everything else is laid out for you. And one of them said this. It said on the front of the brochure had the name of the church, and it said this: a family-centered church. Now at first I saw that and I thought, well that sounds pretty good. Families are that's important. Families are important to the Lord, families are important to that. But as I looked at it, I thought that's not correct. Now this might sound bad, but hear me out. I don't want a family-centered church. We need to be a what? Christ-centered church. Because when Jesus Christ holds the place of preeminence in our church, then families can and will be what they ought to be. And everything falls into place. And so if we're looking unto Jesus, we're looking off from everything else, and we're focused on the Lord Jesus Christ, He is going to be preeminent He is going to be exalted. He is going to be honored. He is going to be praised. He is going to be worshipped in the church Now, is it wrong to honor people? And we bring in Dr. Smith and others, Brother Hommel are the ones that come to mind right now. And man, we speak about him and say, man, he's a great man, man of God, God's power's on him. And I think that's appropriate to recognize that and honor that to some extent, but we do not worship that We understand that anybody that is anything for the cause of Christ is what they are because of Jesus Christ He's the one that does that. Years ago, and again I mentioned these a number of times over the years, but years ago I was at a camp over in West Virginia. There was a very, very famous preacher there, and a man that God used to help me a lot. He had a profound impact in my life. And uh they were introducing them, and the fellow that was introducing them made this statement. Many of you heard me say this before. He made this statement, and he referenced the pastor's name. He said, Dr. So-and-so, it's a great man. He says, now, I don't worship him. But then he said this. It's so close though, you can't tell the difference. And I'm telling you, my my hackles got up on that one. As much as I appreciated that man's ministry, and much as I was grateful for what God did, there ought to be no confusion as to who we worship. There should be no, there should uh it shouldn't be so close you can't tell the difference. It ought to be distinct. We worship God and Him alone Jesus Christ in him alone. And I tell you, that kind of thinking is going to get us off track. I'm challenging Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Let's look unto Jesus and in doing that, let's keep Jesus Christ preeminent. in this church in everything we do. I appreciate our songs. I appreciate our song ministry, a hymn book. But one thing we need to make sure every one of these songs, every hymn book, every special, every choir is all focused on exalting the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm grateful for our Sunday school teachers, and I believe we're doing this, but it is vital that we stay focused and diligent in that all our lessons are pointing people to the Lord Jesus Christ. All our sermons are pointing people to to the Lord Jesus Christ. All our activities are pointing people to the Lord Jesus Christ. He is preeminent. Friday night they had a teen activity. Miraculously nobody was killed or died or seriously injured. But I know one thing took place. There was a challenge to those young people to to to look and and put their faith in Jesus Christ. We had activity with the juniors yesterday, I'm telling you. I had more fun on that thing yesterday. I was so bore out. I went home and collapsed practically. We had a blast. Those kids, I had two girls, Maddie, and who was the other girl with me? Georgia Ray, uh Bean, right? Those girls were on the four-wheel with me, one right here, one right there. They screamed at at damaging decimals. For an hour on that four-wheeler. I'm telling you, my ears were deaf when I was done. They screamed bloody murder the whole way. And I think it was Pastor Matt's fault because he was right behind me making threatening gestures to them I tell you what, we got up on top of that mountain overlooking uh the the m the scenery there was just incredible. And what we tried to do is point those kids to Jesus Christ. What I'm trying to say is this, we're looking to Jesus, he has a preeminence. In everything we do, everything we do, everything we do. Jesus, Jesus, Jesus. One of these days, a hundred years from now, every one of us are going to be in his presence, all of us that know the Lord as Savior And you know what we're going to do? We're going to bow down and worship Jesus Christ. And that's what we need to do now. And so we're when we're When we're looking unto Jesus, he has the preeminence. If you're taking notes, jot this down. When we're looking unto Jesus, we prioritize the local church. We prioritize the local church. You say, where do you get looking unto Jesus, prioritizing the local church? Do you know what the church is? It's the body of Christ. The church is the body of Christ. This says that we are his body. We are his representation here on this earth. I don't know how in the world you can worship And exalt and pri and uh uh make Jesus Christ preeminent and then neglect his body. Neglect his church. The church is very important. If you would turn to Ephesians chapter number five You're in Colossians, go back towards the front of your Bible a couple pages there. You get to Ephesians chapter 5. The Bible holds the local church in very high priority in the life of the believer. The local church is a is the body of Christ. It is a body made up of believers, but it's the body of Christ. Look at verse number 25 in Ephesians chapter 5. Now, this is talking about the home One of my favorite verses is verse 22. Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands. I've always liked that verse a lot. But look at verse 25. Husbands love your wives. I like that one too. But look at the rest of the verse. Husbands love your wives. Now look what he says. Even as Christ also, what? Love the church. Jesus Christ loves the church and gave himself for it. Jesus Christ loves the local church. Oh, I had somebody just this past week, I think it was. Who was with me? Dale, were you with me? We had a guy this past week. He says, oh, he goes, I I know the Lord, I know the Lord, but I'm just not big on the charge. I tried to talk to him a little bit. By the way, church is important. More important is knowing you're saved, but that doesn't mean the church is not important. I tried to talk to him about the importance of the local church, knowing he's saved, knowing he's safe, but the importance of the church, Jesus Christ loves the church. He gave himself for it. And so I would caution anyone and everyone to uh I would caution you about speaking ill of the body of Christ. Oh, I don't have time for church. Wait a minute. Jesus Christ gave himself for this church. When he was suffering and dying on that cross, he was dying for our salvation. He was dying and giving himself for the formation of a church. The base of the church. He bought it with his blood, the Bible says. I don't know about you, but I don't know about you, but I wouldn't want to speak ill of something that Jesus Christ loves so dearly I wouldn't want to be negligent of something that Jesus Christ speaks so dearly. I tell you, I try to point this out, I didn't this morning, but I try to regularly point out when we have folks visiting, they're all up here on vacation at Deep Creek Lake You know, people pay lots of money to come up here and vacation, and we live here and complain about the weather. But um when folks are up here vacationing and they're in church, I say, praise the Lord for that. You don't take vacation from church, and we that's a good testimony when they're faithful to church on vacation. And so when we're looking under Jesus, we Jesus has the preeminence, but the church is prioritized. Look at verse 25. Christ gave himself for the church. It's incredibly important to him. Look at verse 26. That he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of the water by the word. Now that washing of the water by the Word is speaking to the Word of God, speaking about the Word of God. And God Jesus Christ works in the church. and in and through the ministries of the church to transform us into the people he saved us to be Listen, I am very grateful for my col Bible college education. I learned a lot. It was great. It opened up doors. I don't I wouldn't be where I am now if it If it wasn't for my Bible college education, I'm very, very grateful for it. By the way, I believe every young person ought to give one year of their life to Bible college. I really I thought I'd get more amens on that than uh But I really do. You ought to get a good independent King James Fundamental Baptist Bible College, get in there, give one year, and see how God leads and directs. But having said that, let me say this I've learned more about Jesus Christ in the local church than I did in Bible college. I've grown more spiritually through the ministries of the local church than I did through my Bible college classes. Now they're very helpful. Appreciate them. But I'm telling you, the church is the pillar and ground of the truth. And it is through the church that God works and moves in us. And I tell you, I uh I've seen it. I've been doing this a little while now. I've seen it, folks get out of church, and I've seen it, that spiritual growth starts to diminish. starts to go down. We had someone just uh uh just this week said uh uh they said, man, we need to get back in church. My wife was witnessing to a lady, talking to a lady, knows the Lord, and she goes, I've got to get back in church. Boy, it's taking its toll on us. My daddy was a truck driver Going through dark times before I was saved. And he said he said all week long, my heart's ache and my desire was to get back at church and get around God's people and get refreshed and recharged. And going for God. So we're looking unto Jesus. Jesus has the preeminence. The church is prioritized. Look at verse 27. Not only does he work through the church to change our lives, look at verse 27. That he might present it to himself a glorious church. Not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but if that should be holy and without blemish, one day the church is going to be presented to Jesus Christ. I tell you what, there's a great future in store for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, other churches. Great future when we as a church, now you say, how does that play out? I'm not sure. It's talking, I believe, about the uh marriage supper of the Lamb, no doubt. Um But uh one day we're gonna present it to Jesus Christ. Pure and holy. Won't that be an amazing thing? Can you imagine a church that has no sin in it? Pure and holy. No all sinners are transformed in the image of Christ. Nobody having roast preacher for lunch. Nobody complaining about how long the sermons are. Yeah, that'll be great. But the church has a great future. We're going to be presented to Jesus Christ. Won't that be an amazing time? And so Jesus is preeminent. The church is prioritized. Let me give you my next one here, real quick Number three, our purpose is to reach the lost. When we're looking unto Jesus, we are going to be our purpose, and looking under Jesus, we realize our purpose is to reach the lost. What did Jesus say to the disciples? He said, follow me. Follow me. Look at me. Hey, look at me. Look at me. Follow me. And I will make you fishers of men. I think it's difficult to look at the Lord Jesus Christ and not have a burden for the lost. I think it's difficult to be focused on Jesus Christ and committed to Him and diligently committed to Him and not doing all I can to reach others for the Lord Jesus Christ. Follow me, look at me, stay focused on me, follow me. And I will make you fishers of men. I believe the Great Commission is the heart of the Lord Jesus Christ. I believe the Great Commission, a church that's looking unto Jesus, the Great Commission will be the heart of that church. I appreciate what Brother Scott Hall said. He gave us a great compliment. When he was here a few weeks ago on Wednesday night, how many people remember? He said, uh how did he word it? He he said, everywhere you look, you see missions. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Missions, missions, missions, missions. You know what I think that is? I think that's the result of a church that's focused. On the Lord Jesus Christ. Doing all we can to reach the lost. Let me give you a fourth one. If you knew how fast I was going here, you'd be thrilled. Number four, uh, has an emphasis on the people that God loves. You say, preacher, God loves everybody. I know that's true, he does. But I think there are some folks that are especially dear to the heart of God. Anybody want to take a guess who those folks might be? Children. I think children are dear to the heart of God. I can't find anywhere in the Bible where Jesus told his disciples, have the faith of a of a an adult. What did he say? Have the faith of a what? Child. Why would he say that? Because there's something unique about a child. Simple faith in God. The greatest thing that can be said about a Christian, I believe, is they had faith in God. That's what God looks for. That's what he operates through, faith. And he says, little children have a faith of a child. And I am so thrilled to be a part of a church that has a heart for children. King's kids, master clubs, teens alive. I know you're teenagers, but you're still kids. Hey, I'll take a teenager praying for me any day. Amen? I say amen to that. And have a heart for children, heart for children. I believe God blesses a church that loves children, that reaches children, gets after them. Can you imagine, think with me, if in the next 20, if in the next, let's just say next 10 years, nobody under the age 18 would get saved. Suppose no children would get saved in the next ten years. What would the future of the church be? We'd be done. We'd be done. A church that has no heart for children, a church that has no outreach to children is a church that has no future. It's a church that has no future. So we're looking unto Jesus and said, suffer those little children to come unto me. Forbid them not. He rebuked them. For such is the kingdom of God. So, uh have a heart for children. Our bus ministry. I thank God for the bus ministry. I'm thrilled how our bus ministry started out. You've heard me tell this, but um, I like the story. But um uh we started we came in here, there's handful of people, we started winning souls. Remember, Kathy Started family we got one family saved. Some of you know would know the family. They got saved. They're rough and God got a hold of them. Then there was another family that got saved. Neither of them could drive. And um a couple of them were had fled from California. They were running from the law. They got out here in Garrett County, they ran from the law and they found the Lord. How about that? And they got saved and God changed around, but they couldn't drive, so we're picking them up in cars, and then we had more. We were sending people everywhere. Stu, were you in on that? Bringing in people in the cars And the whole time I've been saying, Lord, I want to have a bus ministry, but I'm not sure how to present it. We only have a few people and we need And uh finally one day one of the fellows said, Pastor, what if we would get a bus and bring them all in I said, what a great idea. That's what I was wanting to do the whole time. We started bringing in kids on buses. How many thousands of kids have been through here in 25 years on our bus ministry? I thank God for Andy. And Jerry and Connie and Stuart Melissa and others working and running these buses. I think that's dear to the heart of God And so when we're looking unto Jesus, we emphasize the people that are loved by the Lord. Two more, real quick. Number five, the preaching of God's word is central. The preaching of God's Word. 1 Corinthians 1, 18, 21, 23. He says, by the foolishness of preaching, the preaching, the preaching, I think the most important thing we do at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is preach the Word of God. I'll be the first to admit, are there other preachers better than the one you got? Absolutely, but nobody preaches a better subject than what we preach, the Word of God. The Word of God. And so when we're looking under Jesus, we preach the Word of God. By the way, we emphasize the doctrines of Scripture. Now you might not look at it this way, but the way I see I see Mount I see Bible Institute as vitally important to this church, where we ground people in the doctrines of the Word of God And teaching and preaching the Word of God. Let me give you one more, and then we'll quit. I think when we're looking unto Jesus, prayer will be our lifeline. Prayer will be our lifeline. We cannot overestimate the power of prayer. Jeremiah 33. 3, God's phone number. Call unto me. I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest none. Mount Lake, I believe this is a correct statement. I wouldn't say if I didn't think it was. But I believe this is a correct statement. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is still in existence today. Because of the prayers of a handful of people back in early 1993, late 92. Some of y'all were here. And the church was praying, God keep this thing open. God keep this thing open. God heard their prayers and answered their prayers. And here we are today. I'm telling you, you want to defeat the devil? Get on your knees and pray. And seek God. John O. Rice put it this way: all our failures are prayer failures. All our prayer failures are prayer failures. How many people want to see some of these young people, how many people want to see all these young people grow up and be young men and women for God, soul winners, preaching, serving God. We've got Pastor Matt. He'll love on them. He'll preach the devil out of them. But I tell you what we need to do. We need to pray for them. How many young people want us to pray for you? Want us to pray for you? Sure. I want you to pray for me Because our successes are going to be prayer successes. Amen? Amen. Looking under Jesus. This is my heart. This is my vision for the church, what I just listed for you. And I believe that's God's heart. Let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord, I hope this came across correctly. I pray you'd challenge us. To commit ourselves to make you preeminent in our homes, in our personal lives, in our church, in our ministry. And Lord, if you tarry, which I can't hardly imagine, another 25 years, I pray that whoever's standing behind this pulpit, Lord, is still preaching that old King James Bible Still preaching the old gospel of Jesus Christ, still winning souls, reaching kids. Lord, just keeping our eyes on you, saying focused on you. Revive us, Lord, and help us. I wonder with our heads bound and eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I know I'm saved. I know God saved me. But I really need to work at making him preeminent in my life. So many other things come in and crowd him out and push him aside, and he's no longer hold the place he should. And maybe this morning you need Christ back on the throne of your heart. Need Christ back preeminent in your life. You'd say, preacher, pray for me. I need the Lord Jesus Christ back where he needs to be. You'd appreciate prayers. Any like that by the uplifted hand preacher? I need Jesus Christ back in preeminence in my life again. God bless you. What about this matter of reaching the lost? He said, come unto me, I'll make you fishers of men. How many would say, preacher, I I need to be better at reaching the lost, being involved? And reach it unsaved with the gospel. Any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I really need to do better at that. God bless you. Hands all around. And then these other things we listed: prayer. All of this. Let's commit ourselves to it. Is there someone here tonight and say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm going to heaven? I know you don't want to go to hell. I know you don't. Say, preacher, pray for me. I need to be saved. I need to know that God has forgiven me and saved me from sin in hell. Any at all? Father, bless our invitation time now. As we go to Lord's Supper, I pray you'd search our hearts and try us. If, Lord, if there's an area there that needs attention, help us to be humble enough. to agree with you and make those adjustments and acknowledge that that area and and and correct it. And help us, Lord, we pray in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing the invitation