And um while you're finding your place there, uh let me have you go ahead um When you find Matthew 5, that's where we're going to start out, but uh if you have something stick in Proverbs chapter 6, mark that, and um Hebrews. chapter 13. And I don't know that we'll get these. We have a number of passages of scripture I want to get to. We'll just see how far we get. We'll be out by 9. 30, I promise. Uh we got a card here from the Fluge family, Brother Tim Fluge. You know, we sent a little care package down to Lil Brianna's dealing with the brain tumor. And just came in the mail today, says, Dear Pastor Leatherman and Church Family, thank you so much for the thoughtful and generous care package you sent our family. The kids are thoroughly enjoying all the toys and we really appreciate the toiletries, the gift card, cash. They're all getting put to good use. And most of all, we appreciate your prayers for our family during this time. May the Lord bless you all. Love Tim, Sharon, Clarissa, Brianna, and Michael Fluge. And so I thought that was a nice card and we're grateful that we could do just a little something and uh to encourage them. I think if I understood today what I was reading on the computer, I think um Brother Tim is in flight or heading down to Dominican Republic. He's preaching a youth rally down there. And uh I think if I understood correctly, Brianna is getting out of the hospital maybe this weekend for a few days. So we need to keep them in their prayers, but I wanted to read that. Matthew chapter 5 And um we're looking at the Sermon on the Mound. We're working our way through it slowly but surely. And uh Jesus, I just I keep emphasizing this because when we look at this passage And we go through these sections, um, we're kind of taking a rabbit trail off from the point the Lord was trying to make. If you remember, back there in chapter 5 and verse number 20, he's telling the folks that their righteousness has to exceed the righteousness of the Pharisees. And he's telling them, listen, just an outward show an outward um facade of Christianity, the surface Christianity is not going to cut it. That is not what God uh requires of us and that's what not what the law is dealing with. And he goes through, as we've been saying, he makes six statements here. um pointing out the fact that what the Pharisees were teaching, as long as you have the outward show and inwardly it it doesn't matter what you are and God's fine with that. He makes these six statements. And remember we looked at verse twenty one. He says, You have heard it is said of old But I say unto you In the first one he dealt with uh the matter of um killing someone, murder, and he says, No, no, no, God deals a whole lot more than that. So that's the point That just having a facade, just putting on a show doing outward is not enough. We have to be right inwardly in our heart and soul. Now having said that, we took each of these statements And we're gleaning what the Lord taught about that subject. And so we looked at the issue of anger there at pretty lengthy, verses 21 down through 26. Now we come to verse 27. And we begin, we actually last week, but we'll start looking at uh his next illustration that he gives saying that just outward conformity is not enough. There must be uh an inward transformation So look at verse 27. Ye have heard that it was said by them of old time, thou shalt not commit adultery. But I say unto you. That whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath hath committed adultery with her already in his heart. And if thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out and cast it from thee, for it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not that thy whole body should be cast into hell And if thy right hand offend thee, cut it off and cast it from thee, for it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not that thy whole body should be cast into hell. Now I outlined it this way, and we're only going to get to the first part uh tonight, but I outlined it this way. Verse 27, I put down the clarity of the command. It's very clear. Thou shalt not commit adultery. I put down verse 28, I uh made that the second point, and I put it this way, the conception of this sin. Where is it conceived? And this is where I get that from. If you notice, he has he uh uh whosoever looketh on a woman to lust hath her hath committed adultery with her. What's the next word? Already Ah, at this point it's already conceived. The sin has already taken place. And so the conception of adultery, the clear command concerning adultery. The conception of it, um, the idea is this, I think, and I'm getting way ahead of myself, but the idea I think is this. Uh when uh when when he looks on the woman to lust after her The sin of adultery is conceived. Then when they commit the act of adultery, that is the birth of the sin. You follow what I'm saying? It's in the heart and mind. He's already committed. It's already there. It's it's happened And then it's carried out. Then in verse 29 he says, And if thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out. Cast it from thee, for it is profitable to thee, for thy members. And he goes down through there, which we just read. And I think what he's saying here is uh or or verse uh Yeah, verse 29 and verse 30, I think what he's saying here is how completely thorough we must deal with this sin. So the clarity of the command, the conception of the sin, and how complete and thorough we have to deal with this. It cannot be tolerated. So let's pray, and uh we'll look start looking at these verses. Father, I ask you to bless now. Our study of this passage of Scripture, Lord, it's not pleasant. But we ask that you would help us. I ask that you would please, Lord, fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body anew. I yield my will to you. And I pray that you would speak through me and challenge us and help us in this old sinful world. that our hearts and minds would be clean and pure and right as you express here in your word. Help us, we pray. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Adultery is not a trivial matter. It's a very serious, serious subject. Infidelity in a marriage is not a trivial matter. It is not something to be made light of. I was reading uh as I was studying this a week or so ago, I was reading a st uh a survey that was done by the Center for Media and Public Affairs. And they surveyed Hollywood actors, producers, and writers, the ones that make the shows that are on TV. Every night that flood just about every single home in our country. And they surveyed them and they found that less than half Of the actors, producers, and writers of Hollywood shows, movies, TV shows, all that, less than half of them said that they thought adultery was a sin. In other words, the majority of the people that are making these shows that influence our nation see nothing wrong with adultery. It's not sinful. Um, I think this idea that they have on uh their view of adultery is reflected in the programming. Some of the biggest blockbusters on the moot Hollywood screen, the big screen, some of the biggest blockbusters glorify adultery and fornication right there bigger than life in front of the whole God and the whole world. And that's a reflection of their views of life. That is a reflection of uh their their perception of this this sin. The situation comedies just mock the idea. In fact, they laugh at it and many times celebrate The idea of adultery and fornication, and it is just celebrated, it's exalted, it's It's m laughed at. It's can late night comedians come up with all kinds of jokes. Um I think this mentality that uh the sinful f uh I don't know if this is the word, fornicacious Mentality is so saturated, the media, that much of our popular music today is a celebration Of adultery and fornication and perversion. And um we see that in and and by the way, in all types of music. Well, that stinking rap, I agree with that. But I'm telling you, that stinking country. I didn't think I'd get a whole lot of amens, but I'm telling you, it's all through it, all of it. The media of all sorts celebrates, sees nothing wrong, and engages and indulges and exalts. Some of the most wicked sin. Now we're offset and we're up in arms. And justly so about sodomy. And sodomy and uh sodomite marriage and all of that. But I'm telling you, I'm convinced that has found its roots in the breakdown of morals concerning fornication and adultery. It is just the natural end result of going. It's the end, it's the dead end of a road that our society started going down years ago. with the free love and the the the swinging mentality and adultero mentality. And I tell you And I say this I've said this before. I've you know I've taken a lot of heat for different things, but uh uh I've said this from the get go The church isn't in much of a condition to condemn sodomy while we're covering up and dealing with and sell and and indulging in fornication and adultery I think the church needs to clean itself up before we have any moral ground to uh preach uh against that. We need to preach against that. I hope you don't misunderstand what I'm saying But the jokes about adultery, and even as I was studying, I'd come across statements that preachers made joking, giving jokes about adultery. glorifying adultery, living in adultery. Even within the ministry Any of us that's been saved for any length of time, we know of people in the ministries, missionaries, preachers, all levels of ministry were this thin. has has taken place. So I'm I'm saying all that to say this. One, it's an uncomfortable subject. Do you agree with me? I don't like it. And two, um, it's not a laughing matter. It's very, very serious. It's not trivial And the Lord addresses it straight up. Adultery, as I studied the scriptures, adultery is one of the- is adultery is the violation of the most sacred vows a person can take. They're marriage vows. What other vows come even close to the sacredness of the marriage vows? And adultery is a violation of that, the most sacred vows a person can take, to violate that before God and man. Adultery is one of the most devastating sins against mankind. It is one of the most can I suggest this? Fornication and idolatry is pro and adultery is probably a key factor behind the popularity of abortion. Sorry. Abortion, they always say abortion is about choice. Abortion isn't about choice. That choice was made when I decided to engage in wicked sin. Abortion is about trying to eliminate the consequences of the choice I've already made. And so Fornication and adultery and all this that we're talking about, this ugly subject we're talking about, is, I believe, one of the most devastating sins. Against all of mankind. It is one of the most wicked sins before Almighty God. And it is one of the most condemned sins all through Scripture. It amazed me as I studied this, and I preached on this a number of years ago as we were going through the Ten Commandments, but um it amazed me again as I come back through how much the Bible deals with this sin From Genesis all the way through to Revelation. Leviticus chapter 20 and verse number 10 tells us that adultery is given the same judgment by God as murder. I would suggest, uh by the way, the adultery is listed when there's lists of sins and adultery is included. That list always includes some of the most vile sins there are. Sodomy, murder, drunkenness. It's all listed together. I want to suggest to you in my years in the ministry and whatnot and working with people, I want to suggest to you that when adultery happens, it is more devastating to a person than the death of a spouse. I've seen people deal with the death of a spouse and they grieve and their heart is ache and they miss him. And I've seen people grieve over the adulterous actions of a spouse, and my experience is, my observation is that the grief and the heartache over the adulterous situation is almost in some ways more hopeless than the death of the spouse and devastating. The family hurts, hearts are destroyed. So, we're talking about a subject, and the Lord brings up a subject here. He talked about murder. In the first section, most of us have not had to deal personally with the sin of murder But I would venture to say just about all of us, to some extent, an extended family or somewhere or another, know somebody personally or know somehow, have somehow been affected by the sin of adultery. And so it strikes home. And uh it it is uh it's an uncomfortable thing. So the Lord touches on it here. Now I want to look at verse 27. And I want us to notice the clarity of the command, as I said. Ye have heard that it was said by them of old time, thou shalt not commit adultery. I don't know about you, you can't get any clearer than that. It's just laid right out there. There's no easy way to approach this. I tried to think, alright, I want to be sensitive, I want to be real careful about this. And I looked, I said, How did the Lord approach it? And he just laid it out there. Thou shalt not commit adultery. And just straight up confronts it straight up. I got looking through scripture and how many times that statement is made or variations of that statement. In Exodus chapter 20, verse 14, uh Ten Commandments, thou shalt not commit adultery. In Deuteronomy 5, verse 18, neither shalt thou commit adultery. Did you find Proverbs? Turn with me if you would to Proverbs chapter 6. And again, it's amazing how much the book of Proverbs deals with Fornication, adultery, illegitimate intimacy. And I hope you understand. I try to be very, very careful the terms I use from the pulpit There's certain words I don't think are appropriate to be used from the pulpit. And so I'm trying to use Bible terms, Bible words, for I trust you you understand what we're saying. Look at Proverbs chapter 6. And notice with me, if you would, verse number 29. Proverbs 26 and verse number 29. So he that goeth in to his neighbor's wife, Whosoever toucheth her shall not be innocent. Men do not despise a thief if he steal to satisfy his soul when he is hungry. But if he be found, he shall restore sevenfold. He shall give all the substance of his house. In other words, what he's saying here is if a guy is hungry and he breaks into the house and he steals some food and he eats it and he gets caught He's able to do what? What can he do? He can reimburse what he stole. In fact, he can reimburse sevenfold. Listen, I'm sorry I was hungry. I was wrong. I did wrong. I'll pay you back sevenfold. I ate two loaves of peanut butter and jelly bread sandwiches. I'll give you fourteen back. You follow what he's saying? He can reimburse and the person that was robbed can be satisfied. Okay, seven years, sevenfold back? Sure, that'd be great. Break it again, do it again sometime. In other words, he can pay him back. He can restore it. Look at verse 32. But oh, here's a contrast. Whoso committeth adultery with a woman lacketh understanding. He that doeth it destroyeth his own soul. A wound in this honor shall he get. His reproach shall not be wiped away. For jealousy is the rage of a man. Therefore he will not spare in the day of vengeance Now look at this, verse 35. He will not regard any ransom, no type of reimbursement. He It can't be given back. Neither will he rest content though thou givest many gifts. I put down as I and that got this out of my personal devotion some point in the past, years ago or whatever. I had it in the margin of my Bible, and I put this down, I just thought I'd inject it here. What kind of person commits adultery? What kind of person commits this sin? Well, I think we're told here. He gives us a list, five different things. I noted in verse 32, a foolish person. But whoso committeth adultery with a woman lacketh what? Understanding. What's it mean if somebody lacks understanding? If you see someone and you say, he lacks understanding, you're saying what? He he's not real smart, right? This guy is not real intelligent. He's pretty dumb. He's a Fool. He's foolish. I put down a foolish person commits adultery. Look at verse 32 again. He that doeth it destroyeth his own soul. I put this down, a self-destructive person. This person's out brewing himself. I put down number three, a shameful person. Look at verse 33. A wound and look at this, dishonor. Shall he get? That word dishonor is translated thirteen times other places in the Bible, it's translated shame, disgraceful. Uh it's translated a reproach. It has the idea of a complete disgust. I don't know anybody that respects an adulterer. A shameful person. I thought about, remember Gomer in the book of Jose, his wife? And she ends up completely on the s on the slave block, and he buys her back, and there's absolute she is absolutely dishonored. and disgrace. There's nothing left. The the sin of adultery has absolutely destroyed her. And that's the idea here. A self-destructive, uh uh a self-destructive person, a shameful person. Look at verse 34, a hated person. For jealousy is the rage of a man. This guy finds out he is absolutely in a rage, the husband, the innocent party. That rage, the word rage means intense hatred. And it has the idea of impatient. He's not going to wait until there's justice. He's not going to wait for a court. Man, he walks in and uh he finds I find my find my wife with another guy. There is rage. And he's not going to wait until, oh no, no, I don't care. We're going to deal with it now. It's the idea. Says he will not spare in the day of vengeance. That has the idea of showing pity. So he's a hated person that does this, a foolish person, self-destructive person, a shameful person, a hurtful person He will not regard any ransom, neither will he rest content though thou givest many gifts. I mean he's hurt someone in a way they can never get it back. Can never get it back And so, the clarity of this command, we go through Exodus, Deuteronomy, Proverbs, and there's other passages. Jeremiah 23, verse 14 says that adultery is a horrible thing. Matthew chapter 5, verse 27. Listen to this. Thou shalt not commit adultery. Just read it. Matthew chapter 19, verse 18, thou shalt not commit adultery. Mark 10, 19, thou shalt not commit adultery. Luke 1820, thou shalt not commit adultery. Romans 13, 9, thou shalt not commit adultery. Galatians 5. 19 says that adultery is a work of the flesh, and they that uh do these type things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. James 2. 11, do not commit adultery. 2 Peter 2. 14 talks about people that have eyes full of adultery that they cease not from sin. It's just a habitual part of their life. There's nothing pretty in the Bible about adultery. And so God is very, very clear. If you would take your Bibles, turn to Hebrews chapter 13. Like I said, this is not a pleasant subject by any stretch of the imagination But the Lord and the Bible deals with it straight up. Hebrews chapter 13 and verse number 4. Marriage is honorable and all. I mean it's respectful, it's highly honored. But and the bed undefiled, and that's talking about the physical relationship between husband and wife. It's a good thing, it's a pure thing, it's a right thing. 2 Corinthians 7 tells us it's a necessary thing. It's part of a happy, successful marriage. But Warmongers and adulterers, God will judge. God takes it very seriously. He's very clear on what he tells us on this. Now I want us to look, just briefly, I've got a few minutes left, I want us to look at the definition of adultery. Now this, you say, well, we know what it is. It's used various ways in the Bible, actually. The dictionary definition, and I tweaked it kind of working in the Bible aspects of it, but the literal dictionary definition with my modifications is this A voluntary and deliberate breach of the marriage covenant by engaging in physical intimacy with someone other than the individual spouse. Did you get that? A deliberate and voluntary breach of the marriage covenant by engaging in physical intimacy with someone other than the individual spouse. It's also known a synonym in the dictionary was infidelity. There are various implications in the Bible when it talks about adultery. It's referred to as lewdness. Fornication, the term fornication and the term adultery are used interchangeably sometimes, sometimes referring to the same situation. Adultery also is used to describe idolatry, apostasy. All of these are referred to in places in the Bible as adultery and are equally condemned as the physical act of adultery. Then you have the term fornication. It's very closely associated with adultery. It's used interming uh interchangeably sometimes, but the literal technical sense, fornication uh is um is physical intimacy between unmarried people. Intimacy before marriage or outside of marriage, it could and does include sodomy Um occasionally it's included with adultery. It's equally condemned. Fornication is equally condemned with adultery just as much as uh in the Old Testament and New Testament as adultery is. Sometimes uh the world has convinced us that if somebody before they're married engage in physical intimacy that somehow, well, that's just kind of the way it is, that's just what it is. But you should never commit adultery after you're married. Listen, God condemns before just as much as He does after. It's just as wrong, it's just as much a violation of those marriage vows Sodomy falls in the same category of sins as adultery and fornication and sodomy They're all the same category of sin. The difference is sodomy has taken it to the tenth degree. And thus has far greater consequences on society than even these have. In James chapter 4 and verse 4, the Bible says that unscriptural friendship with the world is called adultery. Spiritual adultery. To love and engage and enjoy the affection and pleasures of the world. God says is spiritual adultery, just like to engage and enjoy the physical pleasures of someone other than my spouse would be physical adultery. And they're equally condemned. Adultery, both physical and spiritual, is a treasonous sin against God. Uh uh if you would take your Bibles here and uh turn with me to Gl uh Genesis, if you would, chapter 39. I venture to say you're not gonna hear TV preachers preach like this too much. You're not going to hear a lot of folks out there in mainstream Christianity that are not going to get up and say this. And I'll be honest with you, this is not pleasant, this is not nice, it's nasty, but I'm telling you, God is serious about this And we live in a society that is saturated with this sin. And God doesn't pointy punches. Look at Genesis chapter 39. Look at verse number 8. This is Joseph. I like Joseph. This guy has character. Verse 7, but it came to pass after these things that his master's wife cast her eyes upon Joseph. Ah. And she said, Lie with me. But he what? Refused. I put in the margin of my Bible, Joe said no. That'd be a good sermon title. I put under that character, integrity. But he refused and said unto his master's wife, Behold, my master wadeth not that it was with me in the house. And he has committed all that he hath to my hand. What's he saying about his master? When he says my past my master has committed everything in his house to me. He doesn't even know all that I'm responsible for. What's he saying about his master? He what? He trusts me. There is none greater in this house than I. Man, what a tremendous privilege, but what a tremendous what? Responsibility. There's none greater in this house than I, neither hath he kept back anything from me but thee Because thou art his wife. Now look at j look at what Joe. Look at what Joseph says here about this. How then can I do this? Look at his assessment of committing adultery. How then can I do this great what? Wickedness. How can I this is so horrendous. This is so wicked. How could I do this? And sin against Potiphar. No. Would it would him committing adultery with Potiphar's wife, would that have been sin against Potiphar? Sure. It's not the root. It's not the end. It was sin ultimately against God. How can I do that? Man, what an assessment on Joseph's part of what adultery is. It is a treasonous sin against God. Um if you would turn over to chapter 20, back towards the front of your Bible there. Uh who is it? Brother Green said, to your left side. Genesis chapter 20, and here you have uh Abraham and Abimelech. Abraham was a tremendous man. I'll never be one one hundredth of the man of faith that Abraham was, but he did some dumb things. And he comes down here, and um he he is he said that uh he told them, had Sarah tell them that she was his what? Sister, don't tell them you're my wife. Tell them you're my sister. Why, sweetheart? Because they'll kill me if you do. Okay. I always thought, wonder how that made Sarah feel. I would look like he should be willing to die for her to protect her, but anyway. And uh anyway, We come down to verse number nine. And so Abimelech thinks it's Abraham's sister and she's fair game, and so he starts courting her and he shows interest and And uh he's gone on. And um then they find out, and verse number nine, then Abimelech called Abraham and said unto him, Why what hast thou done unto us? What have I offended thee that thou hast brought on me and on my kingdom a what? Great sin. Here's what I thought. Even the world understood how sinful this was. This pagan Egyptian king. Said, this is a great sin. You almost had me commit a great, great sin. Thou hast done deeds unto me that ought not to be done. It was spiritual adultery that prompted God to put aside Israel, their worship of idols and their lack of faith in God, and their he called it adultery, adulterous nation. And he put them aside. Now, someday in the millennium, he'll restore his relationship with Israel, but for now they're put aside. Physical adultery violates and invalidates marriage vows And we're going to talk more on that later, because later on he says, you have heard that it had been said of all thou uh thou shalt not uh you're gonna have a divorce. He'll talk about divorce a little bit later on But physical adultery violates and invalidates marital vows. It's a treacherous sin against the spouse and the family. 1 Corinthians 6. 18 says that adultery and fornication is a sin against myself, sinneth against his own body. It will tarnish, it's a tarnish and a corruption of society. Marriage is the foundation of society, and when we have the sins of fornication, sins of adultery, It undermines the very foundation of our society. That's why I made the statement earlier. I think a lot of what we see in our society is the breakdown of fidelity in our marriages, in our homes And you have, here's the thing, you have children growing up under uh that were raised by children that grew up where uh there was such infidelity. And what a tragic, tragic thing. I came across uh, well, a few uh results of David. Of course, he's famous with his adultery. But four results of David's committing of adultery, one, the baby he had with Bathsheba died. David's son Amnon raped his half-sister, David's daughter, Tamar. Tamar's full brother Absalom killed Amnon for raping his sister. Absalom started a civil war to overthrow David in the kingdom, and Absalom ended up being killed And all of this happened within a short spirit period of time after David committed adultery. I came across a list, and I'll just go down through it quickly, but 39 or 40 uh things that happen when a person commits adultery. Their relationship with God suffers from a break in fellowship. They need to seek forgiveness from the Lord. They suffer emotional consequences of guilt. They spend a countless hours replaying that failure. This is from a counselor that works with folks that have been through it. He wrote down these this list Their spouse suffers the scars of this abuse more deeply than can be described. Their spouse's recovery will be long and deeply painful, possibly lifelong. Their marriage relationship will suffer a break in trust, fellowship, and intimacy. Their marriage may remain together, yet there's a great loneliness that's left there. The reputation of their family suffers loss. The children are deeply disappointed and bewildered. Their grandchildren do not understand. Their friends would be disappointed and would question their integrity. They would lose their ministry at church. Their witness among neighbors would become worthless. Their witness to family and siblings would become worthless. They may never have a ministry at a church again. They will suffer God's discipline. Satan would be thrilled at their failure. Satan would work overtime to be sure their shame never departs. Their spouse might divorce them, the children might never speak to them, their mutual friends may shy away shy away from them and break fellowship It brings emotional pain to the other person, the innocent party in the adultery. It brings reproach upon the innocent party involved in the adultery. If the one is ma if one is married, the spouse might attempt to bring harm to back to them. The other spouse might divorce him. An unwanted child could be produced. Disease might be a result. Some might conclude that all Christians are hypocrites A business could fail because they can't be trusted. Their leadership among those they led in the past might be diminished. Uh may result in others not continuing in the ministry. Their health could suffer uh might have to start life over again and the same this is what caught my attention the same sin might be visited upon their family for generations Wow. Now, I wish I didn't have to preach on this. I wish the Bible didn't talk about this. I wish it wasn't Even a reality, but the fact is we live in a fallen world where this type of sin is so prevalent and we have got to guard ourselves and we have got to stay close to God and we have got to be accountable. And we have got to seek the Lord. Now, I hate to end on that because the Lord goes on and he talks about how to deal with it and how to avoid keep it from even conceiving. And how thoroughly deal with it. But the first thing he starts out, and the Bible is very, very clear. We need to understand how horrendous this is. And then go from there. Now I do want to say this. I've been doing this long enough to know. I do want to say this. That there's not a sin that can be committed by man that the blood of Jesus Christ cannot cleanse. The blood of Jesus is greater, can cleanse us from all sin. And God is able to overcome and take a mess. I read this just recently. God can take a mess and turn it into a message. Isn't that good? And God can take disaster and turn it into something beautiful for him. But we have got to trust God and we have got to let him have his way. Amen? Uh I I don't I don't even like preaching this. But uh let's pray. Let's do this. Let's pray for one another. Let's pray for our young people. Let's pray for our homes and let's ask God to help us, to help us. Let's pray. Father in heaven Lord, my heart's heavy, even just preaching this, and I pray that uh you would help us to be clean and pure and upright in every aspect of our lives. I pray that you would guard our homes our marriages, our families, our children. And Lord, I pray that you would that in the midst of this dark, sinful world, that we could shine as a brighty, bright, shining testimony Of what the love of God is and what goodness and right and purity is, please help us. Raise up Joseph, I pray. Help us to learn from him and have that integrity and that character. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I want to pray? And maybe you'd say, I know someone that's been hurt by this. I know someone that struggled with this. Maybe it strikes home. And you would say, preacher, I want to pray. Pray with me that God will help me be a blessing and be an encouragement and be a testimony in this sinful world. to what God has intends for our lives to be. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand preacher? I really want to. God bless you. Hands all around. And we need God to help us. Now, Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now and somehow apply this to our lives in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed