If you haven't found Micah, you go to the Old Testament towards the end of the Old Testament. If you can find Jonah, then Micah's the next book towards the back. If you open your Bible right smack dab in the middle, you'll probably open up the Psalms Then work your way towards the back there. You get Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Song, Solomon, and then uh uh Isaiah, Jeremiah, Lamentations, Ezekiel, Daniel, Hosea, Joel, Amos, Obadiah, Jonah, Micah And so uh if you can't find it that way, just go in the front of your Bible to the index, and it'll give you the page for it there. Micah chapter number seven, the last chapter in the book of Micah And uh our our memory verse for this month is what I want to preach on. Not really a Mother's Day message, but it is a Bible message And so I trust God will use it and help us. Micah chapter 7, verse 7. Read along with me if you would. It's our memory verse, but we want to read it together again. Ready? All together. Here we go. Therefore, I will look unto the Lord. I will wait for the God of my salvation. My God will hear me. What a great verse. And so I want to preach this morning. I've entitled the message Look Unto the Lord. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to bless our service. Father in heaven, we come to you and we join our hearts together, scattered all across the land. In our living rooms and wherever we may be, God, we bow our hearts. And we're asking you, Lord, in the midst of this uh situation we find ourselves, this uh confusing uh situation we find ourselves. We're asking you uh to make your presence known. I'm praying that you would speak to our hearts and challenge us and help us Lord, revive us. I'm praying you'd revive our church, our homes, and our individual hearts and lives. Our nation needs revival And so I ask that maybe you'd use a thought, a portion of scripture, whatever, in this message that you would spark that a little bit in our hearts. I yield my will to you, I present my body anew, and I ask, dear Lord, with all my heart that you fill me with your Holy Spirit, and it would be you speaking your word through me out into the hearts and homes of your people scattered around. Bless now and have your way, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. This past Thursday, May 7th, at 1030 at night Forty-one years ago, I bowed beside my bed up in the attic. The attic was fix fixed up into my bedroom at the house I was living with my dad at the time. And I bowed beside my bed And I call on the Lord Jesus Christ to be my Savior. The Bible says in Romans 10, 13, For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. I was a whosoever, and I was calling with all my heart on the name of the Lord. And God heard me, and God did exactly what he said he would do. He saved my soul. He changed my life. He gave me eternal life. And uh all these forty-one years now, uh God has been faithful. God has been faithful to his word. And one thing I've learned through these forty-one years, and You know, I know many of you listening to me, you've been saved much longer than that. But for me, these forty-one years, there's something I've learned, there's something I've noticed uh in the Christian life, and that is this Oftentimes in my darkest hours, God's promises seem to have been shined so bright Verses that I would read when things are going well, when the sun is shining and health is good, I'd read a verse and it was a blessing. But I tell you, in those dark hours, you come across a promise, you come across a verse And it seems to shine brighter. It seems to stand out and relate to my situation in ways it never did before. I've found in these forty-one years of knowing the Lord, experiencing God's faithfulness and God's grace I found that a lot of times in my most difficult times, the most difficult days I went through, God's presence and God's grace has been most evident. I have learned more about my God in the difficult days than I did in the in the easy days. I have learned, uh I've experienced more of God's grace, I think In the dark hours than I have when everything's going fine. And uh I was reading this week about uh gold mines down in South Africa, and many years ago they said that uh In some of these mines, these workers, these uh we go down into the deepest, darkest, dirtiest, most dangerous parts of those mines. They get way down in there And oftentimes that is where they found the brightest gold, the most valuable gold in the most difficult places. And as I read of that, I thought that's been true. in my relationship with the Lord. It's in sometimes in the most difficult times, the most trying times, that God has been so precious to me And um uh we lived out in Colorado for a few years in Boulder, Colorado. Uh just beautiful, beautiful uh place and um every now and then uh we get we were working with Bible time and it was very busy and so every now and then we get some time off and And uh we go up in the mountains. I enjoyed going up there trout fishing and things and sometimes we would go up into the mountains at night after uh uh after it was dark and we'd drive up into those rocky mountains. We live down uh by the foothills and we'd drive up back up into get on top of one of those mountains and get away from all the city lights get away from all the street lights and house lights and all the distractions And get up there where it was dark, and you'd look up in that sky from those mountains where there was no city lights, no other lights to distract, and see those stars, and they would shine so bright. And they felt like they were just right there. You could almost reach up and grab them. And I learned something. I learned that in the darkest times is when God's stars shine the brightest. And I found that true in my Christian life. God is faithful. God is faithful. And you say, why'd you say all that? I said all that to say this. Micah, the book of Micah, is uh not a very bright circumstance as he's writing in. Uh the nation of Israel was about to face God's judgment. These were spiritually dark days for the uh for Jerusalem and for the northern kingdom, the southern kingdom And Micah was called of God to bring a message of judgment that was coming to God's people. Destruction. Captivity. The way of life that they had understood for years that they had taken for granted was about to all be taken away from them. And they're be hauled off to another country. And that's Micah's message. Israel was prospering pretty much. Their prosperity was increasing at this time. And it seemed like as their prosperity increased, so did the immorality. Um they became very immoral as They experienced God's physical blessings, material blessings. They began to appreciate the uh God's grace less and less. Um the uh the society was very immoral. They were unjust, they were pe treating f people unfairly. Uh the society had uh the the re the the the Christi the um their faith had become very corrupted Idolatry was spreading across Israel in uh in ridiculous ways, forsaking the true and living God for statues and man-made gods. And yet this was the case. It's interesting, this is just a little side note, it's interesting that once Israel was taken off into captivity for 70 years, idolatry never was an issue for them again. uh kind of cured them of that sin. Now later on hypocrisy and self-righteousness was an issue, but they never did again sacrifice the true and living God for a false God. God's judgment, uh they had learned their lesson from God's judgment. But nevertheless, this was the situation. In fact, if you notice when Pastor Matt was reading a few minutes ago, uh in verse 5 and 6 The breakdown of the whole, the distrust and the absence of love and selfishness and bitterness That characterized the homes described in verse 5 and 6. And then the rest of the passage where God had been forsaken And Micah is called of God to bring a message of judgment. However, in the darkness of that circumstance and in the darkness of the message that Micah was called to proclaim to Israel, in the midst of all that judgment, God's grace was extended. I don't know if you paid attention to the context when Pastor Matt was reading, but the verses preceding verse 7 are awfully dark and unpleasant. The verses following verse 7 are unpleasant and dark. But right in the middle, God gives this beautiful promise. God gives this wonderful verse, uh, therefore I will look unto the Lord. I will wait for the God of my salvation. My God will hear me. I'd like to meet Micah. Look forward to the day we get to heaven. If we know the if you know the Lord Jesus as Savior, we'll have the opportunity to meet this man, Micah. I'd like to see what he's like. I'd like to know a little bit about his personality. Let him fill in some of the gaps that we don't know about his life. We're not told a whole lot about them. His name, Micah, means this. Who is like Jehovah? What a name. His parents named him. And the statement being made in that name is this: there's no one like Jehovah. There is no God like our God. There is no Savior like our Savior He is the true and living God. And it's interesting who is like Jehovah, that they would use the personal name of God. That name Jehovah implies and tells us that God is eternal. He is the self-sufficient one. He is all powerful. He's unchanging. This God that Micah knew and loved and served. So his name means this. Who is like Jehovah? We know very little about him, as I said. We from studying this book, we come to the conclusion he was a small town preacher. We get that from the opening verses of the book. He was a small town prophet. He preached to both the northern and southern kingdoms, but he was primarily, this is how I would describe Micah, he's a blue-collar preacher. He was a contemporary of Isaiah. Now, Isaiah, I would describe Isaiah as a white-collar preacher. He preached to the kings and governors His ministry was to the uh what we would call today the politicians of the day. And uh he declared God's word faithfully uh to the politicians. But Micah, he's the working man's prophet. Uh he came from a small town. Uh probably uh poverty was uh an element of poverty was uh was true in him growing up And so he's a blue-collar prophet, is what I would call him. And the book of Micah is made up of three sermons. Probably preached in and around Jerusalem. We don't know where he preached them. But in verses one in chapter one, verse two through the end of chapter two is the first sermon that he preached. And that the theme of that sermon, we could say, is judgment is coming. Judgment is coming Uh look with me if you would. Come back there to chapter one if you would. Now we're going to go to a bunch of verses this morning, so keep your Bibles handy there. I hope you didn't close it and lay it on the coffee table Get it back up again there. And look with me if you would at chapter 1 of Micah and verse number 2. What's the first word in Micah chapter 1, verse 2? What's the first word? Talk to me now. What is it? Hear, hear, all ye people. Hearken, O earth, and all that therein is. And then he goes into his message. Come with me, if you would, to chapter 3 and verse number 1. Now that's his first message. Judgment is coming, Israel. Chapter 1 through Chapter 2, Chapter 3, Verse 1. Look with me here. What's the first word Or wait a minute, chapter 3, verse 1. And I said, What's the next word? Hear, I pray you, O heads of Jacob, ye princes of the house of Israel, is it not for you to know judgment? This is his second sermon. His second sermon. This message, the theme, I guess, the overall message of his second sermon is there's hope. Judgment is coming. It's coming. You mark it down. But number two, there's hope in the midst of judgment. And then if you would, come over to chapter 6 and look with me if you would at verse number 1. Chapter 6 and verse 1. The very first word of chapter 6 and verse 1. What is it? Here. This is this third message. All three messages begin with the statement, here. Hey, listen up. Give your attention to What I'm about to say is important. It's from God. That's what Mike is saying. And this third message is basically the message is trust the Lord. Judgment's coming God's going to judge sin. You mark it down. Our God judges sin. But there's hope in the midst of judgment And we can learn, and we must trust the Lord. We must trust the Lord. Trust the Lord. Now, I want us to focus on chapter 7, verse 7, our memory verse. And I want to give three words from this verse. Now they're not necessarily found in the verse, but three words I want to give you, and I want to encourage you to jot these three words down. You've got a pen and paper Got these three words down. The first word I want us to consider this morning is the word focus. Focus. And I get that from the first part of chapter 7, verse 7 of Micah. Notice what he says. Therefore I will what? Look. Therefore I will look unto the Lord. Focus I'm going to focus on the Lord. I'm going to look to the Lord. Now notice he begins with the word therefore. He's referring back to verses 5 and 6. And what he's saying, he's making a conclusion. He's coming to a conclusion. He's saying, because the previous statements are true, the following statement is going to be, I'm going to act on the following statement. What's he saying? He's saying this. When everyone else fails me, even those who are near to me and dear to me When people fail me, when people I should be able to trust, when people I should be able to depend on, when they fail me and they come up short I'm going to look to the Lord. I'm going to look to the Lord. When it seems like there's no one in this world I can trust, I'm going to focus on the Lord. I'm going to look to him. Therefore, I will look unto the Lord. The word look there means this. I like to do Bible s uh to do word studies. I think you've picked that up over the years I like to look, see what a word means, where it comes from, what the word it comes from means, how it's used throughout scripture. Got looking at this word look. And I found out it means this. To watch closely with anticipation It means to keep my eyes on something. I don't know about you, but uh sometimes growing up, uh my dad or mom would say something to me. They're wanting me to pay attention. Did you ever hear this statement? Keep your eyes glued. On that there. I'd be squirrel hunting with my dad and there'd be a little movement of the tree. He'd say, keep your eyes glued up on that branch. What's he saying? He's saying watch very carefully. Don't take your eyes off of it Don't wander in your attention. Keep your attention focused on that one thing. That's what this word look means. To focus intently on, to keep your eyes glued on the Lord. Say, oh, there's so many distractions, there's so many things to upset me, there's so many things to bring fear, there's so many things to get angry about. And yes, we live in a fallen world. But I'm telling you, Micah says, therefore, because the world is what it is, because the situation is what it is, I'm going to keep my eyes on the Lord. I'm going to focus on the Lord. I'm going to keep my eyes glued on the Lord. If you would take your Bible, turn with me to Psalms chapter 27. Now, keep your place marked here because we're coming back to this. But come with me, if you would, to Psalms 27. And verse number 10, Psalms 27. Now we're going to look at a bunch of Psalms because they relate. There's a lot of Psalms that relate to this verse 7. Psalms 27 and notice with me verse number 10, Psalms 27, 10. When my father and my mother forsake me Now that fits verse 5 and 6 of Micah 7. We just read that. When my father and mother forsake me, then what The Lord will take me up. You know what he's saying? He's saying everyone else fails me. Seems like I can't trust anybody in this old world. He says, the Lord will take care of me. I can trust the Lord. I can look to the Lord If you would come to Psalms 118. Psalms 118. Back towards the back part of the book of Psalms. Psalms 118. And notice with me, if you would, verse 8 and 9. It's a good verse to underscore. I have it underlined in my Bible in red ink, and I have it bracketed, and I have a star beside it. Because I think this is a very significant passage. Notice Psalms 118 and verse number 8. It is better to trust in who? The Lord than to put confidence in man. Did you get that? Look at verse 9. It is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in princes. Listen, uh God never fails us. God will never, ever fail us. We can look to him, we can trust him. And Micah says in the midst of a society that has become so corrupted, in the midst of a society where even the breakdown of the home has failed I'm going to look to the Lord. I'm going to focus on the Lord. I'm going to focus on the Lord. Then he says, therefore, I will look unto the Lord. If you notice, come back to Micah there. If you notice, that word Lord is in all capitals. Again, that's indicating the fact that it is the word, the name Jehovah for God. I consider Jehovah God's personal name. It's the name He desires to be known by. Jehovah. The word Jehovah itself, again, I mentioned earlier in Micah's name, it simply means the eternal God. The God that is not dependent upon anybody for his existence. The God that is unchanging, the God that is all-powerful. Can I say this? The God that is bigger than any virus or sickness that can encompass the world. God is bigger than any problem you and I face now or ever will face. And Micah says, I'm going to focus on him. I'm going to keep my eyes on the Lord. I'm going to keep looking to him When going through trials, focus on the Lord. When somebody fails you, get your eyes off of them and get them on the Lord When the world's turned upside down, look to the Lord. Focus on the Lord. When you're uncertain and you're afraid, Look to the Lord. Look to the Lord. He's the unfailing one. He's the unchanging one. He's the all-powerful one. He's the all-wise God. We can trust them, we can look to them. Um as many of you know, we've got a dog, Gabriel. Uh and uh Uh every time he Gabriel loves to go on walks. I mean he just wants to go and walk. Walks nothing. It's more like dragged Pastor Leatherman down the street. But uh every time, uh every time I get my coat on, you can ask my wife, every time I put my jacket on, get my shoes on, and I act even remotely like I might be going outside, bing That dog's right there by the door, and you know what he's doing? He's staring at me. I mean his eyes are glued to my eyes. He's watching. I can hear what he's saying. I can hear his mind. Going I hear what's going through his mind. It's, we're going for a walk. We're going for a walk. I know we're going for a walk. I hope we're going for a walk Oh boy o what We ain't going for no walk. I'm going over to work. But boy, that dog will glue him glue his eyes on me. I'm putting my hat on, my coat, getting ready to go, and he is right there just staring, focused on me, anticipating. Something. I think that's exactly what Mike is saying. He's saying, man, this is a mess down here. This old world, so many problems, so many things to get upset about, so many things to be afraid of He says, I'm going to lift my eyes above this whole world, and I'm looking to the Lord. Lord will take care of me. God will take care of me. God loves me. God's able to handle this. Focus, focus. Did you get that word down? Let me give you a second word for this morning. The second word is this patience. Patience. I know for some of us that's a bad word. But patience. Look what he says. Micah 7. Therefore, I will look into the Lord. That's focus. Keeps his eyes glued on the Lord. Look at the next statement. I will what? Wait. I will wait for the God of my salvation. Now, there's a whole nother message, but that little phrase, the God of my salvation, is a favorite term throughout Scripture for God's people. They love to refer to God as the God of my salvation. God, the one that saved me God, the one that forgave me and cleansed me of all my sin, gave me a new life, the God of my salvation I'm going to wait for him. I'm going to wait for him. Now again, I did a little word study on this statement. That phrase, I will, implies there's a decision being made. I will. This is something that he's putting effort into. Micah says, I made a decision. I'm going to focus on the Lord. But I am going to wait on the God of my salvation. I'm deciding right here and now that I'm going to be patient. I'm going to wait on God. I'm going to put some effort in I'm gonna, this requires some dying to self. This implies a little bit of submission to God And I'm going to be patient. I'm going to wait on God. I will. I will. I don't know about you, but patience does not come naturally to me If if you find me being patient, I'm having to do it on purpose. I'm having to make a decision, put some effort into that. I like to say this uh often over the years, but you know you go to Walmart and they have that ten items or less line. And so I always look, count, make sure I got nine items. Ha ha! I qualify. And I'll get in that line, and it seems like almost every stinking time that person in front of me's got twelve items. I count 'em. I sit there. Wait a minute And uh patience does not come naturally for me. And I've got a sneaking suspicion, I'm not the only one guilty of that And Micah is saying, listen, I've got to make a decision here. I'm not going to get worked up. I'm not going to get impatient. I'm putting some effort into this. I'm going to die to self. I'm going to submit to the Lord, and I'm making the decision to be patient, to wait on the God of my salvation. That word wait means just that. To be patient. It has the idea of waiting with expectation. In other words, when he says, I will wait on the God of my salvation, he is fully anticipating God coming through. He is fully expecting that God will do exactly what God promised he would do. That he would help us. He would meet our needs. If it's in his will and it's for his glory, he'll change our circumstance. I'm going to wait on God. I'm going to trust him. I'm going to expect God to do something. Now I don't know about you, and I haven't been as strong in my faith on this as I would like to be, but I made a I I came to a conclusion early on on this pandemic thing. I came to a conclusion early on. God's up to something God's doing something. God, at the very least, has allowed this. And God never allows something to happen that He does not have something in mind, something He's trying to accomplish. And so I decide, with God's help, I'm just going to wait on God. I'm going to look and anticipate God doing something. I'm wondering whenever the day comes we come out of this thing. I wonder what God might have accomplished in people's hearts and lives, in churches, in our country. I sure would like to think that maybe we'll come out of this a little bit more righteous of a nation than what we were when we went into it I'd like to hope and believe our church will be a little stronger in our faith and a little closer to the Lord when we come out of this and we were going into it. I'd like to believe and hope that I A better Christian and stronger in my faith, we get back to a somewhat normal lifestyle than we were going in. I believe we ought to just wait on God. We ought to expect and be looking to God to do something Maybe the Lord's coming back. We don't know. We don't know. But we got to focus on the Lord. We got to anticipate God doing something. How many times in the Bible did Jesus tell his disciples Pray, uh he say this, watch and pray. Watch and pray. Watch And pray. You know what he's saying? When you're praying, when you're waiting, when you're looking to the Lord, you expect something. You watch for him to do something. You watch for him to bring an answer. You watch for him to change. uh God. Uh he says, I will wait on the Lord. Now uh if we had time, I've got about six, seven, eight verses. all through the book of Psalms where this word uh weight is used in various ways. I'll just give them to you for sake of time. I really wanted to go to them. Well, uh I do want to go to one. If you would turn with me to Job And chapter number 13. Job, chapter number 13. I tell you, Job's a fascinating book. You talk about somebody that went through it. You talk about somebody that went through some trials and experienced God's grace. Read the book of Job. But you've got to read it to the end before you see all that God did. But look at Job chapter 13 and verse number 15. This was a verse that my father claimed much. He had it written all over in one of his favorite verses. And Job chapter 13 and verse 15. Look what it says. Though he slay me, Yet will I what? Trust in him. That word trust there comes from the exact same word that the word wait in Micah 7:7 comes from. To wait, to trust, to anticipate, to have confidence in. Though he slay me, I'm going to trust in God. Whatever he brings into my life, however hard it may be However long it may take, no matter how much it may cost me, I'm going to trust God. I'm going to wait on Him. I'm going to expect that He's doing something. In my life, he's accomplishing something. I will wait on the God of my salvation. Psalms 33 and verse 18, the word hope. In that verse is the same word the word wait comes from. To hoping God. And that means a confident anticipation. Psalms 42, verse 5 and 11. Psalms 43 and verse 5, the word hope. Why art thou cast out, O my soul? Hope thou in God. He's saying, wait on God. Look to him. Trust him. I will wait on the God of my salvation. Psalms 147, verse 11, tells us that hoping or waiting in God pleases God. You say, what does God want me to do in this pandemic? What does God want me to do in this lockdown? I'll tell you one thing that will please him. That is this, patiently waiting on him, trusting him Putting my hope and trust in him, that pleases the Lord. That pleases the Lord. So read Psalm 147. 11. Write that down. Look it up. Hoping in the Lord, putting my trust, waiting on the Lord pleases God. I think one of the most spiritually mature things you and I can do as a believer, one of the most spiritually mature things we can do is this. Patiently wait on God. Don't get all worked up. Don't get all mad and bite your wife's head off and growl at the kids and kick the dog. Don't do that. Uh if you kick our dog, he'll bite you. But um uh Don't do all that. Let's grow up spiritually. Let's learn to wait on God. Let's learn to trust Him. Have faith in Him. Let him accomplish what he's trying to do. However long it takes, however hard it may be, however deeply it hurts. However much it may cost me, I'm going to wait on God. I'm going to be patient. I'm going to trust Him and expect that God is doing something. Did you write that down, number one, focus? Number two, patience. Let me give you the last one real quickly. Confidence. Confidence. Write that word down. Confidence. Look again at Micah chapter 7, verse 7. You still got it there? Look at the last statement. Therefore I will look into the Lord. That's focus. I will wait for the God of my salvation. That's patience. My God will hear me. That's confidence. That's confidence. What a great statement. I love that last statement of Micah. My God will hear me. Would you say that with me? Would you say that statement with me? There at home, uh, all around, would you say it with me? Ready? My God will hear me. Wow. What a promise. What a confidence in the heart and mind of Micah. I'm going to look to the Lord. I'm going to focus on him. I'm going to wait on him and trust him. One thing I am absolutely certain of, God will hear me. God will hear me. I can be certain of that. That word here, again, I got studying that word, looking it up, has this idea to give careful attention to. Uh it means this. Uh it has this idea behind it to understand what's being said. My God will hear me. God will understand what I'm asking of him. God will understand what my situation is, what I'm trying to express. Sometimes, did you ever talk to somebody and somebody says, ah, they'll mention some politician or some, they're stinking so-and-so, and they're upset, and you say something like this I heard you there. I hear ya. What do you mean by you're saying that? You say, I understand what you're saying. I I I know where you're coming from. Uh down in when we live down in Chattanooga, uh we used to talk to people and uh uh the folks would sometimes say that if you make a statement they agree with you, they'd say this, I heard that I heard that. What do they mean by that? They mean I understand what you're saying. I know where you're coming from. Wow, what a confidence to know I can come to God and pray. And I don't mean to be disrespectful, but God says, I heard that. I heard what you're saying. I know what you're talking about. I understand your circumstance. I understand your heart. I like Romans chapter 8. We don't have time to turn there. But it says basically this. There's times we come to God to pray. And we don't even have the words to pray. Maybe our heart is so overwhelmed or so broken. And we don't even know what to say. And the Holy Spirit of God comes And he understands us. And he makes those prayers for us. And he brings them before God for us. Micah said, My God will hear me. He understands. He knows. He's paying close attention to what I'm saying. That word here has the idea of responding to My God will hear me, God will respond to me. God will hear me, God will respond. The whole Bible The whole Bible is a testimony to the fact that those who look to God and those that wait on him God comes through every time. God hears, God understands, and God responds. Our God never fails 41 years ago, this past May, I put my faith and trust, I put my eternal destiny in the hands of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I'm here to tell you this morning: 41 years, God has never failed me. He's faithful. We can look to him. We can patiently wait on him. And we can be confident he will hear us. He will hear us. Are you tuned in this morning and you're concerned about your soul? Are you concerned about where you spend eternity? Heaven and hell? I'm telling you, you look to the Lord Jesus Christ. Put your faith and trust in him, what he did for you on that cross, buried, rose again. And if you'll call on him, put your faith and trust in him, God will hear you, and he'll answer. He's faithful. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. You can be saved right there, where you are, right now. Humble yourself before God. Call out to Jesus Christ who loved you, died for you, buried, rose again, and ask him to come in your heart and life, be your personal Savior. God will save you Are you concerned about your future? You say, preacher, I don't know what's going to go. Oh, I don't know what's going to happen financially and oh, I don't know what's happening. Oh, I tell you, we need to focus on the Lord. We need to be patient, wait on Him, and be confident. God will come through. God will take care of us. God will take care of you. He'll never fail Uh he'll meet our needs. I read a quote by D. L. Moody this week. Said this, happiness is caused by things that happen around me. Circumstances can and will mar my happiness. But joy, and he means the joy of the Lord, the joy of the Lord flows right on through trouble. Joy flows on through the dark. The joy of the Lord flows in the night as well as in the day. The joy of the Lord flows through persecution and opposition. It is an unceasing fountain bubbling up in the heart, a secret spring that the world can't see and doesn't know anything about. The Lord gives his people perpetual joy when they trust him and wait on him. I want to encourage you this morning. You're saved. Trust the Lord. Get your eyes on the Lord. Get your eyes in God's Word. Wait on Him. Allow Him to lead you and direct you. Submit to Him. And then expect God. Be confident God is at work. And He'll come through for us every time. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I thank you for Micah. I sure look forward to the day when I get to talk to him and get to know him a little bit and find out more about him. And what a great, great verse this is. Right in the midst of a book of judgment, this wonderful promise. Help us, Lord. Help every dear person that's listening in to turn their eyes upon Jesus. I pray you'd help every one of us, Lord, to wait patiently on you and trust you. Allow you to lead us and direct us, instruct us what to do. And then Lord help us to be confident that you will come through, you will hear. And you will respond and you will help us in Jesus' name I pray. Amen