Don't join the week for your changing shore. All your kids are left behind, and I will be ever We are key one, and my five we are. Amen. Thank you, Jennifer, very much. Psalms 121, if you would turn there. Step the not to have a sermon store, just show you pictures of our new grandbaby all morning. Wednesday morning, our son Sam and his wife uh Sarah became uh parents of little Kenley Page Leatherman. And I'm telling you, she is absolutely gorgeous. And um In fact, let's just stop now and talk about it and show you pictures. And we are ecstatic about being grandparents for the first time. How many people know the feeling? Yeah. And um I think she is just the most beautiful thing in the whole world and um thank God for that. Psalms one twenty one Just kind of help me shift gears here a little bit. A teacher, uh, we have some school teachers in our church, and uh the teacher said there's told the class there's going to be an eclipse of the moon tonight. Maybe your parents will let you stay up and watch it and the little boy raise his hand. What channel is that on? A little bit of truth in that, huh? We had uh years ago there was a bus kid uh we were here and I had uh sitting with Kathy and I announced we announced uh Hymn the number for the hymn in the hymn book and the girl leaned over and said to Kathy, What channel did he say? Another teacher said was introducing the class at the beginning of the year and she was putting the rules out and he says now if you she said if you have to go to the bathroom, raise two fingers. Little boy said, how's that going to help? And um All right, enough of that. Psalms one twenty one. Did I mention we became grandparents this week? See me afterward, I'll show you some pictures. I'd like to read verse 1 and 2 of Psalms 121. I'd like for us to read that together in unison. Psalms 121, verse 1 and 2. Ready, read it with me. I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills, from whence cometh my help. My help cometh from the Lord, which made heaven and earth. Looking for help. Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us. Lord, I ask now that you would um uh stir our hearts as we look at this portion of Scripture Lord, I know this passage has been a blessing and has been a help to no doubt millions of people over the years. And now as we consider it in this hour, we ask that you would apply these truths, these principles to our hearts. I present my body to you, Lord, anew. I ask that you would fill me With your Holy Spirit, that, dear Lord, I pray that you would be our teacher this morning. Teach us about where to go for help and uh how to come about getting it. And uh so have your way, I ask, in Jesus' name. Amen. If you'll look in your Bibles real carefully, it's Psalms 120 Through Psalms 134, you'll notice that at the very top of each of those chapters before verse 1 It says a song of degrees. How many people see that in your Bible? I assume most of the Bibles would have that there. A song of degrees. Now, the word degree simply means this. It has the idea of ascending. We say something like, you know, it's going up so many degrees, maybe the temperature is rising so many degrees. Or uh it has the idea of ascending kind of like you're going up stairs Now, I got looking and doing a little research with historians and and folks that know a little more about this than I do, and they suggest That these songs, these psalms, which are actually songs, were sung by the nation of Israel. Chapter 120 and through 134, as they would approach Jerusalem, as they would come into the city, and then uh and Jerusalem's on a hill. And so no matter what direction you come to Jerusalem, you're coming up. You're coming up degrees, so to speak. And we are told that these psalms in particular was very common, that they would be sung by the children of Israel, Israel, the worshipers of Jehovah, as they came up to Jerusalem to go up to the temple, to offer their sacrifices, to worship God. They would sing these psalms and they were a part of their worship. And it was sung by earnest believers, people that uh knew the Lord, had trusted in the coming Messiah to be their Savior. Now, with that in mind, as they would approach Israel, as as they would approach Jerusalem, as they approach the temple, singing these songs, they were preparing their hearts To come into the presence of God, to preparing their hearts, to be challenged by the Word of God. That was the purpose of these songs and why they would sing that as they came in. I just thought a couple suggestions would be in order. One, I want to suggest on Sunday mornings, as we're hustling about and getting ready for church and we're piloting the cars, we're going to so We could follow Israel's example. I think it would be a great thing to practice singing some of these great hymns of the faith. And maybe some scripture songs and just sing them as a family on the car, in the car as we're coming to church. Listen, I've been around for a little while. I got saved in 79. So I've been around church and all this for a little while I know how it can go sometimes on Sunday mornings. It can be a little rough Son, can I get a witness? Y'all are looking at me like you have no idea what I'm talking about. Listen, I'm not stupid. I know how it works. Getting those kids together again. And somebody and husband's out blowing the horn, wife's in there getting the kids ready I never understood why my wife couldn't get herself and all the kids ready and half the time I get myself ready. I just never understood that. But um, you know, and man we're just and the next thing you know you're on the way and you get worked up and somebody says something, one of the Family reacts and it's just the whole way and you pull in the parking lot and man the tension is so thick in that car you could cut it with a knife and uh you open the doors and the preacher's at the door and it's like Hello, praise the Lord, preacher. Am I right or wrong? And you come across the parking lot just smiling, we love Jesus. We appear very happy, normal Christian family. Huh? We could help uh we could follow Israel's example here and just say, you know what, let's sing amazing grace on the way to church this morning. Let's sing, Blessed Assurance Jesus, Seek ye first the kingdom of God. And uh you know some of that stuff that might that might diffuse some of the tension And how much greater would it be to come into church, not just smiling and putting on his facade, but actually rejoicing in the Lord down in my heart? Does that make sense? And that's what Israel would do. That's what these psalms that uh were used for is to prepare them as they were coming up to Jerusalem and coming in there to worship. They would uh uh had these the the word of god in their hearts and minds and they would be singing and and they'd show up uh just rejoicing in the Lord. I thought that was a great example to us. Now we're looking at Psalms 121 And I did research on this, and to be honest with you, we do not know who the penman was to record down Psalms 121. Now let me be quick to say we do know who the author of Psalms 121 is. It's God Almighty. This is God's word. And the Bible teaches us that holy men of God were moved by the Holy Spirit to record down every word in God's word. And so God is the author of Psalms 121. God, through his Holy Spirit, stirred somebody's heart And put these words into their mind and they record it down. What we don't know is who that somebody was Sometimes if we know who the person is, we get a little insight into what's being said and why it's being said, and we glean a little bit more uh insight from it and maybe be able to apply it to our lives, but we don't know that on this psalm. We have no idea who it was, who the penman was. We don't know what the background was of this psalm Sometimes you can look through and and you'll be able to maybe just by what said in the Psalms, or sometimes there'll be a note at the top of the chapter, tell us who wrote it, what the circumstance was. A lot of these Psalms were written by uh were penned, I should say, by King David while he is in some battle or being tested or being chased around by King Saul So we know a little bit of the background of it, and we understand a little bit what's being said and why, and maybe how it applies to our life. But I look at Psalm 21, I have no idea who the human penman was, who God used to record. We don't know. We don't know what the circumstances were. We don't even know exact time frame that this was recorded down. We just don't know those things. So we speculate a little bit So reading some different commentators and folks, uh Jewish uh folks that had written on this, and some suggested that perhaps this was uh the human behind this. Penman was a military leader And they suggested that maybe as they were going to battle, perhaps they were facing some overwhelming enemy And uh the military leader was very concerned for success and for the safety of himself and his troops, and he was looking to God for help. And he says there in verse number one, I lift up mine eyes unto the hills. Perhaps as a military leader, he is looking to get a military advantage. Get a high ground and be able to uh defeat the enemy by coming down rather than being down below the enemy. And uh some have suggested that and as uh As a believer in God, he saw, he looked to the hills from whence coming my help, thinking that would help me. And then verse 2, he says, My help cometh from the Lord which made heaven and earth. And he realized that, you know, it doesn't matter what my position may be, it doesn't matter how strong my army is, it doesn't matter how great a weapons I have, without God's help, I'm in trouble. I think there's a truth there. You and I can uh you might have a nice bank account, you might be healthy and strong, you might have your life all planned out, you may have your act together, but without God, you're in trouble So we don't know who the we don't know who the human author is behind us. Maybe it was a military leader. There's a possibility there I was reading another person suggested it was a new believer, somebody that had converted over to Judaism back in the day, and they saw the truth of the scriptures. the Jewish scriptures and they understood the reality that Jehovah is the only living and true God. And they had accepted the uh the coming Messiah and the truth of of the true God as themselves. And now they were a little fearful about what it means to live for God and they were a little concerned about whether I'm going to be able to Live the life that God has called me to live. Um and they're looking to the Lord. God, I need you to help me. I remember back when I got saved 30 some years ago. Let's see, 79, 89 99 or 9 30 four 35 years ago. I know I don't even hardly look 35, but it's 35 years ago. And I know when I first got saved, I was so excited, and God was changing my life. I mean, just so drastically, and and uh And you know, there was a little concern. Lord, can I I was concerned? Lord, can am I going to be able to live for you like I should? Lord, am I going to be able to be. You know, I found out? God helps the new believer. God helps us. And I found out my concern about the live for God was unfounded because now I had the Lord Jesus Christ, the Holy Spirit of God living within me, and He would enable me to do what I need to do. So maybe it was a a new believer here concerned about being faithful to the Lord, and maybe they were concerned, am I going to be able to influence folks around me to come to know Christ as Savior? And uh they were looking to the Lord for help. Somebody else suggested maybe it was an elderly person, an o elderly Jewish believer That was facing the uh sunset years of life, so to speak, and they were concerned about their health and they were concerned about whether their needs were going to be met, and they were concerned about this, you know, they didn't have uh all these social programs back then and maybe this person was very concerned and he said I looked up mine eyes unto the hills from whence cometh my help and he realized God's going to take care of me. My help cometh from the Lord What I'm trying to say is this, God helps his people. He helps his people. He helps us. Um I read uh yesterday I was doing a little reading and I read a little quote a fellow had said that a farmer had went and got his wind uh vein up on top of the barn He climbed up there and he painted on the wind vane the love of God. Real bright. You could see it from the ground, the love of God. That wind would blow one way and that vein would twist around and blow the other way that vein would twist around. He had an atheist neighbor. The atheist neighbor said, Why'd you put that up there? Is that because God's love is just sickled? Changes all the time? The farmer said, no, no, no. I put that up there because no matter which way the wind's blowing, God still loves me. And I'm going to suggest to you, it doesn't matter what our circumstances are, it doesn't matter how difficult our situation may be. It doesn't matter how overwhelming things may seem. I'm here to tell you: God loves us and He will help us. I lift up mine eyes unto the hills. From whence cometh my help? My help cometh from the Lord, which made heaven and earth. We never outgrow our need for God's help. We never do. We need God to help us. I'm jumping a little ahead of myself here, but maybe there's someone. Maybe there's someone in the service here this morning. I don't know. That you've never accepted Jesus Christ as your Savior. You're going through your life and just doing it, whatever, never giving thought to heaven or hell. Never giving thought to your knee your relationship, spiritual condition, never giving thought where you'll spend eternity, never giving thought about God working in your life. I'm here to tell you, you're never going to get to heaven without God's help. We need the Lord. Nobody gets to heaven without the Lord. And we need to come to the point and say, Lord, I cannot save myself. I cannot get rid of my sins myself. I need the Lord Jesus Christ to come in my heart and life and forgive me for all my sin and give me eternal life so that when I die I go to heaven and not to hell. You follow what I'm saying? We need God's help. And even as a believer, I need the Lord to help me. Somebody says to me, Again, I'm getting way ahead of myself here, but somebody says, I've had this so many times, preacher, if I get saved, I don't think I'd be able to live the Christian life I just blow it and I'd lose my salvation. I'm here to tell you, if you accept Jesus Christ as Savior, He takes over. And it's in his hands. And God will take care of that. And God will settle that. Um, who was it that penned this Little chapter here, these eight verses. I know God's the author. God gave it to us. Now, I'll tell you what I think For whatever it's worth. Because I studied this and read this and saw what people said, I kind of came to this conclusion. I believe, and um, you know I might be wrong, I doubt it, but um I I thought it was wrong one other time and I was mistaken. So this is what I think. I think it was penned by a Jewish believer. Traveling to Jerusalem, maybe from they lived a far away from the city, and they were bringing the family into Jerusalem, maybe for the Passover, maybe for some special event. And they were coming up to the temple in Jerusalem. They were going to worship God. They believed God. They believed the Bible was his word. They believed the Bible is his word. They wanted to serve the Lord. They wanted to live for God. and please him. But to get to Jerusalem they had to travel some dangerous roads. And to get to Jerusalem they'd have to go through some narrow paths in the mountains there. And there was uh thieves and robbers. As the Bible references a number of times. And maybe they were a little bit concerned about getting to Jerusalem safely. Perhaps they penned us down. I lift up mine eyes into the hills, and they saw the hills they perhaps had to go through to get to Jerusalem. And they thought, those hills are dangerous. Those hills are robbers in there and there's so many obstacles, so many dangers we face. Whence cometh my help? And he looked beyond that and he looked up to heaven and he said, my help comes from the Lord, who made the heaven and earth. Then he goes on. Look at the rest of it, as Brother Grant read a few moments ago. It says verse three, he says, He will not suffer thy foot to be moved. He that keepeth thee will not slumber. Behold, he that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep. The Lord is thy keeper. The Lord is thy shade upon thy right hand. The sun shall not smite thee by day, the moon by night. The Lord shall preserve thee from all evil. He shall preserve thy soul The Lord shall preserve thy going out and thy coming in from this time forth even forever. I like to picture it as a young man, maybe a young father with children and a wife, and he loves them dearly, and he loves the Lord. He wants to worship God, he wants to please God, and he wants his life to count for something when it's said and done. He's going to Jerusalem and he says, God, I need you to help me. Keep my family safe. Keep us in your will. Keep us from sin and temptation. And he comes to the conclusion the Lord will help me. The Lord will preserve me. The Lord will keep me. I like that thought. Now, whoever it was that penned this, whether it's the scenario I presented or not Whoever it was, God used them to give us three principles to help us in life. And that's what I want to share with you from God's word. Three principles to help us in life. The title is Looking for Help. Now here's my outline. Number one, this is my first thought. Whoever this penman was, he was aware of the fact that he needed the Lord. He was aware of the fact that he needed the Lord. That's a good thing to beware of the fact that I have a need. You know what's terrible? To have a need and not know it. To have a need and not know it. I've known folks over the years. Uh I was chaplain for the hospice uh program for four years back years ago. And you know what sometimes would happen? Someone had some physical needs. There was maybe cancer developing or some sort of heart disease was developing, and there was a need for medical attention, but they never knew it. They didn't go to the doctor. They didn't check things out. They didn't respond to symptoms that were obvious. They just let it go. And there was a real need there. But they never were aware of the fact that they had that need. Follow what I'm saying? How tragic that is. This fellow realized I've got a need. I need the Lord. The word help there in verse 21, the first two verses, I lift up my eyes unto the hills, from whence cometh my help, my help, that word help has the idea of assistance. Somebody coming and doing for me what I cannot do for myself. Somebody stepping in and protecting me in a way that I cannot protect myself. This man was aware of the fact that there were some things that had to be in place in his life that he could not do them himself. Somebody else were going to have to step in. He was aware of his need. 1999, the church sent my wife and I on our first mission trip down to Dominican Republic. And um the other side of the island of Haiti. And uh back in that time uh it was very undeveloped. We were down this past this past February I was down teaching in a seminary and It's very much developed from what it was. It's not anything like America, but it's better than it was. But in 99 it was very undeveloped. And uh it was a very dangerous country in many ways, and still is. We went out of the city of Santo Domingo up into the countryside to visit a missionary we supported, Steve Wido. He lived in an especially dangerous town. It was a mining town, and a lot of liquor, a lot of drinking, a lot of fighting, guns and all that. It was a dangerous town And he was starting a church and he had a good group of believers there. He had one to Christ. He had shipped, get this, he had a bus he bought back here in the States, had it shipped down there And he was running that bus through that town picking up kids and people that couldn't drive and bringing them into church and preaching the gospel to them. Had the opportunity to speak in his church But as we went out there to visit, Dr. Pat Creed was with us, a couple others, we went out there to visit Brother Steve. We pulled up to the house where he was living, and I noticed several things The first thing I noticed was he had a 10-foot cement wall around his entire house where he lived, the entire property. I mean it was up there probably about two foot thick cement wall all around it. Where you would go through the wall, there was heavy iron gates across that wall, across the uh opening. Closed, locked, latched, padlock on there. I noticed across the top of the wall they had broken glass, broken bottles, broken glass cemented down into the top of the wall with the jagged edges pointing up. If you got through the gate, if somehow you could get over that wall without shredding yourself on the broken glass, or you could somehow get through that solid steel gate, he had inside there two large Doberman pinchers. And I think they were always hungry. And uh they were there. If if anybody got through there, uh you had to deal with them. As if that wasn't enough, there was this little Dominican fellow sitting on a plastic chair with a double-barreled shotgun across his lap just sitting there. I said, who's that? He said, he's the watchy man. The hooey man? The watchy man. I said, what's he do He said, he watches for anybody trying to get in here. And I said, what do they do? What will he do if they do get in here? He said, what do you think he'll do? He's got a double barrel shotgun, you knucklehead Now what was he doing? Here's the thing. Brother Steve was fully aware of the fact that he lived in a very dangerous place. And if he did not have these things in place, if he did not have that wall, the glass, the dog, the gate, the watchyman, if he didn't have all that in place, he and his family was in grave, grave danger. They would lose their possessions and very likely lose their life. He was aware of the need of protection. Now here's the thing. Kathy and I were there. We were out walking around doing stuff. We had no idea of the danger that that place was. And just, you know, and uh he says, listen, you guys need to be careful. You're identified as American, they know that, they think you're rich. In fact, compared to what they are, you are rich And we're never aware of the fact how dangerous that was until he showed us. Now this fellow in Psalm 21, he was aware of the fact, I need the Lord to help me. And uh it's uh it's a good thing to beware of the fact that I have a need. I meet people all the time. Listen to this. I meet people all the time who've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. And they're going through life never even thinking about the fact if they die in their sins They are in hell for all eternity, lake of fire. And they have an incredible need of the Lord Jesus Christ, and they don't even know it. They're not even aware of the fact that one mist turn on a street could take their life. One instance of a of a disease coming in and their life would be gone just like that. And they live their life never aware of the fact that they have an incredible need. They're in grave danger without the Lord Jesus Christ. This fellow said, I will I'll lift up my eyes and tell us from whence cometh my help? I need some help. And uh it's a good thing to be aware of the fact. That I need help. It's a uh every time, if you'll study the Old Testament, every time Israel got the idea that they did not need the Lord Boy, they got in a mess. I mean a mess. Every time they try and live their lives independent of God, if they try and say, Well, I don't really need the Lord. Well I can do this myself. I don't need to do what the Bible says. I don't need to trust God. I don't need to obey God. I just I got my act together. Every time they did that They ended up absolutely devastated. Their children were ravaged by the enemies. Their land was taken. I'm here to tell you we need to be aware of the fact that we need God. The greatest lesson in life is when I learn how much I need the Lord. Am I right or not? We need the Lord. I thank God for 1979. Lord began showing me how lost I was. I'm grateful for times since I've been saved. When I failed God, I'm not grateful I failed God, but I'm grateful I learned that I need the Lord even as a Christian to help me. Take your Bibles if you would. Now keep your place here. Come with me quickly to the Gospel of Luke. I want to look at two passages in the book of Luke. The Gospel of Luke, chapter 12. We have two instances here of people who were completely unaware of their need. They're unaware of their need of the Lord, unaware of their need to trust the Lord and live by the Word of God. Luke chapter 12 I want to begin reading in verse number 16. Jesus is telling a parable here about a farmer That did not think he needed the Lord, that he could live his life the way he wanted. Look at verse 16, Luke chapter 12. And he, Jesus, spake a parable unto them, the folks gathered around, saying The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully. Look at this. And he thought within himself. Now I put in the margin of my Bible there, he leaned on his own understanding. That's a big mistake. He thought within himself, what shall I do? Because I have no room where to bestow my fruits, he said, this will I do. I will pull down my barns and build greater, and there will I bestow all my fruits and my goods. And I will say to my soul, soul! Thou hast much goods laid up for many years. Take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry. What's he saying? He's saying, can I suggest this? He's saying, I don't need God. I've got everything I need. I'm a self-contained man. I'm a self-made man. I've succeeded in what I've done. I'm very sufficient. I'm very successful. I don't need God. I've got everything. I'll just kick back, take it easy, I'll do what I want, when I want, the way I want. I'm not giving any thought to God. Read the next verse. But God said unto him, Thou what? Fool. This night thy soul shall be required of thee. Then who shall those things be which thou hast provided? You know why the Lord called him a fool? I mean that's pretty strong. When God says, listen, if somebody calls me a fool, I'd be a little offended by that. A little offensive. But when God says someone's a fool, we better pay attention. That's strong You know why God called him a fool? Because he was completely unaware of the fact that he needed the Lord in his life. He thought he could handle it himself. Now listen, we need the Lord as our personal Savior. We are not getting out of this, we're not going to escape hell if we're trusting in ourselves and looking to ourselves to escape hell. Only Jesus can save us from hell. And then once we are saved, once we accept Jesus Christ as Savior, hell is uh is dealt with. Jesus already paid that judgment for us. We have a homineman But as far as living for God is concerned, I need God to help me on a daily basis. I must be aware of that. Listen, any Christian that thinks, hey, all right, I'm safe I don't need the Lord anymore. It's all settled. I can deal with this myself. You are looking for trouble. And we must be aware of the fact that I need God to help me. Turn over to Luke chapter 15. Here we have a very familiar story, the prodigal son. We're familiar with that. A fella had two boys. Luke 15. Look at verse number 11. He has a certain man had two sons. The younger of them said to his father, Father, give me. Alright, that's an indicator right there, his problems. Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me, and he divided unto them his living. Not many days after, the younger son gathered all together and took his journey unto a far country. What is he saying? He said, I don't need my daddy anymore. I'm good. And he began to uh uh took his uh far country and there wasted his substance with riotous living. That tells me he probably needed his daddy more than he thought he did. He couldn't handle it And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that land, and he began to be in one. And he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country, and sent him into his fields to feed swine. And he, this younger son, would fain have filled his belly with the husk of the swine did that the husk uh the husk that the swine did eat, and no man gave unto him Look at this next phrase, I like this. And when he went, when he came to himself. He said, how many hired servants of my fathers have bread enough and to spare, and I perish with hunger? He came to himself, you know what he realized? I need help. I need daddy. I've made a mess. I can't do this on my own. Look at the next statement. I'll arise and go to my Father. And will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and before thee, and I'm no more worthy to be called thy son. Make me as one of thy hired servants. You know what he's saying? I need help. Tell you what, I've dealt been here twenty-one years now, Mountain Lake. I thank God for this church. I thank God for the people. It's been a been the joy of my life to pastor this church. Do you know what I've seen over the years? I've seen folks come and trust Christ, get excited, they're saved. And then fine, then they think, well, you know, I've got my act together now and I'm going to heaven when I die. I can just do my own thing. I can get along just fine. I don't need to read my Bible every day. I don't need to be in church old time. I don't need to pray. I don't need to do all that stuff the preacher says and the Bible teaches. I don't need to do all that. I just You know what I've seen? I've seen them make disasters out of their Christian life. Absolute disaster. It's good when we realize how much we need the Lord. Every day I need God to help me. That's why we emphasize so much. And uh I've been practicing this myself for years. Is in the morning, spend some time in the Word of God God, teach me, show me. What should I do today? God, what is what should I what should I avoid? God, teach me, show me from your word. Open my eyes that I can see what you're trying to tell me from your word. And then pray, Lord, direct me. Give me wisdom. God help me to make right decisions. Help me to be faithful. Get around God's people. Be faithful to the church services. I want God to help me. Because you know what? If I don't trust the Lord, I'll make a mess. Can I say something? The biggest mistake I've made in my life has been not trusting God. Thinking I've got it myself, I know the answer, I can handle this myself rather than saying, Lord, I'm going to trust you, I'm going to obey you. This fellow was unaware of the fact that he needed God. He needed God in his home. He needed God in his marriage. He needed God in his family with his children, in his business. in every aspect of his life. I will lift up mine eyes into the hills. Whence cometh my help? My help cometh from the Lord. So the first thing I notice here real quick is that he uh uh he had aware he was aware of his need. He was aware of his need. Um I mentioned this before. I've used this illustration before, but when I was in high school, I had a dear, dear friend, Denny Swirtley. Many of you heard me talk about him. Without going into the whole story, I went one last time one time I was in Bible college. I was home for Easter. I looked up my friend Denny Swirling. I got saved at 19 He didn't get saved. I witnessed to him. We went our different ways. I looked him up after I'd been in Bible college, found out where he was. I went to him with the purpose of witnessing to him. I spent several hours of a weekday afternoon trying to get Danny just to listen to the gospel. You know what he kept saying to me? He kept saying this. Everything's cool. We called each other both named Denny. Everything's cool, Denny. Everything's cool. He was saying, I don't need it. I don't need it. I don't need it. I don't need it. Everything's cool, man. I left him a little Gideon Bible. I said, well at least take this. Thanks. Good to see you, man. Everything's alright. It's on drugs, just messed up. Went back to Global College, a couple months went by, I got a letter. I still have the newspaper clipping in my office. I was looking at it just the other week. My dad sent me a letter. In that letter was a newspaper clipping of an obituary. Dennis Wilson Swartley, twenty-some years old, died suddenly. Everything's cool, man. Everything's cool, man. Hey, everything wasn't cool. He needed the Lord. And he would not bec be make himself aware of that. He would not accept the fact that he needed Jesus Christ as Savior. And I hate to say this. I hate to say this. As far as I know, my best friend all through high school, as I'm standing here before you, is now in the fires of hell and has been for 30 years. My best friend. Listen, we need to be aware of the fact we need the Lord. We need the Lord. I had a roommate in Bible college. Saved man. He was a Navy fellow. Got saved uh I guess I don't know if he got saved while he was in the service or shortly after he was in Bible college. I have no doubt of his salvation. But he would not live by the word of God. He wanted to do his own thing. He said, I don't have any problem going down to the bar drinking. So I'll just try and be a witness to those guys. I said, you're crazy, man. Skipped church. Just whatever. Just did his own thing. You know what happened? His life was a disaster. Disaster, what he could have been for God. He was an intelligent, successful in many ways. But he refused to see that as a Christian, I need the Lord to lead me. I need the Lord to direct me. I've got to trust God. Lift up mine eyes unto the hills. From whence cometh my help? My help cometh from the Lord. This fellow was aware I was near the Lord. Second, I just need to give these next two real quick. I know, oh by the way, let me just say this: we need the Lord. Amen or not. We need the Lord before we're saved to come to Jesus Christ, accept Him as the Savior. Once we are saved, we need the Lord to lead us and direct us in our life. We need Him. He was aware of his need. Number two, his attitude towards his need. I will lift up mine eyes. Not only was he aware of his need, he was going to do something about it. He got out there looking, looking, Lord, I'm looking to you. I'm looking to have this need met. A terrible thing happens when a person does nothing about their relationship with the Lord. You know what happens? Nothing. We knock on doors every single week. We get out and try and knock on doors, talk to people, engage them with the gospel, share the message of Christ with them. And so many times over the years it's happened. Many other of our church folk would testify, well, have someone say, Do you know for sure if you die now you go to heaven? They'll say, No, I don't know that. Can we show you from the Bible? Sure We'll take our Bible out and we'll go through the gospel and the book of Romans, we'll go through the plan of salvation and show them how that we're all sinners and because of our sin we need uh we're under the judgment and wrath of God. We end up in hell if we die like that. But Jesus died and suffered hell for us in our place. He was buried and rose again. If we'll call on him and trust him, he'll come in our heart and life. He'll give us eternal life. We can know for sure we go to heaven and not to hell. And we'll go through all that and we'll say, listen Since Jesus died on that cross for you right the way you are, would you be willing to call on him to be your personal Savior? They say, I understand all that, but not right now. No, I just I'm not ready for that. A man had heart I had a heart attack, multiple heart attacks, down in the old hospital in Kaiser. I was in the ICU room beside him, went through the plan of salvation. He would not get saved. He says, I know I need to be saved, but I'm not ready yet. 69 years old, heart attack. He said, I'm not ready yet. What a terrible attitude. He was aware that he needed Christ. But he wasn't willing to do anything about it. You know how many people die and go to hell knowing that they needed to have been saved? Knowing that Jesus is the way to be saved and not accepting him. Isn't that sad? You know how many Christians there are? That know they should live for God, not to stay saved, but to please the Lord. They know what's right. They're aware of what is right, but they won't do it. Why? He says I've got a need, I know that, and I'm gonna do whatever it takes to find anything. I'm gonna lift up my eyes and say, I want to get this need met, I want to have this settled He had the right attitude about it. So don't do anything, we'll never get saved. Once we're saved, if we don't do what the Lord says, trust him, we're not going to grow, we're not going to have God's blessings, we're not going to have God's hand upon us. How tragic is that? And then last of all, let me give you this, his assurance of help from the Lord. He was aware of his need. He had the right attitude. I'm looking, I'm lifting up my eyes. I want to find out he then he got assurance in verses three through four. Uh let's come let me read that here real quick to you. He says, uh He, God, will not suffer thy foot to be moved. He that keepeth thee will not slumber. Behold, he that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep. And he goes down through here, keepeth, keepeth, keepeth, preserve, preserve, preserve, the Lord shall, the Lord shall, the Lord shall And God assured him: listen, if you will trust me, if you will look to me, if you'll put your faith in me, if you'll do what I say, I'll take care of you, I'll meet your needs, I'll protect you, I'll lead you, I'll guide you. He had assurance. My help cometh from the Lord. Here's the great thing. Not only will the Lord save me from sin in hell when I accept him as my Savior, which I did in seventy-nine. Many of you have trusted Christ. But not only will he save us from sin in hell, but he will keep us saved. That word preserve, preserve, preserve, preserve, preserve. Uh so some of you folks still do it. When I was young growing up, uh we had a big garden and uh we would can green beans. Right? Anybody can green beans? Ed did you guys can any green beans You know what you do? I don't I'm I don't know how to can 'em. The way I can 'em is go to Walmart and buy cans of 'em. And so I canned the green beans today. But um well they put that in a bio if I if I'm saying this wrong correct me later. Alright But they they cook that, right? They put that in there and boy they get that thing hot and then put the beans in, then you seal it, right? You put the lid on there and put it on, then you let it cool. Am I close to being right? Just say yes. Alright, prove it. You put that in there and when that thing cools you wait until you hear a what? Oh it's sealed You know what? You can come back a year later and those green beans taste delicious. They're sealed in there. They're just kept nice and tight. Delicious. I'm hungry. Let's just quit and go eat right now. Those things are sealed in there. Two years can go by. Man, they're great. Put a little fat back in there and some potatoes. The Lord says in Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 30. Lord says that we are sealed until the day of temptation. What's going on, bud? Bingo The Lord says in Ephesians that we are sealed until the day of redemption You know what that's teaching us? That when we accept Jesus Christ as Savior, God keeps us sealed. We're safe. We're secure. I was telling that to a fellow one time. He said, Well, preacher, you can lose your salvation after you get saved. I showed him that verse. I said, We're sealed by the Holy Spirit until the day of redemption. He goes, Yeah, we're sealed until that seal's popped I said, well, according to that verse, when is the seal popped? The day of redemption. I said, when's that? He said it's when Jesus comes back again. I said, why would we just be sealed to them? Because when Jesus comes back, we get our glorified bodies. We don't have a sin nature. We're not in danger of doing anything to lose our salvation anymore. So we don't need that sealing. Am I making sense? But I've got a sinful nature. If it was up to me to keep myself saved, I'd have lost it the day after I got saved. I can't keep myself saved. That's why I trusted Jesus. He is the one that saves me and keeps me. He seals me Doesn't mean I have a license. You Baptists, once saved, always saved. That's a license to sin. You don't know your Bible. Read Hebrews chapter 12. That's not a license to sin. When I get saved, God seals me. I become a child of God. And my God is a good daddy. And he doesn't let his kids just run crazy. He disciplines them. He chastens them and gets them back to the right. He doesn't kill them. He doesn't send them to hell. He corrects them. So when I get saved, I have assurance from God that I will never ever lose that salvation because God has healed me. I'm his child. You say, what if you go out and sin I'll tell you what happens when a Christian goes out and sins. God steps in and corrects it until I get back where I'm supposed to be. He doesn't send me to hell. That's crazy. What kind of daddy would send his kids to hell? He disciplines us and brings us back in. And so he has assurance: the Lord will preserve me, the Lord will keep me. John 10, 28, I will give unto them eternal life. Eternal life. Now I'm saved, I'm secure, but as a saved person, I really need the Lord to help me live for Him, do what's right. Left to myself, I'm going to make a mess and God will have to chasten me. But if I'll read that Bible every day as a Christian, get this. If I'll read that Bible and do what God tells me to every day, if I'll pray If I'll be faithful to church and make good, godly Christian friends and trust the Lord on a daily basis. God will help me. God will bless me and He'll use me to be a witness to other people. I like this little story. I've told it occasionally over the years. We lived in Indianapolis and um our oldest son, Sam Who, by the way, just had a baby this past week. Did I mention it? I'll show you the pictures. He was like two, three maybe. And we lived in a little uh development area and when you go out our driveway, you always tell which house was ours. They all had manicured yards and fertilized and everything. Ours was covered in dandelions So we always knew right where we lived. But um if you come out and you go up and there's a little hill that goes up. One, it was a winter day, Sunday afternoon, and the sun was out, but it was bitter cold Sam and I bundled up and we went out for a walk and we're walking up the sidewalk. And whenever we walk, you know how little kids are, he'd hold on to my finger like that. Anybody ever do that? Walk on, he's just holding on to my finger We walk along, he's tiding along, he's holding my finger. We come up this hill, it's a little steep, and right there there was a house that had a washing machine would drain out the driveway and down the sidewalk And that drain from the washing machine would all freeze up across the sidewalk. She had about, oh, 10, 15, 20 feet of just ice all down through there. We come up to that ice and he's holding on to my finger and he's just tidal along, you know. And I know we cross that ice, he's he's gonna slip, he's going down. And if it's just him holding on to me, when his feet go out from underneath me, I know what's going to happen. He's not going to be able to, he's not strong enough. He can't hold on. He's going to fall. So just before we reached that ice, I pulled my finger out and I grabbed his hand. Now I'm holding on to him We start making our way across that ice. And we don't take three steps in and his little feet go start going. And next thing you know, those feet go out from underneath them. But he didn't fall. His daddy had his hand. So as those feet went out, I just picked them up, set him back down on his feet. We got a few more steps. He goes down. I just held him up. Set him back down on his feet. To this day his arm still goes like this. And we made it across that ice and he never fell one time Now listen, that's the way the Christian life is. If it was me holding on to God, I'd have fallen years ago. I'd have lost it dead. But as a Christian, it's not me holding on to God, it's God holding on to me. John chapter 10. And when I mess up and I say something I ought not to say or I do something I ought not to do and I just mess up and my spiritual feet go out from underneath me, I don't fall and lose my salvation I've got a God in heaven, my heavenly Father, He's got a hold of me. And I messed up, He holds me up and He sets me back on my feet. The Bible says the just man falleth seven times and rises up again. That's God picks me up and picks me up and picks me up. Lift up mine eyes unto the hills, from whence cometh my help? My help cometh from the Lord. He saves me. He keeps me. He helps me. What I need to do is just trust him. Do what he says. Let him lead me and direct me. God will bless. Father, I ask you to help us. Help us to look to you for help. Help us to trust you, Lord. With our heads bowed and eyes closed. How many this morning say, Preacher, I'm saved? I know I'm saved. But He said, preacher, I need to be more careful on letting the Lord lead me, on trusting him as a Christian, doing what he says. Let me put it this way, let's be real specific. How many This morning say, preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved, but I really need to read my Bible like I should. I'm not reading that Bible like I should, and I need to Is there any like that by the uplifted hand preacher pray for me that I'd do that like I should? God bless you, hands all around. We really need to do that, and that needs to be a habit. How many say, preacher, you know I really don't pray over things like I should. I just try to figure it out myself and do what I think and I really don't stop and pray and ask the Lord for leadership and help Is any like that? Preacher, pray for me. That I pray for things like I should. Any of the uplifted hand, God bless you, a lot of hands. It's so easy just to lean on our own understanding and not look to the Lord How about our church attendance, faithful, getting around God's people, under the teaching and preaching of God's word? We need that. I need that Maybe I'm talking to some this morning and you've messed up. As a Christian, I'm messed up. Listen, that's between you and God, but I'm here to tell you. If you know Jesus as Savior, you're in his hands. And he'll help you. And he'll help you get back on your feet and get things the way they're supposed to be. If you just trust them, just let them have his way. Now one last question. Is there someone here this morning who said, Preacher, I don't know for sure that when I die I'm going to heaven? I know you don't want to go to hell. Nobody in their right mind wants to go to hell. And you cannot escape hell and get to heaven on your own. You cannot do it on your own. You need the Lord. And how many say, preacher, I'd like for you to pray for me? That God will help me settle this matter, that I don't go to hell, that I go to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell. Pray for me, preacher, that God would help me. How about it? By the uplifted hand. God bless you, and God bless you How about it? Any others pray for me that God will help me settle that. I don't want to go to hell when I die. I need the Lord to save me so I can go to heaven. Any others? Father, a lot of hands were raised for various reasons. You know our hearts. We do need you, Lord. Help us to trust you. I pray that we give the invitation You'd help folks find a place, an old-fashioned order, and just humble ourselves before you and say, Lord, help me read my Bible. Lord, help me to pray. Help me to do right. Maybe the others that raise their hand, Lord, I need you to come in my life and be my Savior. I just pray God you'd prompt us to do what needs to be done right now in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed.