If you would turn back to 2 Corinthians chapter number 4, I want to read verse numbers 17 and 18 again. Pastor Matt just read these And then when we get to verse number 18, I hope you will there at home wherever you're at, I hope you'll read out loud along with me verse number 18. Now, of course, that was our memory verse For the month of October, I wanted to preach this message a little earlier in the month, but it was just such a full month. I never got to it, and so um we're gonna start off uh November, a new month, with our memory verse from the past month. But uh I want to speak this morning. If you would, let's look at our verse here. Verse number 17. I'll read this, and in verse 18, you read out loud with me if you would, there, wherever you're at. Uh join in with us. But let me read verse 17 first. For our light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for us a far more exceeding An eternal weight of glory. Now, verse 18 altogether, read it with me. Wherever you're at, wherever you're at in the world, read this out loud with me. Here we go. While we look not at the things which are seen but at the things which are not seen. For the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are, say it with me, eternal. I want us to this morning, my title of the message is this, Looking at the Unseen. Looking at the Unseen. Let's pray together. And ask the Lord to bless our message. Father in heaven, we thank you, Lord, that we can gather together as we are in this situation. And we ask now that you would speak to us from your word I yield my will to you, I present my body anew, and I pray with all my heart, Lord, that you fill me with your Holy Spirit, and that I would just be the conduit, just like this microphone and the the computers and all that just flows through them out into uh the homes. I pray that you would speak through me uh to hearts and lives and change lives and help us, Lord, to uh get our focus where it needs to be. So bless this message and use it to your glory, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. I'm telling you, one of the most amazing and miraculous organs in our body Is the eyeball. What an amazing thing our eyeball is. I've got some facts here about the eyeball. I did a little research. And um according to this, according to the doctors, eye doctors, your eyes start to develop two weeks after you're conceived. So very very early on in the development of a of a of a little child in the womb, very early in that child's development, the eyes begin to develop there in the womb. Two weeks after conception. Uh this is interesting. I thought this was interesting. Your eyeballs stay the same size from birth till death. They never grow in size. Your eyeballs stay the same Apparently your ears and your nose continue to grow, but your eyeballs don't. They stay the same size the whole time, according to this. This is interesting. An eye, an eyeball, is composed of more than two million working parts. In that little eyeball, about an inch across that little eyeball, two million working functioning parts to enable us to see. Two million Um an eye cannot be transplanted. There are more than one million nerve fibers that connect each eye to the brain. And we are unable to reconstruct those connections as it is. So an eye cannot be translated. Liver, lungs, heart, all that, but an eyeball is not possible Um eight eighty percent of our memories are determined by what we see. Our memories are very much dependent Upon our ability to see what we can see. There are about 39 million people that are blind around the world. This is interesting. Humans and dogs. Humans and dogs, as far as we know, are the only species known to seek visual cues from another's individual eyes Now, if you're a kid, you know what I'm talking about, ma'am. All you need is mom's laser look eyes, and she is communicating a heap to you. You know Oh when she's doing that. And apparently dogs and according to this a dog is only able to receive communication from a human's eyes. They look at you just look at the dog and Uh boy, they'll react. They get the message sometimes. But it's only uh from humans. So uh here's another uh interesting fact about eyeballs. A fingerprint has 40 unique characteristics. So they can identify you by your fingerprint. You can use that for access to things because it has 40 unique characteristics, every fingerprint. However, In your eye, your ISIS, iris, has two hundred and fifty-six unique characteristics, and that's one of the reasons security firms are going to the retina recognition, the iris recognition, rather than fingerprint, because it's much, much more accurate. There's more unique characteristics there. 256. People who are blind can see their dreams if they weren't born blind. If they lost their sight later on, they're still able to see their dreams according to this. 80% of what we learn is through our eyes. The eyes are the second most complex organ after the brain. And eyes, now I thought this was amazing. Eyes are so complex It requires nearly one half of our brain to enable our eyes to function. They're so complex it requires half of our brains uh capacity uh to enable uh an eye to function. So what I'm saying is this eyes are an amazing thing. Uh it's a miracle uh uh of God the this ability to see and the the design that is in an eyeball is astounding. However, for as amazing as they are, our eyes are still limited. Um I was reading about an electronic microscope that enables us to be able to see atomic and even subatomic particles. Without with the naked eye, you can never see these, but you get this elonic electronic microscope. And you're able to see these m these microscopic atomic and even subatomic particles. You could never see them just with the naked eye. Years ago they put the Hubble space uh telescope up in the atmosphere, circling the Earth, up in orbit. And uh man that thing brought back pictures and enable us to see things in our universe we never dreamed or out there, nebula and galaxies by the millions of galaxies And uh never could tell that uh just with the naked eye. So our eyesight is limited. A number of years ago our military came up with the ability for night vision goggles. And can see in the night see things that the eye would not be able to see. So our eyes, as amazing as they are They are limited on what they can do. Now, these subatomic particles and these galaxies in the universe that we could not see without the without these special telescopes and microscopes with uh things in the dark. Does that mean that those things that we didn't see, does that mean they did not exist? Because our eyes were unable to uh conceiv perceive them. Uh does that mean that the subatomic particles did not exist? No, they existed all the time. They were there. These Galaxies were there, our eyes were just limited in its ability to perceive them, to be able to see them and observe them. Now, just like These galaxies and these little particles, just like our eyes couldn't see them, there's another reality that our eyes are limited and cannot see, and that is this, the spiritual realm. The spiritual realm. We are unable to see the spiritual realm. Our eyes are only able to observe physical things. uh physical objects. We cannot observe the spiritual things. Now in our chapter here, 2 Corinthians chapter 4, Paul is sharing with the church at Corinth some of the issues and challenges he faced in his ministry. Pastor Matt read them a little bit ago, some of those he touched on them But I thought it was interesting in verse number one. Then again in verse number sixteen he made a statement. Look at verse number one with me. He says, Therefore, seeing we have this ministry We have re uh uh as we have received mercy, uh, by the way, it's God's mercy that allows us to be in the ministry. We don't deserve it. Paul said, it's just God's mercy that I'm in the ministry And then he makes this statement at the end of verse 1. Seeing we have this ministry, as we have received mercy, we faint not. Now I underlined that in my Bible, actually circled it in my Bible And I drew a line over to verse number sixteen, and Paul makes this statement, For which cause here it is again, we faint not Paul says, in spite of this intense opposition that we'll look at here in a minute, in spite of this persecution and these afflictions, these difficulties, I didn't give up. We didn't quit. We didn't faint. We didn't give up. We didn't quit. We didn't lose courage. The word faint there means to lose courage or turn back. I didn't turn back. We kept on going. We stayed the course. We didn't quit. We pressed on in spite of all of that. And I believe our text, verse number 18, I believe Paul is sharing with us Uh the key on how he was able to, in spite of all his difficulties and all his opposition, we'll see here in a little bit He could just press on and not give up and go on and go on and go on and go on. Verse number eighteen. For we uh w while we look not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen For the things which are seen, the physical realm, the observable world, is temporal. But the things which are not seen, that spiritual realm, These are eternal. These are eternal. Chapter 4, verse 18. I put this in the margin of my Bible. A formula for endurance. A formula for endurance Over the years I've had people say to me, say, preacher, I just want to quit. I had one fellow years ago, he says, Oh, I wish I'd never been born. It's so hard. I'm telling you that God wants us to be on the winning side. God wants us to be on the victory side. God doesn't want us to quit. He wants us to go on and be strong and press on. And I believe verse number 18 there has the formula for endurance to be able to go on there. Now I have two thoughts to my message this morning, two points. Number one, I want us to notice Paul's afflictions And he lists these here in verse 8 down through verse 12. Then he kind of recaps in verse 17. Look at verse number 8. He says, But we are troubled on every side. Then he goes down and he lists a number of areas. uh that he had to deal with. Years ago um there was among the Greeks uh a philosophy, a group of of uh Greeks, their philosophy is referred to as Stoicism. And they were those that held to it were considered Stoics. I don't know if you're familiar with that But basically the philosophy of the Stoics was this. You do not experience emotion. If I am I am get to the point where I am strong enough where I Do not experience emotion. I don't have fear. I don't have joy. I don't have sorrow. I don't have cheer. Um there's all of these emotions. Love And hatred, all of that, are brought are completely subdued through my own willpower, my own strength of character. Stoics sometimes we'll free refer to somebody that doesn't react to things, is just very unemotional. We'll refer to them as a stoic. Well, I'm telling you, Paul was not a stoic Uh Paul was a very tender hearted man. And you read through uh uh the books of the Bible that God uh inspired him to pen. And you find he is very sensitive. When uh when people forsook him, it hurt him And he mentions number of times, I think in P and Timothy a couple other places. He mentions times when all men forsook me So-and-so forsook me. Demas had forsaken me. People that abandoned him and forsook him. And you can read as he writes this, you can sense the fact that these actions hurt him. And uh they had a profound effect on him. Uh it he was a very sensitive man. He was a very tender-hearted man. Uh when people would um uh be unkind to the apostle Paul, it affected him. He mentioned uh different people that um uh were fussing with each other and and that bothered him and people that had said and done things that uh were unkind and it bothered him it hurt him He was tender-hearted. These things affected him. When folks were a blessing to him, he would rejoice. And he found great joy in the people that uh loved the Lord and served the Lord with him and and supported him with their prayers and some cases their financial faith promise giving to him. He rejoiced in that and he experienced great joy He speaks of having joy unspeakable, full of glory. And so Paul was a very sensitive man. He was a very tender-hearted man, and his afflictions affected him. However, I said all that to say this. Paul did not allow his emotions to control him. People's actions affected him. He felt it Joy and sadness, happiness and sorrow, pain, and uh pleasure. He he experienced these things, but they did not control him It did not control him. Look with me at some of these afflictions that he mentions here. Verse number eight. He says, We are troubled on every side. I put it this way: first of all, he was pressured. That word trouble there means to be under a heavy strain. It means to be under a lot of pressure, to be pressed down. Paul, everywhere he went, it seemed like there was opposition. Everywhere he went, there was a weight on his shoulders. He said in one place, he says, this is my own words, he said something to the effect that the weight of all the churches is on my shoulders. As leading these churches and establishing these churches and trying to provide godly spiritual leadership and direction to these churches. And he felt that. And he says, I'm troubled on every side, pressure from every way. But look what he says. There's troubled on every side, yet not what? Distress. The word distress there means to be tied down. Because I've got these pressures, I've got these troubles everywhere I look, I've had this responsibility, weighs heavy on me, but I'm pressing on I'm not distressed. I'm not restrained. I'm pressing on. Look again at the second part of verse 8. That uh uh uh and we are perplexed. But not in despair. So he was pressured. Number two, he was perplexed. The word perplexed means what you think it would mean to be at a loss as to what to do. to uh have no escape or solution to a situation. And many of us are perpetually perplexed Um we never know what to do. But uh Paul said, listen, I there's situations in life and in the ministry. I'm trying to live for God, I'm trying to serve the Lord, I'm trying to be a good Christian, I'm trying to be a disciple of Christ. And he says, many times I'm perplexed. There's situations, I don't know what the answer is. I don't know what the correct response would be. I don't know what the solution to a situation might be. And Paul faced that. Paul dealt with it to a tremendous degree. But look what he says. I'm perplexed, but not in what? Despair. The word despair means to give up hope, to lose all joy. Oh, just throw up your hands. Oh, it's no hope. Paul said, I'm never that way. I don't know the answer. I don't know the solution. I don't know the way out of this. I don't know what that is. But my hope is in God. I'm not giving up. I'm not in despair. I'm pressing on. God has the solution. God has the answer. And so he had this. He was pressured. He was perplexed. Look at verse number 9. He was persecuted. He says, persecuted, but not forsaken. The word persecuted again means what you think it would mean, to be driven out, to cause this to be uh to cause someone to suffer because of their faith or their position on something in life. Paul, because of his faith in God. Paul Because of his boldness with the gospel and uh his obedience to the Great Commission. He was persecuted intensely, beaten, thrown in prison, left for dead, uh rejected, run out of cities Jailed many, many times in chains, in bonds, for no other reason other than he was obedient to the Great Commission. He was bold with the gospel. Listen, we talk about persecution here in America, and no doubt it will come someday to our country. But I'm telling you, you and I are not being persecuted. You and I might be harassed Uh we might be given a hard time, but I'll tell you, Paul knew what persecution was. And look what he says, I'm persecuted. But not forsaken, not forsaken. The word forsaken means to be abandoned, left behind, deserted. He says, all the world's turned against me Ah, the world has persecuted me. They've thrown me in prison. They've beaten me. They've stoned me. They've left me for dead. They've put me in bonds. But through it all, Jesus Christ stood right with me. He never abandoned me. He never forsook me. He never divorced me. He never walked away from me. He's been faithful to me. And then he was pressured, he was perplexed, he was persecuted. Look at verse 9, the second part. He was put down I put it that way. He says, cast down, but not destroyed. The word cast down means to just to grab someone and throw them down on the ground. As I was looking up how the words used and a little bit of the background of that phrase cast down, I got this idea, sucker punched. Do you know what it means to be sucker punched just out of nowhere Wax, somebody clobbers you across the side of the head and knocks you to the ground. Paul says, listen, I've been sucker punched I I've been I've been broadsided. Stings hit me out of nowhere, they show up and absolutely clobbered me And uh, but look what he says. I've been cast down, but not destroyed. Not destroyed. Uh he says, always got up again. God help me get up again. I thought of uh Proverbs uh uh back in Proverbs where the Bible says a just man falleth seven times And I love that next statement. And riseth up again. And Paul said, I've been knocked down and knocked down and cast down and put down over and over and over. But God's been faithful. I just got back up again and went on. And then one last area there he mentions verse 10 and 11. He was in perpetual danger. He's pressured. He was perplexed. He was persecuted, he was put down, he was in perpetual danger. Look at verse 10, always bearing about in the body the dying of the Lord Jesus uh uh the of the Lord Jesus that the life also of Christ might be made manifest in our body. Verse eleven, for we which live are always delivered unto death for Jesus' sake That the life also of Jesus might be manifest in our mortal flesh. Paul lived a life that he was in continual danger of losing his life Because of his commitment to Christ, because of the hostility of society against the Lord Jesus Christ and the gospel. But Paul He lived a life of danger, but he lived a life that this world can never produce. A fulfilling, joy-filled, victorious life in spite of all of this. Now, how could this be How could Paul be this way, be persecuted and pressured and perplexed, and yet not be defeated, yet not be destroyed, yet not quit? Faint not, he says. How could he what was what kept him from fainting in the midst of all these troubles? How could he have peace in his heart when all around him was chaos and and war. How could he stay calm when all around him was was rage and angry? I got looking at the people that opposed Paul. Not one of them were happy people Not one of them had any joy or peace in their lives. Yet Paul did. And in this opposition and in this affliction. He was able to press on in victory and in joy and not in misery. And I think the answer is number two, and my second point and last is Paul's focus. He had his afflictions we looked at, yet he didn't faint. He didn't quit. Look at his focus. Verse 17 again and verse 18. For our light affliction, all that we just described, Paul says it's light affliction. It ain't nothing. It's nothing to me. Light affliction, which is but for a moment, mark that word. Worketh for us a far more exceeding, look at this next word, eternal weight of glory. Then verse 18. While we look not at the things which are seen Physical world, but at the things which are not seen, the spiritual realm. For the things which are seen are what? There's that word, temporal, but the things which are not seen, here it is again, eternal. There's two key words in those two verses. One is this. Verse 17, it's worded this way, a moment, or but for a moment. Verse 18, it's temporal. That word moment means just for an instant, for a brief period of time. There in verse 18, the word temporal means just for a short season. Just uh uh I don't know about you. Mark said this some I don't know, a year or so ago, he says, boy, it sure seems like summers go quick and winters last forever around here. And boy, that's true. It's just a short season, it seems like. And next thing you know, we're into the next And that's what Paul is saying here under the inspiration of God. Some things are temporal, some things are but for a moment, just for a brief period of time, just for a season. And then there are some things that are eternal. And the word eternal simply means to continue on without end, to be uh to never cease, to be without end. Now, God wants us to be wise. He doesn't want us to be foolish. And he wants us to live our lives wisely. And this is where I'm getting at now. I believe a wise Christian understands. That the world we live in and what we see around us and the things that we are experiencing, physical afflictions and difficulties that we face. These are all temporal. These are all but for a moment. And there is a reality of life. There is an aspect to reality, to life, that though we cannot see it with our eyes It is just as real as the physical world. The difference being is the spiritual realm is eternal. It goes on. Everything we see. We can only see material things. We can only see physical things. And everything we can possibly see is temporal. It's but for a moment. There will come a day when this church building will not be here. There will come a day when these trees around us will not be here. There will come a day when this heaven and this earth will not be here, melt away. But that which we cannot see. There is a realm of reality that our eyes are limited and cannot perceive, nevertheless, is just as real, yet lasts eternal. And Paul said, that is where my focus is. When I'm under pressure, when I'm being persecuted, when I'm cast down When I'm in danger of my life, my focus is not on these temporal situations. My focus is past the physical realm. That which is seen. And I'm looking at that which I cannot see. I see the eternal. To look. The word look there. This was fascinating to me. Verse 18. While we look Not at the things which are seen. That word look there means to fix my eyes upon. And it has this idea to lock my focus upon something. To lock it onto something. In fact, one definition, and it at first I didn't really follow what he was trying to get at, but one definition was this: a goal that I am looking at. Paul's saying this: my goal, my focus, my purpose in life, what I'm living for, is not these things which are seen, is not these things which are physical. My life, my goal in life, my focus in life, my purpose for living is beyond the scene, and it's to that spiritual realm that is forever. The Lord God Almighty, eternity in his presence. The reality of a spiritual realm that our eyes are unable to see. I'm telling you this morning, God is real. Satan is real. You say, I never saw God. No, he's real. Our eyes are limited. We can't see the spiritual world. The devil's just as real. Heaven is as real as this world you and I are living in. It's as real. Hell is as real as the ground that is under our feet. Though we cannot see it. And Paul said, my focus, my goal, my purpose in life isn't living for a temporal. We have so many people, and I'm afraid Christians caught up in it And we're living, and our purpose and our goal and everything we live for is that which can be seen, that which can be held, that which we can observe. And Paul said, All that's temporal. That's just for a moment. I'm living for that which is eternal. I'm living for that which is eternal. Look for God's hand in all that takes place in the afflictions and the trials and difficulties Look for that unseen hand of God moving and working in the spirit realm. Paul said, my focus, my goal is not the material world. but the eternal spiritual world. Satan wants us to focus on that which is seen. He wants to obsess, wants us to obsess, obsess and uh and uh worship and uh live for and adore. That which is temporal, that which is physical. And God wants us to live for that which is eternal. Satan wants us to disregard that which is unseen. He wants us to forget about The unseen reality that we live in. Years ago, my wife was able to lead a lady to the Lord, very elderly lady. It was on her birthday And um they got talking about uh about heaven and hell, where'd she spend eternity? This is a very, very elderly lady And um uh the lady trusted Christ. And they got talking a little bit, and uh and I I don't know exactly the conversation went exactly the way I'm saying it, but uh uh basically she had said to her, Have you ever thought about this before? About, you know, where you'll spend eternity, heaven and hell when you die. And the lady said this. She goes, whenever that thought came to mind, I pushed it out of my mind. I just wouldn't think about it You know, that's exactly what the devil wants us to do. To forget about the fact that we are spiritual beings, that we have that there is a God and that there is a devil and that there's a spiritual realm that lasts forever and be so obsessed and so uh uh focused on that which is temporal and that which is seen Looking at that which is unseen. Satan wants us to focus on that which is seen, the temporal, and forget about that which is unseen, the eternal. We came here in September of 1993. Now I think I'm remembering this correctly, but if I remember correctly, it snowed uh the first of November By the way, they're calling for snow tonight here, and um with much sorrow and grief I am praying that the Lord will drive the snow from our midst. But um it snowed. If I remember correctly, it snowed the first of November and that winter Uh we never saw the ground. If I remember it was like six, eight inches it snowed the beginning of November. And we never saw the grass the ground again until March. I mean the winter. It just snowed and snowed and snowed. Now you Garrett Countyans that live here, you say, yeah, so what's the deal? I never experienced anything like that before I mean we never s it just snowed November, December, January, February, March. We didn't see the grass. And I, this is dumb, but uh I got started in the back of my head, I got thinking something has happened to the Earth's atmosphere, something has happened to the axis of the earth. It shifted and it's going to be winter forever. We're never going to get out of winter ever again. That was the longest winter of my life. And uh, but you know what? Finally the sun started warming up, the snow started melting, the flowers started coming up, buds showed up on the tree. And that winter, though it seemed awfully long, was really just for a moment. It was just for a season. And it passed, and next spring followed behind it, then that was just for a while I'm telling you, everything you and I look at, everything you and I see, is just for a moment. It's just temporal, it's for a season. But there is an unseen realm. A spiritual realm that is so vitally important, and that is what lasts forever. If you don't know Jesus Christ as Savior, You've never been saved. I tell you, my plea for you is to come to know Jesus Christ as Savior because there is an unseen reality. That when this old life passes away and that which we see and we go out into eternity, we go out into that spiritual realm. To be separated from God for all eternity is the worst possible thing that can happen to a person. Jesus Christ died for our sins, was buried, rose again. He's alive today at the right hand of the Father, and he says that all who acknowledge their sin and recognize the fact that we're under his judgment separated Because of our sin and trust what he did for us on that cross, buried and rose again, and call on him and put our confidence in him to forgive us and save us and to give us eternal life God promises he'll do that. If you're not saved, I I plead with you, call on the Lord Jesus Christ to be your Savior. Contact us if you have questions or concerns. We can show you from the Bible. We can help you make that decision. We can't save you, but we can help you with that matter. Those of us that know the Lord as Savior, uh My plea and message this morning is let's not live for this world. Let's keep our eyes on the Lord. Let's not Let's not lay up our treasures here on earth where moth and thief steal and moth corrodes. Let's lay our treasures. Let's invest our lives. Let's live our lives For that which is unseen, the eternal things of God. And uh God that brings fulfillment and helps us not to quit and not get discouraged. We know there's something bigger, there's something better, there's something beyond this And uh God will help us. I was reading uh this week about uh the world's longest and most dangerous race in all the world. It's called the Dakar, I think I'm saying that correctly, the Dakar Rally. It is 7,000 miles long. It's a 7,000 mile race according to this. And there's about fourteen hundred competitors that line up on this. I know years ago it used to go from France down uh across the Mediterranean Sea they'd cross over, then down through Africa, through the rest uh desert there and uh through the jungles and just an intense race. I think the last two years they've had it in Saudi Arabia. And I I don't think it's quite as long, I think it was like forty four thousand nine hundred miles, something like that. Nevertheless, there's a fella, Ron Bailey. Decided he was going to enter this endurance race. Um he was the first amateur American to enter the Dakar rally He was 54 years old. He spent $300,000 to build this custom-made car, and he lined up with all the others, and they took off. Uh they had to go through the sandstorms in the desert uh Sahara Desert. Uh they had to go through countries that were in civil war. They had to deal with bandits and there was landmines different places The most dangerous race in existence. Only half of those, in 2005, only half of those entered the race finished. Five people died, including two professional racers. Ron Bailey trained hard. He was excited. He was ready. But they ran into a sandstorm. And then they ran out of gas. They had to live for five days on one day's worth of water and a single sack lunch. Finally, someone showed up with gas, and he was on his way again. But the problem was he had got his focus off of the next waypoint. And he had gotten so far off track because he was looking at his surroundings and not following the map to that which he could not see at the time. And I'm telling you, there's a lot of Christians get off track. There's a lot of Christians lose their way. There's a lot of Christians mess their life up irreparably sometimes. Because they get their eyes off of that which is unseen. They get looking at their circumstances around, and the storms of life wipe them out. Let's set our eyes on the Lord. Let's realize there's more beyond than just what we can see. And let's look at the unseen. Looking not at the things which are seen. For the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen, they're eternal. And Paul said, Because of that, I faint not. I faint not. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd bless now this message. I pray that you would stir us, Lord, to look beyond the here and now. And uh see that which is our eyes cannot observe. We ask this in Jesus' name, Amen