Uh one of the ushers quick before you go down, let me give these out here. We have a few of the uh prayer cards for our neighborhood Bible time evangelists. And uh we have a team, oh, there's probably about 25 or 30 different teams out across the country. They're in five different nations. uh out of country uh doing Bible time rallies so I know they would very much appreciate our prayers. I want to if you turn into where you turn into? Alright, good. Um I want to see if I can find this here real quick. I read an article today and I have it here on my phone. I wanted to read it to you. It was down in Texas. And uh I don't think I'm gonna get I was expecting there to be a special and I would do this during the special, so it's Mark's fault. Uh if I can find it here real quick. And uh I wanted to read it to you so you knew I wasn't making it up. Here it is. Uh In uh Baytown, Texas. I don't know if anybody saw this, a preacher, uh uh it says a would-be burglar messed with the wrong church and pastor on Tuesday, yesterday. Did you see that? Uh they kicked in the door of the church and the pastor was there and he said, We have break-ins here in the city, but our church had never been broken into before. A man broke into the church and um he was kicking the door in and the pastor was in there and had a gun on him. And the pastor uh threatened the fellow to stop and he came after the pastor. So in self-defense, he shot him and uh he said uh he broke down a door Uh he uh uh he said I commanded him to stop twice. He didn't, so fearing for my life I did what I had to do. And he shot, shot the man and the soldier, a twenty-seven-year-old fellow by the name of Lee Marvin But here's the thing that caught my attention, this is why I want to share it with you. He said uh what would be considered the most surprising part of what happened this time around maybe what happened while Blue, was that was the fellow that got shot, was lying on the ground in his own blood. The pastor said, I led him through the sinner's prayer while he was on the floor. He said he repeated the sinner's prayer after me, and that was about it. I'm going to go visit him. I like that preacher. I'm gonna shoot you, but you better be saved. So I thought that was pretty good. All right, Matthew chapter 5, and uh I want to begin reading in verse number 27. I'm going to take a little different approach. Uh Going into this section, as you know, Matthew chapter 5 is the first chapter of three chapters that is the longest sermon recorded in the Bible. It's referred to, I say this every week, we consider it the greatest sermon ever preached by the greatest preacher that ever preached. We call it the Sermon on the Mount. Of course the preacher was the Lord Jesus Christ. The Beatitudes are the very opening statements the Lord gave in his sermon that he was preaching. And I consider them in a sense the introduction to his sermon. A key statement um to kind of lay the groundwork of the Lord's premise, the whole theme of his message is in verse number 20. And I know for a lot of us this is uh uh we've said this number of times but I think we need to keep this in our minds as we work our way through this message. Verse 20, the Lord Jesus said this For I say unto you, that except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven What does he mean when he's saying you shall in no case enter the kingdom of heaven? What's he talking about? You cannot be what? Saved Now keep in mind the Jewish mindset, the Pharisees and the scribes, they were, in their minds, they were the most holy, righteous people on planet Earth. And if anybody was going to be saved, if anybody was right with God, would make it to heaven, it was these guys. And the Lord says, listen, if your righteousness doesn't exceed theirs, then you're not going to make it to heaven And the conclusion might be in the in the mind of the folks sitting there thinking, good night, if my righteousness has to exceed theirs, and they're the most righteous people on the planet, this is their thinking Then who in the world could possibly save? Who in the world would ever go to heaven? And that's the whole point. And the Lord now is appealing to the law And he's trying to, I believe, get the point across and the understanding in the people's mind that we cannot be saved by the things we do. That the wall is given to us to point out to us that we are desperate sinners and we need a savior. So that's the idea. So then as it goes on, again, I know I'm being a little repetitious here from previous messages, but he goes on and he makes six statements. Illustrating this truth that their righteousness has to exceed the righteousness of the Pharisees. We looked at verse 21 down through verse 26. I called it anger management. The Lord dealt with murder and anger And he gives principles there how to have victory over anger, but the as I said, the premise is The Pharisees, verse 21, you've heard that it's been said of them of old time. He's talking about what the Pharisees have been teaching. As long as you don't murder somebody, well, that's fine. And the Lord said, no, no, no, your righteousness has to exceed simply not murdering people. You have to not even allow that hatred and that anger in your heart. And now, so he's working his way through these six different statements, verse uh 27, and then uh verse 32, verse 34, verse 39, verse 43. He makes these. I haven't read the Bible yet, have I? I don't think we read our passage. So that now we're down to verse 27. It's the second statement illustrating that their righteousness has to exceed the righteousness of the Pharisees. Now look at verse 27 Ye have heard that it was said of them of old time, thou shalt not commit adultery. Alright, that's what the Pharisees taught. As long as you don't commit adultery, you're okay. As long as you don't go through that outward act, you don't do that, then everything's fine. But look at verse 28. What's the fur next statements? But I say unto you, now he's going back to his premise, your righteousness has to exceed the righteousness of the Pharisees. And not one person sitting under in the sound of his voice at that time believed that their righteousness exceeded that of the Pharisees. They didn't even think it would be possible. But I say unto you, that whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery with her already in his heart. He's just as guilty, just as condemned as the one that actually did the act. And if thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out and cast it from thee. For it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not that thy whole body should be cast into hell. And if thy right hand offend thee off Cut it off and cast it from thee, for it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not that thy whole body should be cast into hell. Now this last statement, verse 29 and 30, we're going to have to study that and look at that to see exactly what he's saying. But his premise is this: simple outward conformity to the law is insufficient. But God is concerned about the condition of our heart, our standing before God. And the law is not just some outward Facide that we put on, but the law is to show us that we are centers completely through and through. Um And that's what he's illustrating here. And we're going to get to this and we're going to look at the adultery. We're going to consider what that is. And looking with lust, we're going to consider that. But I want to talk tonight about the sinfulness of sin. And what the Lord is teaching us here. A man visited a church, and afterward a friend of his said, What did the preacher preach on? And the fellow answered, He preached on sin. The fellow said, What did he say? He says, Well, I think he was against it. And I'm here to tell you tonight, our Lord is against sin. And we ought to be also. So let's pray. And I'll try and share some thoughts here, kind of lay some groundwork when we actually get into this passage. Father in heaven. I ask, Lord, that you would bless our study of your word. I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. God, as best I know how, and I yield my will to you I present my body anew with all my heart. I ask, Lord, that you would speak through me. As I said, fill me with your spirit, and you be our teacher tonight. and uh help us to be uh attentive students to the word of God. I pray that we would grasp this truth that is presented here. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. God always begins with the heart of a person. That's where salvation takes place. That's where transformation takes place. That's where after I accept Jesus as my Savior and my life starts changing, God always changes people from the inside out. Never the other way around. Um as I was saying there before I prayed, uh the Pharisees had this idea. As long as I don't commit the physical act of adultery, then the law doesn't apply to me. I'm good. This doesn't deal with me. Doesn't matter what goes on in my heart and mind. Doesn't matter what the condition of my heart is, as long as I'm outwardly conformed to the law Then everything is okay. The Pharisees had what I'm calling a surface view of God's Word. They had a surface view of the law. And um I I I started to say they failed to see the spiritual application of God's law, but You know, I get the impression how they responded to the Lord. It's not that they failed to see it, they refused to see it. And there's a difference. They refuse to see the spiritual aspect of God's law. The law of God given to man is to show us what we are, sinners. It's our schoolmaster to bring us to Christ. The law was given by God to show us that we are sinners, that we cannot and do not live up to God's standard. And because of that, we need someone to save us from our sins so that we can be acceptable to God. And so the law teaches us that we need a savior. It is dealing with a whole lot more than simple outward acts. Remember in verse number 21, he says, you've heard it said, thou shalt not kill And that was all the father, the Pharisees, and the religious leaders took it. Well, if the law says thou shalt not kill, I can not kill people, and then I'll be accepted by God. I can be saved by my works. If that's all it means is don't kill people. If the law says thou shalt not commit adultery, well, I can avoid committing adultery. I'll not do that. And I can be saved by my works. But the law doesn't stop at just the outward action. The laws deal with the inward condition, and that's what the Lord's saying Take your Bible if you would. Now keep your place here, because we're going to come look at this, I believe, again. But come back to Exodus. Way back in the Old Testament. Genesis, Exodus, second book of the Old Testament. And verse number 20. In Exodus 20, you have the ten commandments listed. Exodus chapter 20. I don't think I turned this mic on, Dave. I'm going to turn it on, so. Alright. Exodus chapter 20 and notice um well I was there and closed my Bible. Exodus chapter 20, look with me. The Lord is addressing in Matthew 27 here, he's addressing the seventh commandments, verse number 14. In Exodus chapter twenty. Now the Lord gives all ten of them here, but the fourth uh the seventh command seventh commandment, verse, I warned them, I warned them. Uh verse number fourteen says, Thou shalt not commit adultery. Alright? That's outward. All right. I can not do that. That's not a problem. I can avoid doing that. If I don't commit adultery, then everything's good. But the problem is you come down to the tenth commandment, verse number 17. And it tells us that God's law is dealing more than just our outward actions. It's dealing with the condition of our heart as sinners. Look at verse number 17. Thou shalt not Covet thy neighbor's house. Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife, nor his manservant, nor his maidservant, nor his ox, his ass, nor anything of thy neighbor's. So the Lord, the law here is very obviously dealing with more than simply outward list of do's and don'ts When he started talking about coveting, he's talking about the condition of my heart. Are you following me? Are you with me so far? And so that's what the Lord is saying. He's pointing out, saying, listen, they've been telling you all these years That as long as you don't commit adultery, as long as you don't murder someone, then you're okay. And he says, I'm telling you, the law does a whole lot more than simply not these horrendous outward acts But the law is dealing with the sin in your heart, the sinful condition of your own heart. And that is what he's emphasizing here. Here's my statement. I'm going to kind of work through here, but a superficial view of God's law Just saying, alright, don't do this. I just see this list. Don't do this, don't do this, don't do this, do this, do this, do this, alright. Uh check, check, check I don't do that, check check, tech, I'm good with God If that's our view of God's law, what God expects from us, a superficial view of God's law produces a superficial view of sin. If the law is just this list of do's and don'ts, then sin really isn't that major of a deal. I can keep that list, I can avoid those things, I can make sure these things got done, and hey, I'm not so bad. Sin isn't that big But when I see the law for what it really is showing me God's standard of holiness and how far far I fall short of that, suddenly sin becomes very, very serious. This is where people, I was um I was uh out visiting, I mentioned this a number of times over the years, it's been a while, long while ago, but I was out visiting over here um uh north of town. I was going door to door one weekday and just kinda going through and visiting and sharing gospel tracts with people, trying to witness to people. One fellow, he's a nice porch, it was a pretty new house, he invited He stepped out on the porch and we were standing there talking. And uh I asked him, I went through my little spiel, do you know for sure when you die your sins are forgiven, you're going to heaven and not to hell. He goes, Oh, absolutely I said, you're sure you're going to heaven? He goes, absolutely positive. And I always say this whenever I tell that, my first thought was, wow, this guy is a good, strong, independent fundamental Baptist And uh, you know, he's going to join our church and help us start a new bus route, and we're going to have these great workers, you know, and my mind's just building up this fantasy land. And uh so I said the next statement, it's amazing how much can go through your mind in split second, you know. And my next statement was this, well that's wonderful. I said I very seldom mean it, but it's are so confident they're going to heaven and not to hell when they die. So let me ask you this. How do you know? What makes you so sure that you're going to heaven and not to hell? He goes, oh, I keep the commandments. Well, my little fantasy world just went. I said this guy's not even saved. I didn't say that. I thought this guy's not even saved. And so I proceeded to take In the Bible and show him Ephesians chapter 2 and went through the list and he didn't trust the Lord with me. I hope I was able to at least plant the seeds of the gospel. But here was his mistake. And when I pressed him on it, he said things like this: Well, I never killed anybody. I've never committed adultery. I've never robbed anywhere. You know what he had? He had a very superficial view of the law. Well, there's these lists of things. That's exactly what the Pharisee said. And the Lord is saying, listen, it's not these do's and don'ts that you have. It's the sin in your heart. Not just not killing somebody, but not having anger in your heart towards them. Whoa. Wait a minute now I fall short on that. It's not just committing adultery somebody, but not even wanting it in your heart. Whoa. And coming down through here. And so people who believe in a work salvation. Always have a very light view of what sin is. A very superficial view of what sin is. Well, sin is not killing people Sin is not committing adultery. Sin is not armed robbery. Sin is just, you know, honoring your parents. You say nice things to them and about them And the Lord's saying, no, no, no. Sin is a whole lot more than that. It's the condition of my heart. It's the condition of my being, the state of my being as a sinner before God, even thinking unholy thoughts. Is a violation of God's holiness, not just performing unholy deeds. One of the most unpopular things in the world today is the concept of sin. And we are seeing that before our very eyes. In fact, we're at a point now where it is considered by the world to be sinful. to say that something is sinful. You and I are considered by many folks in our world, and some of them in pretty influential positions, We are considered by them as evil because we hold to what the Bible says certain sins are actually sins. And if you could read some of the mail I got and have gotten over the years telling me what an awful person I am and what a hateful church we are, simply because we hold to what the Bible says is sin. I'm not talking about just one subject. I mean there's any number of them. And so the most unpopular Truths in the world today is the fact that men, people are sinners, and sin is a very real reality I make this statement all the time, and I'm absolutely convinced of it. The world has perfected the ability of making that which is good seem bad, and that which is bad appear good, and that which is sinful does seem so pure, and that which is pure and right appear so sinful. So, the most unpopular thing being preached today is the reality of sin and the sinfulness of sin. But I suggest to you the most needed thing we in the world today is a clear understanding of what the Bible says is sin. Most trouble in our life is because one of two things. Most of the trouble we have in our life, most of the stress and the issues we have to deal with in life, most of them Are the result of either misunderstanding what sin is or rejecting God's concept of sin. How many people would agree with me this world's a mess? You know what I believe? I believe this whole world, I'm absolutely convinced of this, and the Bible bears this out. If this whole world would simply view sin for what it is, sin, it would solve a whole lot of our problems. But what the world's trying to do is do away with the sinfulness of sin. Do away with the depth of sin and just redefine what sin is. And I'm telling you, the wages of sin is dead. And uh it always brings trouble. The world deny I put this down, the world denies sin, religion distorts sin. And here's the sad thing, many Christians dilute sin. And I've dealt with it for years, and you know, maybe we're all guilty of this to some extent, but You know, somebody does wrong. They sin against God and they'll whitewash it and justify it and explain it away rather than simply saying, you know, this is sin against God, it's wrong And so we have all these problems. I put down three things, the wrong concept of sin. And that's what the Lord's trying to show the people here. Listen, they've been saying that sin is just You know, just don't kill people, just don't commit adultery, and it's fine. Lord's saying, listen, it goes it's a whole lot deeper than that. We need a savior, not from just these external actions, but we need a savior to change our very nature. And when we have a wrong concept of sin, number one, we have a wrong concept of salvation. There are aspects of the Bible doctrine of salvation that I don't fully grasp. I'll be the first to admit that. The truths and the teachings of the Bible about salvation, I'm telling you, that water gets awfully deep sometimes. But there are also basic things about salvation that every even a child can understand. But if I do not understand what sin is, I am never really going to understand what salvation is. Salvation is first and foremost deliverance from sin and its judgment. That's what salvation is Take your Bible. Are you back in Matthew? Come back to Matthew. And I hope I'm not being too theological here. I hope this is helping us, but come back to Matthew chapter 1. This is the incarnation, the birth of Jesus. Of course, Jesus is God, and he became flesh, dwelt among us in Matthew chapter 1 and verse number 21. Notice the instructions the Lord gave. To Joseph concerning his what would be his stepson, the Lord Jesus Christ, he says at the end of verse 20, he says, For that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost. So it's the virgin conception. Of the Lord Jesus Christ. And she shall bring forth a Son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus. Now, Jesus, as we understand it, is the Greek form of the Hebrew word Jeshua. Jehovah is salvation. That's what the term Jesus means. Now look what he said. Thou shalt call his name Jesus. Now maybe God, anticipating what's going through Joseph's mind, why should we call him Jesus? Nobody in our family has named that. Thou shalt call his name Jesus. Why? For he shall what? Save his people from hell. That's not what it says. Save his people from unhappiness. It's not what it says. To save his people from just failure in life and missing out on a good time in life. No. He shall save his people from sin. Salvation is first and foremost deliverance from sin. Jesus didn't come to save us from our insecurities. Jesus didn't come to save us from unhappiness. And I don't mean to be unkind, but Joe Olstein is missing the point. When he's saying stuff that happiness is the ultimate goal in life and uh and all of this, no no no salvation is not to save us from unhappiness Salvation is to save us from the sin that we're committing and the sinful beings that we are. And then happiness will follow that. That's a consequence. But it's not the purpose, it's not the cause of salvation. Listen, there are people, there are preachers all across this land, no doubt around the world, preaching A salvation that is not a Bible salvation. Salvation is to be saved from sin The only way to understand Bible salvation is to first understand the concept of sin, the sinfulness of sin. Here's the Bible teaching in a nutshell. Man is so corrupted by sin. My heart is so deceitful and desperately wicked. And by the way, yours is also. And every person alive. We are born with sinful hearts. In sin did my mother conceive me, David said. Not the act of conception sin, but he's saying, I was born a sinner. Our hearts are deceitful and desperately wicked, Jeremiah says. There is none righteous. No, not one. Man is so corrupted by sin, the only way to be saved from hell, the only way to have eternal life, the only way to make it to heaven is get this. to be born again with a totally new heart and a totally new nature. Because my old heart, my old nature is so corrupted It cannot be reformed. It cannot be salvaged. I need a new heart and a new nature. That's what it means to be born again. Lester Rolloff had a famous message If you ever have never heard it, boy, you ought to look it up. It's probably on the internet somewhere. Dr. Law and Dr. Grace. And this was his the the the this was the message. He kind of illustrates, he said he went to, he has having heart trouble, and he was doing things that were wrong, and saying things that were wrong, and thinking things that were wrong. And he had this condition this that was just sin. And so he went to Dr. Law and he said, Dr. Law, examined him. He said, There's nothing you can do. You have to to die. You have the disease of sin. You know, he's illustrating. You have the disease of sin. And there's nothing we can do. Your heart is corrupt. Your uh the wages of sin is death. There's no hope for you That's what the law told him. And then he went and visited Dr. Grace. And Dr. Grace says: Dr. Law is right. Your heart is corrupt. Your heart is sinful. The wages of your condition is death, dying, separated from God, eternal death and hell. That's your condition. But The grace of God can give you a new heart and give you a new nature And so that the old is so corrupted, so sinful, that the only hope is to have a transplant, have a new heart. and a new nature. Of course, speaking spiritually, and when I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, I'm given a new heart and a new nature. Are you with me? Everybody follow? And so and lift uh if I don't understand how sinful sin is, then salvation is meaningless. What am I being saved from? And this is what we get in a lot of places today, a lot of these TV guys is, well, God doesn't want you to be poor. God doesn't want you to be set and Jesus came so that you can be healthy and wealthy. That is not Bible salvation. Jesus didn't come to make us healthy and wealthy. Jesus came to save us from sin and its consequences. Are you with me? To reject the Bible teaching on sin, to reject the Bible teaching on sin is to declare, I'm not saved, I'm not a Christian Because until I understand what sin is, I cannot be saved. Jesus didn't come to call the righteous to repentance, but what? Sinners So I go back to my constantly repeated testimony, and for five months uh I I knew I was a sinner. I didn't want to be the man I was becoming. I began reading the Bible. I prayed in January 1979. I prayed, God help me. I don't want to God help me. I'm a mess. God put on my heart not an audible voice but read the Bible. I began reading my Bible January, February, March, April And the more I read the Bible, the more I realized I was a wretch. And by the time May came around, in my mind and from the Bible, I was the most wicked, ungodly, sinful man on planet Earth. And there was absolutely no hope for me. And I saw in the Bible how that Jesus could save me from my sin. And give me a new heart. And that's what I wanted more than anything in the world. And so until a person understands sin And how sinful we are, salvation is meaningless. We don't understand what salvation is. But you get a person that understands how sinful we are before God how much judgment we are under because of our sin, and that person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, they appreciate and understand what salvation is. When I realize what Christ has done for me, when I realize the price he was paying for my sin, Then I understand salvation. A lot of people are satisfied with themselves. They say, well, I'm fine. I'm basically a good person. You know why? Because they haven't committed certain sins that they call. Well, these are bad sins. I've never murdered anybody. I'm fine. I never committed adultery. I'm fine God saying, no, no, no, you don't even understand what sin is. Sin is the very condition of your heart, how corrupt your own heart is. Here's the thing. Notice what the Lord says here. Come back to Matthew here. Let me And we're going to get into this here, Lord willing, next week. But I say unto you that whosoever looketh on a woman to lust her hath committed adultery with her already in his heart Ah, there's where the problem is. There's where the problem is. The Lord says it's the desires of your heart that causes you to commit adultery. That's where the sin is. That's where the problem is. That's what needs to be addressed. I put this down. I like this statement. We are not only accountable for our deeds, but also for our desires. So number one, the wrong concept of sin produces a wrong concept of salvation. Now this might be a little more apply to us a little bit more. The wrong concept of sin produces a wrong concept of evangelism. There is no genuine soul winning. There is no genuine evangelism that does not begin with the sinfulness of man. We witnessed, uh Charlie and Ed were out last night and they visited a fella. And uh we go out Thursday. I was out Saturday, uh Monday I was out visiting a little bit, trying to share the gospel with folks And you know where the starting point is? When I have somebody that's uh I ask them, do you know for sure when you die go to heaven, not to hell? And they say, Well, I hope I go to heaven, I think I go to heaven. I say, Well, listen, let me show you from the Bible Let me show you from the Bible how you can know for sure that all your sins are forgiven. When you die, you go to heaven. If they'll agree to that, do you know where we start out? You know what truth we start out with? We are sinners. God's law condemns us as sinners And until a person understands that, until a person realizes, I have broken God's law, not just in these big deeds, but in my very heart I've broken his law. Until a person realizes that, what am they what are they getting saved from? Here's where a lot of uh Folks go wrong. And there's a lot of people doing it right, but there's a lot of folks that are doing it wrong. They'll say something like this, and I heard this years ago. A big crowd. Anybody here want to go to heaven? Yeah. All right. Ask Jesus. Come in your heart and be your Savior. It's like they're getting a ticket to the uh the to the um uh uh amusement park That's not salvation. Salvation is, listen, we've sinned against God. We're sinners. We've broken God's law. We're under His judgment. And a person has to understand that. Are you following what I'm saying? If a person doesn't understand they're a sinner, that person cannot get saved. I said this a moment ago. Jesus came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. I'm going to show you a verse here in a minute. So the very first thing we start out with is we've got to teach the law to some extent that we've broken God's law. We are sinners. We're under his judgment. Then when I see that, then I understand, ah, Jesus died on that cross to take my judgment for me. He, the sins I've committed, Jesus took responsibility for them Jesus bore the punishment for them. He loved me that much. And so that I could be forgiven. I can have this whole new nature and have eternal life and know that when I die I go to heaven, not to hell. But it has to begin with an understanding of sin. Trusting Jesus is evangelism is getting people to trust Jesus as Savior from sin, not accepting him as their friend. I'm telling you, there is such evangelism today in so many places, it's so watered down. Well, you want Jesus to be your friend? Yeah, ask him to come in your heart. There's no cross, there's no sin, and there's no salvation. Say, well isn't Jesus our friend? You accept him as your Savior, let him for come in your life, give you a whole new life, forgive all your sin, cleanse you. give you eternal life, a new heart, new nature. I tell you what, Jesus is your friend. But him being your friend, you cannot bypass dealing with the sins. That has to be addressed first. Our evangelism must begin with the holiness of God and the sinfulness of man And how to reconcile the two. Now, we don't use big theological words, and we may don't even say it that way. We try to simplify it and illustrate it. But we have to have that concept there. Until we understand what sin is and the sinfulness of sin and the sinfulness of our heart, then evangelism is uh is is uh is wrong. No true evangelism without the doctrine of sin and its judgment. A clear understanding of the sinfulness of sin opens my eyes to the need of a Savior. That's what God did to me. I wanted to change my life. I wanted to reform myself. I didn't want to live this way. And the more I read the Bible, the more it showed me I was so helplessly lost. I was such a wretched sinner. The only way I could change my life, the only way things could be right was by accepting Jesus Savior and take my sins away and cleanse me. Are you all with me? Are you following what I'm saying? And so that's what the Lord's emphasizing here. And then last of all, I put this down. A wrong concept of sin gives us a wrong concept of salvation, a wrong concept of evangelism. And a wrong concept of sin will give us a wrong concept of God's love. Here's what your average religious person would think. Well, if God loves me, Because I'm a pretty good guy. I don't kill I haven't killed anybody. I don't commit adultery. I don't rob and steal. And uh I try to keep the golden rule for the most part, God loves me. Here's what sometimes parents will say. Parents, you're dead wrong if you're saying this. You better be good, or Jesus won't love you. That is wrong. And when I realize how sinful I am and how badly I've broken God's law and how short I fall of God's standard of acceptance, God's glory. I realize how badly I fall short of that. And then I read that this holy God loves me. Wow. You know, uh it's kind of, you know, it's not that big a deal to love a lovely person. Right? Oh, they're very nice. They're loving. Yeah, it's easy to love them. But you start loving a person that is corrupt. And thoroughly wicked. And then love them. And love them to the point that you are willing to die for their wickedness. Now that's Pretty glorious love. So long as I think I'm not that bad. I haven't done these superficial sins. I haven't done all these big sins. That's what the Pharisees are telling everybody. Ah, you're good. You haven't committed adultery. You haven't killed anyone. You're good. She's saying, no, you're not. Your very desires of your heart are sin against God. And yet God loves you. Turn with me. I'll end with this. Romans chapter 5. I tell you, just studying this stirred my heart. Romans chapter 5. And I think this passage here just states what I'm trying to say here so perfectly. Romans, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts, Romans, chapter 5, and look with me if you would at verse number 6. Are you there? For when we were yet without strength, in due time Christ died for the godly. Is that what it says? Died for the ungodly. Huh Well, I could see him maybe, you know, here's a godly person. They don't kill, they don't commit adultery, they don't rob things. Pretty decent person. I can see Christ, you know, my God. Look how he words it in the next verse For scarcely for a righteous man will one die. All right, you got a not an ungodly, but a righteous man. So there'd be a few people who would give their life for a righteous man. Yea, peradventure for a good man, some would even dare to die. Hey, I thank God for people that put their lives on the line for others. We're very grateful for that, and we try to, as a church, express that. But the point he's making here is, listen, you know, we as human beings, as sinful human beings, we might scarcely die for a righteous man. Not everybody's going to step on and say, oh yeah, I'll die for him Some people will for a uh what does he say? Uh yay, for a good man, some would even dare to die, but look at the next verse. He says, yeah, that's possible. Some a good guy, righteous. Yeah, some might die for him. But God commendeth his love toward us. And that while we were what? Yet sinners. Christ died for us. Whoa. And when we see ourselves as the Bible says we are, we see ourselves as we really are, as sinners. We have so thoroughly violated God's holiness, even in our very thoughts and desires, are sinful before God. And God loves me enough to die for that? That is pretty awesome love. That's pretty incredible that he would love me enough to do that for me. And I'm telling you, this is, and I believe this is what the Lord's emphasizing here. Listen, you guys hold these Pharisees up as these great righteous guys. Unless your righteousness exceeds theirs, you're never making it And the people are like, what? Are you crazy? Who could be as righteous as them? He says, listen, you've got to not only your outward acts be right, your very condition of your heart has to be right. And then we find out later the only way for that to happen is accept Jesus Christ as Savior. Now, you're here tonight. You're here tonight and you say, preacher, I would like to know for sure that when I die, I go to heaven, not to hell. I would like to know for sure that God would forgive me as a sinner. First thing you gotta do is you gotta acknowledge the fact that you are a sinner. We all are. Even though we might not have done these outward things, like the Pharisees were saying, was okay, in our hearts we know. In our hearts, we've broken God's law. We've desired things that we ought not to desire. We've been angry at people that was not right for us to be angry at them. Our very condition is wrong. And we acknowledge that, God, I am a sinner through and through before you. And he says if we'll believe that Jesus Christ loved us so much that he would die in our place For our sins, suffer God's judgment for our sins, be buried and rose again. If we will by faith call on Him, trust Him to do for us what we cannot do for ourselves. Forgive us and make us acceptable to God so that when we do die, we go to heaven, not to hell. If we will do that, trust Christ. The Bible says that we shall be saved. Isn't that good? So if you're here tonight and you've never settled that, you've never trusted that you don't have that assurance in your heart, tonight's the night to get that settled I visited today, this afternoon, well, this forenoon. We got word that a lady, Sunday, was fine. In fact, she was just, and this has nothing to do with it, but she was smoking a cigarette in her home. And before she could finish the cigarette She suffered a massive stroke, fell over. I rushed to the hospital. Within 24 hours, she was out in eternity. Now I say this, I said that to say this. If you're here tonight and you don't know for sure your sins are given, you're not positive that God has saved you from sin. Don't boast yourself of tomorrow. You don't know what another day holds for you. Don't say, well, I'll take care of that someday. One day I'll get that settled. No, no, no. Today's the day of salvation. That needs to be settled tonight. Fellows visited a guy last night. He admits he's lost. And he goes, Nope, I don't want to hear it. I don't want to hear it. I don't want to hear it. How sad is that? So we need to, number one, make sure that we're saved. Number two, we need to give ourselves to get this message of salvation to as many people as we possibly can, here in the States and around the world. Because except their righteousness exceeds that of the Pharisees, they will now wise enter the kingdom of heaven. And the only way that can happen is by accepting Jesus as Savior. Amen. You say that's a strange message for a Wednesday night crowd. No, but it's a Bible message. And we need it. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. Lord, I trust that this was Helpful and that you can stir our hearts. One, maybe to rejoice in our salvation and determine to share this message with as many people as we can. Lord, perhaps there's some here tonight. That there's doubts there, questions. Not really sure that you've forgiven all their sin and that when they die they go to heaven, not to hell. With our heads bowed and with our eyes closed, if you're here tonight and you'd say, preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved. I accepted Jesus as Savior. I know the time and place, Bible way. And Christ is forgiving me my sin and saving me. But you'd say, preacher, I want to give myself. My heart is stirred to be a witness to others that they can find this salvation that God has that's so amazing. You'd say, preacher, pray with me that I would be more aggressive. I would be more proactive in sharing the gospel with unsaved people here. And maybe even around the world, however, God might direct you. But how many like that would say, preacher, pray for me? I want to be more proactive and being a witness and sharing the gospel with others. God bless you, hands all around. Now let me ask you this question. You're here tonight, our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. This is between an individual and God, but somebody would say tonight, preacher, I'm not sure that when I die I go to heaven. I'm concerned about that. I really don't want to go to hell. You say, preacher, when you pray for those other folks that God would bless them, pray for me also that I could get this settled in my heart. That I know that God has forgiven me and saved me, I go to heaven. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I am concerned about that I don't want to go to hell and I want to know I'm going to heaven. Any at all? Just uplift it hand. Just slip it up and put it down. Is there any like that at all? Preacher, pray for me. How about it? How about it? Father in heaven, I pray you bless now our invitation, help us to give ourselves to the Great Commission, taking the gospel to the unsaved people around the world. Help us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's going to play a few verses of invitation.