I'd like for us to read this together in unison. You say, Preacher, this is our memory verse, we know it. Good. Then it'll be easy for us to read it together. Ready? Here we go. Say not ye, there are yet four months, and then cometh harvest. Behold, I say unto you, lift up your eyes and look on the fields, for they are white already to harvest. I've entitled the message this morning, Look on the Fields. Look on the Fields. Let's pray and ask the Lord to stir our hearts. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, that we can come into your presence and pray I thank you we can come and seek your face and seek your leadership and your direction in this matter of world missions. You've not left it just up to us. You said you would uh hear us, that you would direct us and and uh and show us uh our role, our part. And so we're asking that, Lord, to be uh the case in our lives. Help us to be sensitive to your leadership and your Holy Spirit speaking to us. And Lord, I pray you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will and present my body anew. Lord, I understand that this message, this mission, this challenge is far greater than me, my own abilities, and my own even my own understanding. So Lord, we want you to take over and we want you to stir us. And God, if you could use our church up here in the mountains to get the gospel and to people around the world that have never heard. Oh, what a joy that would be, what glory that would be. And so we give ourselves to you individually and as a church, and we ask you to take us. And use us to carry out this great commission you've given us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. In Philippians chapter 2 and verse number 5 God instructs us, he makes this statement, the Bible makes this statement, let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. Now, in the context there, he goes on and describes the mind of Christ in humbling himself, coming down to earth, being obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. And uh he goes through and Jesus, the mind of Jesus was to humble himself and give himself to be a sacrifice so mankind could be saved. And then he said, God exalted him uh to a high place. But he says, let this mind be in you. I've got that word mind there caught my attention. What does he mean when he says, let this mind Well, I got looking at the word mind. I think this is what he's talking about. He says, let this attitude, this mind that I have, this attitude of Christ, this way of thinking I I need to be able to get to the point where I can think the way Jesus does. I I have the attitude that Jesus does. I added this into the definition. I think this would be included in the definition. Let this mind or let this perspective be in you that was also in Christ Jesus. He says, I want you to see things. I want you to see circumstances. I want you to see yourself and see the world. The way Jesus Christ does, have his mind, his perspective, his way of thinking about it, have the same values. That Jesus has. Have the same priorities that Jesus Christ has. Have the same attitude, as I said, or a frame of mind, a view of the world that Jesus has. I believe in our text, John chapter 4, verse 35, Jesus is adjusting the mind of the disciples. He is getting them to have his mind, to have his perspective, to have his view of mankind. And I get that from the first part of verse 35. Look at it with me. He says, say not ye There are yet four months and then cometh harvest. He's confronting their thinking. He's confronting their reasoning, their mind This is what you think, oh, we've got plenty of time. Oh, it's not that urgent. Oh, you know, it's just not there yet. He says, say not ye there yet four months. And then what's those next three words or several words there? Say not ye, there are yet four months, then cometh harvest. But, what's he say? I, behold, I say unto you He's correcting their mind. He's confronting a faulty thinking on the part of the believers. He's adjusting their minds of the disciples towards their view of mankind. How many folks here have ever read your Bible? Folks here, raise your hand. Anybody online ever read your Bible? Oh good. I'm glad we have church folk read their Bibles. That's a blessing to me Did you ever read through your Bible? Maybe there's a passage you've read it over and over and over, maybe many times over the years. And then for whatever reason. One day you're reading down through there, and that verse, this is the way we say it, just jumps off the page at you And just grabs you around the throat and slams you up against the wall and shakes you. Anybody know what I'm talking about? That verse just gets a hold of you. That's what I was praying. As I was preparing this message, I was praying, Lord, I pray you take this truth right here that you share with us That you've given to us in this passage, I pray you take us by the throat, slam us up against the wall, and shake us and change our thinking. Give us The mind of Christ on this matter of the world of lost people. Help us to see these people the way you do. I pray this past this verse will grip us and change us. Now the context here, Pastor Matt read down through there a lengthy portion, and I asked him to do that. The context here is we have this Samaritan woman, and most of us are familiar with the stories Jesus waits for her at the well. She shows up. She's a Samaritan, of course, Jesus being a Jew, they don't interact. They have no dealings with each other. But Jesus loved her, and Jesus wanted to share the gospel himself with her as the Messiah. And lo and behold, this dear lady trusts Jesus Christ as Savior. Now that's our terminology, but that's what happened. She had put her faith and trust as Jesus as the Messiah. He very effectively and very methodically brought her to the point where she it realized her, she dawned on her, that he is the Messiah. I'm talking to him right here. And she put her faith and trust in him. And the Bible says she set her pots down. She was at the well there to get water. She set her pots down, and she immediately went into the city. And uh in the city she tells the fellas there, she says the folks there, says, hey, you gotta come out here. I met this guy, he told me everything I've ever done Now he didn't really tell her everything he done. She'd done. He pointed out some sins to her to get her to realize the fact she's a sinner. And uh but uh John R. Rice said, uh she was a woman, so you can excuse her for exaggerating And uh that was a terrible thing to say. And um uh but uh I know some men that exaggerate too, so I'm trying to get out of the hole I just dug here. But um So she goes in and she tells all these, you've got to come out and see Jesus. Come on out. Good heavens, I never met anybody like him. It's amazing. And so all these people are coming out. Look at verse 28 The woman left her water pot, went away into the city, saith to the man, Come see a man which told me all things ever I did. Is not this the Christ? Look at verse 30. And they went out of the city and came unto him So here you have this crowd. We don't know how big a crowd it was. It was more than a few. And you have this crowd of people Coming out of the city out to Jesus Christ. Well, in the meantime, while this woman is there going back telling everybody, ground getting folks to come on out The disciples show up. They had been in town getting some food. The disciples show up and uh they're questioning the Lord. First of all, they So he was talking to a Samaritan, and that apparently bothered them a little bit. Uh, but they were concerned about the Lord and what he had to eat. He'd been out here a while, we went Uh they went into uh they went into Arby's and they had some uh uh hamburger uh had some uh roast beef and things and they're bringing it out and they said, Lord, what uh here you need to eat and the Lord says, Oh, I'm I'm okay. I've I've got meat to eat And then the Lord directs their attention to this. Now try and picture this in your mind. He's out of cities, kind of a a barren area there maybe. He's out of the city a little bit. No doubt there's trees and stuff around. He's by this well and the city is down there a little ways and he sees this crowd of people coming up through the fields and up the pathway And they're just making their way out, all excited, and no doubt in the fronts, this woman leading them, and uh they're all talking and coming out towards them. And the Lord Directs their attention to this crowd and he try and he adjusts their view of mankind. And he says to them, he says, I say unto you, lift up your eyes and look on the fields. Now the Bible doesn't say this. But in my mind, I'm convinced he's he's looking at that great crowd. Maybe he's pointing off with his hand. Look, look unto the fields. And all these people coming out, coming out to them. Look on the fields. For they are white already to harvest. Two thoughts, two observations I want to make from this statement of the Lord. Number one, uh, first of all, I notice he directs their focus. on the harvest. He directs their focus on the harvest. He says, lift up your eyes and look on the fields. I got studying that little phrase, that two-word phrase, lift up. Interesting statement. It's actually used a number of times in scripture. That phrase means this, to lift up your eyes, he's telling them, elevate your eyes. He's saying to them, uh Bring your eyes to a higher a higher perspective. Lift them up. Now I don't know. This is what I take from it. I think he's telling them, listen, get your eyes off yourself. Get your eyes off yourself. Uh get your eyes off the world, off uh the circumstances, situation. Lift up your eyes, look above your circumstances Look above the situation you find yourself in. Look beyond the things that are going on all about you and me and mine. Lift your eyes up. Look beyond that. Look beyond your immediate surroundings. He's changing their perspective. He's changing their mind. Their view of the world they live in and the situation they found themselves in. Lift up your eyes, lift up your eyes. And then he uses that next phrase. He says, look on the fields. Look on the fields. What were the disciples looking at? I got thought he says, lift up your eyes Uh get them up, get them up. Well, I I got wondering, what in the world were they looking at that he was telling them to get their eyes up above that? Well I got looking there at verse 31. This is what I think they were focused on. Look at verse 31 In the meanwhile, his disciples prayed him, saying, Master, eat. What were they looking at? I think they were looking at their watches. It's lunchtime, Lord. Ah good night Lord, we got to eat. We you haven't been eating in a long time. And they were focused on their the what they were looking at the time. They were looking at their circumstances. Good grief, but it's time to eat And uh you haven't eaten and we need to eat. The Lord says, Lift your eyes up above that. So they were looking, I put it this way, they were looking at their watches and they were looking at their lunchboxes. Well what do we got? What do we got to eat here? And uh oh my word, we got Orby sandwiches and curly fries and uh diet sprite and uh and all that And the Lord's not even looking at that. He's not looking at his watch. He's not looking at his lunch. He sees a field that is white for harvest. I tell you what hurts us. We get all wrapped up in ourselves. We get all wrapped up in the temporary things of this life. We get all wrapped up in our bellies. We get all wrapped up in our schedules. And we fail to see this world the way Jesus sees it. We get all wrapped up, oh, we got this, and oh, we got that, and all this stuff that's going on is driving me nuts. And the Lord stirred my heart as I was studying this. And he challenged me, Dennis, get your eyes above this. There's still people, there's still people dying and going to hell. And you're all worried about this, and you're frustrated about that, and you're aggravated with this, and you're looking at your watch, and you're looking at your lunchbox and your bank account and your schedule and this and that He says, lift up your eyes. He's directing their focus on the harvest and getting it off themselves. The phrase, look on the fields, means give close attention to. Observe intensely or seriously consider the condition of the world out there without Christ. Seriously, focus, give attention to the fact that there are billions of people out there That have no gospel, that have no Bible, that have no scriptures, and have no church. You've got to look beyond yourself and see the fields that are white already to harvest. He's redirecting their focus. Hey, that's what we're trying to do today. That's what we're asking God to do today. Get our eyes off ourselves. Look on the fields. Look on Kazakhstan and other countries around the world. That right now, people there Have nobody share the gospel with. There's no churches anywhere near there. There's nobody knocking on their door. There's nobody sharing Christ with them. Lost. Dying. Look on the fields. That's what we're attempting to do today. That's what we're attempting to do with our missions program. Is to get our eyes off of ourselves, lift them up, and see this world the way Christ sees it. That's what we're attempting to do with this country of Kazakhstan. I'm mentioning them. And uh the need for the gospel there. I hate to even think this, and I hate to even say it. In fact, I almost scratched it out of my notes But I'm afraid that for many churches, many Christians, missions is not a serious consideration. I hate to say that. I'm afraid. I'm afraid. You look at the number of churches in our country and you look at the efforts being made to reach the loss. It don't match up. I'm afraid for many Christians, many churches, missions gets very little attention to missions, very little investment. In fact, even a lot of what we would consider good Bible preaching churches, even among many of them, I hate to say it, I hate to say it. But missions is just a little thing along the side, a little side effort, a little hobby maybe that we play with. And it's not the focal point, it's not the serious attention that the Lord is saying that we ought to have We don't see it the way they do. We had a fellow visit our church years ago, many years ago. I don't remember who he was, I don't remember where he was from. I can still see his face, and I remember what he said to me. And it stuck in my mind. We had talked about missions that day. I don't remember what the circumstance was, what our sir what it was about, but uh we were in the back and he was going out and he said he said, Pastor Lem, I enjoyed visiting the church today as a blessing He said this. He says, you know, in my church, I don't even know how many missionaries we have. He says, the whole time I've been in our church, I never saw a missionary, never heard a missionary. He says, I don't even know who our missionaries are, or even how many we support. And I said, well God, well brother, you know, I'll pray for you and and um you know try and encourage them. I don't know about you, and I'm not trying to be critical of other people. We answer to God for ourselves But my thinking is that is a tragic shame. Church folk won't even know who any who their missionaries are or how many they support or anything. I tell you what, that's not focusing on the fields. And that's what the Lord was trying to do with these disciples here. He's redirecting their focus off of themselves and off of their fellowships and off of their facilities and off of their finances. And he's trying to get them to look on the fields, the harvest, the souls that need to be saved. The disciples were so focused on their own little lives they failed to see what God wanted to do with them and through them. That's what we're asking God to take us. And reach this world with us and through us. So number one, he redirects their focus on the harvest. Number two, second observation I make here is this, he describes the harvest around them. He gets them to look on the fields, look up on the fields. Then look what he says there. He says, Behold, I say unto you, lift up your eyes, look on the fields. Why? For they are what White already to harvest. Now I'm going to talk about, Lord will, and tonight I want to talk about the urgency of missions. They're white already to harvest. Uh let me just throw this out real quick. What happens when a crop is ready for harvest and it doesn't get harvested? What happens? It rots. It spoils. It's doom. What happens when there are people out there need to be saved and they're not reached with the gospel, rot reached with the gospel? They're lost. They're lost. Um Jesus, when Jesus said, look on the fields, he wasn't look talking about cornfields. He wasn't looking around at soybean fields or whatever grain they may have had then. He's looking at the crowds coming out from this city. He's looking at this this mob of people coming out wanting to uh uh meet this Jesus and hear what he has to say and this fellow that Saved this gal that lived in sin and changed her life. I notice three things about the harvest that Jesus says. Number one, the harvest is ripe. White already. Um I'm not much of a farmer, but I've been around a little bit. And they say that when grain before it is ripe, it's green. You look out in the field, it's all green. We see that in the cornfields here And then as it ripens, it will often turn yellowish in color. And then at the moment it is time to harvest it, it will be white. Depending on what the grain is, it'll be white. And then if it's not harvest, turns black. It rots. Jesus saying it's white. It's time. The time is now. Now's the time. Not tomorrow, not next week, not next year, not when the pandemic's over. It's right now. To harvest. It's right now to harvest. Jesus is stressing the fact, I believe, he is stressing the fact that there are people who need to be saved now. He's stressing the fact that there are people who can be saved right now. He's stressing the fact, I believe, that there are people that would be saved right now if they just have somebody come. And share the message of Christ with them. I've said this for years and years. I believe with all my heart and to my own shame. I believe there are people in Mountain Lake Park. I believe there are people in Oakland area, in Garrett County, surrounding areas that if somebody would come by and sit down with an open Bible and show them how to be saved, they would trust Christ and be saved. Right now There are people out there. I believe with all my heart the Holy Spirit of God is right now working in hearts and lives in ways that you and I don't even realize, convicting Dealing with them, working in their lives, and just need somebody to come by and show them, tell them how to be saved. I believe that's true in the cities of our country, Washington, D. C. , Baltimore, Philadelphia, New York, Boston, Chicago LA, every city, there are people there, if somebody would just come by and in love and fill with the Holy Spirit, share the message of the gospel, people would say. What I'm saying is this, the what the the harvest is white already It's right now in Kazakhstan, in Almadi, and in Nursultan, the new name for the capital of Kazakhstan. Somebody go up there? There's no doubt in my mind. Right now, at this very moment, if somebody would go there, as people get saved, if somebody would open a Bible and share it. You name any country, any city, any village, any people group, I believe it's right already now. The gospel is the power of God under salvation. We give the gospel, people get saved. I put this down, one, the harvest is right. Number two, I put this down, the harvest is great Now we won't take time to turn there, but Mark or Matthew chapter 9, verse 37, he says, the harvest is plenteous. In Luke chapter 10 and verse 2, Jesus said this: the harvest is great. Both those words come from the same word. It means a superabundant. It means it is a a very, very large harvest. Very large harvest. I got looking up, there are over seven billion They say there's over seven billion people in the world. You and I can't even comprehend that number. I can't anyway. Seven billion people in the world. And according to one uh missions organization that studies statistics, I don't know how they come up with this. But they say of that 7 billion There are three billion people who have no scriptures in their language, have no gospel being presented to them, have no influence of Christianity in their lives at all. Three billion people! You know what that means? The harvest is great. It's overwhelming. I got looking at these statistics and these figures, I thought, Lord, that's overwhelming. What can we do? How in the world can we make any difference in that? I'm telling you, God stressed on my heart, little is much when what? God is in it. God can take one little boy's lunch. A couple little fish, a couple little pieces of barley bread, little crackers basically, and he can ve feed over 10,000 people. If God can do that with a little boy's lunch, what can he do with you and I? We say, Lord, here am I Take me. Here's my offering. Here's my prayers. Here's here's my influence, my effort, my resources. Lord, they're available. Use me. Excuse me. The harvest is ripe right now, not later. The harvest is great. And last of all, I put this down: the harvest is a priority. Again, I wish we had time, but we'd go to Mark chapter 4, verse 26 to 29, where the Lord says, when the harvest is ripe, when the grain is ripe, you immediately put in the sickle. And the point he's making there is when that harvest is right, everything else gets set aside. And priority number one is getting that crop in, getting that harvest, that grain harvested in. I've seen this when I worked on the farm as a young boy. We worked on a dairy farm still. We milked 42 cows. How about that? Big operation. And uh we milked forty two dollars, kept us busy. But I tell you when it was time for that that uh corn to be uh brought in and those crops, whatever were out there, is getting August, September is time And uh maybe there's rain coming next week, brother. Everything now we had to milk the cows, but we weren't washing tractors and we weren't cleaning out uh uh the pen. We were out there harvesting that in. It was number one top priority. Now I want to tell you what I believe God's top priority in the world is today. Get these people saved Get the gospel out to all the world. That is top priority. Oh, but uh but we want to have a fried chicken fellowship. Well, wonderful, but make sure you're getting the gospel out first. Don't let the harvest go to waste. Well, we're playing volleyball, and I'm all for volleyball, and I'm certainly for Fried Chicken Fellowships. But that's not the priority. You follow what I'm saying? That's not the priority The priority is get that sickle and get that harvest in. Get that harvest in. All church budgets, I believe, are secondary to missions. All church programs ought to be secondary to the Great Commission, getting the gospel to the lost. All church efforts Should be secondary to getting the gospel to all the world. We had a miraculous answer to prayer. on Tuesday night. I'm telling you. Uh I believe I walked out of there and I thought the angels are present right here. I mean this was like In my mind, this was the equivalent of Moses holding the rod out and parting the Red Sea. When our town, Mount Lake Park, said gave us thumbs up for the building of our Children's Activity Center And uh I mean they were just a blessing. I gotta tell you, it was just a blessing. They were very encouraging and and a blessing. And uh we're good to go. Go forward And uh but uh let me say this. If we have to choose between getting missionaries in the field or building a building, we're putting missionaries on the field. We have to choose between having new carpet or putting missionaries on the field. We're putting missionaries on the field. We have to choose between whatever you want to come up with uh missionaries is number one top priority. As long as I have any say in this, missions is number one top priority. Amen or not? Missions. Missions. The harvest is ripe. Now, time. The harvest is great. Billions without the gospel. And a harvest is a priority. We've got to get after this. The Lord was changing the mind of the disciples, getting them to say, you know what? They got it. And you read in the book of Acts, and they gave themselves, and they turned the world upside down with the gospel. And they did exactly what the Lord and instructed them to do, and they caught the vision, they lifted up their eyes, they saw the fields right under harvest, and they responded I was talking to Brother Matt yesterday morning in my devotions. We had a little memorial service yesterday for Andrew and Dee Jenkins. She lost her baby And they did the neatest thing in the world, had a memorial service for little Daisy Jenkins that passed away in her mother's womb. And uh that was such a blessing. In the morning, I was having my devotions and kind of collecting my thoughts for the service And God's God stirred my heart. And here's my challenge. My challenge to myself And to every individual Christian, our church, and really Christians everywhere, here's my challenge. Let's take the efforts and the passion. And the finances and the time that we invested in these last several months in trying to get the president re-elected, let's take that passion, that energy, that desperation And redirect that into getting the gospel into all the world. Getting the gospel into all the world. A presidential election, as important as it is, affects a nation for a period of time. But the gospel affects a soul for all eternity. All eternity. Missions must be a priority So can I challenge you? Uh uh I'll say more about this. I don't know if this plan's gonna work out the way I'm thinking, but I'm gonna challenge our folks. Everybody that put a yard sign out to vote for whoever I'm trying we're trying to come up somewhere to get yard signs that have the gospel on them. And everybody that had a political yard sign out put a gospel yard sign out. Everybody that had a political bumper sticker, we're going to try and get them to put a gospel bumper sticker. Everybody that gave money to a candidate, let's give that at least that or more to missions. And just redirect our focus, redirect our fat our our passion, our energy, our burden, our concern. Into getting the gospel into all the world. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to stir our hearts concerning this matter of missions Help us to look on the fields, Lord, and see them the way you see them. And Lord, then give ourselves to be used of you to bring people to Christ here and around the world. Wonder there, maybe at home or here in our in the service. Maybe we could just make the pew there where you're sitting, or there, that sofa, wherever you're at at home. Just make that an altar to God. And say, God, here am I, as the kids sang, here am I, send me. Here am I, Lord, use me, lead me, direct me, show me. What my role is, and what part I have in reaching this world with the gospel. My prayers, my finances, my own life, my resources, my abilities, Lord, they're yours to help us bring in this great harvest. I pray, Lord, you'd have your way. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.