Hebrews chapter 12, I'd like for us to read together verse number two. Hebrews chapter twelve and verse number two. Notice if you would, uh I'd like for us to read together. Alright, you got it there? Are you ready? All together, verse two, here we go. looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God I want to take those first three words there, looking unto Jesus, and I want to use that for my message this morning. So let's pray together. Ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, I thank you, dear Lord, for giving us the Bible, your word. And Lord, what it's meant to so many of us and the impact that the Word of God has had upon our lives personally. I know myself. And then Lord, on our church, what the Word of God has meant to us as a body of believers. Lord, I believe your word has impacted our nation in not just our founding, but even all these years. And so God help us this morning to honor the Word of God. Help us to trust you and believe what your word says. I pray you challenge us as individuals and a church to grow in our faith, to be a more effective witness, a more diligent, earnest witness in this old sinful world We need revival, Lord. I do. So we're asking you to begin that today. I present my body anew to you this hour, Lord. I yield my will and I plead with you again with all my heart That you fill me with your Holy Spirit, dear Lord, and you speak through me. You be the preacher through my tongue, my body. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I want to digress from our little series we're doing right now, Beauty Tips for the Tongue. I've enjoyed it. I've been challenged and convicted by the series But um this week and this coming week and next week is kind of special for my wife and I as uh we're celebrating 25 years here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Now I'm not sure, and I can't speak for the church what it means to the church, but I'll tell you this, and uh speaking for my wife and I, uh being here at Mountain Lake for the last 20 years has absolutely been the joy of our lives God has blessed us. This has been the most fulfilling thing of anything I've been involved in. And so I want to set aside what we've been preaching on the last several weeks. And I want to focus on this little phrase here in Hebrews 12, verse 2, where it says, looking unto Jesus This whole passage here has always been very significant in my heart and mind since I came to be saved. Um I have reason to believe and I'm pretty confident I can't remember uh definite so I'm I'm This is going back a little ways, but I have reason to believe that the night I was saved, May 7, 1979, that evening I was reading this passage of scripture I know for certain that I had been reading from the book of Hebrews. I was unsaved in January of 1979. I began examining my life and looking which the direction my life was going. And I came to this conclusion, and many of you have heard this many times in the last twenty-five years. You've heard it many times in the last twenty-five weeks. But um But uh I began to evaluate my life, and I began to look at what direction my life was going as an 18, soon-to-be 19-year-old young man. And I came to this conclusion. I did not want to be the person I was becoming. I saw the direction I was going. I saw what was happening, the people close to me. And how their lives were being destroyed by sin, by rebellion against God, by extreme selfishness. And I saw it heading down that same road. And I made a decision that I wanted to change my life. I wanted to be a different man. I wanted to be a new man And for five months I tried very, very hard to change what I was. And I think it would come as no surprise to anybody I was unable to change what I was. I could change some of my behavior and alter some things a little bit, but I could not change what I was as a man. And I began seeking God. And I remember many, many times those five months from January leading up to May, late at night, come in, been out. party and everything until all hours in the morning, four or five o'clock. I'd come dragging in. And I'd lay there in my bed and I would pray and say, God help me. God help me. I don't want to be this kind of person. Help me. And um early on in that experience, in that time frame It wasn't an audible voice, but it was as real as if it was an audible voice. God spoke to my heart. Read your Bible. I began digging through the dresser drawers and I found a Bible that a Sunday school teacher early on in second or third grade had given me a Bible. I began reading that thing. And God began showing me what my problem was. My problem wasn't my failure of education. My problem wasn't my financial status. The problem was with my heart. And I was a sinner, separated from God. And as I read my Bible, God began showing me that the only hope I had of having a new life, of having eternal life, the only hope I had was in the Lord Jesus Christ. And I began reading my Bible. And I don't know why this is. God, in His wisdom, would direct me many times to the book of Hebrews. I didn't know the Bible, I just opened it up. But many times it's from the book of Hebrews. Now, those of us have been saved now many, many years, many of us here been witnessing and sharing the gospel with folks. And I think many of you will understand what I'm about to say. Generally, you don't use the book of Hebrews to win people to Christ. That's not the theme of the book. That's not the object of the book of Hebrews. But nevertheless, God would direct me back to the book of Hebrews, Book of Hebrews, for whatever reason, and I can't tell you today specifically passages that God led me to, but I do have reason to believe. That that evening, May 7, 1979, as I was come home, was out all day long, just drinking and carrying on, come home that night, lay in bed, God help me I read my Bible a little bit. Got on my knees and I accepted Jesus Christ as Savior. And I believe that that night I was reading from this passage of Scripture. So I said all that to come back to the statement I made at the beginning. This passage has always been significant to me, has always been important. in my heart and life, looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith. I want to just give, just and I want to I got I got so much, my heart is full this morning. I got so much But I want to try and squeeze it all in. We will be out by one o'clock. I promise you we will be out by one o'clock. And um but I wanna I want to I have a lot I'd like to share with you. I I just want to give a little few thoughts about this passage By way of introduction. Number one, I want you to notice here that Jesus Christ is the focus of our faith. He is the focus of our faith. Looking unto Jesus. Now if you study the context of this passage, you go back into Hebrews chapter 11, we find an interesting passage of scripture there. Now, somebody tell me, you guys have been reading your Bible, many of you know your Bibles a little bit What does Hebrews chapter 11 talk? What is that talking about? Hebrews 11 is talking about what? Faith. And we often refer to Hebrews 11 as the hall of faith. And God comes down through there and he names man after man, women, different great saints of the Old Testament. Are you listening, young people? Naming great saints of the Old Testament who exercised tremendous faith in God. Noah, Abraham And he comes on down through there, and he he's honoring these folks. Okay, folks, listen up. Sit up straight, young people. All right, give me your attention And he goes down and he mentions these great men and women of faith, and he tells us how they exercised this faith in God. But then he comes to the Lord Jesus Christ, and then he comes to verse number two of chapter 12, and he references the Lord Jesus Christ, and he says, looking unto Jesus. Now if you come back up to verse number one, he says, wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, We study that and people have different ideas of what that great cloud of witnesses is. Some people suggest that that great cloud of witnesses are all the saints that have already passed away and they're in heaven and they're looking down on us and they're watching us and they and uh they see what we're doing. Question comes up, do people who have died, saved people that have died and gone to heaven? Do they know what's happening here on earth? Can they see what we're doing? Can they know what we're involved in? Do the people in heaven know that? I can't answer dogmatically on that, but I believe from different passages of Scripture, the Bible suggests that to some extent people in heaven are aware of what's happening here on earth The Bible mentions his joy in the presence of angels over one sinner that repents, and I believe that's referencing saved people, saints in heaven. They're in the presence of the angels And so I'm certain that people in heaven, when somebody gets saved down here on earth, people in heaven, saints up in heaven, they know that and they rejoice and get excited about that. Thursday night, a couple of fellas were out visiting. A bunch of us were out visiting, but a couple of fellows visited with a lady, Charlie and Ed, and uh they got to talk to her a little bit and open their Bibles And uh they went through how to be saved. They pointed out to her that we're all sinners because of our sin. We're under the judgment of God if we die in our sins unforgiven. Separated from God for all eternity, in a horrific place Jesus referenced as hell? No hope of escape and eventually in the lake of fire? And they showed her how the Jesus Christ died and suffered hell for her and suffered God's judgment for her sins He suffered in her place as her substitute was buried, rose again, ascended to heaven. He's at the right hand of God if she would trust him Call on him, put her faith in him. He would forgive her and save her. And praise the Lord. Thursday night, this dear lady bowed her head and called on the Lord Jesus to be her Savior. I believe the angels in heaven, so I believe those in the presence of the angels of heaven looked down and saw that, and they got excited about it. They kicked up some heavenly golden dust. On Thursday night when someone got saved. Praise the Lord, the Wednesday before, a young teenage girl. Uh uh uh I think it was the Sunday before A young teenage girl between Sunday school and church, one of the ladies counseled with her, and she trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. The saints in heaven saw that and rejoiced in that But do they know everything we're doing? I don't know. They answer that dogmatically. Say, well, what is this cloud of witnesses? I believe So I studied this, I believe he's referencing back to chapter eleven, where we have this great host of men and women of tremendous faith in God. Are a witness for you and I that we can trust God. That God is faithful. And even in overwhelming circumstances, and even in impossible situations. They are a witness to us that we can have faith in God. We can trust God. And when God asks us and calls us and leads us in the situations, that are overwhelming that we cannot handle. We can put our faith in God and God will be faithful to us. And so we have this great cloud Of these witnesses in the Old Testament of chapter 11, witnessing to us that uh we can have faith in God and God is good and we can trust him. But then he says this, and looking unto Jesus. Looking unto Jesus. That word looking there, he says, all right, you've got this, all this great witnesses in chapter 11, all these People that had great faith in God, and God honored that faith, and God took care of them and blessed them because of that faith. But now we're looking to Jesus. Jesus I like that word looking. The word looking there has this idea. It's interesting. It's kind of like looking to me, trusting in me, putting your faith in me. Did you ever uh hear something like this, somebody says something like this? Maybe somebody's in a situation, let's say they're in tremendous debt. And it's just they can't deal with it and it's overwhelming. And they got a friend that maybe's well-to-do or whatever, and they see their situation, and they say something like this to them, hey, listen, if you get in trouble, just look to me You follow what I'm saying? Just any how many folks ever heard a statement like that at all? How many folks uh ever made a statement like that? How many folks aren't going to raise their hand no matter what I say? I do that. Yeah, Dave Just look to me. Look to me, trust me, count on me, you can count on me. And so when the Bible says we're looking unto Jesus, what he's saying is We got this great cloud of witnesses, all these great people that had tremendous faith. But our faith is not in these people. Our faith is in the Lord Jesus Christ. In fact, the word looking there is a very unique word. It's the only time in the Bible that it's translated looking at this, the only time this word that the word looking comes from is used in all the Bible And it has this idea, its literal definition is this: off looking unto Jesus. In other words, looking away from everything else and focused exclusively on the Lord Jesus Christ I'm not looking here anymore. I'm not looking over there anymore. I'm looking to Jesus Christ. We've got Adam, we've got Abraham, we've got Enoch, we've got all these great men, great people that had tremendous faith in God. But we are off looking to Jesus Christ. We're looking only to Him. I don't know if any of the other fellows are like this. I'm sure you're not. It's just me. But sometimes I'm driving down the road and I like to look around and see the scenery where I'm driving around. And I'll be driving down there and Man, I'm looking over there, looking for deer over there, and some groundhogs over here, and some mountains there, and a waterfall over here. I'm just driving around looking everything. My wife will say something like this, would you quit your gawking And stay focused on the road and I'll look and I'm on the other side of the road and I gotta get back over here. Listen, I've had distracted driving ever since you drive in the country. I get distracted by everything around How many people want to take a ride with me? And she'll say, quit your gawking around, pay attention, stay focused. And that's the idea of this word here. We're looking unto Jesus. We've pushed everything else aside. Hey, when it comes to this matter of salvation, we look to Jesus and we look only to Jesus for salvation. There's only one way to be saved. There's only one way to have my sins forgiven. There's only one way to get eternal life. There's only one way to escape hell and find eternal life in heaven. That is through the Lord Jesus Christ. I love Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. This is my heart and life, humanly speaking. But Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church cannot keep one person out of hell. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church cannot give anybody eternal life. Only Jesus Christ can do that. I don't know if you noticed, but we've got a brand new baptistry. How many people noticed that? How many people just now notice that There it is, Brother Mark and several others, Derek and Byrne, put that thing in there, and it's good to go. And Lord will next Sunday, on Anniversary Sunday, we're going to have our first baptism in our new baptistry. I'm excited. I'm going to do a belly flop, jumping down in there. I'm so excited. No, I am not going to do that But I tell you what, that Baptist tree can't wash anybody's sins away. Going down in that water coming out will never save a soul from hell, will never cleanse one sin from any heart and soul. Only the Lord Jesus Christ can do that. And when I come for salvation, when I went I need to be saved, when I realize that I'm a sinner on my way to hell and I need somebody to forgive me and cleanse me There is only one place to look to find salvation, and that is to the Lord Jesus Christ. May 7, 1979, I knelt by my bed and I looked to Jesus. I said, Jesus I need you to be my personal Savior. I need you to come in my life and cleanse this sin from me I'm telling you, God keeps his word. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. If you're here this morning, you're under the sound of my voice, and you do not have 100% assurance that your sins are forgiven and that you're on your way to heaven, I'm here to tell you you can look to Jesus. He'll forgive you and save you in a moment's notice. By trusting him. Looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith. We look to Jesus for our salvation. We look to Jesus for our spiritual growth. Once I'm saved, I stay focused on Christ. He's the one that helps me grow. He's the one that teaches me. Now I thank God for Christian brothers and sisters. I thank God for when I first got saved back there in Philly, those two uh I I showed up at church, and I know a lot of you have heard this before, but I'm not I don't care. I'm talking I'm doing this for me Yes, I do care. But I come walking at church. Now here I am. I got saved on Monday night. Sunday morning, I'm walking into church. This is 1979. I grew up in the 70s. And I looked like it. So God saved me, He took all the liquor and drugs and everything. I mean, instantly, He transformed me, but I all I still was me. And so I come walking into church. I've got hair down I I had hair. I got hair literally hanging down over my shoulders. It was beautiful. You ladies would have loved to have it, Harley. I miss those days. So I I got it all slicked up. Um I had a black silk shirt. silk. And I had a gold necklace. I mean this beautiful gold necklace. And I was sincere. I was just trying to dress up. I'm going to church. You got to look good to go to church. And so I put this black silk uh shirt on, buttoned about up to here, and I had this gold necklace. Look in the mirror, yeah. That's good. And then I got out my polyester belt bottoms. And I they were big ones. I mean And then before I left I slipped on my platform shoes. And I showed up at church. And I'm telling you, I look good. I come walking in there like John Trilta coming in. I'm exaggerating. Last week I preached on honesty, so But I come walking in there and I'm telling you I stood out like a sore thumb. I didn't know. I was a new Christian. I was trying to be my best. I was trying to do right. That's all I knew. And by the way, hey church folk, when folks come in, they're a new Christian, and maybe they're not dressed the way you do, you love on them and you show them the love of Christ. I walked in there and two fellas like bees on honey, Terry uh Wilcox and Arden Musselman. What's your name? Is this your first time here? Oh, and they invited me to sit with them. And I'm telling you, those two guys took me under their wings. I told him how I'd gotten saved in my bedroom the week before and that God was changing him. I was so excited. And those guys discipled me. And I thank God for folks that invested But I'm telling you, they are not the ones that gave me spiritual growth. It was Jesus Christ that makes us grow. I was looking to Jesus Now God used them. Am I making sense? You follow what I'm trying to say? But I don't exalt them. I'm grateful for them. But they were sinners just like me. They were saved by grace just like me. It is the Lord that gives us spiritual growth. It is the Lord that strengthens our faith. It is the Lord that gives us understanding. And they helped me see that, and they helped me grow. So we look to Jesus. Oh, by the way, there was another fellow got saved about the same time I did, Todd, was it Ted uh Magnus was his name, good kid. He got saved, similar background. And we would have Bible studies at night. We'd have devotion. Just lived about a half a block down from where I did. We'd walk get together. When I went off to Bible college, as soon as I left He dried up spiritually. Quit going to church, quit in his Bible. I'd come home from college for a little bit. We'd get back. Boy, he'd start growing again. And you know what the problem was there? And I'm not trying to be critical, but he was looking to me to be his spiritual strength. And as soon as I'd be gone, then he'd shrink back down. What he needed to learn was to look to Jesus. Look to Jesus. Hey, you know what? Sometimes preachers are going to mess up. Sometimes other Christians are going to mess up. Don't let that throw your relationship with the Lord Jesus. Jesus never fails. I was witnessing a guy out in Colorado. He says, I've had it with Christians. I said, has Jesus ever failed you? He goes, no, Jesus never failed me. Well then keep your eyes on Jesus. So we're looking unto Jesus for our salvation. We're looking unto Jesus for our spiritual growth. We're looking unto Jesus for scriptural blessings. It is the Lord that blesses us. And so we have here, he says, looking unto Jesus. Jesus is the focus of our faith. Then, number two, I notice this: Jesus is the finest example of our faith. It says here, looking unto Jesus, the what? What's it say? Are you looking? Looking under Jesus, the what? Author and finisher of our faith. That word author there again is a unique word in the Bible. We think of author as somebody that's writing a book, and it would certainly include that, but it has something of this idea. One who reveals What true faith is. An author writes things down. He reveals to us his thoughts. He reveals to us his story. He reveals to us his information. And so he says, Jesus is the author. He is the one that reveals to us. He is the one that is, and it's interesting, the word author there is also translated in our Bible, several other places, as prince or captain. He's the one that stands above. He is the one that shows us what it is. And I think this is the idea behind this statement here, of all the examples in Hebrews chapter 11, of what it means to have faith in God. Jesus is the above, far above and beyond any other example of what it means to have faith in God. I kind of put it this way: Jesus wrote the book. of what it means to have faith in God. Now, I don't think the passage here is saying Jesus is the one that gives us our faith. Hebrews teaches that the Lord gives us faith, but I don't think that's what this passage is teaching. He's saying this. Listen, you want to see what a perfect example of living by faith is Then you look to Jesus. You look to Jesus. Now Jesus, of course, was God in the flesh. He's the Son of God. He's a sinless, perfect Son of God. He's our sacrifice. But nevertheless, he was 100% man. And when Jesus Christ lived here on earth for that 33 and a half years about, he showed to us what it means to live by faith. He made phenomenal statements. He said stuff like this. Don't and I'm putting them in my own words, but Matthew chapter 3 made statements like this. Listen, don't worry about what you're going to eat or what you're going to wear or where you're going to live. You seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. All these things will be added unto you. And he displayed that. He displayed that. They needed, uh Peter comes and says, Lord, we need money to pay our taxes. He goes, well go fishing. He went down, caught a fish, lo and behold, in the mouth of that fish was enough money to pay his taxes. You wonder why I go fishing so much. I'm trying to pay my taxes But what I'm trying to say is this. You say, what does it mean to live by faith? What does it mean to have perfect faith in God? I challenge you, study the Lord Jesus Christ. Study the gospels. And there you have a perfect example of what it means to live by faith. Jesus wrote the book. On living by faith. Study Jesus. And then it says this: Jesus is the author and finisher of our faith. He is the finisher of our faith. The finisher is one who brings to a conclusion. I had a lady a number of years ago, I was um, this was a long time ago, but I was chaplain for the local hospice program here. We had a unique arrangement, it worked out pretty well But anytime there was a patient with hospice that did not have a pastor, had no church, had no spiritual input, they would call me up and they'd say, Pastor Latin, we've got patients so-and-so, they don't have pastor, and uh they would appreciate a visit from a pastor. Zing, I was over there. And I get to visit with them and talk with them, and I had free reign. They um uh the lady in charge, Brenda, she says, you can say or do whatever you think is best, Pastor Lennon. It is your That is your baby. So I had the opportunity to lead many, many people, Lord, just weeks and months, sometimes days before they passed down eternity, to be able to share the gospel they trust Christ. There was one lady in particular who was here in Oakland. Came in and visited her. She was very, very gracious, very open. I introduced myself. We talked a little bit. It wasn't the first visit, might have been the second, and I said, well, let me ask you about your spiritual well-being. And I said, you know, God in his mercy has revealed to you that you only have so much long so long to live And he has given you an opportunity to make things right with God. And know for sure you go to heaven, not to hell. I say, could I show you from the Bible how you could know that for sure? And she said, I would like that more than anything else. So I was able to take my Bible and show her and went through the plan of salvation. She bowed her head with me and trusted the Lord Jesus our Savior. We began discipling her and talking about what it means to be saved. The subject of baptism came up. She had several weeks to live. She was filled with cancer. She said, I'd like to be baptized. So some of y'all, I don't know if you remember, came in here and very ill, we baptized her in the name of the Father, Son, Holy Ghost took a powerful testimony that God had saved her. A couple weeks went by and she called me up since she was crying. She says, Pastor Leatherman, I need you to come. I need to talk to you. I said, right over She began weeping and she's, I'm afraid, she said this, I'm afraid that my faith is not strong enough. To take me to heaven. I'm afraid that my faith is too weak and too small. I said, I said her name. And I said, listen, it is not the strength of your faith or the amount of your faith that saves your soul. It is the object of your faith. Your faith may be weak, it may be like a little thread, a little thread, but if it's connected to Jesus Christ, you can be sure. That God's word is true, that your sins are forgiven, you're on your way to heaven. And I believe that's what Hebrews is telling us here. He is the finisher of our faith. Our faith may be weak, our faith may struggle, we may be very insecure in our own faith, but if that faith is in Jesus Christ, He will finish it. He will see it to its completion. He will make sure it will accomplish that which he has promised to do if we will take whatever faith we have and put in the Lord Jesus Christ. Am I making sense? Maybe you're here this morning, you say, preacher, I believe, I believe, but I need God to help mine unbelief. My faith is so weak, and I'm just not sure. I say you take that faith, whatever it is, and you put it in Jesus Christ, and Jesus will never fail you He's the author and he is the finisher of our faith. So he says, I I visited a fellow, it was Phil Sherman, when I first came here, I went out and I didn't know him from Adam. I don't wouldn't even know Adam if I saw him, but I introduced myself and we got talking a little bit. One of the church folks was with me. And we talked a little bit and I did the same thing I do for everybody. I said, uh, Phil? You know for sure that when you die, your sins are forgiven. You're going to heaven. Phil, without hesitation, and if any of you know him, this is a little bit the way he is. Without hesitation, he goes, Do you know? That when your sins are forgiven, you go to heaven. I thought, nobody's ever asked me that. I'm the one supposed to be asking that. But I'm telling you, without hesitation, without hesitation, I said, Phil, I know for sure, beyond a shadow of a doubt, that when I die, I'm going to heaven, not to hell. He says, How do you know? I said, because I trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. I trusted Jesus Christ as my Savior. You say, oh, you think you're something. You think you're pretty good. You think you're so good you're going to heaven. No, no, no. Trust me, I know me. I do not deserve to go to heaven any more than anybody else in this world. My heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. I'm nothing but a wretched sinner. That deserves to die and go to hell, but Jesus Christ promised that whoever puts their faith and trust in him, that he will forgive them. That he will cleanse their sin. He will give them eternal life and take them to heaven. He's the finisher of our faith when we put it in him And we can know for sure we're going to heaven. Not because of us, but because of him. He's faithful. He does it. Amen? Looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, in August of 1993. I got a phone call from somebody and I did not know, never heard of him. A fellow by the name of Dr. Don Williams. I was living in Boulder, Colorado at the time, working staff at Neighborhood Bible Time. And he said, Brother Lethem and I somehow got a copy of your resume. And he said, our church is looking for a pastor. We wonder if you'd be interested. I said, well, I've been praying about coming east and uh we've been felt like the Lord was leading us. Come back, either start a church or take a church or somewhere. West Virginia is kind of where we were looking for. We were going to go to a foreign mission field and uh go to West Virginia where they speak different language and have strange customs. But uh I said, uh yeah, we'd be interested. We got talking a little bit, and the church, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church in Oakland, Maryland, flew a 33-year-old preacher boy in, never pastored. And they said, we'd like you to consider being pastor. And we talked and went over doctrine and spent hours with Brother Williams and discussing things. And so we came in and we candidated and lo and behold, uh it was a hundred percent vote. Of course there was only eight people then, but um But I tell you what, it won the people, one me. It was God. God was leading. And I got back and I told my wife, I said, I'm this was this was before the vote. And I came back, I told my wife, I said, I am confident this is where God wants us. I just know it My heart and soul, this is I candidated at probably 15 other churches, had probably eight other opportunities. I turned them down. It wasn't God's will. I said, this is it. I know we're going to get the vote. We got it. And as we were preparing to come out here, God impressed upon my heart Hebrews chapter 12 and verse number 2. Looking unto Jesus. And I said, and I told myself, I said, that's going to be our motto. If God leaves us here, when we get there, Looking unto Jesus is going to be our motto. And if you notice on all our logos every round at the bottom it says looking unto Jesus on our vehicles, looking unto Jesus, on our stationery. looking unto Jesus. The big banner, the big sign back on the barn back here, looking unto Jesus. For all these 25 years I have sought to personally and I have sought to lead this church to look to Jesus. Look to Jesus. Every Saturday night, that first we showed up on August 16th. It was a Thursday. We unloaded. Lonnie Lewis helped us unload, and I think there was a couple others. um unloaded all our belongings, all five of them, into the mission house. And uh I started came over Saturday night. And I do as I have all these 25 years, and I knelt here at the front of the church, and I prayed, and I told God, I said, God, this is not Leatherman's church. Lord, this is your church. Last night, Pastor Matt and I prayed here at 10 o'clock. We prayed over at the altar. I prayed the same prayer I have for 25 years. Lord, this is not my church. This is your church. It's not the deacon's church. It's not some denominational authorities church. Jesus Christ owns this church. He is the head. He is the chief shepherd. And if we want God's blessings on our church, we must look to Jesus, not to man. We brought some great preachers through here over the years. Amen or not. I think what I consider some of the greatest preachers in our country have been behind that pulpit. But I'm telling you what, our confidence, we're not looking to preachers to make us what we ought to be. We're looking to Jesus Christ. We need to keep our eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ. Keep our eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ. That was my introduction And it's also going to be my conclusion. I wish I could share all that's on my heart with you, but we'll have to another time. Lawrence of Arabia. Anybody recognize that name? What an amazing man. It's a very famous movie made. Listening, kids. Very famous movie made. I don't know about that. But uh Lawrence of Arabia was an amazing, amazing man. And as I said, there was a famous movie made about him. And one of the Events that he had. He was he took a group of his fellows from Arabia to Paris. I was reading about this this past week. They got to Paris. And he was showing them all around Paris and they were fascinated by all they saw in this big city. But he noticed that the thing that fascinated uh his friends. This was just after World War One. The thing that fascinated his friends the most was the f water faucets In the homes where they were staying. They were captivated. You turn this little knob, and fresh water comes out. And he said he would notice they would be turning these things on and off, on and off, uh all day long. They could get all the water they wanted. Finally, it was time to leave and head back home. And he found his friends were in the bathrooms trying to detach the faucets. And he said, What are you doing? And they said, It is very dry in Arabia. What we need are faucets. If we have them, we will have all the water we want. And Lawrence Arabi explained to them. That the faucet in and of itself was not what gave them water. It was what the faucet was connected to. The pipe the line system that produced the water. And the lesson is this. Listen, this church As w uh as much as I love it, and as great as as uh as I think this church is, our church is nothing. If we're not connected to Jesus Christ, that's where the source of blessing is. That's where the source of power is. That's where the source of God's presence is. Is looking to Jesus. I think we have some great programs. We got master clubs and kings kids and teens. We got um Fingerprints, blankets for babies, just amazing things, our institute, big meeting. But I'm telling you, all them in and of their cells are just dry as dust if we're not connected to Jesus Christ. You know why maybe your home is so dry and so miserable? You know why maybe your heart is so empty and your life just seems to be so dry? I'm wondering if maybe you don't need to look to Jesus and find eternal life and get, quote-unquote, connected to Jesus Christ by faith. My prayer is however long I have here, and whoever may succeed me in the coming years if the Lord tarries. My prayer is that this church will keep on for generations to come. Keep looking to Jesus. Keep looking to Jesus. Keep looking to Jesus. He is the author and finisher of our faith. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask now, Lord. That you would enable us, that you would help us turn our eyes away from this old world and the bright lights of this world. Get our eyes off of ourselves. I pray you'd help us to look to you and trust you to lead us and direct us and strengthen us and power us and bless us. Lord, those that need it find salvation. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I wonder how many Christians this morning you're saved, you have that settled. You say, Preacher, I know for sure I'm saved. I know that God has saved me. I've trusted Jesus Christ my personal Savior. But you say, you know, I find myself getting my eyes off the Lord. Sometimes we get them on others, get them on ourselves, we get them on our situation, and you say, preacher, by God's grace, I want to focus my eyes back on Lord Jesus Christ and trust him to lead me and direct me. Make me the Christian He saved me to be. Are there any like that this morning? Preacher, find myself tendency to get my eyes off the Lord, and I need to get them back on him and trust him completely. God bless you. Hands all around. God bless you. I wonder if there's some this morning say, Preacher, I don't know for sure that my sins are forgiven. I can't honestly say that I'm certain that I go to heaven, not to hell. You say, preacher, I'm concerned about that. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know that God has forgiven me. I want to know that I have a uh a home in heaven. And you'd say, Preacher, pray for me that God would help me get that settled. That I could know for sure my sins are forgiven. I'm going to heaven. Any like that by the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about that. I want to know for sure I'm saved. Any at all? Any at all? Maybe there's some like this. Say preacher to be honest. Now this is between you and God, so I understand. Say, preacher, I've gotten away from the Lord. Not living the Christian life like I should. I need to come back and just renew my dedication to Christ. Be that Christian He saved me to be and live that life he intends for me to live. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preach or pray for me. God bless you. Number of hands around. How about it? Any others? Preacher, I need to get that back to where it needs to be. Now Father in heaven, I saw hands, but you know our hearts. I pray you'd help us to focus on you and look to you and you exclusively. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Let's stand together, our heads are bowed, eyes are closed.