You come to church, you expect three things. Now before COVID, we would have quickly said you expect four things. Well you'd expect in a Bible believing church that someone was going to pl pass an offering plate every single time. And but we didn't do that for a little while. A lot of churches didn't do that during COVID. So Well there are still three things that we expect, whether we're sitting in a church service or sitting at home watching live stream that very same church service. If you miss one of these three things, it's almost as if you didn't really have church, if you know what I mean. The first thing that you expect when you come to a Bible belief and Bible preaching church is you expect singing You expect special music, you expect the choir, you expect corporate singing, don't we? Think about this. There's no really there's really no other place other than church where you sing as a group You don't go to your job and the fa the foreman gets up in the first thing Monday morning and says, Now before we all go out and work the manufacturing lines, let's sing a couple choruses It doesn't happen that way. Yeah, the only time you sing corporately, maybe if you're in a restaurant and somebody's having a birthday and all the waiters show up, or if you're at a baseball game And uh someone sings uh take me out to the ballgame in that seventh inning stretch, or if you're fortunate enough to be there when the Mountaineers win a game, you might sing a little bit of Almost Heaven West Virginia after the game is over at Mountaineer Field. But the truth of the matter is Corporate singing is something that is almost exclusively related to serving the Lord and going to church and uh having a praise time during church. Jesus himself In Hebrews chapter 2, sang praise to the Father in the midst of the congregation. So it is a time of praise when we do sing, isn't it? If you walked in your car tonight on the way out of church and you looked at your wife and you said, you know, honey, we didn't sing a single song tonight, you would kind of feel just We're supposed to be singing and admonishing one another with songs and hymns and spiritual songs. Sing with melody in your heart is under the Lord, Paul told the church at Calassa There's a second thing you expect. You expect preaching. Now, I have heard over the years, and I'm not saying this is an ironclad thing that it can't happen. I'm just saying it doesn't happen as much as they say it does You'll hear someone say, Boy, we had us a service last night. We had so many testimonies, we didn't even have time for preaching. Listen, I am one hundred percent for testimonies, but it pleased the Lord by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. You can have testimonies for an hour and a half, as long as you know when the testimonies are over an hour and a half, an hour and a half later, somebody's going to be preaching the Word of God If you walk to your car at the end of a church service, you look at your husband and you say, Sweetheart, do you realize we had a whole church service and nobody preached? You'd kind of feel cheated just a little bit. You'd feel like you hadn't really gone to church Then there's this, there's a third thing, not just singing and not just preaching, but praying. You know, if you come to a church service and at no time does anybody bow their head and close their eyes and ask God to bless the service or ask God to answer prayers or read a prayer list. And you would expect Prayer when you come to church. We gather together. We call Wednesday night, we have for decades and decades prayer meeting. This is a time when we come together to pray. And if you walk to your car the night after church and you looked at each other and you said, you know what? We had singing and we had preaching, but nobody prayed. You kind of feel cheated. We pray to start the service, we pray to end the service, we pray at the end of the introduction of the message, we pray when the prayer requests are given We pray all the time, pray for the offering, etcetera, all through the church service. We have lots of time of prayer. Now, here's what most people don't realize, or at least sometimes they don't realize, do you know that preachers are constantly working to be better preachers? They don't write all those books on homiletics for the people that are sitting in the pew. They write it for the preachers who desire to do a better job than they've ever done before When they stand up and preach the word of God. Think of the awesome responsibility it is to stand up and be a mouthpiece for Jehovah God. That's what preaching really is So preachers are constantly striving to be better preachers. Singers are constantly striving to be better singers We've already made mention a couple of times about Brother Fox and those choir practices or choir rehearsals, and they practice for a half hour, an hour every night. Uh uh all the special music. They practiced it. Even though they've done us, they're doing a song that they've done a hundred times before. Nowadays you don't even hear that statement that we used to hear all the time. Y'all pray for us. We ain't practiced much. We do our best, every person who sings in a New Testament church, we do our best to sing to the best of our ability. We want to make sure the timing's right with the piano and with the soloists, and we do our best to sing better every time we sing. We do our best to preach better every time we preach, but when it comes to prayer, do we really strive to pray better today than we prayed yesterday? Do we really strive to be better prayer warriors today than we were yesterday? If we started right here at the front, went all the way to the back and all the way back up to the front And every one of you stood up, you could give me at least one, and some of you multiple, I'm just saying at least one, time when God has specifically answered one of your prayer requests Every one of us could rejoice in answers to prayer from our prayer life, can we not? But however, if I also went from this section right here all the way back and all the way back to the front and I asked everyone the same question Is your prayer life what God expects it to be? I honestly believe that everyone, and I can truly only speak for myself, but I honestly believe that everyone, including myself, would say, no, it's not Here's our problem. It's not that we refuse to acknowledge that we would like to see more prayers answered. It's not that we would refuse to acknowledge that we need to learn to pray better. It's that we're just not willing to ask In this passage of Scripture, one of Jesus' disciples is going to come to him and ask him a very simple question. He's going to say, Lord, Teach us to pray. And I do want you to know this as we read our text here in just a moment, that Jesus does not say, all right, I tell you what. Let me do a little bit of study on this, and I'll come back and teach you. He does not say, here's a few steps that I want you to do, and when you get finished with those, then you'll be ready to learn how to pray better No, no. Immediately, immediately, as soon as the question is asked, Jesus immediately begins to teach. The problem is not that Jesus isn't willing to teach us to pray better We're just not willing to ask. We're going to preach a message tonight entitled, Lord, Teach Us to Pray. Look at the text as Jesus is going to Answer his question, give him a model prayer. Not a not the Lord's prayer, but a model prayer. And then he's going to give the him uh the disciples some examples that everybody in this room would understand. And as a matter of fact, a couple of them seem so simplistic. That we would kind of roll our eyes just a little bit as parents when we read it. Look at Luke chapter 11, begin with me in verse 1. And it came to pass that as he was praying in a certain place When he ceased, one of his disciples said unto him, Lord, teach us to pray, as John also taught his disciples. And he said unto them, When you pray, say our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done, as in heaven so in earth. Give us day by day our daily bread, and forgive us our sins, for we also forgive everyone that is indebted to us, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. And he said unto him, Which of you shall have a friend, and shall go unto him at midnight and say unto him, Friend, lend me three loaves for a friend of mine and his journey has come to me, and I have nothing to set before him And he from within shall answer and say, Trouble me not, the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed. I cannot arise and give thee I say unto you, though he will not rise and give him, because he is his friend, yet because of his importunity he will rise and give him as many as he needeth. And I say unto you, Ask and it shall be given you. Seek and ye shall find, knock, and it shall be open unto you. For every that asketh, receiveth. He that seeketh, findeth, him that knocketh, it shall be open. If a son shall ask bread of any of you that is a father, will he give him a stone? Or if he ask a fish, we for a fish give him a serpent, or if he shall ask an egg, will he offer him a scorpion? If ye then being evil, Know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him? I want to preach you tonight this simple message, Lord Teach us to pray. Let's pray before we begin. The Lord Heavenly Father, we thank you for this evening. Once again, Lord, we thank you for being in your house Thank you, Father, for gathering us together. We pray now for the services downstairs with the young people and with the teens, Father, that you'll give those that are teaching and preaching and those services power As they uh help those young people. We saw them all coming in with their smiling faces. And Lord, we just pray it'll be a great service downstairs. And Father, we pray that you'll bless the service upstairs as well. Have your will and way in our hearts In Jesus' name, amen. I want you to notice how it begins. Jesus is praying. Now, Jesus did not pray like you and I pray. There's a whole lot of lying that goes on when we sing hymns, isn't there? How many of us sing a song, I surrender all, when we're not completely surrendered to the Lord? How many have sung the song, Sweet Hour of Prayer? When in reality, most of us wouldn't know what an hour of prayer felt like. Some might be able to sing sweet fifteen minutes of prayer and be telling the truth. But for the most part, most Christians could sing, sweet three minutes of prayer, how sweet the sound. Let's save the rest like me. Jesus Prayed all night. The night before he chose his disciples, the Bible says that he prayed all night. The Bible tells us after he's fed five thousand with five loaves and two fishes in Matthew chapter fourteen, that he went up into a high mountain the park And when the and to pray and when the evening was come, he was there alone. He didn't just pray for a few minutes, he's prayed for a while The disciples are standing there listening to him pray. But this is not a question, I want you to just notice number one, if you're taking notes, the exhibition of prayer This is not a case where this disciple is standing there listening to Jesus pray, and he says to the other disciples, I would like to know some of the intricacies of prayer. Does anybody anybody here able to help me? If he truly wanted to know what John taught his disciples, he could have asked some of Jesus' disciples who had been John's disciples who would have easily been able to say, Well, John told us this. If he truly wanted to ask an academic question. I sure would like to know more about prayer. He would not have bothered the Savior with that, would he? He's not really saying, Lord, teach us To pray. What he's really saying as he stands there, and the longer he stands there and listens to the Savior talk in a way to his heavenly Father like he's never heard before, what he's really saying is, Lord Teach me to pray like that. As he stands there, he's thinking to himself, you know what? I don't know what I'm doing. But if that's Prayer, I'm not praying. I don't understand how anyone can talk to the Lord like that. I don't get it. I sure would like to have the same conversation the same communion, the same relationship with the Heavenly Father that Jesus does. And Lord, please, I want to pray like that You ever heard somebody pray? And while they were praying, of course you're trying to pray as well, your head is bowed, your eyes are closed, and all of that, but you can't help but listen Because it seems like they've reached up into heaven and grabbed onto the horns of the altar. They're praying in a way that you've never heard anybody pray before I went to uh your your pastor went to Tennessee Temple. We actually found out we went there the first time at the same time in nineteen eighty one. Then I took eighty-two off and went to basic training in AIT for the field artillery and then eighty-three I came back to Tennessee Temple. After I finished basic and AIT, I went back to Sissonville, West Virginia And went to my uh uh to to our home church there, Marinath the Baptist Church, and I was a member there, and I started dating my pastor's daughter Now, I was a preacher boy. I was going off to Bible college, and so my pastor's wife decided it was okay for this scrawny little 128-pound preacher boy from West Virginia to date her the her daughter and that was kind of all right because in Sissonville, West Virginia, the fishing pool wasn't that deep There weren't a whole lot of uh uh preacher boys in Sissonville, West Virginia. So her mother, my girlfriend's mother, was okay with me dating uh the her daughter, while since there was were no other preacher boys. But then We both went off to Tennessee Temple. Now Tennessee Temple had almost a thousand preacher boys. So the the the choices were a whole lot more broad There were better looking preachers. There were smarter preachers. Well maybe not smart, I'm just kidding. There were smarter preachers. There were uh there were there were all kinds of other guys down there And so at that time my pastor's wife, my girlfriend's mother, decided to try to talk my girlfriend into breaking up with me And so she was relentless. On and on and on. She continued. Every single time she would talk to her. There's more people to choose from. There's better looking guys. So and so's son is down there. All those kind of statements like that Until finally my girlfriend decided she was going to break up with me. And so she did. I believe it was on a Friday evening. It might have been a Saturday morning. I think it was a Saturday morning now that I think about it. She told me that we were breaking up I had a terrible weekend. I felt horrible. I didn't know what to do. Who you call if you're a a 19-year-old preacher boy away from home and when your girlfriend breaks up with you. I couldn't call my pastor He's not gonna take my side over his wife. That wasn't gonna work. So the what I did on Monday morning I got up and I got dressed and after my first couple of classes I went, I had a free hour, I went to the administration building. I walked up to a lady by the name of Dorothy, who was the secretary to document doctor Lee Robertson. Now you may know a little bit about doctor Roberson at that time. He was the pastor of Highland Park Baptist Church, the largest fundamental church in America by m by membership But on a typical Sunday, they would have between seven and nine thousand in their brand new auditorium. The brand new auditorium was an amazing It was over a football field wide. It was over three hundred and sixty feet from one side to the other. So including the end zone, you could drop a football field from end to end of Highland Park Baptist Church. Every seat was full every Sunday morning. There were seventy-two at the time chapels, which were smaller churches that young men that were going to Tennessee Temple would Pastor. There was uh uh the uh six hundred and thirty-five missionaries that they supported. Dr. Robertson traveled and preached a lot of times on Mondays and Tuesdays had a Christian college that at that time had over four thousand students that didn't include the Bible school, that didn't include the seminary, and it didn't include the thousand kids that were in the grade school and the high school at Tennessee Temple Schools. In other words, let me just put it as bluntly as I can. This is a busy man. I went to his office. I walked up to his secretary. I said, I would like to talk to Dr. Robertson. She said, why? And I said, because my girlfriend broke up with me To her everlasting credit, she did not laugh or snicker or smirk. She got up from her desk, she walked into his office. She came back a couple of minutes later and she said, Dr. Robertson, we'll see you now. Let me just add a little personal opinion here. I have heard of churches in the United States of America, churches that you and I would know about that if you go to talk to the pastor, you go because you need counseling, someone's going to tell you he can get with you in a month. I'm here to tell you, you're not taking heed to the flock over the which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseers, and you need to find a job as an administrator someplace because you're not a pastor if you can't counsel your people. Fifteen minutes later, I'm in Dr. Robertson's office. Dr. Robertson is told the whole story that here I am, a 19-year-old boy, my girlfriend is broken up with me. Dr. Robertson did not open up his Bible and give me that one verse. That says, if your girlfriend has broken up with you, this is what you do. Because there is no verse in there that says that. But you know what he did? He got down on his knees and he started praying I don't know if you ever had the opportunity to pray with Dr. Robertson, but it was a completely different setting. I'm sitting there and he's praying for me. And I feel like he is talking to God at a different level than I had ever talked to God. I prayed with him several years later when he was ninety-seven years of age there in his office, and even though his short-term memory was completely gone, when he got down on his knees and prayed, it was just him and Almighty God, no matter who else else in the what else in the room. You know what I thought, Dan? I'd like to pray like that. By the way, let me give you the rest of the story there, because I know you're going to want to know. My girlfriend had told her mother, she said, Now listen, I'm going to break up with him, but if we get back together, it's going to be forever. She agreed to that because she thought, of course, as soon as she broke up with me, she'd find someone better She didn't find anyone better. So she came back to me. We got back together as soon as we did. I took her up on top of Lookout Mountain. I got down on one knee. I popped open a velvet box and I gave her a diamond ring. That Sunday night we came to Highland Park Baptist Church. We were there Sunday morning as well, but Sunday night I talked her into coming up on the platform with me. You didn't go up on the platform. That was just kind of sacred I think you might have might have been supposed to take your shoes off when you walked up there, but Dr. Robertson is still standing there. So we walked up the steps together. I'm just about pulling her up the steps, and finally we get there And I said, Doctor Robertson, do you remember praying with me? And he said, I remember very well, remember very well. And I said, Well doctor Robinson, let me show you something. I grabbed their left hand, I held it up like that, and he said Oh Ma just like that I promise you. And then he said this, I didn't know my prayers worked that well. But the truth of the matter is, this disciple is standing there. And he's saying, I don't want to pray like I've been praying before. I don't want to pray like I pray I don't want to pray like everybody else prays. I want to pray like that. I'm listening to him praying I'm listening to him talk to his father, and I want to know what's the difference between the way he prays and the way I pray. I'm tired of praying the way I pray. I want to pray the way he prays He says, Lord, teach us. Teach us to pray. As John also taught his disciples. Number one, there's the exhibition of prayer. Number two, there's the example of prayer. Jesus is now going to give them The model prayer. Now many people will call it the Lord's Prayer. It is not the Lord's Prayer. The Lord's Prayer is in John chapter 17, but I wouldn't argue with you if you called it the Lord's Prayer. Prayer. I go to a church in West Virginia where I've been going for over 25 years, and every Sunday morning they have an assembly before they dismiss for Sunday school, and the whole church quotes the model prayer from the book of Matthew See for the Harper, is that wrong? Listen, think about that for just a second. How in the world could it be wrong for an entire church to stand up and quote seven verses of scripture before they go to Sunday school? Of course it's not wrong But this is not how we're supposed to pray. We don't do memorized prayers, do we? Well, we're not supposed to do memorized prayers. We kind of roll our eyes at other denominations that have their memorized prayers as if we don't have ours. We have our own memorized prayers, don't we? We have our food prayer. Fell in Heavenly Father, we thank you for this food. We pray that you'll bless the hands and prepare it, bless the blessing of the nourishment of our bodies in Jesus' name. Amen. How many have ever heard that prayer multiple, multiple times in your life? Or how about this Pray for the offering. Lord and Father, we thank you for this offering. Pray that you bless the gift of the giver. Bless those that have to give and those that do not. May the offering be used for the further gospel around the world. In Jesus' name. Amen. Hundreds and hundreds of times you've heard that exact prayer word for word. I remember one time it was in our old uh old home church in West Virginia when my father-in-law, who pastored there for over forty years, planted the church and and grew it pastored there for forty years, but it was the Sunday before Christmas Now, some churches have multiple piano players, all right? And they have multiple really, really good piano players. Some churches, the A-list, the first string piano player is this good And the second string piano player is this good, and the third string piano player is this good. It was the Sunday before Christmas, and our first string piano player was gone Now, we had a second string piano player. Her name is Mary Palla. She's still the second string piano player, as far as I know. Miss uh Debbie Cook is our regular piano player, so she's about this good. Mary Palla is about This good. Alright, I I'm not exaggerating. If Mary were here, she would not have any problems agreeing with what I just said. She does her best when she's called on to pray, but she's not that good. My brother-in-law at that time was the choir director and the church song leader, and also helped whenever the PA started making all kinds of screeches and squeals. He had broken his ankle and was actually sitting in the back with his foot propped up in a cask on that Sunday before Easter, uh before Christmas. So we had our second string piano player, we had our third string choir director, and our second string song leader, because they didn't want the same guy to do both jobs So the piano didn't start at the same time the congregational singing started and the the choir would start and then they realized they were playing the wrong song and it was one of those services. It was just Terrible. The PA was squeaking and squealing and making all kinds of noises. It was one of those services that almost came completely off the rail. But finally, my experienced father-in-law got control of everything. Things were almost back to normal. And he called the men forward to take the offering, and he called on a man standing right here. My wife's known him pretty much all of her life. And she said, Brother so-and-so, would you please ask the Lord to bless the offering And there in that service where everything had gone so wrong and everything was just about off the tracks, I'll never forget what he said. He bowed his head and he closed his eyes and he said, Dear Lord and Heavenly Father We thank you for this food. We pray that you'll bless it to the nourish of our bodies. Bless the hands that prepared it. In Jesus' name. Amen. He quoted the of uh food prayer instead of the offering prayer. The simple truth of it is when we pray though we're supposed to Jeremiah 29 and verse 13. Thou shalt seek me and thou shalt find me when you search for me with all your heart. We don't have our memorized prayers, and we shouldn't have any memorized prayers. But in this passage of scripture, Jesus is going to give us the outline, if you will, the the skeleton of the prayer life that we're supposed to have. Just some things that we're supposed to pray about, and those things can be expanded to a great deal, every single one of them. Notice he starts this extra example of prayer with praise. Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed or holy be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done, as in earth, so in heaven, or as in heaven, so in earth. I want you to notice how he starts this prayer is with praise. Hallowed or holy be thy name. Let me ask you a question. Put your theological thinking cap on on this Wednesday night. Is God's name holy? Yes or no? Is God's name always going to be holy, yes or no? All right, the truth of the matter is we don't have to say hallowed be thy name for his name to be holy. There are seraphims on either side of him singing, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. He doesn't need us to tell him he's holy, but Jesus said, when you pray, start by telling God how holy he is Start by telling God how mighty He is, thy kingdom come, thy will be done. Start by telling him Uh telling him how sovereign he is. Notice what he says, please. Uh uh which are in heaven, hallowed be the name of the kingdom come, thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven. So not only are you sovereign, not only are are you powerful, but you're you're holy. He says, when you pray, start off by telling God how wonderful He really is Can I tell you something tonight, Christian? We have almost completely forgotten that prayer is an avenue of praise. Once again, there's no question that singing is an avenue of praise. The Bible is clear on that. But prayer is also an avenue of praise. Jesus teaches it here. We don't use our prayer time as a time to praise the Lord, do we? We use our prayer time as a time and nothing wrong with this to go through a laundry list of things that we need, things that we want, and people that need God's special touch on their lives. Do we not? Nothing wrong with that at all. But you'll notice Jesus doesn't start with those kinds of requests Jesus starts with praise do you know you'll change your prayer life forever if once a year once a month or once Once a week you go to your prayer closet and you get ready to close the door, but before you close the door, you lay your prayer list down. You go inside, you close the door The door behind you and say, Lord, I didn't come to ask you for my finances. I didn't come to ask you for my future. I didn't come to ask you for my family. Lord, I just came in here to tell you how wonderful you are and how holy you are and how matchless you are. how merciful you are, and how graceful you are, and how sovereign you are and how omniscient you are. And you spend a half hour on your knees just telling your heavenly father how wonderful he is, you'll never pray the same way again. the rest of your life. Jesus says you start this example of prayer with praise. Then you talk about provision. Give us day by day our daily bread. Several things about this. Notice that it does not say, Dear Lord, please provide enough bread for us to have for the whole month. He does not say, Dear Lord, please provide uh filet mignon steak every day. Bread is a cheap commodity in Bible time. Remember that little lad had five small barley loaves. Those were the cheapest kind of bread available in Jerusalem at the time. Bread was a very cheap thing. It could be expensive, but it's very cheap. Jesus doesn't say, ask for a week's worth of bread, ask for a month's worth of bread. And he doesn't say, only ask God about the big things. Isn't that one thing that we do? We say this, well, I'll take care of the little things. I just need God for the big things. Have you ever had a prayer request in your entire life You go to your mailbox and you find out that you owe $250,000 within a week and you don't have $250,000. And you say, Lord, I really need $250,000. How many of you think when you asked him for that $250,000 that God said Whoa. That's a lot. How many of you think by a shout of amen, or just if you're not a shouter, amen, or just a little amen, like that, how many of you think that God could provide that $250,000 like that. Say amen. So in other words, you don't have any big prayer requests. You've never had a prayer request that taxed the power of Almighty God. You've never had a prayer request that shortened his resources. You've never had a prayer request that God could not answer with the snap of his almighty fingers. So you don't have any big Prayer requests to Almighty God, none of them are big, all of them are the same size. That's why he said, be careful for nothing But in everything, with prayer and supplication, let your request be made known unto God. We're not supposed to pray about just the big things. We're supposed to pray about everything, even if it's daily bread. By the way, here's something wonderful about that. If you pray tonight, if you pray tomorrow morning, you wake up and you say, Lord, give me today my daily bread. And all day Thursday, the Lord provides bread for you. Do you know what you get to do the first thing on Friday morning? You get to say, Lord, thank you for the daily bread yesterday. I sure would like to have some today The truth of the matter is we're supposed to pray for prayer with prayer uh praise and with provision. And then number notice number three, please, with purity. And forgive us our sins, for we also forgive everyone that is indebted to us. If there isn't a time that you're confessing your sin in your prayer life, you might as well just stop praying Say Brother Harper, that sounds a little harsh. No, it sounds Bible. Psalm sixty six and verse eighteen. If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me Isaiah fifty nine and verse two, but your iniquities have separated between you and your God, and your sins have hid his face from you that he will not hear Isaiah 64 and verse 7 Thou hast hid thy face from us and hast consumed us because of our iniquities. John chapter 9 and verse 31. God heareth not sinners The simple truth of the matter is, there needs to be a time in your prayer life when you ask the Lord to forgive your sins. Do you ever stop and think there are two prayers that human beings can pray? That not only has God guaranteed He will answer, But he always says yes. Did you know that? The first prayer is when the lost sinner realizes that he has a repentant heart and wants Christ to save him, and whether he says it like that publican God be merciful to me a sinner. Or whether he says it like that thief on the cross, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom, no matter how he says it. If he asked Jesus Christ to save him, he said, He that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out. It doesn't matter what your theology is, the simple truth of it is, any single person No person in all of human history that has asked for salvation has gotten it every single time, no exceptions Yeah, we understand a lost person asking for salvation is going to hear a yes. But what about Christians? There's no magic prayer, but this is true. If your prayer is a prayer of confession, you're guaranteed to get a yes If we confess our sin, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. The fact is, the only reason for a Christian to have unconfessed sin in their hearts is because we're too proud to confess it. Notice there's the prayer of praise, the prayer of purity, the prayer, uh the prayer of provision, and then lastly, please, uh there's the prayer for protection. And lead us not into temptation Don't you love that? He's promised us some things about temptation, Hebrews two and verse eighteen, and that he himself has suffered being tempted. He's able to succor them that are tempted. Hebrews four and verse fifteen, we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted like as we and yet without Sin, greater is he that is in you, first John chapter 4 and verse 4 than he that is in the world. 1 John chapter 5 and verse 4, that which is born of God overcometh the world, and this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith The fact is he's made lots of promises about temptation. He will never lead us into temptation. We understand that. But watch this though. After he says Lead us not in temptation. He knows, of course, as he's teaching us this prayer, that there are going to be times when we get away from the Lord and we don't follow him and we find ourselves in the middle of evil, not because he led us there, but because we walked away when he was leading us. And even then there hath no temptation taken you, but such is common. But God is faithful, who also with the temptation also maketh a way of escape. that we may be able to bear it. Even when we walk away from him, find ourselves in temptation, find ourselves in evil, he still protects us. Notice there's this example of prayer. There's praise, there's provision, there's purity, and then there's protection. After this, now I want you to notice the expectation of prayer will be finished. Jesus now begins to teach about what we do after we start praying. Already the assumption is you're going to pray the way that he's going to teach you to pray as he just did. And when you do, he says you just got to keep praying. And now he starts teaching about that. He said, you've got a friend. He's shown up late at night He showed up at midnight. Unexpected company at midnight would probably be one of the worst things in the world, would it not? A knock on the door. Oh, you might be happy to see him, but you're not ready for unexpected company at midnight And this guy has to go next door and he has no bread. Can you imagine the conversation in his house? I told you to go to the store today and you didn't. That's why we don't have anything to say in front of these people. I don't know why we don't have nice things in uh like you know what I'm talking about So he goes next door at midnight, he knocks on the door, and he says, uh, hey, I need three loaves of bread, I've got company They're here, and I don't have anything set before him. And the guy from the inside basically says, what I would say, that sounds like you got a problem, but I don't I'm in bed. My kids are asleep. The door is locked. I'm not giving you any bread. He won't give it to him because he's his friend, Jesus said. But he will give it to him because of his importunity. Let me illustrate importunity for you in this passage of scripture. Hey, inside! I got company, I need some bread. Nope, I'm asleep. No no you don't understand. He came in from out of town, I need three loaves of bread. Uh-uh. I'm not giving you three loaves of bread The door's locked. I know the door's locked, but you probably have a key. I need three loaves of bread. Can I have loaves of bread? Nope, you can't have three loaves of bread. Hey, my uh I need those three loaves of bread, but my kids are asleep Not for long. I'm just gonna keep knocking and knocking and knocking and knocking and knocking until you get up as a friend that doesn't love me enough to give me bread, you're gonna Get out of your bed, you're gonna open up the door to the pantry and say, take whatever you want. Not just three loaves of bread, a whole pantry full of bread. Importunity means that we just ask and ask and ask and ask. You know, Jesus put it this way in Luke 18 and verse 1. The Lord spake a parable unto them to this end, that men ought always to pray and not to faint. 1 Chronicles 16 and verse 11, seek the Lord in his strength. Seek his face continually. Ask. And the word here, and I'm sure it You've heard this mention from the pulpit before. Ask is a is a perfect tense verb in the Greek. And what it means is to ask and keep asking and Seek and keep seeking and knock and keep knocking. For everyone that asks and keeps asking is going to receive. Keep asking. In chapter 18 of Luke, he uses that illustration about the unjust judge that won't help the little widow woman. But after a while he says, Listen, I'm going to give her whatever she wants. Why? Lest by her continual coming. She weary me. If an unjust judge and a neighbor that won't open the door will respond if you keep on asking, how much more would a God who wants to answer keep on answering? By the way, there are two times you stop praying. When God says yes and when God says no. By the way, it is certainly something we under Oh, wait, let me give you this first. How brother Harper, what if the Lord says wait It doesn't say to stop asking when he says wait. You just keep on asking over and over and over and over and over and over, just like Jesus just taught us to By the way, God is certainly powerful enough to tell us exactly no. He can tell us no in such a way that you and I understand it. But you know what we do when God says no? Well he says Well, I guess he doesn't love me. Let me ask you something, moms and dads in the auditorium. When you told your children no, was it because you were just being mean? When your child reached up to grab the hot tea kettle And you said, no, were you doing it just because you didn't want her to feel the exhilaration of boiling water all over her body? When your son went to cross the street without looking both ways and you grabbed his hand and you pulled him back and you said, No! Were you saying it just because you didn't want him to enjoy the uh the the the the challenge of dodging traffic? When they asked for candy at midnight and you said no, was it just because you didn't want to have candy, or because you knew they'd have trouble going to sleep, wouldn't be able to wake up The next morning the while like they're supposed to, and they might even get a tummy ache before the night is over. When you said no, you said it because you loved them, because you knew better, and yet we won't acknowledge that when God says no, he knows better The apostle Paul besought the Lord thrice. He might remove from him his thorn in the flesh. You know what God's answer was? No. You know what Paul's response was? I quit then. I've been beaten five strike times with forty stripes, save one, thrice I've suffered shipwreck, thrice I've been beaten with rods, and night and a day I've been in the deep. He said I've been in journeyings often, I've been in Imperils in the wilderness, imperils in the cities, imperils by the heathen, imperils by my own countrymen, and I ask God for one little thing, and he says, No, that's it, I'm done. No What he said was this, most gladly therefore, will I glory in mine infirmity. Because here's a biblical truth that I think sometimes we fail to acknowledge. A no from heaven is still an answer from God. By the way, not every time he says no, is it really a no? Let me illustrate. There's a verse that we quote all the time, call unto me and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things, which thou knowest not Now that seems a little strange to me when we read it, as it is perfectly translated in our Bible, which thou knowest not. It seems that if God does great and mighty things, I would know what they are But the which thou knowest not in this passage actually comes before. What he's saying here is this you call unto me, and I will answer thee, and I'll show you things that you didn't even know to ask for when you started praying. Let me illustrate it. Several years ago I was going to a church called First Calvary Baptist Church. It's actually the church my little brother pastors now. He wasn't the pastor there at the time. It's in the Hampton Roads area and those of you know that area and have any military experience. All four branches of the services are there in the Hampton Roads area, the Virginia Beach area. There are nice VA hospitals there and all that kind of stuff. So a lot of people retire right there because it's a great climate and all that kind of stuff I was shaking hands on a Monday night of a revival. This 82-year-old retired brigadier general came up to me. He said, Brother Harper, do you have a minute to pray with me? I said, I absolutely do. I asked him this. I said, I've got some people here waiting to shake hands. Would you mind waiting just a minute? If you want me to pray right now, I'll just leave right now. We'll pray together. But it would be okay if I said goodbye to a few more people. He said, I'm not in any hurry So I said goodbye to a few more people and I walked over and I got him as he was waiting there in the lobby of the church. And we walked out of the vestibule and we walked up a set of steps to the fellowship hall As you walk through the fellowship hall on the other side, there's a little door there and a little room. They call it the church library, but it's not much bigger than a broom closet The two of us walked in there and I said, Brother, do you mind telling me what we're praying about? He said this. He said, Four or five years ago, I had cancer in my left kidney and they removed it He said, now they found out that I've got tumors in my right kidney. I said, oh I'm sorry. I said, what do you want me to help you pray with uh pray with you about? He said, Well tomorrow I'm going in and they're going to put dye in my system and they're going to scan my kidneys and they're going to tell my kidney and tell me how bad it is. And the problem is When I went through this the first time, they must have used a different kind of dye than they use now. Because this new dye makes me sick to my stomach By the way, for those of you in the medical field, it's probably not that they've changed eyes. It's that with one kidney his body can't filter it like it used to. He said, what I want you to pray with me about is I I'm praying that the doctor will use the old die tomorrow instead of the new die. And this is what he said, I'll never forget it. He said, I'm afraid if they use that new die I might be too sick to come to church tomorrow night. An eighty-two-year-old man with one kidney and a tumor-filled second kidney was worried he might be too sick to miss church on Tuesday night I'd be willing to guess in almost every church that I preach in, people miss Tuesday nights for a lot less excuses than that man would have had. We prayed, and I remember what I said. I said, Dear Lord, the heart of the king is in your hand If it be your will, the pharmacy will run out of the new dye tonight and they'll have to use the old die. I said, if it be your will, the doctor will write the prescription for the old dye instead of the new dye. And Lord, even if they have to use that new dye, I pray. that it won't affect him and he'll feel like coming to church tomorrow night. We finished praying, we hugged each other's neck, and we left. The next night I walked in about six fifteen, six twenty. I came in the side door. As you're walking I was parked in my trailer out there. As you walk in the side door on the Left hand side is the men's restroom, then the women's restroom. On the right hand side is the church nursery, and the walls there are cinder block walls. As I walked in, this man was walking out of the men's restroom And I don't want to be graphic, but he'd been sick. He'd been sick all day. He walked out and he leaned against the cinder block wall to try to cool off just a little bit. I looked at him and he had almost no color in his face at all, a little blue around his lips. And I looked at him and I but as I looked at him I got upset with the Lord. I said, Lord, I don't understand. If the heart of the king is in your hands, why wouldn't you let him feel like coming to church tonight? He's demonstrated how faithful he is. He's still here, even though he doesn't feel like it. But you wouldn't even answer that prayer. Immediately I felt convicted about it. I cleaned up my countenance. I didn't want this man to think that the man he came to hear preach was arguing with God. And by the way, just for the record, who do I think I am arguing with God? I cleared up my countenance and my disposition. I looked at him and I tried to make light of it. You would do the same thing. I said, brother, didn't they use the right die? And he looked at me and he just shook his head. He was so weak he was having trouble standing. And then I watched very carefully as the corners of his lips turned up just a little bit And he looked at me in the biggest smile he could offer and he says, But you know, Brother Harper, they didn't find any cancer either. Listen, listen. We didn't pray about that. We prayed, Lord, let him use the old die instead of the new die. You know what God's answer to our prayer was? No. Then he said, you just get out of my way. I'm going to show you great and mighty things that you didn't have the faith to even ask for. You didn't even think think to mention to me. I'm going to answer, even though you're getting to know, the answer really is step back and see some great and mighty things that I'm going to do. And I tell people all the time, when God does great and mighty things, you can't give the credit to a preacher, a doctor, or a lawyer. Only God gets the credit for great and mighty things So just because you get a no doesn't mean you're not going to get great in mighty things. And by the way, a no from heaven is still an answer from God. Now there's a second illustration. He says, which of you? Your father. And your son comes up to you and says, Dad, I'd like some bread. Now, it is true that there are some times that your kid might come up and say, I'd like some really expensive bread, and you say, son, I can't provide you really expensive. Expensive bread, but I can give you this medium priced bread. What we would do though as parents, we would work as hard as we could work to make sure we could provide bread for our child if he asked for bread, would we not He says, which of you, your son comes to you and says, I'd like some bread. You'd say, look, I don't have any bread, but here, eat this rock. No parent would ever do that. You can imagine everybody standing there thinking, Well, no, I wouldn't give him a rock if he asked for bread. I'd give him bread if he'd asked for bread. That's what we are as parents. Do we not, parents and grandparents, by the way? Do we not take great and I hate to use this word, but in this sentence in this sense I don't think it's a sin? We take great pride In providing for our children the very best we can possibly provide for our children. You might not have been able to give them everything that they ever asked for, but you gave them everything that you could How about if he asks you for an egg? Can you give him a scorpion? Well, I can't give you a hard-boiled egg, son, but this scorpion would taste awful good. How about if you ask for fish? Oh, I don't have any fish, but see, I think I got a copperhead. Yeah, here it is. No parent would do that. You can imagine all these people listening to Jesus teach this and thinking, Well of course anybody, any child that asks for bread, that parent is going to do everything he can to give him bread. We're going to give him fish. We ask for eggs, an egg, we're going to give him an egg. We're not going to give him scorpions. We're not going to give him serpents. We're not going to give him ro Every parent sitting there wondering what Jesus is trying to teach, isn't he? We do our best to provide for our children when they ask. I remember when charity was about four years old, our daughter. It was in the month of November, I had an office. I've always had an office in my house as an evangelist. I don't have an office in a church, so I have a office, a room in our house always. That's my office. And my daughter came in there. She'd gotten a piece of mail Now downstairs none of the kids would know what mail is, but up here you know what mail is. It's those papers that come in your mailbox, right? They don't come in your laptop, they come to your mailbox. And she'd gotten what she thought was a magazine. It wasn't really a magazine, it was a catalog. And it was a catalog to a famous doll company. And every night she would look at that catalog and she would sit there with the pen and she would circle things in that catalog that she wanted until By the time I saw the catalog, every single thing in the catalog had a circle around it. The first week of November, she'd built up enough courage. She walked into my office, she walked behind my desk, and she had her little catalog in her hands. She moved some stuff off my desk and she laid that catalog on my desk right in the middle on top of that desk calendar and she smoothed it out like this. Then she climbed up in my lap and put her arm around me. She said, Daddy, I said, yes, sweetie. She said, I think I would like this doll right here for Christmas. Now, I've been to Walmart. I know how much dolls cost, okay? I mean I'm not I'm not a doll person, never have been, but I for my daughter I I know how much dolls cost. And so I'm expecting a price comes with them. I'm looking and every man knows what I'm looking for. There is on this page going to be an S that has a line through it. That's what I'm looking for. Men a women shop, men go get it. That's what it is. We're looking for the dollar sign. I'm trying to find it. When I finally found the dollar sign, it was well hidden by the way I actually thought it was a mistake. I thought that maybe I was looking at the stock number. There were that many numbers behind it. Dolls don't cost that much money. That's ridiculous And I looked at my daughter, she sat on my lap. I said, Cherry, listen, I'm not going to buy you a doll that costs that much money for Christmas. I said, I'm going to pick up the phone. I had a desk, a phone on my desk By the way, I grew up in an era when televisions weren't on the wall and phones were. You know what I'm saying? And I said, I'm gonna use this phone, I'm gonna call your grandparents, I'm gonna tell them not to buy you a doll that costs that much, much, uh, much money for Christmas She leaned over, she kissed me on my cheek, she told me goodnight, she loved me, she slid off my lap, she picked up her little catalog, she rolled it up in her little hands, she was going to sleep with it under her pillow another night And she started walking out of my office. She got right to the door of my office and she looked back at me and she went And then walked on out As she was walking out, Brother Ed, you know what I did? I grabbed the mouse, I clicked on that website, and I ordered that doll Ladies, I'm here to tell you whether they want to admit it or not, every man in this room that has a daughter knew where that story was going long before we got there. When it came in, I insisted on wrapping it Now I am the worst rapper in the world. Musically. Yeah, that's terrible. And I'm also the worst one of the worst rappers when it comes to wrapping a present. I'm of the personal conviction that unless every square inch of that package is covered with scotch. tape, it will involuntarily open up the day before Christmas. So I use a whole spool of tape every time I wrap a gift. I actually get a personal thank you note from the president of the Scotch Tape Company every year at Christmas thanking me for wrapping presents. That's how much Scotch tape I use. I put it on the tree, I put a different name on it so she wouldn't shake it or look at it Christmas morning came. We're sitting in the floor. We've opened up all of our presents. I don't know what I got that year. I'm sure I got a wallet, because the height of irony is our children buy us wallets for Christmas But I'm sure I got some cufflinks or something like that, but I don't actually remember one single gift I got that year for Christmas. My daughter's opened all her presents, she's happy, she's having a great time, and then I said, Charity, that Last present under the tree. I know it doesn't say your name on it, but that's for you from Daddy. She crawled under the tree. She began to open it up. It took a while. There's a lot of tape. She she finally got it open And she could see the face of that doll and she just dropped it on the floor. She ran across the living room floor. She jumped in my lap. She wrapped her skinny little four-year-old bony arms around my neck. She kissed me on my cheek and she said, Thank you, Daddy. I love you. Merry Christmas. She asked for an egg. I gave her an egg. She'd asked for fish, I'd have given her fish. She asked for bread, I'd have given her bread. But then watch what God says. Verse 13, if ye then Being evil. Know how to give good gifts unto your children. How much more? Shall your Heavenly Father give unto the Holy Ghost to them that ask him In other words, if you ask for bread, a human being, an evil daddy, an evil mom, can give you bread. But how much more can God give you? Oh, we would do everything to meet every possible need. But he doesn't just meet the needs, he provides great and mighty things. Here's the difference though. The reason we don't see the answers to prayer and the great and mighty things. It's because we don't ask how. This whole story starts because one disciple wasn't afraid to stand up in front of the rest of the disciples and say Teach us. We want to learn how to pray. We want to learn how to pray like that. God says when you're praying, pray with praise and provision and purity and protection. And then remember That I'll answer better than a friend who doesn't want to give you bread if you just keep asking. And I'll answer better than any father could ever answer. When you ask for bread, he's basically saying, anybody can give you bread. If you ask for fish, anybody can give you fish. If you ask for a scorpion Any dad, mom, grandparent can give you a s uh if you an egg can give you an egg. But if you ask him He'll give you more. He'll give you great and mighty things. You're a bunch just like this fingers pointing all around us. We're a bunch of evil people. But we know how to give good gifts. How much more does he know how to give? It's not that we don't acknowledge that we don't get the right amount of answers to prayer. It's that we're not willing to ask to be taught. Because if you ask, he taught. That second. Have our heads bowed and our eyes closed. No one looking around. Just a moment we'll have an invitation. Pianist is going to come to the piano. She's going to find her place in the book, whatever she wants to play. And then she's going to bow her head for a moment or two. I'm just going to ask one question and I let me ask two first. How many would say tonight, Brother Harper, on this Wednesday night, I know I'm saved? I know if I die today I'd go to heaven Not a doubt in my mind. Jesus is my Savior. Heaven is my home. Would you slip your hand up, please? All over the auditorium. Hold it up high as a testimony. I know I am saved. Thank you. May put your hands down Now, how many would say this, Brother Harper, the Lord convicted my heart about my own personal prayer life tonight? Would you slip your hand up, please, all over the auditorium, hold it high in the air. Now let me remind you, as you put your hands down, let me remind you, this whole story starts because one disciple publicly Acknowledged he needed to know how to pray. Every one of you just privately acknowledged that you need to learn how to pray. Everyone that raised their hand did that. But will you do it publicly? Just the moment the piano is going to begin to play. We'll pray, then we'll stand. After we stand, I'll say a couple words and I'll give a signal to the pianist and she'll begin to play. Why don't you step out on that first note? If you step on on the first note, two things are true. No one can ever accuse you of following someone else. And number two, you won't give the devil two notes to talk you into staying in your seat. So in just a moment, won't you step out of your seat? Brother Harper, can't I pray about it in my seat? Yep. Absolutely. Did you know that anything you can pray about at an altar, you can pray about at your seat. Did you know that? It's true. You have no more access to God up here than you do back there. But can I point this out to you? Did you know that anything you could pray about in your seat? You could pray about at the altar. One way shows pride, self-consciousness, and self-righteousness. The other way shows humility. James 4 and verse 6, wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud. Give a grace unto the humble. Just a moment. We'll pray, then we'll stand. After we stand, I'll give a signal and she'll begin playing that first note. Once you step out on that first note. Dear Lord Heavenly Father, we thank you for this evening. We thank you for the privilege of reading your word and studying it tonight. We thank you for the privilege of coming before your throne to speak to you and say, Abba, Father. Father, we ask tonight that you bless this invitation. Thank you for convicting hearts all over this auditorium. And even those sitting at home on Facebook or watching on the live stream on the website, Father. Father, I pray that you'll help us and now do something about that. Help us not sit in our seats and leave here the same way we came. Do something in our hearts that will count for eternity. Teach us to pray in Jesus' name with your head still bowed, your eyes still closed. Let's stand all over the auditorium. Everyone please standing, no one looking around. Just a moment you hear that first note