Second Samuel chapter sixteen. I'm going to be reading verses five through fourteen. I really don't have a message on children this morning, but I do have some humorous stories about children After the church service on Sunday morning, a young child said to his mother, announced to his mother, Mom, I've decided to be a preacher when I grow up. She goes, okay, that's great. Um what made you decide that? She goes, well, I have to go to church on Sunday anyway. I'd figure it'd be more fun to stand up and yell at everyone to sit than to sit and listen to it That's not always necessarily more fun that way. A six-year-old was overheard reciting the Lord's Prayer in a church service. He said this, and forgive us our trespasses. As we forgive those who pass trash against us. I like this one. A little boy was watching his daddy, it was a preacher prepare his message, and the little boy said, Daddy, how do you know what to say? Father said, Why God tells me. He goes, Oh, then why do you keep crossing things out? I like this one too. A little girl became restless as the preacher's sermon dragged on and on. I know that never happens here, but some places that happens. Finally, she leaned over her mother and she whispered, Mommy, if we give him the money now, will he let us go? Sunday school teacher asked her class to draw pictures of their favorite Bible story. Kyle drew a picture of four people on an airplane. She goes, what in the world she said, what what Bible story is that? She goes, that's the flight to Egypt He said, Okay. She says, uh, that must be Mary, Joseph, and baby Jesus, who's the fourth person? She said he said, Oh, that's Pontius, he's the pilot. Teacher, Sunday school teacher asked her class, said to Johnny, Johnny, do you say prayers before eating? Little Johnny said, No, I don't have to. Mom's a good cook. Here's the last one. Little girl was sitting on her grandfather's lap, and uh he read her a Bible story before they were going to bed. From time to time she would look up from the Bible and reach up and touch her grandpa's wrinkled cheek. And then she would kind of stroke her cheek, then she'd reach up and touch his and Finally, she said, Grandpa, did God make you? He goes, oh yes, sweetheart, God made me a long time ago. She said, Grandpa, did God make me too? He goes, yes, sweetheart. God made you just a little while ago. And just kind of felt their faces again and she said, God's getting better at it, isn't he? Little kids, you can't beat them. Did I I didn't read the scripture yet, did I? Verse 5, 2 Samuel chapter 16 And when King David came to Bahurim, behold, thence came out a man of the family of the house of Saul, whose name was Shimei. The son of Gera, he came forth and cursed as he came, and he cast stones at David and at all the servants of King David. And all the people and all the mighty men were on his right hand and on his left. And thus said Shimei when he cursed: Come out, come out, thou bloody man, thou man of Belial. The Lord hath returned upon thee all the blood of the house of Saul, in whose stead thou hast reigned. And the Lord hath delivered the kingdom unto the hand of Absalom, thy son. And behold, thou art taken in thy mischief, because thou art a bloody man. Then Ab Bashai, the son of Zariah, said unto the king, said Said unto the king, Why should this dead dog curse my lord the king? Let me go over, I pray thee, and take off his head. And the king, David, said What have I to do with you, you son of Zariah? So let him curse, because the Lord has said unto him, Curse David. Who shall then say, Wherefore hast thou done so? And David said to Abishai, and to all his servants, Behold, my son, which came forth out of my bowels, seeketh my life. How much more now may this Benjamite do it? Let him alone. Let him curse. For the Lord hath bidden him. Now look at verse 12, and this is what caught my attention in my devotion some few days ago, a week or so ago. It may be that the Lord will look on mine affliction, and that the Lord will requite me good for his cursing this day. And as David and his men went by the way, Shimei went along on the hillside over against him, and cursed as he went, and threw stones at him, and cast dust And the king and all the people that were with them came weary and refreshed themselves there. Verse 12 says, Lord The Lord may will requite me good for his cursing. First part, it may be that the Lord will look on mine affliction. And entitled the message, Lord, look on my affliction. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to bless our study. Father, Lord, we're so grateful for the little children that are a part of our church. And what a blessing it is to have a nursery full of little babies. Or what a blessing it is to hear the children's laughter and crying sometimes and what they add to art. We are as a body. Lord, bless now as we look in your word. We're grateful for the youth workers and the nursery workers and the time and effort, care they put in. Please bless now as we focus on your word. Open our hearts to your will. I yield myself to you now, Father, and I present my body anew. Please fill me with your spirit. Speak through me, I pray, dear Lord, in Jesus' name Amen. We think of the little children and I thought as we were preparing this morning and getting ready, I thought what what do children need? We think of government programs are in the news. Different items are offered for sale, but I think what children need are moms and dads that love God. That have faith in God. David, though he had his failures, and what we read here was very much the consequences of some tragic decisions he had made. Nevertheless, David was a man of great faith. David was a man of strong faith. Now it's interesting, and I like to study the lives of biblical characters and break it down and kind of analyze them. And if you look at David's life. You find that the reality of his faith in God. Now, I hope I hope as I bring this message this morning, I hope that you'll take it And apply and think of yourself. And say, how do I fit into this? As I look at David's life, think of your life. And I noticed that David's faith, he was a great man of faith in many ways, but his faith seemed to shine through in two particular circumstances. Whenever David was in battle, boy, then his faith was strong I think the classic illustration of what I'm trying to say is when David as a young boy on the battlefield faced Goliath We all know the story of David and Goliath. The whole world knows the story of David and Goliath. And man, what an exercise of strong faith. For this young man to take only a weapon as a sling and five stones and go upon the champion of the Philistines. When David was in battle, his faith was strong. His faith was real. And it's shown through. We read of other battles and wars that David was involved in in his years before he became king and after he was king, where David would David would David would face the Philistines. And he would face them fearlessly. He would face them courageously because he believed in the cause that God had given him. And the battle, as David said a number of times, the battle was of the Lord. So, when David was in battle, when David was busy for the Lord, when David was advancing the cause of God. Through the nation of Israel, his faith was strong. I found there's a second time. Second series of circumstances was faith when David's faith seemed to Shine through the brightest. And that was when he was facing trials in difficult times. Some of the greatest psalms ever written We're written by David when King Saul was pursuing him unjustly David would write beautiful songs of trusting God and faith in God, how God would be his shield, how God would be his deliverer, how God would be his strong tower. While he was being persecuted, while he was in great trials, but when there were no battles to fight When there were no trials, those are the times that David gave in to sin. When he would stay back from the battle And a modest woman catches his eye. When things are going well and the cu the country is safe and prosperous and there's no trials Then he gets proud and numbers the people. He messes up bad when there's nothing to do and there's no trial to face. He finds himself, listen, David finds himself doing things he never dreamed he would do. When he's not engaged in the battle, when he's not dealing with the difficulty. Leisure and prosperity can be two of the most dangerous things in the Christian life. I found people mess up a lot on vacation. Let their guards down. They come back from vacation and they say, What in the world did we do? Why did I get involved in that? You know why? Because many times on vacation, we take a vacation not just from work and from the daily schedule, but we take a vacation from our Christianity. Huh? I'm of the opinion that when a person's on vacation you still ought to read your Bible every day Amen? In fact, vacation you can get more reading in. I look at it. Uh vacation, I'm of the opinion when you're on vacation, you ought to be in church Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night. Amen. Don't take vacation from my walk with God. It's when we are engaged It is when we are involved in serving God and advancing the cause of Christ. It is when God allows trials into our lives. That is when our faith is genuinely tested. That is when we know and see what our faith really is. Not when everything's easy and going our way. Faith isn't tested. So David's faith shown In times of battle and times of trials, our greatest danger, as I just mentioned, is having nothing to do for God. It's a dangerous thing. Or being uninvolved in Christian service. Now I'm talking, this message is addressed primarily to saved folks. Children of God, people who've been born again. And I want to say to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we must be busy about the Lord's work. If we cut back, if we cease to remain busy, if we get lazy, brother, our church is in big trouble. Amen. That's why our schedules, I try and keep that schedule full. We try to keep things happening. We got track months. We got Act 1630. We've got missions conference. We got sword conference. We got we just stay at it and stay at it and stay at it. Why? Because if we back down, boy, that leaves an open door for the devil to come in. And so, an unengaged, uninvolved in Christian service is a very dangerous thing. And I hate to say this, and I don't like them any more than anybody else, but a dangerous time is when there's no trials. To our faith when there's no difficulties. An easy, trial-free life never produces strong faith or an effective influence. But as the one that faces trials and difficulties, that is faithful to God, that lives by the principles of Scripture, boy, that faith shines through Has a powerful influence, powerful testimony. Now we come to our text. The story just read from Scripture is an actual event. And it is one of the many trials that David faced throughout his life. I personally believe this is probably one of the lowest times. In David's experience. Now there's a couple other times he hit bottom, but this has got to be down there. His son, Absalom, whom he loved dearly. had turned and rebelled against him. And Absalom through a series of sneaky, subtle uh activities. Had won the people's heart over to himself. We don't have time to go into detail. And uh Absalom overthrew the kingdom. And David, rather than fighting his son on the spot, whether it's strategic or sentimentality, I don't know. He David withdrew from the kingdom. And he he heads heads out of town. Now Amsal not only uh Absol not only uh Overthrew the throne, but Absalom was out to kill his daddy. Now think about that. I tell you what, children can be the greatest blessing or the greatest heartache in all the world. Huh? I'm talking to some folks this morning, your heart is shattered. Thank God for our children. But I can't help but think that David's leaving town with his own son. Wanting to kill him. As he's leaving, now I'm getting a little ahead of myself here, but I feel I would point out here A lot of this are the consequences of David's own decisions he made earlier. I mean, David brought a lot of this on himself. But that, regardless of the cause, that doesn't erase the fact that his heart's broken. Right? And so he's leaving his own city where he's reigned for years, where the people have loved him, and his son has turned the people against him and is out killing him. Think about what's going on in his heart. Think about where he's at emotionally. And as he's leaving, some God on this hill, there's a We'll look at this in a bit, but there's a apparently where the highway goes where David is going with his men and his entourage, there apparently is a pretty Pretty steep valley between or maybe small canyon. It's more than a ditch. You can't just get across this thing. And there's this ridge that goes along on the other side of where a town is And David's coming out of the city, and his heart is shattered, and his world is absolutely upside down. I can't help but think that he's crying his eyes out. And there's nobody. Somebody who never did anything for God. Someone who never did anything for the kingdom of Israel. Begins yelling at David. Accusations. Accusations. Curses. Throwing rocks over Adam. Throwing dust up at him. Shimei is his name. David, and this is what caught my attention as I read this through the other week. Again, and it just seemed to catch my attention in a unique way. David reacts in such a mature way. David responds in such a godly way that I think there's some things we can learn from this. I don't know if I was in David's shoes. I'd like to think I react I would react the way he did, but I'm not so sure. I think the story would be different if it was me. There'd be a graveyard on that hill over there Let me share with you a few things real quickly. Number one, I notice when Shimei is doing all this nonsense, this coward, I notice that there's no resentment on the part of David. There's no resentment on the part of David. You read through what he says there, there's not a hint of resentment. Now, there's a few people in the Bible, there's a few people in the Bible who I have no respect for Alright? There's some people I read in the Bible when I read about them and their actions, I just I get mad. Alright? Ahab is one of those people. I just I just get disgusted. When I read about Ahab. Shimei is one of those people. I have zero respect for this man named Shimei. Now, why is that? Because he is one of the most cowardly people in all of Scripture. He attacks David in one of the most heart-wrenching times of his life. Now, it's one thing to not like somebody. And it's one thing if someone maybe has some attitude problems towards someone. And that happens in life, and people have conflicting personalities, and you know, sometimes we're not everything we ought to be. That's one thing. But to attack a man when he is down, to kick someone, so to speak, when they are laying on their back It's about the most cowardly thing a person can ever do of all times for Shimei to attack and curse David This is the most cowardly time for him to do this. People do that. He doesn't sit down with David when David is on his throne and as gentlemen discuss his differences with David. He doesn't approach David in a spiritual, mature, godly manner and say, hey, listen, there are some things about decisions you made that really bother me. There are some actions you've taken that have really rubbed me the wrong way, and I want to sit down with you. I want to express with you my concerns. And I want to try and see if we can't, as godly, mature gentlemen, settle this. He doesn't do that at all. You know why? Because cowards never do it that way Cowards go behind your back. Cowards will run their mouth when there's no danger of retaliation. Shinei is one of the most cowardly men in all the Bible. He attacks David at his lowest point. He doesn't want to sit down with him and discuss it. Christian mature way. Cowards never do. He curses David from a quote-unquote safe position. Look at verse 13 with me. And as David's men went by the way, Shimei went along on the hill's side over against him Now, I was reading about this and looking up various authors from years going by and different things, what they had to say about it. I was trying to picture all this in my mind and get an accurate view And uh most Bible scholars in archaeological uh uh Bible archaeology books and geography books and all that uh suggest That this location, this city Bah there in verse 5, Baharam was actually had like I said before this sharp canyon This very, very deep, more than a ditch, almost a valley type thing, but very steep on either side between the highway and this ridge where Shimiae was. In other words, Shimei had planned this out very carefully. He wasn't going to go anywhere where David could actually approach him. He was going to stand at a safe distance and lob these accusations out. What a coward. Huh? Don't tell them I said this, but so and so is uh la di da di da That is cowardly. Somebody help me. You know what the right thing to do is? If you got something wrong, you go to that person. Amen I haven't hardly over the years, very seldom, maybe two or three in all the years, but get unsigned letters And some of them are very lengthy. They tell me all the things I do wrong, and there's no return address and there's no signature. You know how seriously I take those letters? In fact, we take it so seriously we have a very special file in our office. Just for the unsigned, unreturn address letters that come our way. In fact, I'm almost at the point if there's not a return address, I don't even open it. Cowardly. Now, Shimei is doing all this stuff. So he attacks him at his lowest point. He curses David from a safe distance. By the way, the only reason Shimei was safe was because David had no resentment. That canyon was not keeping Shimeyak safe. David had fought enough warriors. David had killed enough giants. A little canyon wasn't going to stop him from killing somebody he wanted to kill. So Shemiah's safety was not in this position he thought he had. It was in the disposition of King David. And third thing Shimei does, he throws accusations that there's absolutely no truth in any of them. He accuses David of killing Saul. That is the exact last thing David wanted to do or did do. In fact, David put himself at great risk to avoid killing King Saul. I tell you what, when somebody accuses you of something, it hurts, doesn't it? Come on. It hurts. Nobody likes to have somebody accused you. But when somebody accuses you of something you didn't do, sometimes that has a bite to it. I remember uh when we sort not long after we came here, it was probably within the first two or three years we were here, maybe a little more than that. But um it's not so much anymore, but used to be when I would shave Um, I would uh have rations on my neck. And uh that. And um we were out somewhere visiting and some time go by and apparently there was uh somebody outside the church that didn't attend here, but for some reason they didn't like me. And I can't for like me can't figure out why that would be so. I like me. Um But uh They started spending this room around that Brother Leatherman has so many girlfriends that he has hickeys all over his neck from all those girlfriends he has I didn't even know what a hickey was. I thought what I thought was a little minnow used for bait or something. Now you know, that's ridiculous. But sometimes people make accusations and I'll be honest with you, when we heard that it was, man What do people think? That's rain, okay. That's what that sound is. Any fool can curse and make accusations. Dr. Lee Robertson Uh I was in uh down at Tennessee Temple University in in the leadership classes. I was able to get in the last leadership class Dr. Lee Robertson ever taught last semester And he would say over and over and over, he said, any fool can criticize. He'd say this: critics are a dime, a dozen. He said, Don't give them attention. When you're in the ministry, when you're trying to do something for God, there are going to be cowards and there are going to be fools who will try to criticize and curse you. He said, Do not give them attention. Now what that's true in the Christian life. You try and live for God, you try and do something for God, you're gonna have family members, you're gonna have co-workers, you're gonna have associates sometimes. are going to criticize and make accusations against you that are not true. Follow David's example. Do not allow resentment to come in. I see no resentment on David's part whatsoever. I see David had no interest in revenge. Now, David was a skilled and powerful warrior. Shimei was a fool. David could have easily dealt with him. David could have very easily gone over there. David could have, I would have suggested you, David could have taken a rock and a swing and beamed them from across that canyon. He did it to a giant. David had no interest in revenge. There's no resentment in his heart. You know what David did? David put the whole situation in God's hands. This is a perfect illustration of what Romans chapter 12, verse 19 teaches. Listen to this Avenge not yourselves, but rather give place to wrath. For it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord. Let God take care of it. Let God take care of it. David had no interest in revenge. David didn't pay any attention to bad advice. Look at verse 9. Then said Abishai, the son of Zeruai, unto the king, Why should this dead dog curse my lord the king? Let me go over, I pray thee, and take off his head I'll be honest with you, I read this, I feel the same way as this guy. Hey, David, let me do this. Hey, principles of Scripture have priority over friends and vice. Do you get that? Listen, sometimes good people who are well meaning will suggest Courses of action that go contrary to Scripture. We always stay true to Scripture. Amen? We always stay true to Scripture. Thank God for friends. Thank God for their concern. Thank God for their suggestions sometimes. But We always weigh what they suggest in light of scripture and we stay true to scripture. If David would have said, go get them, boys, he'd have been violating Scripture. And David refused to do that. So I see no revenge on the part of David. The second thing I notice about David is his resignation to the will of God. Look at verse 10 and 11 again with me. And the king said, What am I to do with you, ye sons of Zariah? So let him curse, because the Lord hath said unto him, Curse David. Who shall then say, Wherefore hast thou done so? And David said to Abishai, to all his servants, Behold, my son, which came forth out of my bowels, seeketh my life. How much more now may this Benjaminite do it? Let him alone. Let him curse. Look what he says. For the what? The Lord hath bidden him to do this. Now let me ask you a question Do you believe that God told Shimi to go out there and make false accusations of David and curse him? No! God never tells anyone to make false accusations about other people. I'm going to challenge you Read through the New Testament, particularly the book of Acts, the Gospels in the Book of Acts, and pay attention to the only people ever accusing anybody of something. You know who it always is? The Pharisees. You never find the disciples accusing folks, you never find Jesus accusing folks, you never find Paul accusing folks, only the Pharisees. So Shimei wasn't acting in obedience to God. Shimei was acting upon his own ungodly heart. But David had no control over that. Huh? You and I cannot control what other people do. We can influence, but we cannot control. David had no control over what Shemiah was doing. So listen, this is important. This will help us. David said, I have no control over the actions of Shimei. God is allowing this to happen, so I'm going to take this from the hand of God for my life so I can be a better person. Huh? I can't control what my w wife does. You say, oh preacher can't control his wife. So what I'm saying. I can't control what kind of wife Kathy is. Now she's a wonderful wife. I could maybe have some influence, make it easier for her to be a better wife or whatever, make it harder. I can't control that. But what I can control is what kind of husband I am. And so, regardless of how my wife responds to me, I can't control that. So God is allowing that, allowing me to experience And I could tell him other stuff, you know. And so anyway, David's resignation to the Lord. David realized he deserved much worse than what Shemiah was giving him. Uh David realized that God in love was allowing him to be hurt this way. And when we can see God's hand If not his purpose, but we at least see God's hand in our darkest trials, faith is beginning to strengthen Now I don't know what your situation is, and maybe at this point in time in your life you're going through a difficult time. Maybe at this point in time in your life there are some awfully dark shadows In your life. If you can see God's hand, maybe you say, I don't know why God is allowing this shimmy eye in my life. I don't know why God is allowing my heart to be so shattered I don't know why, but God is in it, and I'm going to trust him. That is a faith that is growing and getting strong. David's resignation to the will of God. When we can see God's hand, if we can't see his purpose, we at least see his hand in what's happening. Boy, that faith is beginning to mature. Thirdly, quickly notice David's reliance on the mercy of God. Verse 12. It may be the Lord will look on my affliction, and that the Lord will requite me good for his cursing this day. David appears to understand that all this is the continuing consequences of foolish decisions he had made earlier. There's two ways we can respond to our trials: either trust man or trust God. David determined to trust God. God will get me through this, is what he said. And fourthly and lastly, I noticed David's realistic yet positive attitude. His realistic but positive attitude. David felt that he would not only survive this trial, but he felt that he would come out of it a better person. Look again at verse 12. It may be that the Lord will look on mine affliction. And that the Lord will what? Requite me good. What does that mean? Let me put it, let me put it in my words. Produce something beneficial out of this. God, maybe through all of this nightmare, Shimei, my son, my kingdom, everything I've lived for. God can not only get me through this, but when it's all over, I can find that I'm actually in better condition than I was before. This will benefit me in some way. What faith? What faith? I'd be a better person as a result of this difficulty. I'll have a better witness. I'll have a greater understanding of the things of God. It is in our trials that the strength of our faith is revealed. It is in our trials that our understanding of God's love and his plans and purposes grows. And David had a realistic yet positive attitude. Perhaps the Lord will requite me good. Say, preacher, I'm in a financial pit I've never been in my life. I'm here to tell you God can not only get you through, but He can bring you out of it and make you a better person because of it. You say, man, my health is in such a terrible situation. My health is this, I feel so. Hey, God can only get you through it, God can make you a better person because of it. He's not here, but I think I can easily use him for illustration. Mike Stubler. Talk about not just getting through, but having a blossoming faith. Some people be bitter. Some people drop out. Last week he was at the nursing home, so weak, sharing the gospel with those dear precious people. Amazing thing. God can requite me good and you can get bitter if you want And you can be holding on to some awful thing that your daddy did or some neighbor did or some failure somebody gave or some preacher sometime and you can be bitter and mad at everyone in the world and mad at God! I'll tell you what you're doing, you're destroying yourself. Or you can say, you know, God allowed this to happen. God can get me through this and God, I'm going to trust you to make me a better person because of it. Isn't that good? A clay pot, if you set it out in the sun, you know what happens to it? It gets hard and cracked. But you take a clay pot and you put it in a kiln and a hot furnace, you know what it comes out as? Porcelain. Valuable. Now God lets us go through the furnace sometimes. God lets us go through heartaches and things that make no sense. But like Job said, he shall try me, and I will come forth as what? Gold. Gold. It's a picture in a painting in a museum. Very unusual. It was a painting of a mountain scene, and there was an old-time cabin in the middle of the painting on the side of this mountain. But The cabin had burned up. And there was still smoke coming up out of the ashes of what was left of the cabin. And you had the fireplace, the stone fireplace was still there, and all charred and black and the Vegetation around where the cabin was was uh all burnt and smoking and parts of the foundation were still there and walls collapsed in and the smoke is coming up and in front this artist had painted an old mountain man. And he was dressed in not much more than just his undergarments. And beside him was a little boy. And the boy all he had on was a uh overalls just kind of strapped over the one side, and the little boy was just crying and crying and crying. And the caption at the bottom was this Hush, son, God ain't dead. God ain't dead. Everything looks like it was gone. Everything shattered. Nothing good can come out of this. Hey. But as long as God ain't dead, there can be some good come out of the worst circumstances. Amen. You know how many folks I've led to the Lord standing by a graveside Where their world was ended, the loved one was gone, what is my life going to be? And out of that heartache, they found the Lord Jesus Christ as personal Savior I think Anani McRoby's husband, Jim, cirrhosis of the liver. They accidentally rupture his liver, making it impossible for a transplant, they doomed him to die. And as