We had a busy week around here on Thursday where folks were working on our fingerprints ministry, assembling Romans booklets to go off to the mission field. And we had a good group. We had 3,324 Romans booklets assembled Thursday afternoon, so we praise the Lord for that. And then uh over 3,000 gospel tracts given out just yesterday. So uh it's been a great week as far as the gospel is concerned and missions We appreciate everybody that's a part of that and and uh helping us to um obey the great commission there. Luke chapter fifteen, if you would turn uh notice I want to just read, we read this section here, but I want to highlight again verse number seven and verse number ten. If you'll notice it says, I say unto you, this of course the Lord Jesus Speaking, I say unto you that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth more than over ninety and nine just persons which need no repentance Now without getting into my message, what that simply means is this. One person in this service accepts the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. Heaven is more stirred up about that. than the other folks in the service here that are already saved and uh already have that that settled. Does that make sense? One little child downstairs stirs heaven up more. Get a little child trusting Christ as Savior. stirs heaven up more than ninety and nine uh other kids that don't need to be saved. They've already been saved. They're already settled uh that's settled. And so That's what he's saying there. Then verse 10 again he says, Likewise I say unto you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth. This is the title of my message. I'm taking a statement from the news you hear quite a bit, and I'm just altering it a little bit for our thought this morning. And this is the title of my message, Lost Lives Matter. Lost Lives Matter. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now our time in your word. We ask you to challenge us and stir us in this matter of reaching the lost. With the gospel of Jesus Christ. Father, I present my body anew to you this hour, and I ask with all my heart that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, that you would speak through me to each of our hearts and minds. And we would be open to what you have for us from this passage of Scripture. Challenge us, strengthen our faith, stretch us a little bit, Lord. I pray we go out of here, we'd be closer to you than we were when we came in. Our faith would be stronger. Our burden for the lost would be greater. And Lord, by chance there'd be somebody either in the service or listening. By way of uh electronic means that uh that does not know Jesus Christ as Savior, our heart's desire and prayer to you is that they would believe and be saved. And so please bless this hour. Meet with us and help us, we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. A number of years ago I read a fascinating book. The author's name is Hampton Sides. And the title of the book is this: Ghost Soldiers. And it was a fascinating account of um what's described as World War II's greatest rescue mission. And on uh January twenty-eighth, nineteen forty-five, World War II was winding down, and the Phil the Japanese had in the Philippines uh different um prisoner of war camps. As the mil as the war was winding down, the Japanese army, rather than releasing the prisoners of war as they retreated They would just torture them or slaughter the prisoners of war, uh just mercilessly just slaughter them uh defenseless in their prisons. In fact, one of the camps Uh it's described in the book. They simply uh flooded their cells with gasoline and lit it on fire and just hundreds of uh American soldiers and Allied soldiers were just uh hideously uh slaughtered Well, our military army had heard about this, and as the Japanese were retreating and we were regaining ground, they made a determination they were going to send an elite force of American soldiers behind enemy lines and make an attempt to rescue five hundred and thirteen prisoners of wars who were doomed to be slaughtered. These hand screen elite soldiers Slipped 31 miles behind enemy lines. It's described in the book. It's very treacherous terrain, very dangerous. They had to go undetected They slipped behind enemy lines and they successfully delivered 100 or 513 of our prisoners of wars. They stormed the camp. Release these guys. Now the interesting thing is these soldiers, these prisoners of war, had just survived not long before this, the Bataan Death March. If some of you are familiar with that. and uh s uh hundreds of our soldiers died in that horrendous um uh uh event. The question is, why would our military risk 121 of some of their most elite soldiers to rescue these men from uh in this prisoner of war camp. I'll tell you why. Because their lives mattered. Their lives were important to us as a nation and and to our military. I read just recently and back in two thousand nine Up um uh on Lake Erie, it was October 7, 2009, there was 150 ice fishermen who were out on the ice and a huge section of the ice had broken loose. And was drifting out into the uh Lake Erie. They were trapped on this breakaway ice lab Our Coast Guard brought in uh some of their best rescue teams. This was a huge number of people. They're in danger. In fact, one fella drowned, uh died. As soon as that thing broke loose he was trying to jump across and didn't make it, fell into the icy waters. I think he ended up with a heart attack is how he died. But the we we spent hundreds of thousands of dollars Sending in rescue teams. They had specially designed rescue ships to get out on this ice flap. They had helicopters designed for this type of rescue that flew out there and they were plucking these men off of this ice slab. They were doomed. That thing would break up and they drown and no doubt they died. They spent all day facing high winds, freezing temperatures, and dangerous icy waters Spent hundreds of thousands of dollars, took incredible risks to the lives of the uh rescuers, and the question is, why would they spend all that money And put all that effort and take such a tremendous risk of their own lives to rescue these men. I'll tell you why. Because their lives mattered. Their lives mattered. 2,000 years ago, God's Son, Jesus Christ, left the glories of heaven. The worship and glory and the exaltation received in him. He came down to earth. He was born of a virgin. He took on flesh. And for 33 and a half years approximately, Jesus Christ, the perfect, glorious Son of God, who for all eternity experienced the glories of God's Father's presence. And he left all of that. And for our sakes, he became poor. And he dwelt among men. Sinful man. Rubbing shoulders with the ungodly, proud, self-righteous. And then he gave himself To be beaten, spat upon, spear-plucked, crucified on a horrendous cross between two thieves. Not only that, he suffered the judgment of Almighty God for every sin that mankind ever has or ever will commit. The most horrendous, perverse, unspeakable sins. Jesus Christ took responsibility for. And he suffered the judgment of God, eternal hell for mankind. Now why would uh why would God do that? Why would he give his own son? Why would Jesus Christ, God the Son, leave the glories of heaven and suffer such shame and debauchery and humiliation? And take on our judgment for us. I'll tell you why. Because lost lives matter. Lost people matter to God. For God so loved the world. That he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life I'm here to remind us this morning from the Word of God that every unsaved person in this world, whether they live next door to the church or they live on the other side of the world, every single unsaved person is very, very important. To the Lord Jesus Christ. And the salvation of the lost, of the souls of the lost, is of highest priority to our Lord Jesus Christ In Luke chapter 15, you look at the first couple verses, Jesus is being severely criticized by the self-righteous Pharisees. They're murmuring against him, they're finding fault, they're condemning him because he is rubbing shoulders and he's fellowshipping with the uh sinners and publicans and actually some of the worst people of society The Lord Jesus Christ is going and eating with them. He's talking with them. And the Pharisees are criticizing him for this. Now don't misunderstand Though Jesus is associating and he's talking with and he's eating and a sense fellowshipping with these unsaved, these sinners, these uh uh these societal misfits He is not engaging in their sin. There's a difference. He is not practicing what they are practicing. But he is doing this. He is expressing to them his tremendous love and his tremendous concern for their salvation. So the Pharisees are criticizing him because he has sinners in his congregation. Because there's folks that don't fit in and don't live up to their standards of acceptability. And the Lord responds with three of the greatest parables that have ever been told. Three of the greatest stories illustrating God's concern for the loss. That have ever been given. He gives the little story here of the lost sheep, and we just read it. And the shepherd that leaves the 99 and goes out after that lost sheep, and he does not come home until he finds it He brings it home rejoicing. The Lord Jesus says, you know, I'm just trying to illustrate this, that there's joy in heaven over one sinner. That comes and finds Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. What's the Lord saying to those Pharisees? He's saying, listen, these lost folk, they matter. They matter to God. They're important to God. Their soul's destiny is important to God. Then he goes on and gives the illustration about the lost coin. That dear lady that has ten coins and one of them comes up missing. And he says she gets a candle out. That implies to me it must be nighttime. She's staying up light and uh she's sweeping the house and she determined she's going to find that coin. When she finds it, she calls her neighbor and says, hey, I found the coin that was missing. And he says, in that same way she's rejoicing over one coin that was lost and she found it in heaven, the presence of the angels, they rejoice over one sinner that's saved. What's he saying? He's saying unsaved folks are important to God Lost souls matter to God. Then he gives the story, classic parable of the good uh of the uh prodigal son. The sun goes off and gets his inheritance and squanders it with riotous living. He doesn't care what anybody says, he doesn't care what the consequences are. He doesn't qu care what it how it's going to affect him in the future. He just wants to do his thing, his way. when and where he wants, doesn't care whether it's right or wrong. And he squanders it all, and then finally nothing's left. And uh the world abandoned us. And all when the money when the money runs out, the friends walked away He finds himself, as you know the story, in a pig pen and uh eating uh he fain would eat the husk that the pigs are eating. Finally he comes to himself and says, Man, my daddy's servants are living better than I'm living I'll go home and see if my daddy will just let me be a servant. He says, Father, I've sinned against heaven, against thee. Of course, his father freely forgives him and rejoices and brings him in. And he says, My son was lost And he's found. The Lord is saying, listen, just like that father was so concerned, just like that boy mattered so much to his father, yeah, the loss, they're away from God, without Christ, they matter much to the Lord Jesus Christ. Lost lives matter very much to God. There is a wicked tendency in some churches. And even among some Christians, to downplay the importance of reaching the lost with the gospel. I'm telling you, anytime we as Christians or we as a church and we neglect or we put aside or we lower the priority of reaching the loss with the gospel of Jesus Christ. We are sinning against God, and I'll suggest to you we are grieving the heart of our Savior. Lost lives matter to our Lord and God. It is a high priority. Like those Pharisees of old, there are some who will murmur and criticize the idea of going out after lost men, of going out after lost women, of going out after lost children with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ and doing all we can To urge them and persuade them to put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ as Savior. And so we have to be very, very careful about that. I put this statement down in my notes. Let me just read it to you. If the conversion Of unsaved individuals ceases to be a high priority for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, we will lose God's blessing. If reaching the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ ceases to be a high priority in the Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, I believe that we will face the judgment of God For that decision. Lost lives matter to God, and lost lives must matter to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I believe the two most important ministries of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Without a doubt, in my mind, the two most important ministries is our local evangelism, our local soul winning we do here in our region of the world, and number two, our world mission support. If we don't do anything else, if we don't do anything else We've got to make sure we are getting the gospel to everybody within our realm of influence and then doing everything we can to getting the gospel to those who are in the regions beyond, to those that are outside our area of immediate response. Lost lives matter to God and they must matter to us. Would you take your Bible? Now keep your place here, but turn with me over to Luke chapter nineteen. I just want to highlight a verse Luke chapter 19, if you have if you're in the habit of underscoring verses in your Bible or highlighting verses, I highly recommend Let Luke chapter 19 and verse number 10 be underlined or highlighted or underscored in some way in your Bible to draw attention to Luke chapter 19, verse number 10. Notice what the Bible says here. And this is what we're trying to preach this morning. For the Son of Man, who is that? Jesus Christ, God's Son. For the Son of Man is come, why? To perform tremendous miracles. No. He did some tremendous miracles that only God could do. So the Son of Man has come to teach tremendous teachings. No, he taught some phenomenal teachings, uh lessons and truths that no man could ever teach Jesus Christ taught. But that's not why he came. For the Son of Man has come to what? Seek and to save that which was lost. Lost lives matter to God. It is the whole reason he left heaven's glory and came down to this wicked old sin-filled earth and walked among sinful wicked men. And then took all our sins upon himself, judged of God for our sins, buried, and rose again. The whole reason he did that was so that sinners could be saved. The lost could be found. Now, if you would come back to chapter number 15 in Luke, want us to notice a few things from the, particularly the first two parables listed here. Want us to notice, first of all, the value of a lost soul. The value of a lost life. Look with me here in verse number 3, verse number 4 of Luke 15. What man of you having a hundred sheep? If he loses one of them, doth not leave the 90 and 9 in the wilderness and go after that which is lost. How many does this shepherd lose? One. Just one. Verse number eight. Either what woman having ten pieces of silver, if she lose one? Pieces uh one piece doth not light a candle and sweep the house and seek diligently until she find it. Only one sheep Yet the shepherd left all for that one sheep. Only one coin. Yet the woman stayed up late and worked diligently to find that one coin. The value of one lost soul, one little kid, living in a back alley of a Mahdi Kazakhstan. Is as important in the eyes of God as the President of the United States of America. The value of one lost soul in the eyes of our Savior is of extreme importance. Extreme important. Just one sheet believes the ninety-nine to go find that one. Just one coin. But she works diligently to find it. Why? Because it's of tremendous value to them. Listen, if you're here this morning and you don't know Jesus Christ, your personal Savior, I'm here to tell you you are of an unimaginable importance. to our God and our Savior. And the salvation of your soul is the highest priority in the eyes of our God and our Savior. The value of a soul. If you would, keep your place here in Matthew chapter 18. We have the Lord giving the same parable. And he expresses some things in a little different way. Matthew chapter 18. If you would notice verse number 11. Give you a chance to find it there. Matthew 18. And verse number 11. Now it's interesting, in verse 11, he's restating the statement in Luke 19:10. He says, For the Son of Man is come to save that which is lost. You can put in the margin of your Bible their lost lives matter to God. That's why he came. Now look at verse twelve. How think ye If a man have a hundred sheep, and one of them be gone astray, doth he not leave the ninety and nine and goeth into the mountains and seeketh that which is gone astray And if so be that he find it, verily I say unto you, He rejoiceth more of that sheep than of the ninety and nine which went not astray. Even so it is not the will of your Father which is in heaven that one of these little ones should perish. Even the least among us in the eyes of man is of incredible value to God Incredible value to God. Now, this is what I want you to notice here in Matthew. Look with me at verse number 12. How thinking, if a man have a hundred sheep and one of them, that next statement, be gone astray. Now, it's an interesting statement there. It has this idea to be in the process of straying farther and farther and farther away In other words, here's the sheep. He has the hundred sheep. And one of them is gone astray. In other words, he's wandered off from the flock. He's wandered off from the shepherd's protection. He's wandered off away from where they're supposed to be. But not only has he wandered off, he is continuing, continuing to wander off. The idea is this the vow, the shepherd Values and pursues that sheep even though it has its back to him and is walking away from him. It is going astray. It's not like, all right, it's 100 yards out and it's stayed there and it's just kind of confused in there. I'll go find it. No, this sheep has its back to them, and it is going farther and farther and farther away. And yet. The shepherd says, That sheep is important to me, and I'm going to go after it. Here's what I'm trying to say. This is what I believe the Lord is teaching us here. That even that person Who does not accept the Word of God for what it is? Even that person who, in their heart and mind, for whatever reason, rejects Jesus Christ as Savior, And they are going off into sin. They are walking away from the things of God. They are walking away from the message of salvation. They are turning their back on God. Nevertheless, that person is of incredible value to the Lord Jesus Christ. In other words, the old drunkard, while he is drinking, the old drunkard, while he is drinking. Is still valuable to God. The old sinful woman living in promiscuity and selling her body While she is engaged in that, she is still important to God. Nowhere does God suggest That you and I have to attain a certain level of morality before He will love us, before He will care for us. No, while we are yet sinners, Christ died for us. While man is still turning his back on God, while man is blaspheming God, while man is cursing God, God still loves him and values him and wants him to be saved. This old world, we've talked about it in Sunday school a little bit. I've never dreamed that I would live in a United States of America that is that is uh that is perverting itself the way our country is today. And the decisions being made and the issues that are being discussed ought not to be even talked about in secret, and yet they're becoming policies of our country. I want to tell you, God still loves America. Even while we're blaspheming. Even while we as a nation are turning our back on God and going into the lowest cesspools of sin and immorality and so m so messed up we don't even know what we are And yet God still loves us. And God still values us. And God still wants souls to be saved. Lost lives matter to God. Even living in sin and rebellion. The Lord values those who repent. I can see that I can see God say, yes, the people that repent from their sin and turn from me, yes, they're very important to me. Those are the ones I want. But the Bible suggests even those who are going off into sin that won't repent, they're still important to me. I still love him. There's a wicked, wicked teaching around that says that Jesus Christ only died for those who will trust him. Listen, that is not scriptural. Jesus died for even those who won't trust him as Savior. But take your Bible, if you would, and turn with me to Romans chapter 5. And we're going to get back to Luke 15 here in a minute, but I want you to notice Romans chapter 5. I want to begin reading in verse number six. We're going to read down through verse eight. Romans 5 and verse number 6. Romans 5, verse 6. For when we were yet without strength, in due time Christ died for the what? Ungodly. Ungodly. Look what it says. For scarcely for a righteous man will one die, yet peradventure for a good man, some would even dare to die. But God Commendeth his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us Listen, the most wicked man in Oakland, Maryland, the most wicked woman in Garrett County, that maybe hates God, wants nothing to do, maybe they got a gospel tract this week and called up the preacher and cut them out Because of a oh wait a minute, that did happen. Uh because they didn't like what the gospel tract said. I tell you what, even that most wicked person in Garrett County hates God, hates the Bible, hates the church of God, hates the people of God, I tell you what, God still loves that person. They're of tremendous value to the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ died for that person just as much as he died for the most moral man in Oakland, Maryland. Lost lives matter to God, even those who are living in horrendous sin. Horrendous sin. I can see the Lord loving those who turn from their sin and doing right and trusting Christ and all that. I can see the Lord loving them, and He does. But the Bible says he loves those with their back to him. Listen, I might be talking to someone this morning in the sound of my voice. The only reason you're in church, the only reason you're listening to a sermon is because of circumstances you have no control and you're kind of stuck here. You say, I don't care about God, I don't care about the Bible, I don't care about what's right and wrong. Maybe in your heart and mind you're turning your back on what is right and what is good and what is pure, what is God, and you say, I want to do things my way, it's my life, I'll live however I want. You have that choice. I'll tell you one thing you have no choice over is whether God loves you or not, and God loves you dearly. God is doing uh working on the behalf of you to save your soul and turn your life around and bring you back to the things of God. Maybe you're here this morning. You've never been saved. You've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. I'm here to tell you God loves you dearly. Doesn't matter what you've done, doesn't matter what you've said, doesn't matter where you've been, Jesus Christ already paid the punishment of your sin. If you'll turn to him and trust him as Savior, he'll forgive you like that. Lost lives of great value to God Great value to God. One unsaved soul is of infinite value to the Lord. People Often go into debt. We'll go to the bank. We'll borrow $100,000, $200, $300,000, $400,000, $50 For thousand dollars To buy a house. And we'll commit ourselves to make payments on that house every month for the rest of our lives for 15, 30, 35, 40 years sometimes. And we commit ourselves. Why? Because owning that house is important to me. And I'll go into tremendous debt because it's important to me that I own a house. Well buy a car and borrow 10, 15, 20, 30, 40, sometimes more, $1,000. Because having a vehicle is important to me, and it's important that I have that. It's a value to me. We will get up early in the morning before we want to get up and we'll work late into the evening. And we'll get up at a time we don't want to get up, and we'll go to a place we don't want to go to and we'll do a job we don't want to do. Longer than we want to do it. Why would you do that? Because at the end of the week I get a paycheck. That paycheck is important to me. It's of value to me. We'll get up in the middle of the night, our child sick, fevered, and uh we'll get her clothes on, we'll rush out in the middle of the night and go to the emergency room. And inconvenience ourselves and go without sleep and spend money we don't have. Why? Because that child's health is important to us. They're valuable to us. And we're willing to pay that price and do what needs to be done. And like matter, God Almighty looks down from heaven and he sees a lost sinner in sin. Their mind is confused and darkened by sin. They don't know what they're doing. They're saying things that they don't even understand what they're saying. They're taking actions. They don't even understand what the consequences of those actions are going to be. And yet God loves them, invests his own son. So that person can be saved and forgiven and find new life and have eternal life and have a home in heaven. I'm saying this. Unsaved people are important to God. He wants them to be saved. He wants their lives to be changed. He wants them to have eternal life. He wants them to escape hell and go to heaven. He wants them to know what it means to live a life pleasing to God with the blessings of God upon them. It's important to him, so important. He gives his own son so that they can be saved. Lost lives matter to God, just like that little sheep mattered to that shepherd. Just like that coin mattered to that dear woman, just like that son mattered to that broken-hearted father, lost people matter to God Lost sleep people matter to God. So what about the lost? Are we willing to invest in that which is important for God? So number one, the value of lost souls. I put this down, number two, and as we come back to Luke chapter 15. I notice not just the value of lost souls, but I notice the venture made for lost souls. In other words, what I mean by that is this: the effort put forth. So that lost soul can be found. The venture. Look at verse 4 again with me. Says, one man of you, having a hundred sheep, if he lose one of them, now look what he does. He loses one. It's important to him. Doth not leave the 90 and 9 in the wilderness. Now he would never do that just for his own pleasure. He's not just out there wandering, I just I I don't know about you. Sometimes if I got a little time, I like to just slip out and walk around the woods a little bit. Walk a little trail, go along a stream. Uh I'd like it even more if I have a fishing pole in my hand But it's enjoyable to get out and go out in the wilderness a little bit. That's not what he's doing here. He's leaving the 99, he's going out of the wilderness. He is putting in effort he would not normally do. This is not a little pledger walk. This is dangerous. No doubt he's going into the night, perhaps Leaves the 99 in the wilderness and goeth after that which is lost until he find it. He leaves the security of the fold, he leaves the security of his hope. And he goes out and does something he would not choose to do of his own free will. He does something he would not do just for pleasure. Necessity is upon him to find this sheep Notice in verse number 8 we have the woman. Either what woman having of ten pieces of silver, if she loses one piece, doth not light a candle. That implies to me this is going late into the night, perhaps. Light a candle and sweep the house and seek what? Diligently. I mean, this is no casual. Oh, where did I lay that thing down? Where did I? This is no casual thing. I mean, she is after it She is moving furniture. She is pulling up the carpet. She is looking in corners. She is looking down cracks. She's taking the drain out of the state. And cleaning out the drain and the trap, see them where this thing I mean, she is seeking diligently for this. Now, oh I can't Hmm, I better be careful here. Um I can't speak for all wives, but um sometimes wives like to move things around in the house for just the sake of moving things around in the house Any of you guys ever come home and everything's completely different than when you left in the morning? Where'd we get that sofa? Oh, we've had it. It used to be over there, now it's over here. Oh I thought it was a new sofa That's not what this woman's doing. She's not just rearranging. She is absolutely tearing this place apart. She is determined. I have got to find this coin. It is so valuable to her, she is willing to put in tremendous effort To find this coin. This sheep is so valuable to the shepherd, he is willing to inconvenience himself to alter his schedule. The woman is no doubt altering her daily schedule And doing some things she would not just of her own pleasure do. Why? Because that coin is of incredible value. That sheep is of incredible credible value. And I'm telling you, Jesus despised the cross. But he was willing to suffer the cross because the loss are important to him. He did what needed to be done for the salvation of the soul. Hebrews tells us he despised the cross, but for the joy that lay before him, he endured it. God, we're a lost person. A lost soul is of incredible value to the Lord, and He will venture, put effort in that we and I cannot even imagine. The venture to reach the lost. To reach the lost. One of the most enjoyable aspects of the ministry for me personally, I'm just going to tell you my heart. Most enjoyable aspects for me personally is the fellowship of God's people in Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church This church is family to Kathy and I. This church has been the joy, the people of this church has been the joy of my life. And we get together, especially when we have chicken. Really enjoy fellowship in the church. When I first got saved, I didn't know anything. I was 19 years old. I didn't know anything about the Bible. And they always said, We're gonna have a church fellowship. I thought, okay, I'd go to church fellowship. They always had fried chicken Every time they had church fellowship, fried chicken, church fellowship. So I got reading my Bible and I thought the Greek word for fellowship was fried chicken. We're gonna have a fellowship. I went, there's chicken. Ah, that's what fellowship is. I learned differently One of my most enjoyable aspects of the ministry is fellowship with the church, getting together and just enjoying each other. But wait a minute, lost lives matter. And we can't just content ourselves just to get along with us and do things. We've got to put some effort in into reaching the lost. We've got to put some effort in into getting out, not just us four and no more, but saying, you know, there are people dying on their way to hell of incredible value to God. And he did, he paid an incredible, uncomprehensible price for the salvation of our souls. We can't just be content with our fellowship one with another. We need to get out and get out after them. Am I making sense? Venture. Venture out. Put effort in. Get out after him. Soul witty. Foreign missions. Those types of things. And so uh the shepherd took a tremendous risk here And Matthew 18, it says he went out into the mountains. That's where the thieves are. That's where those dangers are. That's where wild beasts are. And he wants to find that sheep. He risked, he took a great risk. Actually If I'm reading this correctly, it looks to me on the surface there's little risk that he's there's little chance that he's actually going to find this sheep. Um very unlikely. That this little sheep is surviving out there in the mountains in the wilderness. There's so many things that could happen. And for him to find that one sheep in all these mountains There's little chance, unlikely he's actually going to find it, but it's so important to him that he's going to pay the price and try and find that sheet. You know, there's no guarantee. We send missionaries over to different countries around the world. Brother DePew's coming and he's going to China. You know, there's no guarantee he's going to see a hundred thousand, ten thousand people saved He may give his whole life. He may give his whole life and see a few, maybe no, professions of faith. But I'm telling you, those souls are so important it's worth the effort. It's worth the risk. I had someone years ago who said, preacher, I go out every week and I witness, I witness, I witness, and I don't see anybody saved, I don't know that it's worth it I said, hold it. Every one of those souls that you're trying to win is worth the effort we're putting into it. It's worth the effort. Now the shepherd did find the sheep. The woman did find the coin. And I'm telling you this, we preach the gospel, souls will get saved. There's no promise or guarantee. Sometimes you look at a situation unlikely anybody's going to be saved, but they're still important to God, and we've got to put that effort in. We've got to make that investment on reaching the lost. Reaching the lost is a great effort. And there's no mission field ever going to be reached without effort, without risk, without sacrifice. And we've got to be willing to pay that. If every Christian was satisfied with just being comfortable, if every Christian was just satisfied with this is my schedule and this is my life, And there were no Christians willing to step out by faith and exercise a little bit of courage and invest a little bit of sacrifice. Nobody around this world would be reached with the gospel because it always requires effort. It always requires faith. It always requires courage. It always requires sacrifice. to reach the laws. We were talking this week. Somebody, I don't remember who it was, said this week, they said, I don't know how it is with you. He says, but whenever I first, I'm going to go out and give out tracts, I'm going to knock on a door, whatever. I'm always a little nervous. I'm a little f a little afraid uh at first. I don't know if anybody else is that way. I tell you, I've been doing this 35 years. I'm still scared to death that first door or two I knock on I still have to get they're not hitting on all eight cylinders. I gotta go through a few. You know, the first one I knock on it says, Hi, I'm I'm lost. Can uh can I'm from the Catholic Church. Wait a minute, I don't even know what I'm saying I stumble through a few things, then the next one I get a little better, next one by the time I get five houses down, then I've got enough courage up. I'm talking uh y'all look at me so pious that uh Listen to me. If Kazi stands going to be reached with the gospel of Jesus Christ, there's got to be some people willing to say, I'm going to go out in the wilderness. I'm going to sacrifice my life. I'm going to invest things. It's going to give a little bit of courage. I'm going to trust God. I'm going to take the gospel of that country. It's true with China. It's true with Kenya. It's true with Central Asia. We're bringing these missionaries in. It requires effort. And this sheep and that little coin were so important that they were willing to upset their lives and risk their lives to get out there and get them to safety. I'm telling you, lost souls around the world are so important to God, it is worth it for you and I to risk ourselves and inconvenience ourselves and invest of ourselves. to get the gospel to him. The venture put out here. Notice, I thought this was interesting. This is a little aside. And uh notice he says there in verse number five. It says, uh, and when he hath found it, the shepherd finds the sheep, he layeth it on his shoulders, rejoicing. Notice what takes place here. He's out there, he finds the sheep. Oh, praise the Lord. It's alive, it's safe. Notice what he doesn't do. You stupid sheep, get back there That's what some of y'all would do. Stink and sheep, boom, you out of here. Yeah. He didn't do that. He doesn't get behind it and poke it with a prodder. Git, yeah, yeah, yeah. You know what? If that's what he did, if he tried to get that sheep to get itself back, what would probably happen to the sheep? It'd run off. It'd die, run off, something would happen. But no, he gets the sheep, lost sheep, and he puts it on its shoulder. And I'm suggesting to you, when that little sheep got on the shoulders of that shepherd, it was just as safe as if it was already home in the fold. That sheep, when it was found of the shepherd, was secure. One gonna get lost again. It's on the shepherds of the shoulder. Uh on the shepherds of the shoulder. On the shoulders of the shepherd. I told you it takes a little while. I'm saying this. When you accept Jesus Christ as Savior, as your personal Savior, your salvation is secure. You can't lose that. In a sense, we're on the shoulders of the shepherd. It's not me holding on to him, it's he's holding on to me. Isn't that great? Isn't that great? That sheep's not going to get lost. He's on his shoulders. That shepherd's got a hold of it. There's no chance of it wandering. No chance of it getting lost again. He's got to go back and save it again. You're here this week. I might be talking to somebody. You might have messed up this past week. You got saved at some point. Maybe you messed up. Maybe you said something you shouldn't have said. You did something you shouldn't have done. I'm here to tell you God doesn't send his children back to hell. Once you accept Jesus Christ as Savior, he has a hold of you and you can't get out of his hand. I like that idea. He took the sheep and put it on his shoulders. And that sa that little sheep is secure. That little sheep is safe. Then my last thing I noticed, my last thought here from this passage is the victorious rejoicing. Verse 7, we read it together. The rejoice over heaven of our one sinner that repenteth. Verse 10, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth. Look over in verse number twenty-two. Here's the prodigal son. But the father said to his servant, Bring forth the best robe, put it on him. Put a ring on his hand and shoes on his feet, bring hither the fatted calf, kill it, let us eat and be merry, for this my son was dead and is alive again. He was lost and is found, and they began to be merry It's a little glimpse, I believe, into events in heaven. And when one soul accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, joy breaks out in heaven. Rejoicing breaks out in heaven. Salvation of one soul. I tell you what, what I like to hear, one of uh One of the things after the service, I like for the children's church workers to come up, and one of the first questions I like to ask is this, did anybody get saved this morning? Did any little kid call on Jesus to be their Savior? Any one of those bus kids that come in, tell you we were visiting some bus kids this week. I'm telling you, some of these kids, God bless their hearts come from horrendous homes. And that hour and a half, two, three hours they're here on Sunday morning is the only time they hear Jesus' name in a reverent way. The only time they hear that there's a God in heaven that loves them and cares for them and has a plan for their life, I'm telling you, I can tell you firsthand, that's the truth. One of those little kids comes from a home of perversion and confusion and sin and drunkenness. All those little kids comes here and they hear that there's a God in heaven that loves them so much. That God died for them so that they could have eternal life And that little kid, their own decision, trusts Jesus Christ as Savior. I'm telling you, based on these verses, rejoicing breaks out in heaven. Joy in heaven. And that ought to be true for you and I God pity us if we ever get to the point where the salvation of a soul doesn't stir our heart. God pity us when someone trusts Christ as Savior, it just becomes, oh well, wonderful, that's great. I thought it was interesting when the shepherd realized the sheep was gone. He didn't sing, send the line. He didn't sing about somebody going and finding the sheep. He didn't write an article, a blog, about how important it is to go find the sheep. He didn't preach a sermon on how important it is to go find the sheep. You know what he did? He went out and looked for the sheep. That woman lost that coin. She didn't get on the internet and write a blog. Oh, it's important we find coins. She didn't sing a song, write a poem about finding coins. She went and found the coin. She tore the place inside out to find that thing. And you and I must never get to the place where all we do is sing about missions. All we do is write articles about missions. All we do is talk about missions. All we do is sing about missions. At some point we gotta get up and get involved in missions. If people are going to be saved. Anybody recognize the name Baby Jessica? Anybody remember that name? Midland, Texas? Jessica McClure She's married today, has kids. I found out little baby Jessica had a trust fund set up. When she turned, I think, 22 years old, she got $800,000 was set up in her account. She's in good shape. Little baby Jessica, when she was 18 months old, fell down an abandoned well is eight inch wide uh hole band and well she fell down I want to say uh twenty some feet I don't remember the distance I mean it was way down there 20 feet down a well, 18-month-old baby, jammed down in there. For two and a half days Rescuers invested hundreds of thousands of dollars. They went two and a half days without sleep. The world was watching. Ronald Reagan said baby Jessica is the world's baby. The lines were flooded to the radio and TV and newspaper stations, people around the world. How is baby Jessica? How is baby Jessica? After two and a half days. They successfully pulled baby Jessica up out of that well. Her face has a horrendous scar from where it was up against the casing in the well. She lost her foot. Gangrene had set in. He lost her foot. But she was alive. She was alive. And when they brought her up, CNN was just a new radio station at the time. There was newspapers from around the world there. And they brought her up out of that well. And they held that little baby Jessica up. The whole world Rejoiced that a little child was saved from that well That joy and that happiness is just a little taste of what happens in heaven when a soul is saved from hell. And trust Jesus as Savior. What are you saying, preacher? I'm saying this. Lost lives matter to God. And the greatest investment you and I can make with our lives is investing in getting people to Jesus Christ and persuading them to trust him as a savior, whether it's sending missionaries to foreign lands or it's going into our neighborhoods with a little smiley-faced gospel trap. Or it's running a Sunday school bus. Or it's inviting somebody over and sitting down for a meal and sharing your testimony with them. Any and every investment we make in reaching the lost is of high priority to God. This Wednesday night, we begin our annual missions conference. And I'm trying to say this, what we are going to do Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, and Sunday is the most important thing we can do as a church. and investing ourselves in getting the gospel all around the world. I'm asking everyone here, let's pray. Let's give ourselves the Lord. Let's invest our lives in reaching the lost with the gospel. Whether it's being involved in a local soul-winning ministry. Putting Romans booklets together to get them down into Central America and people can read how to be saved. Whatever it may be, running buses. Let's give ourselves to that which is so important to the Lord. You're here this morning and you're not saved. You're here this morning and you're walking away from God, what you know the Bible teaches, what you know is right. You're walking away from that? You're saying, this is what I am. I don't care what God says. I don't care what the Bible says. That's your choice. You can do that. But I'll tell you this: you're walking away from a God that loves you so much, He suffered hell for you. And he can give you a life full of purpose and meaning and joy that the wickedness of this world will never give you. I'll tell you this The wickedness of this world will leave you empty and dry and hurting and dying. You walk away from a God that loves you. And you listen to the perverse voices of this world, and all you are doing is assigning yourself to a life of emptiness and misery and anger and frustration. And this world can justify its sin all at once, and it can call it whatever acceptable name it wants to, but in God's eyes, it is still sin. And sin destroys. That's why Jesus Christ came, so that we can be saved from sin. We can have a new life. If you're not saved, I plead with you, come trust Christ today. Those of us that know Christ, let's invest ourselves into that which is so important to God. However, God leads us and directs us. Am I making sense? Let's pray. Let's ask the Lord to help us. Father in heaven. This matter of race and aloft or it just stirs my heart. And I pray you'd help us as a church to give ourselves wholeheartedly. To sharing the gospel with our neighbors and our community, our country, but also doing our part and getting the gospel all around the world. With our heads bowed and with our eyes closed, I wonder if there's anyone here this morning says, preacher, I know I'm saved. God saved me. There's no doubt about it. That's settled But God has stirred my heart from his word. And I want to give myself to reach others for Christ. I want God to use me in some capacity, however he sees fit. To have a part in the lost, being coming to Christ and being saved. Is there any like that this morning? Preacher, that's my heart's desire. Is God use, God bless you, hands all around, God bless you. Now this week in missions is so vitally important. I'm asking our church to pray. As individuals, what would God have me to do? What role do I play? Where do I fit in? And let the Lord lead and direct. Be here in the services. Listen to what the missionaries and Brother Creed has to say. Let God lead you and direct you. Is there someone here this morning say, preacher, I'm not sure that when I die, I'm going to heaven? Say, preacher, that concerns me. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know that my sins are forgiven. I have eternal life. Is there anyone like that this morning? Pray for me, preacher. I'm concerned about it. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm on my way to heaven. I need God to help me settle that. Any at all this morning? The uplifted hand, preacher, pray for me. Any at all? Looking around. Any at all? Preacher, pray for me. Now, Father in heaven, you know our hearts. You know where we're at. Stir us. Give us this love and concern for the loss that you have. And we can share in that. And that you can use us to see others saved. Bless our missions conference, I pray. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed