Heard the statement, she'd lose her head if it wasn't attached. Anybody ever hear that? My mom said that to me, you'd lose your head, kid, if it wasn't attached to you. Some of us chronically lose things. Can I get a witness? Keys. One of the ushers came up to me and said, Preacher, somebody lost their little earring here today. So ladies, if you I hope it's a lady, if you lost your earring I trust it weren't any beacons, but um got a little nice pearl earring. If nobody claims it we're selling it on eBay. But some of us chronically lose things. It's frustrating when you lose things. Can I get a witness? Is is anybody in the same boat with me here this morning, just losing things. Do you ever lose something, your keys, and you sp you f you're frantic. You're driving you crazy. You look everywhere and finally turn around and they're sitting right there. Can I get a witness? It's frustrating when we lose something we can't find it. Sometimes it will handicap us. I about panic when I lose my wallet. You know? And uh it's like man and it scares you to death. Sometimes it if we waste time looking for stuff, we lose something, we waste time, we get frustrated. Sometimes it It hinders us. We can't do the things we need to do because we lost something. Luke chapter 15. If you'll take the time and read through this chapter, It presents to us, the Lord presents to us three, a trinity of parables. Illustrations, three stories, three illustrations, three parables. That address things that are lost and found. Things that are lost, a little sheep. It's found. A coin. It's found. A sun. It's out. He's lost. Quote unquote, so to speak. He's found. Lost and found, lost and found, lost and found. I'm telling you, these power parables are, they have no peer in all of history. They are tremendous truths in their simplicity. As the Lord is illustrating his compassion for mankind, his love for sinners in particular. And how the Lord is able to communicate his love and his burden, his earnestness in finding the lost, unsaved, and bringing them to a saving knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. As you read and study through your Bible, you find that usually God doesn't need three illustrations to make a point. Often God can just simply make a statement, give a pointed statement, and the truth gets across. It's very clear. We know what he means. But here, the Lord makes, gives three, one of them fairly lengthy. Parables, illustrations, making the point that God wants lost sinners to come to Christ and be saved. And so that tells me something. That tells me something. That tells me that uh yeah, maybe a couple ushers could help out there. Just help them get a place there. Thank you, fellas. God bless you, Brother Bowser. We're glad you're here. There we go. Amen. Hey, I'm glad folks are in church. Amen. Praise the Lord. We're glad Brother Bowser's here. Thank you, fellas, for helping. He doesn't usually Lord doesn't usually need three parables to make a point. God can make a statement. and get the idea across very simply, very clearly. But here in this situation, and I think verse one and two give us the reason for this, as I'll point out here in a moment, but the Lord takes takes a lengthy period of time to give these three illustrations uh to make his point. Now that tells me something. That tells me that the truth that the Lord is communicating here It's very, very dear to his heart. This is something that is very, very important to the Lord. It tells me this. Now get this. This is the message this morning. It tells me this. that God dearly wants sinners to be saved. That is the dearest thing to the heart of God. Sinners, lost people, people in sin, finding forgiveness and cleansing in the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what this is all about. That is the heart of God. That is the passion of our Lord. It bringing sinners coming to know Jesus Christ as Savior. Now I just want to throw this thought out to you. This is just a thought I had in passing as I was looking this and studying this. There's three parables. I wonder if these three parables don't somehow correlate with uh uh with the Trinity, the Godhead. I was looking at this. The first parable is the shepherd, the lost sheep, and the shepherd leaves the 99, goes out, and finds the one that is lost. I wonder if that isn't a parallel of the Lord Jesus Christ, our good shepherd. And Jesus Christ leaving heaven and coming down to earth and giving himself on the cross so that sinners can be saved. Then I look at the next one, and you have the woman that loses the coin And she sweeps the house. She just goes to that whole house, sweeping that house until she finds the coin. I wonder if that isn't a parallel of the ministry of the Holy Spirit As the Holy Spirit searches our hearts and tries us and shows us how we need the Lord Jesus Christ and how the Bible Jesus said the Spirit is in the world reproving the world of sin And then the last parable, the lengthy one that we're very familiar with, the prodigal son, and the father there that loves the son and watches for the son to be reconciled to the father. I wonder if that isn't a parallel. to God our Father. And how sinners coming back and are we're reconciled to God. And um and uh so anyway, I I I I I don't know that that's what's being said here, but I looked at that and I thought, well that might be an interesting thought. But I do know this. I do know this. When a person trusts Jesus Christ as Savior, God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit are all three involved in the salvation of that sinner. All three of them. God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, all a part of every little sinner that trusts Christ the Savior, every little child. That will bow their head under the conviction of sin and accept Jesus their Savior, God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, all three a part of that little child trusting Jesus Christ as Savior. Our fellows were out Thursday night, had an older lady Trust Christ as Savior. Our ladies uh a week ago had a lady trusted Christ as Savior And uh as they're sharing the gospel, the Spirit of God is working in their heart. Jesus Christ has already paid the price. God the Father is moving and working to bring that person to Christ So we look at these parables of lost and found. Now the entire chapter of Luke chapter 15, this entire chapter is a result Of what happens, what transpires in verse 1 and 2. Look at those again with me. I know I just read them a moment ago, but look again. Then drew near unto him all the publicans and sinners for to hear him. That's happening. Publican sinners are coming to Jesus Christ. They want to hear what he has to say. Look at verse 2. And the Pharisees and the scribes murmured. Saying, this man receiveth sinners and eateth with them. Then verse 3 says, And he spake this parable unto them. Jesus responds to the criticism Of the Pharisees and the scribes, he responds to these critics with these three parables: lost sheep, the lost coin, the lost son. This entire chapter is Jesus responding to the his interaction with sinners. People criticizing him, his concern for those who are lost in sin. He's trying to make clear to the Pharisees and the scribes. He's trying to make clear to you and I, the whole world, that God loves sinners. Jesus Christ is concerned about those who are lost in sin. How many folks here you know someone that's a sinner? Yeah. We all know someone's a sinner, don't we? I got up this morning and looked in the mirror. Guess what I saw? Pretty looking good looking guy. But um That guy's a sinner. That guy's a sinner. How many folks here have to deal with other people that are sinners on a weekly basis? Sure. You know I can tell you something. That sinner that you and I have to deal with, I can tell you one thing about them. God loves them very, very much. God is very, very concerned about their soul, about their eternal destiny. He wants them to find forgiveness and know Him. See, I'm preaching with someone that's doing wrong. I I'm not preaching, I'm dealing with someone that's doing wrong. I got a situation, they're sinning, it's wrong what they're doing. And uh that may or may not be the case, but I know this God loves that sinner very dearly. And we need to be very, very careful. Interacting with other people that are just as much sinners as we are, that are just lost in sin as we were before we knew Christ as Savior. We mark it down, be sure God loves that person dearly that's in sin. As I was studying the gospels here, you can read them through very carefully. I encourage you to do so. You know what you'll never find. You'll never find Jesus Christ driving someone away because they were a sinner. You never find them doing it. You never find Jesus Christ ever turning someone down or turning someone away because they were too wicked. He never does that. Now, let me say this never do you find Jesus Christ justifying their sin. You never find Jesus Christ excusing their sin, but you never find him turning them away either because of their sin. Remember the woman taken in adultery? The Pharisees came, they said, The law, the Lord, God in the law said we should stone her. What do you say? He ignored them a little bit, drew in the sand, they pressed them on a little bit, and he says, You that are without sin, cast the first stone. What'd they do? They all walked away. And he's left alone with her. And he says to her, Neither do I condemn thee. But he doesn't stop there. What's he say next? Go and sin no more. He wasn't justifying her adultery, he wasn't excusing her adultery, but he wasn't turning her away because of her adultery either. He was concerned for her soul. He was concerned for her relationship with her God. He was concerned for her eternal destiny God loves sinners. If we get anything out of Luke chapter 15, we get this. Jesus Christ is concern for lost sinners coming to Christ Lost sinners, take your Bible if you will. We're going to look at a few verses here in the in the Gospels. Turn to Mark chapter five Yeah, Matthew and the New Testament, Matthew, then Mark, then Luke, and chapter 5, Mark, chapter 5. And in verse thirty through thirty two we have a Mark chapter 5, verse 30 through 32. And I do not believe that is the correct passage. Mark five and verse thirty and thirty-two. Um I hate it when that happens. Uh he says he makes this statement, it's found throughout there, I wanted to illustrate it, but he makes this statement that um uh uh he never turns people away because of sin And uh uh but the point I'm trying to make is this. He never justifies sin, he never excuses sin, but he never turns people away because of their sin And uh I'll have to get that passage on another message uh at another time. But it's repeated throughout the Gospels. Uh take your Bible. Now I do want you to go to this passage, Luke chapter 16 and verse 15. Backwards started out in chapter 15. Ah, not Mark chapter 5, Luke chapter 5. Listen, you all bear with me, okay? It's been a long week. Let's back up a little bit. Not Mark chapter 5. Turn with me to Luke chapter 5. I thought I made a mistake one other time, but I was wrong then too. Mark chapter Luke chapter 5. Look with me at verse number 30. Alright, we're back on track here. But their scribes and Pharisees murmured against his disciples, saying, Why do you eat and drink with publicans and sinners? And Jesus answering said unto them, Look at this, they that are whole need not a physician, but they that are sick. Look at this. I came not to call the righteous, but what? Sinners to repentance. That is taught, that is repeated all through the Gospels where Jesus says, I've come to the sinners, I've come to the lost, I've come to the ungodly. I've come to the wicked. That's who he's come for. Now, that we got that down, come over to Luke chapter 16. And notice a statement made in verse number 15. Luke 16. And notice the statement in verse number 15. It says, And he said unto them, Ye are they which justify yourselves before men. He's talking about the Pharisees who establish themselves, well, we're better than others. We're just, we're right, we're good. We're not sinners like these other people. They exalted themselves. He says, You justify yourselves before men, but God knoweth your hearts. For that which is highly esteemed among men is an abomination in the sight of God. That passage there is telling us that what God values and what man values are very two different, two very different things. Man values himself. Man exalts his own righteousness. Man seeks and values highly the praise of man. But God Values lost people who are on their way to hell, that are lost in sin, that need a Savior. That's where God's heart is. That's where God's passion is. I don't know about you, but I'm glad God loves sinners. Because if God didn't love sinners, then God wouldn't love me. I'm glad on May 7, 1979, many years ago, I always reference it, but I am so glad that that kid that made such a mess of his life, such ungodly sin That there's a God that looked down in love and compassion and says, that's the one that I want to forgive and save. Somebody would have come and said, Dennis, you've got to clean up, you've got to be righteous, you've got to do good and do right before God will love you. I'd have thrown my hands up in despair and said, I can't. I try so hard to do right and I can't. I need a God that loves sinners. I'm glad God values sinners. God values sinners. Um, God's highest priority God's highest priority is lost sinners being saved, finding forgiveness, getting a new heart and a new life. Being made new. Man's highest priority, as I said, is myself, my own praise. The Pharisees love the praise of men more than the praise of God. My own righteousness. And so we come back to Luke chapter 15. Verses 1 and 2, as I said, are the context for the entire chapter. All these following three parables are a result of what happens in verse 1 and 2. And I notice there's three groups of folks here, three categories, I guess you could say, of people that I want to address. The first one I want to address in our message is the sinners. Verse number one. the sinners. Notice these sinners. It says they drew near unto him all the publicans and sinners to hear him Now who are these publicans? Well, if you've been around very long and you've been heard much preaching, you've heard preachers preach and teach about publicans. Publicans were the tax collectors of the day. The problem with these publicans is they were very corrupt. They were hired by the Roman government and they were given a tremendous amount of leeway. They could pretty much do what they wanted. All the Roman government wanted was the taxes that they assessed. They wanted these publicans to turn over the taxes that they collected that the Roman government assessed. Whatever the publican could get out of the people over and above that, the Roman government didn't care. You can extort whatever you want out. You can do it for your as long as we get the amount we've established. And so the publicans were very corrupt men. They would take this position knowing that they could and they would steal from the people. Let's say for sake of illustration that one man comes up to the tax collectorate tax time and uh the government, the Roman government established that he has to pay $100. Let's just say that Well the tax collector would say your tax bill is 200 bucks. And the guy says, that's ridiculous. There's no way my tax bill is that high. Sorry, that's what it is. The fellow could do nothing about it. The Roman government would stand behind that publican. And he would dish over the $200. The public in would pocket $100 of it and turn the $100 into the government that the government required. In other words, you really could not have much of a conscience. And be a tax uh be a tax conductor, be this publican. You could not have much of a conf uh a conscience. You're gonna be stealing from people, you're gonna be overcharging them and keeping the dis uh the difference In Luke chapter 3, verse 12 and 15, we won't turn there, but here you have John the Baptist, and he is rebuking The Pharisees, the publicans, he's rebuking them for ripping off the people. He says, don't charge more than what is right. Remember Zacchaeus? How many people are familiar with the story of Zacchaeus? Zacchaeus was just a wee little man. And a wee little man was he. I can't say his name without singing that song. Zacchaeus was a publican. He was a tax collector. He was a sinner. The lowest form. The Jews hated the publicans, especially if that publican was Jewish. He was considered a traitor of the lowest form. Zacchaeus heard about the Lord Jesus Christ. He had heard that there was a Messiah, that Christ was come. Zacchaeus went to hear him, and of course, being a wee little man, he had to climb up a sycamore tree for the Lord he wanted to see. And as the Lord passed that way, he looked up in the tree. And he said, Zacchaeus, you come down from going to your house today. Zacchaeus got saved. Publican, no conscience, stealing from the poorest of God's people. And he got under conviction, he saw the Savior, he got in conviction, he got saved. He went back, he made a feast to the Lord Jesus Christ. And he made a profound statement. He said, Everyone that I've overcharged, I will pay them back fourfold. What Zacchaeus was saying, he was admitting what everyone knew the Pharisees would do. He was stealing from people coming by. I'm glad when God saves a thief, he makes them honest. When God saves a drunkard, he makes them sober. When God saves the immoral person, he makes them moral. But God loves that immoral person. God loves that drunkard. God loves that thief. He wants to save them. So publicans were very corrupt people. They were hated by the populace. They were despised. You could not have much of a conscience and be a successful publican. And these guys are coming to hear the Lord Jesus Christ. They're drawing nigh to him. Dishonest and corrupt and hated by the Jews. And then it says, drew nigh unto him all the publicans and sinners. For to hear them. Now, you say, well, sinners, everybody's a sinner, that's true, but this word here is interesting. It has this idea when it says the publicans and sinners, it has this idea, one who is devoted to sin. Another definition I found said this: one who is especially wicked. This is not your run-of-the-mill sinner. This is somebody, listen, we all sinned. How many folks here you've sinned and you hated? So man, why did I say that? Ah, can I get a witness? Amen. That's not this crowd. These are people who are devoted to sin. They sin and they like it. They're after it. They're out looking for it. They're especially wicked. And these are people that you get down to McDonald's or you're somewhere and they look and you just everything about them says sin. Wickedness, sensuality, perversion. And they're coming to Jesus Christ. With all their attire and the the the the appearance that goes with that lifestyle and the attitude and the countenance The emptiness and the hardness that goes with that type of life. And these people are coming to Jesus Christ. So, do you see the crowd that's gathered around Jesus These are wicked people by anybody's standards. These are misfits and moral outcasts. And they're attracted to Jesus Christ. And notice what it says here, for to hear him. Not only were they attracted to Jesus Christ, but that phrase Portahiram had this idea to be extremely attentive to. They wanted to hear what Jesus had to say. He had something they were interested in He had something that appealed to the depths of their heart that prompted them to come out and hear what Jesus Christ had to say. The sinners, the sinners. Jesus had something that these sinners desperately needed. And I want to say today, Jesus Christ still has something that sinners in our world desperately need today. And I believe as we as a church, and you and I as individual Christians, if we will exalt Jesus, if we will present the biblical Jesus If we will present to this world of sinners Jesus Christ to him what he is, they will see something in him that they desperately need. See, this is what I'm trying to say. The gospel is not about you and I. The ministry is not about you and I. Serving the Lord is not about you and I. It is about Jesus Christ. Sinners need Jesus. Something drew these misfits to Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. So the one crowd we have in verse 1 and 2 that sets up the three parables The one crowd we have are the sinners, publicans and sinners. The second crowd we have here are what I'm referring to as the self-righteous. This is verse number two. And the Pharisees and the scribes murmured, saying, This man receiveth these sinners. He eats with them and eateth with them. Now, who are the Pharisees? We hear talk about Pharisees, we hear that, but who exactly are they? Well, the Pharisees were the religious leaders in the Jewish economy. They were the ones that in many ways were the teaching, the Word of God, and they represented, and they were, at least in their minds, and They had convinced the population that they were the representatives of what God expected in a person. You want to see what God wants you to be? Look at me. You want to see what a righteous man looks like? Look to me. You want to see somebody that is absolutely everything God wants? You look at me. That was what the Pharisees viewed themselves. And they had convinced the population, the Jewish people, that that was the case. And so these Pharisees show up, and if you want to characterize them, they were extremely proud. They were extremely self-righteous. You find, I think it's in Luke chapter 18, you have Jesus telling an event where a Pharisee goes up to the temple to pray, and a sinner, a publican, is with him. And to see the contrast, the Pharisee says, Lord, I thank you that I'm not like this sinner. I tithe and I give and all of this. I'm not like him. That was the attitude of the Pharisees. I am better than you. I am more righteous than you. I am more godly than you. I am what God expects And you are not. Now, just to contrast that, the publican wouldn't even lift up his eyes and just smote his breast and said, God, be merciful. to me a sinner. He was agreeing with the Pharisee about himself. You're right. I'm not righteous. You know who went down justified? The publican. His attitude made the difference. So you have these Pharisees showing up to Jesus Christ, very proud, very self-righteous. They had a what we would call a holier-than-thou attitude. Um they uh uh they prayed themselves. But here's the thing they hated They hated the Lord Jesus Christ. They hated him to the point they were willing to kill him. Willing to lie, make false accusations, and have them murdered. Pharisees. So they show up. There's another group here The Pharisees and the scribes. It's interesting you find these two birds uh together quite a bit. What's the old saying? Birds of a feather The scribes had a very similar attitude. They were on the same page with the Pharisees. The scribes had a little more specific responsibility. They were what was considered the custodians of the law. They were the teachers of the law. You want to know what God expects, then you come see us. You don't study the law for yourself. You couldn't understand it. It's so deep. It's so far beyond what you would be able to understand. You have to come to me, and I will tell you what God's law is. That was their attitude. We are the scribes. We are the authorities. They were very, very proud. I'm telling you one thing, religion will make people proud. Religion makes people proud. Biblical Christianity humbles people. Religion Makes people proud. Listen, uh we we try to emphasize this. We do not consider ourselves here religious people. We consider ourselves sinners saved by the grace of Almighty God The scribes missed that. They were very proud. The Pharisees missed that. They were very proud. We are righteous. We are the authority. We are holier than thou. Here's one thing the scribes were prone to do. The scribes would teach the law, and many times they were pretty accurate on what they taught, but they were prone to do this. They would add in their own interpretation as if it was the law itself. They would add in their own opinion about what the law said as if it was the law itself. And so, if uh just your average Jew out there listening to the scribes, you would be hard-pressed to be able to discern between what God actually said and what these guys thought About what God said. And they would mix the two together. We're studying the Sermon on the Mount on Wednesday nights, and we're in a section on it now where Jesus says six times, he makes this statement, you have heard that it hath been said. If you've been in on a Wednesday night service, you know what we're talking about. Jesus is addressing the scribes and Pharisees' interpretation of what God said rather than what God said. You heard that it had been said of old. That's the scribes. They're the ones doing this. Well, I think it's And they put that on equal with the law. So you have these sinners. I mean, they're not just run-of-the-mill-mill sinners showing up at Jesus Christ. These are hardcore sinners. The publicans, they have no conscience. They can steal. They can lie without batting an eye. These sinners, they were devoted to living in sin, violating God's law, living for themselves. They're coming to Jesus Christ. They're attracted to Jesus Christ. Then you have the self-righteous. They're over here. Well, we don't live the way we do. We are righteous. We're what everything God expects from mankind. We are holy. They're not holy. We're righteous. They're not righteous. And these scribes and Pharisees, look what they're doing. They're not coming to Jesus Christ to hear what he has to say. They're coming to Jesus Christ to criticize cr What he has the say and what he's doing. In other words, they're not coming to church, so God helps them be a better Christian They're coming to church to criticize what the others are doing. Watch it. They're not coming with a humble attitude and submissive before the Lord and say, Lord, speak to my heart. You know what the truth of the matter is? These Pharisees and scribes were just as sinful as the publicans and sinners. It just expressed itself in different ways. But their attitude is completely different. Their attitude is completely different. Notice it says, the Pharisees and scribes, what'd they do? Murmured. Murmur. That's an interesting word. It's used all through Scripture. The word murmur means to express discontent. It has this one definition I found said it put it this way, mumbled criticism. Well, Jesus, look at that. Look at he looked who he's talking about to. Yeah, I th he thinks he's some kind of Christ. Yeah, he ain't no Christ. You know what? I saw him talking to some sinner. What you're kidding? No, really? He's talking to sinner No way. I would never talk to a sinner. I'd never do that. You'll never see me talking to no publican. Oh yeah, well Jesus, you've got to be gentle. Can't believe it Murmuring, murmuring, murmuring, criticism, mumbled criticism. I studied the Bible in this very carefully. You know the only people I can find in the Bible murmuring are self-righteous people. Not one time have I found Jesus Christ murmuring. Not one time. Listen, nobody in the universe is holier than Jesus. If anybody has a right to murmur and criticize and complain about others, it's Jesus Christ. And not one time do we find Jesus Christ doing that. Who do these Pharisees think they are? Nobody is holier than Jesus, and nobody loves sinners more than Jesus. Nobody was more godly than Jesus Christ, and nobody was more compassionate to the ungodly than Jesus Christ. And they murmured. I studied all through scripture. The only people I can find murmuring are self-righteous. Self-righteous. Go to the Old Testament, you find the Jews murmuring against Moses. Moses was doing exactly what God was directing him to do. And they murmured, they criticized. We know better. He's wrong. We're right. And in doing so, they were actually murmuring against who? God. God. Nowhere do I find godly, humble people in the Bible murmuring about others. Never find the Lord. You never find those that are, as I said, humble and godly. The very thing, this is what caught my attention. In verse 1 and 2, the very thing that attracted the sinners to Jesus Christ, his love and concern, was the same thing that repelled the self-righteous. Self-righteous. So we have the sinners, publican sinners. I mean, these guys are bad news. They're sinners. No doubt about it. Everybody's standard. By anybody's standard, these guys are sinners. They're attracted to Jesus Christ. He has something they need. Then you have the self-righteous. They're repelled. They criticize him to the point they want to eliminate Jesus. They want to have him out of the picture. And then you have, last of all, the Savior. The Savior. I made this statement earlier. I want to make it again. Jesus never turned someone away because they were too sinful. Never turn someone away. Years ago, uh I hope you don't I don't want to be unkind. I really don't I was knocking on doors here in town. It's a the place doesn't exist anymore, but I was knocking on doors and uh going door to door and I'd witness people, I'm pastoral, I mean, hey, uh from the Mount Lake Bad, hey, uh Or leave a little gospel track. Oh, thanks. You go to church anywhere? Oh no. And I'd try and witness people. I'd go through my little spiel. I'd go next door and as a little kind of a r ratty apartment area and I knock to the next one. And this guy comes through and he's got hair down to his waist, greasy as it can be. Um Tattoos all over, I mean rock and roll blaring, pot smoke coming out, and just, you know, he was just a mess And uh I said, hey man, I'm Pastor Leatherman from the Mount Lake Baptist Church, and I leave a little gospel track with you. It tells how you know for sure. He says, I'm an ambassador for the Antichrist. I said, really? He goes, yeah. I said, okay. I said, well tell you what, Mr. Ambassador He was being serious. I said, God loves you very much. He died on the cross for you, and if you'll accept Jesus Christ as Savior, and he led off a tirade of cussing and everything And um uh I said, okay, well I left the gospel track and went on, but I tried to tell him we got saved. And uh later I got back and I told some of the folks here, we got back from the case, told them what happened And I said, you know, I got thinking about it. I think the Antichrist can come up with a little bit better ambassador than that. He's not going to win a lot of people over to the Antichrist like that. I don't know why I'm telling that story. I just thought of it. But you know what I'm saying? We have a Savior that loves even the ambassador for the Antichrist. As messed up as that guy was, the demented thinking, the failure of reasoning in his mind. But there's Jesus is a Savior that loved him enough to suffer hell in his place, take responsibility for all his blasphemy And take that and Jesus says, I'll be responsible for what this man has done. Judge me in his place. And Jesus Christ died and suffered hell. I wish I could tell you the old ambassador got saved. I don't know that I ever saw him again. But we have a savior that never turns anyone away because they're too sinful. That fella If he'd have humbled himself and called on the Lord Jesus Christ to trust him as his Savior, Jesus would never have said, oh, no, no, no, you're too much of a sinner. I'm not going to save you. Our Savior would say something like this, you want to be saved? Oh no, you think you're too righteous. You can't be saved until you see yourself as an ungodly sinner. You see, Jesus didn't come to call the righteous to repentance. He came to call what? Sinners to repentance. Sinners to repentance. Over and over and over through the Bible. Jesus Christ invites sinners to approach him. He invites sinners to come and trust him. He receives sinful people. Jesus receives the outcast. Jesus receives the misfits. You know what this world does to outcasts? Cast them out. Uses them, destroys them. You know what the devil does to sinners? The devil doesn't honor those who are in sin. The devil doesn't honor those who blaspheme Jesus Christ. The devil doesn't honor those who uh disobey God and give their lives to sin. The devil doesn't bless them and honor them. He destroys them and drags them to hell. But our Savior loves the misfits. He loves the sinners. He loves the outcasts. He calls them to himself, invites them to me. He says, I have what you need. I am what you need. Forgiveness and salvation, plan and purpose in your life, a new heart, a new nature. That's our Savior. That's our Savior. Jesus receives the sinner just as they are. Aren't you glad? But he never leaves the sinner just as they are. He changes them. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away, all things are become new. I'm glad Jesus receives sinners. And I'm glad Jesus transforms sinners. So we have the sinners here. We have the self-righteous and we have the Savior. Jesus is presented in the Bible as a mediator. There's one mediator between God and man, and it ain't the Pope. It's one mediator between God and man, the man, Christ Jesus. What does a mediator do? A mediator takes one party in one hand. He takes the other party in the other hand, and he brings the two together. Jesus Christ is our mediator. Our God is a holy God. Amen? Holy, without sin, can't even look on sin. Mankind is nothing but sin. Even our righteousness are as filthy rags compared to God's holiness. We've all fallen short of His glory. We don't even come close. But Jesus Christ the Savior is the mediator, and he takes that old cussing, dirty-minded, filthy-hearted sinner in one hand. He takes the holiness of God. He brings the two together. Brings the two together. That's our Savior. He doesn't drive the sinner away. He doesn't say, no, you're not good enough. In fact, he says to the Pharisees, you think you're too good. You need to see what you really are. You need to see what you really are. He's our mediator. He stands between the holy God and sinful man And he brings the two together. I'm concerned, and and I I trust that we're okay on this, but I am concerned that we not get a holier than thou attitude towards a people that are lost in sin. Would you agree with me? Our society is becoming more wicked all the time. Would you how many folks here feel like I do? I feel less at home in this world with every passing day. I feel like I don't fit in. This world is not my home. It's just getting so ungodly. And God saved me out of that. I don't want that. But we have to be very, very careful. That we don't get an attitude, these unwicked people out there and they're aborting their babies and they're sodomites and all that. We have to get very, very careful that we don't forget that God loves them dearly. If they will come to him, he can forgive them and save them and give them a new life. And give them plan, give them purpose in life and a and a reason to live and fulfillment in their heart. All that sin does for the publicans and sinners, all it does is leave them empty and dead And on their way to a devil's hell for all eternity. That's all it does for them. But Jesus Christ receives them and gives them eternal life. Isn't that great? I'm glad we have a Savior that loves sinners. I'm glad He has given you and I the tremendous responsibility of like the shepherd that had the lost sheep going out and finding them Like the woman that lost the coin seeking till I find it. Like the father that has a lost son praying and looking and watching and waiting for him to come back. Thursday night I was in town here and we had paired up to go out visiting and as sometimes happens I I was by myself. And um so I went a little apartment area and I just went door to door knocking it at you know now it's 7 o'clock, 7. 15, it's starting to get pretty dark, it was raining, it was just a yucky night And I in the back of my mind I thought, well, if I get to talk to someone, it'd be great. I don't know. I don't even know if they'll answer the door. Lo and behold, about every door I went to, folks answer. Very nice. I met a boy that attended here years ago when he was little. He's away from the Lord. I talked to him a little bit, got to pray with him, not to be saved, but just pray God would help him. It's just a good visit. I came to one door, and there's a couple that weren't real interesting. And I knocked on one door. I heard shuffling around in there, and the door opened, and the lady was in a wheelchair It was obviously it was very poor and unkept home. And uh she came and she goes, Would you like to come in? I said, No, I'll just stand here at the door. This is fine. We talked a little bit. I introduced who I was. She was in the wheelchair. And finally we talked a little and I said, let me ask you a question. I said, do you know for sure that when you die your sins are forgiven, you're going to heaven? She goes, well, I hope so. I said, yeah, everybody everybody hopes they're going to heaven. Nobody in their right mind wants to go to hell. She goes, no, I don't want to go to hell. I said, well, if you don't mind, can I take just a moment and show you from the Bible how you can know for sure when you die, you're going to heaven? She goes, I would like that very much. I like to read the Bible, she said. So I knelt down beside her wheelchair there in the doorway and I went through the plan of salvation with her and she was right on board with me. Yes, I agree with that. Yes, I know that Finally came to point I said, ma'am, and I said her name and I said, you know, Jesus died on that cross for us just to write the way we are with all our sin and all our failure and all our shortcomings. He loved us And I said, would you, because he did that, would you be willing to call on him and trust him as your own Savior? She said, yes, I would like that very much. She bowed her head and prayed with me to accept Jesus Christ as Savior. I wrote her name in the back of my Bible. I told her I'd pray for her. I sent her a little letter and told her I was glad to visit with her. I'll go back and visit her this week. We talked a little bit and I tried to give her some assurance and I prayed with her again and but we got talking and she made this statement. This is why I'm telling this story She says, you know, and in so many words, I'm putting in my own words, she said, you know, my church believes and preaches the gospel. And she told me what church she goes to, and it's probably true to some extent. My church believes and preaches the gospel. She said, my church and folks there, they understand the importance of being saved. But nobody ever told me how to be saved. We talk about being saved. We talk about the gospel. But never, anybody never showed me how to trust Jesus as my Savior and to know that when I die, I go to heaven, not to hell. I walked away from there. I was glad she got saved, but I was sad that that is true. Sad that that's true. I wonder how many people in churches across our land know the gospel Believe it's important, but have never personally accepted Jesus Christ as their Savior. Wouldn't that be sad, die and go to hell? Knowing what was right, but never accepting it and receiving it. I'm glad Rita trusted Jesus as her Savior. You pray for her. And what about you and I? Do you know Jesus Christ as your own personal Savior? You might know all about him. You might know about the gospel if you've never trusted Christ. And Christ alone. That's what you need to do. Now, what about those of us that have that settled and we know we're saved? Every one of us rub shoulders with people who need Christ every single day of the week. They need what Christ did for you and I. They need to trust Christ. They need the Christian to witness to them. We're not holier than them. Hey The members of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church that know Jesus Christ's neighbor, we are not holier than anybody. We are sinners. Paul said, I am the chief of sinners. We are just as ungodly as the most wicked person you can find. But the only difference is we found Jesus and He saved us and forgave us and gave us new life. And that's what they need. And I want to challenge us this coming week. Get you a handful of gospel tracts. Determine in your heart. I'm going to be a witness. I want to share Christ with those around. And I tell you, if we do it right, if we do it in the Spirit of God, we do it with the right attitude, filled with the Spirit, I'm telling you, sinners will listen to us. Because Jesus Christ is exactly what they need. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. Help us, Lord, to be a testimony, a witness to old lost sinner. Wicked, ungodly people that need Jesus Christ. God help us not to have the attitude of the scribes and Pharisees. Lord, help us to humbly realize That we're just as sinful, we're just a wicked heart, and they need Jesus just as much as we did. And help us to humbly feel faithfully, clearly share the gospel with others. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many this morning would say, Preacher, I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. Christ has saved me. I've got that settled. But I know someone that's lost I know someone that needs Jesus Christ. I'm not trying to be judgmental, but I know they need Christ. And you say, preacher, pray for me that I will be that witness, that I will be that testimony That they need so that they can come to Christ. Is there any like that? Preacher, I know someone. Particularly, specifically, I know someone that needs Jesus Christ. God bless you, hands all around. Now here's the question. It's one thing to know about. It's another thing to say, hey, I'm going to make a difference. I'm going to be that witness. I'm going to speak up. I'm going to open my mouth. I'm going to share the gospel with them. I'm telling you, God can use every single one of us. It's Jesus that does the saving. We just speak up for him. How many would say, preacher, with all my heart, by God's grace this coming week, I want to share the gospel with somebody. And you say, I know someone in particular, but this is a little different. I want to witness To somebody this week, whoever it may be, I want God to use me to be a witness to somebody this week. How about it? And you like that uplifted hand Now here's what I want to challenge you to do. We finish up at the altar here. Why don't you come to the altar and say, Here I am, God, I want to give myself to you. I want you to take me and use me this week that some sinner can come to Christ as Savior. That's my prayer. I want to challenge every one of us that know Christ. Make that our prayer this morning. I think at an old-fashioned order is a good place to say, God, take me and use me to bring someone to Christ. One last question. If there's someone here this morning to say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven. I know all about Jesus, I know all about that stuff, but in my heart, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven and not to hell. And you say, I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven. You'd say, Preacher, pray for me. I need to be saved. I need Christ. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. God bless you. How about it? Any others? Preacher, I need Jesus Christ. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven. How about it? Any others join this one? How about it? Now, Father in heaven, hands are raised all across here for various reasons. You know our hearts Now I pray you'd help us to act upon that which we know we need in our lives, whether it's to be a witness, boldness, whether it's to be saved, help us to act on that now in Jesus' name. Let's stand together.