First Peter chapter one. We're working our way through the book of First Peter. We're gonna look at verse number twenty two tonight. And uh I've enjoyed being in the church house today with God's people. What a blessing. I just love it. And uh Uh glad you can be a part of it. Uh y uh somebody said, if you love someone, set them free. If they come back, it means nobody else liked them, so set them free again. We're going to kind of talk about that tonight. Our verse does. Talks about loving folks. Verse number 22, 1 Peter 1, verse 22. Notice what the Bible says. Seeing ye have purified your souls in obeying the truth through the Spirit unto unfeigned love of the brethren. Now look what he says. See that ye love one another with a pure heart fervently. I've entitled the message Loving One Another. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for the opportunity to be in your house on a Sunday night You sure blessed us today, and my heart's full. Grateful for answered prayers today. I'm grateful for encouragement and fellowship and Lord, you've challenged me through your word. Singing's been encouragement to me. I pray as we finish out this Lord's Day, we start a new week That you prepare our hearts, and uh I pray you'd speak to our spirit and our soul, Lord, and uh help us to be strong in the Lord and to be a good effective witness for the gospel. And so we need your word and your Holy Spirit for that to happen. So I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. Lord, all my heart, again, I ask you to fill me with your Spirit And speak to us and challenge us. In Jesus' name, Amen. Years ago I memorized a little poem. It goes like this to live above with the saints we love, all that will be glory. But to live below with the saints we know, now that's another story Fact of the matter is, one of the sad realities of life is that people have a difficult time getting along. We really do. Um in the workplace, sometimes people have a tough time getting along. Uh in our communities In uh in Washington, D. C. , people have a hard time getting along. Um this is this is tragic uh many times in our homes And in our homes, people have a hard time getting along. Husband and wife, mom and dad, the kids, brothers and sisters. Hard time getting along. And even here's just as tragic as that. Many times in our churches, people have a hard time getting along. And I'm telling you, that is not right. That is not right. That's not the way God intends for it to be for his people at each other and hard feelings. I mentioned, I think it was in the message this morning years ago, lady and I laugh about it now. At the time it was it was a disturbing But a lady said to me, we were in conversation and somebody's name came up, and again I mentioned this this morning, but boy, she crossed her arms and kind of huffed and she said, we are not on speaking terms And you know, I thought I was thinking about that this afternoon as I came to mind from preaching this morning, and I thought, how that attitude so grieves the Holy Spirit of God. And his people, his how many people, how many parents here it bothers you when your kids aren't getting along? Doesn't that grieve you And God is our Heavenly Father. We're His children. And uh it's tragic that so many times Christians have a hard time getting along. Um Been around for a little while, I've seen some things. Many church splits and many ministries that fall apart often it is not because some false doctrine came in. And often it's not because some gross sin happened. Now that does happen, don't misunderstand, that does happen too often. But a lot of times a church split or a ministry Marriage will fail. It will go their separate ways. There's our feelings. Not because of some doctrine and even in the home, not always necessarily because of infidelity. It just can't get along, can't get along, can't get along. And that's a tragic thing that a ministry where people are saved and and and destinies, people are saved from hell And find eternal life and find new life. And something like that's destroyed for no other reason than because Christians can't love each other. Can't love each other. Peter is addressing these persecuted believers, and they're going through it like nothing you and I have ever experienced. They're suffering persecution. And the first twelve verses, as we mentioned just about every time, the first twelve verses, he's writing to encourage them in the midst of their persecution. He makes tremendous statements, very encouraging uh truths he shares with them that helps them a lot, no doubt. Then we get to verse number uh 13 down through the end of the chapter, and there he's exhorting them He's challenging them to do two things in particular. Number one, verse 13 down through 21, he's encouraging them, exhorting them to live holy lives. He says, God says, be ye holy, for I am holy. The concept of holiness is almost uh uh uh uh unknown in much of Christianity. But our God is a holy God. And He requires of us, He expects of us, He instructs us to live holy lives, not dirty, sinful Selfish lives, holy lives, pure and godly. And so he exhorts them to do that. Now we get to verse 22, and he exhorts them to not just live holy lives, but to live in harmony. Do you catch that there? Seeing you have purified your souls and obeying the truth of the Spirit unto unfeigned love of the brethren. See that you love one another with a pure heart fervently. It's writing to these persecuted believers. I I wonder and I can't say this depthly, I'm just kind of surmising from reading and studying this I wonder if he's a little concerned that in the midst of their persecution it gets overwhelming they start sniffing at one another. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Get a little snippy with each other. Uh sometimes. Uh sometimes before uh you go on vacation or something, you scramble around trying to get everything And uh and you get a little short. Anybody here can uh can y'all look at me so pious like we never do. Bunch of liars. But um And I wonder in the midst of this persecution, in the midst, I call it friendly fire. Sometimes, you know, Bible time's going on and man, we're running around, we're busy. And we got this and we got a pretty well oiled machine here now, but you know, sometimes stuff is going on and uh man you kinda step on each other's toes a little bit and a little snip there and I call it friendly fire. We don't mean anything, we don't mean to be unkind, we're just intense. You you follow what I'm saying? And I'm wondering if Peter isn't concerned for these believers that are under such intense persecution that um uh that they don't lose their love for each other. Sometimes when we're hurting, sometimes when we're scared, we begin, we tend to get a self-focus. You can get selfish. And he's addressing that, I believe. I believe this might be part of why he's writing this here now. But he's addressing them, and he wants them to live in harmony, brotherly love, love one another. Spiritual maturity includes the ability to be two things. One, I must be unflinching in my doctrine. How many people agree with me? Mount Lake and Battle Baptist Church ought to be unflinching in our doctrinal position. Amen. We stick to that book. We are unflinching on the fact that the King James Bible is God's word. We're unflinching on that. We're not going to move. We're not going to change. We ought to be unflinching on our standards We live in a day when church standards are changing and changing and changing. And I've tried, I maybe changed a little bit in my approach and my presentation of standards But I'd like to believe that the standards I believe God taught me back when my college days and early in my Christian life, I like to still hold to them. I still believe certain things are right and certain things are wrong I still believe the Bible teaches some things ought to be done one way certain ways and other things ought not to be done at all. Standards, biblical. And so spiritual maturity involves, first of all, being unflinching in my doctrinal position and what that book teaches. We are not going to budge, we are not going to move, that's the truth. We plant our feet on it. Now, the other side of that, spiritual maturity, involves not just unflinching position in our doctrine, but unconditional love for one another. Unconditional love for one another. You see, those two things are not mutually exclusive. It is possible to be wholly and hold to the strongly to the Word of God and yet be nice about it. Shocking. But we can be holy, but we can also live in harmony. Being sober-minded, like he said up there earlier in verse 13, gird up the loins of your mind, be sober-minded. You can be sober-minded and holy and yet be loving and have a tender heart and be kind and gracious. A balance of holiness and love. We tend to go to extremes. This has been my fluctuation over the years. I like to think I got it calmed down a little bit, got more of an even keel here But boy, I get studying the Bible about holiness and righteousness, and I get worked up about sin and uh holiness and man I'd just be mad at everybody. They're sinning and they're not And uh I'd just be miserable. I'd be h you couldn't get along because I'm all worked up about the holiness of God and we're so simple. And then God worked me over about that and I I gotta be nice about this and I gotta calm down a little bit and then I I get lovey dovey and I just love everybody and everything. Oh that don't matter. They tend that's not that bad And then God convicts me about that, and I go back over here. We gotta be holy. And uh I think the Lord's trying to help me get settled down. I can be holy and loving I can be I can have good strong convictions and yet still be tenderhearted and care about people. And we have a tendency to have these two extremes. Sometimes Uh sometimes the liberals and the contemporary folk, they uh they they've they've got this reputation that they they're the ones that love Oh, those independent fundamental Baptists, they're all sin, every preach on sin all the time, and they just hate everybody and they're they wear black Bibles and black suits and oh they're terrible. They're holy And all the liberals, oh, we love everybody, we're love. But Peter's writing to them and saying, listen, you need to be holy, because God is holy. You need to have a sober mind. You can't tolerate sin. It must be dealt with. But at the same time, you've got to be able to love people. You've got to be able to care about people. I like Romans 5. 8. What a tremendous verse. God commendeth his love toward us, that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. That's holiness. We're sinners. God. But he died for us. That's love. Compassion And Peter's writing to them, and he's challenging them on this matter of holiness, but also living in harmony. And he's trying to bring those two together, I think. And that we can be holy and we can be right and we can stand against sinful things in our own lives and in society, our church. But at the same time, love people And so he gives here, verse 22, real quickly, I want to give these. He gives what I see here, the ingredients of biblical love. Brotherly love. The first thing I noticed, and this is my first word, the one ingredient of it. The first ingredient is sanctification. Now, there's a big one for you. We talk about that sometimes. Look at verse 22, the first part. He says, seeing you have purified your souls in obeying the truth through the Spirit. That word purifying, he says purifying your souls. That word purifying means to simply cleanse, to remove the impurities from They would use that term when they in the Old Testament, when they have wood furniture, they would have furniture or a candlestick. What would you call a candlestick? It wouldn't be furniture, it would be What would that be? It would be what? Decor. And so it's actually functional in the temple, in the in the tabernacle. But they were going to, you know, they would design uh the candlestick there, and they would cleanse it. They would purify the candlestick. Now a candlestick doesn't have sin. You understand, right? Inanimate objects can't sit. But they would purify it. And they would, of course, make sure it's clean. And they would sprinkle blood on the hello process they went through to pure. It was ceremonial. It was representative. And so he's talking here about the fact that we purify our souls. Now, when we trust Jesus Christ as Savior, He forgives our sins, He cleanses us from sin. And that, in doing that, sets us apart just like that, just like that candlestick in the tabernacle is pure ceremonially purified. For the service of the tabernacle, when God saves us, he purifies our souls, it's for the idea of us setting apart to serve the Lord. God expects all Christians to be dedicated to Him And so the purifying our soul, I think, is uh kind of rep uh uh terminology used in sanctifying, setting ourselves apart to the Lord. And so, uh, how do I you say, I thought you're talking about loving the brethren. Why are you talking about sanctification and ceremonial purification? What in the world is all that about? Um, basically, what he's saying is this. Let me boil it down. What he's saying is this. If I'm going to be able to love others the way I'm supposed to love, I've got to get my heart and soul right. I need to get things right in my own life. We touched on this again this morning. He says, seeing ye have purified your souls. How? In obeying the truth through the Spirit. Obeying the truth, obeying God's word, following God's instructions. How does an unsaved person be purified of their sin in God's judgment? By how? Doing what the Bible says, trusting Jesus as Savior, right? How does somebody who's been saved, how do I grow in that? How do I develop, become more dedicated to the Lord and walk closer to the Lord? How do I do that? By following God's instructions. I tell you this, a Christian that doesn't follow God's instructions in his word is not a growing Christian. And if I'm not a growing Christian, if I have things in my life that are not pleasing the Lord It's going to be very, very difficult for me to love my brother like I should. Take your Bible, if you would, real quickly with me and turn to the first book of the New Testament, Matthew. Turn over there. I want you to see this first. Matthew and chapter number 24, the Lord is describing conditions primarily during the tribulation period, what it's going to be like just before his return to planet Earth. Visible return. He's describing conditions there, and when he gets down to verse number 12, he makes a statement that is true across all ages. Matthew chapter 24, and look with me if you would at verse number 12. He says, and because iniquity shall abound, What's what's the what happens when iniquity shall abound? What happens? The love of many wax wax wax cold You know what that's telling me? Sin kills love. Sin is a love killer. And Peter is saying here, he says, listen, before you can ever show brotherly love, before you can love your brothers and sisters, your husband, wife, kids, parents, neighbors, co-worker. Before you can love others like he instructs us to, we must be purified by obeying the truth We've got to be right. We've got to get right with God. When we obey the gospel, when we follow God's instructions, we are purified, and God's love, it's possible for us to love like we should. Let me show you one more verse real quick. Romans. Fair narrow with me. Not one more verse, one more passage. Romans chapter 5. I hope you can follow along what I'm trying to say here. What I think he's teaching when he says, seeing you have purified your souls and obeying the truth, in Romans chapter 5, look at verse number 1. He says, Therefore, being justified by faith. In other words, you could, he's kind of touching on, you you're purified. You've been justified before God Through faith in Jesus Christ, your sins have all been forgiven, and in God's sight, you are as justified as Jesus Christ, just as if I'd never sinned. My soul's been purified. Through obeying the word, I put my faith in Christ. Then he goes on, he says through our Lord Jesus Christ, then he goes on and describes what happens when when that takes place. He says we have access by faith, verse 1 Verse 3 says, knowing that tribulation worketh patience, patience, verse 4. And you come down to verse 5 and look at the result. Of verse number one. And hope maketh not ashamed. Look at this. Because the love of God is shed abroad in your hearts by the Holy Ghost, which is given to us. What I'm trying to say is this. We trust Jesus Christ as Savior, and we get serious about living for God. We get serious about walking with God. We get serious about dealing with sin in our life. We get serious about following God's instructions and doing what the Bible says. That sets us up. That puts us in a position where I'll be able to love others like I should. Because when I have that sin and disobedience and that impurity in my life, it it hinders my ability to love the way God wants me to love How many people would agree with me? It seems like there's a whole lot more sin in this world than there was before, at least in our society and community. Would you agree with me? Seems like there's a whole lot less love In our world than it used to be. And I've seen it, I've seen it, I've seen it. Somebody let some sin come into a home Somebody uh lets down their guard, lowers their standard, does something they wouldn't normally wouldn't have done years ago and they allow it, and that comes in, and I've seen it, I've seen it, I've seen it The love in that home wilts and withers. I've seen it in churches. Churches change and allow sin and different things. And man, that love just withers. So if we're gonna if we're gonna love each other as God designed us to and God instructs us to, it begins by sanctification. It begins by Saying, hey, I've got to deal with this. I've got to get these things right so that I'm in a condition where the Holy Spirit can shed his love abroad in my life. I can love people like I should So that's where it begins. Then that produces my second thought from this is a first is sanctification. Number two is sincerity. Look at verse, come back here with me if you would, Peter. Seeing you have purified your souls and obeying the truth through the Spirit, look at this, unto unfeigned love of the brethren. That word unfeigned means this. It means sincere, not a show. If something is feigned, it means they're putting on, they're faking it. Um usually it means if if somebody if somebody is if somebody's talking lovey dovey Alright, somebody's putting on love. They're faking it. They're making a show of love. They usually have, what are their motives usually They want some selfish motives, right? Now I don't mean to pick them. They're not all this way, but they we think of them this way. Use car salesmen Oh man, man, you're the best looking guy. Man, you and I be buddies. You are something else. And man, they'll pour it on. Next thing you know, I'm the greatest thing in the world He could care less about you. He wants what's in your wallet. He wants to sell that. That's fame that love. Bring it home a little bit. Young man sees a young lady and where she catches his eye. And he pours it on. And he makes her think she's the most important thing in the world. He makes her think he loves her more than anybody else that this guy loves me. Pastor Matt can tell you I've seen it so many times. That guy's feigning love. He's telling her what she wants to hear, and he's telling her, making her think that she's something. And then he gets what he wants. Her life is destroyed. He walks away. Walks away. And he's saying to us, when our heart is right, when we have purified our soul and obey the word of God through the Spirit, Then we are able to unfeign, we can love other people, not with a selfish love, not this phony so I can see what I get out of it. But of a love for the brethren. Now, there's some interesting words he uses here. And um uh uh he says uh oh I put this down, I don't know where I got this quote somewhere. Smooth words that come from a hard heart. That's faint love. But he says, look, he says, uh Obeying the truth through the Spirit unto unfeigned love of the brethren. That phrase love of the brethren comes from one word. It's a translation from one word. Anyone want to guess what that word is? Love of the brethren. It's the town I grew up in. Philadelphia, the city of brotherly shove. The word means brotherly love. It's Philadelphia, is the same word it comes from. It means to love another person the way I would like for them to love me. Philadelphia love. It's a little bit of a conditional love. It's different than another word we're going to see here. But when I get my heart right and I'm I'm sanctified, I'm separated from the Lord, I've dealt with, I'm following God's word as best I can, trying to do right and be right. You know, be humble before the Lord and live for Him. Then God says, then don't put on some show. You're able to genuinely love others like you would love yourself, like you love yourself I love them the way I would want them to love me. Do you agree with me? This world would be a much better world if folks would love people the way they wanted people to love them. We treated people the way we'd want them to treat us. I tell you what, it would solve the rioting in our cities. Men and on. I tell you, it would shut down a bunch of this nonsense going on in politics I tell you what, there'd be a lot of churches still united serving God, seeing soul saved. We get deal with the sin, get the sin out, and then just love people the way we love, treat people the way we want to be treated. It's called the what? Golden rule. Jesus touched on it. And so there's a progression here. Alright, God said, uh, you know, I want to be holy, like God is holy, but I gotta love people, so I gotta get that sin out and get holy. I purified my souls. I'm I'm trying to do that. And I gotta start loving people uh sincerely, a sincere love. Then the last one is this. Notice what he says. There's a progression here, I think Seeing you have purified your souls and obeying the truth of the Spirit unto unfeigned love of the brethren. Then he says this, all right now, see that ye love one another with a pure heart fervently Fervently. Now he uses a different word for the word love here. The word English word love is used twice, but they come from two different words. Love uh unfeigned love of the brethren, Philadelphia. Love you the way I'd like for you to love me, treat you the way I'd like for you to treat me. Now he says, now if you got that in place. Step it up a notch. See that you love one another. The word love there is agape love. I mean people are familiar with that term That's the term it's used in John 3. 16, for God so loved the world unconditionally. This whole world very lovely? No, but God loves us anyway. Those people drove, those fellows drove nails through the hands of the Lord Jesus. Christ pulled his beard from his face, crown of thorns, beat him. We can't even fathom the violence behind the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. What was his statement? Father, forgive the The unconditional love of God. And he's saying that's that's our goal. That's what we're getting to. See that you love one another unconditionally with a pure heart, a heart that's free from pride, a heart that's free from uh selfish corrupt desires, and then fervently I thought the word fervently there was interesting. It means, it literally means this, to stretch your arms out as far as you can. Did you ever see a little child sit on mommy's lap or something? They say, I love you this much. Anybody ever see that? You did just now. I just did it. This much. That's the word fervently. It means to stretch out your arms. It means with all you've got. What God wants us to do? He wants us to love each other unconditionally with everything that's in us. Everything that's in us. Love them. Love them. It means to seriously Love my brothers and sisters in Christ to love others. Now here's the object of the Christian life. Here's the object of the Christian life according to this passage. Number one, be as holy just like God is holy. Be holy. Not I can't be as holy as God, but I can be holy just as God is holy. You follow what I'm saying? Be holy, even as God is holy. But there's another. The object of the Christian life, one, be as holy, be holy, even as God is holy, but love. Unconditionally, even as God loves unconditionally. You know what he's telling? Oh, and I got done studying this. I was saying, all right, now what is this? What's he saying? I think he's saying this, this whole passage, be Christ-like. He Christ-like. Did Jesus sin? No. He was pure. He was sinless. Now, we can't be sinless, but we can sure try the best to be like him. Holy Spirit, help us be like him Be holy like him. Did Jesus love people? Man, he loves like no one else. He says, be like Christ. Be like Christ. Be like Christ You say, preacher, what what is it about Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church? Now we're we're not we're not unique. There's other churches that I think are are good churches around. They're not exactly like ours. I'm a little biased. I like ours. You say, what is it about it? Can I just say this? And I'm not this isn't unfeigned love. This is something serious. If I ever am serious, I'll tell you. I'm serious now. I think there is an element of unfeigned love in our church. I think there is I think we have a body of believers, imperfectly, but a body of believers that cares about each other. Can I be a little personal? My dad came home from the hospital, probably listening right now, and he says He says the folks at church are so good. He says they cared about me. Come by. You know what? That's a little bit of the Spirit of Christ. Are we perfect? No. Are we sinless? No. But we want to deal with it. We want to address it. And we want to grow. We want to go forward. And he said, love one another with unfeigned love, fervently, with all you got. I want to show you one last verse and I'm going to end with it. This is my closing illustration, I guess, is John chapter 13. Would you turn there with me? John chapter 13. And I want you to notice, and I'd like for you, I recommend you highlight this verse. In your Bible, John chapter 13 and verse number. Anybody want to guess where I'm going? Verse 35. John 13, 35. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples If you have what? Love one to another. That's almost verbatim what Peter said. Almost verbatim Listen, should we be holy? Yes, that's where it all begins. I can't love one another like I'm supposed to if I'm if I'm tolerating sin in my life. I deal with that. But Jesus said this. This is how the people in Oakland are going to know that Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church are followers of Jesus Christ. As if they have loved one for another. That's how they're going to identify you as a follower of Christ. And so let's ask the Lord to shed abroad in our hearts The love of God. Unconditional love of God. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray from the youngest up you'd help us to Purify our souls through obeying the truth. Do right, get right, get right, and do right. And Lord, when that's in place, I pray you pour out your Holy Spirit. Power our witness and shed your love abroad out of our lives. Make a difference in Jesus' name. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I need God to give me that kind of love for others? I need God to pour, shed abroad his love in my heart. Yet this, maybe there's a specific sin the Spirit of God is dealing with. Holy Spirit's touching your heart, and that's the big roadblock. That's clogging up Holy Spirit's love that he wants to shed abroad. Maybe you need to confess and repent and get that taken care of. But how many of us say, preacher, I need I want God to shed a love, shed abroad His love in my heart? Any like that. God bless you. My hands raised My hands raised, Father, bless our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads about eyes are closed.