Samuel chapter eighteen verses one through five. First Samuel eighteen one through five. Excuse me. The Bible says, and it came to pass when he had made an end of speaking unto Saul that the soul of Jonathan was knit with And Saul took him that day, and would let him go no more home to his father's house. because he loved him as his own soul. And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him, and gave it to David and his garments, even to his sword And to his uh bow and to his girdle. Verse 5 And David went out whithersoever Saul sent him, and behaved himself wisely. And Saul sent set him over the men of war, and he was accepted in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Saul's servants. Heavenly Father, again, we do thank you for your love and we thank you for this uh this building here where we can gather together and hear the tea Father, I do ask that you would uh give our pastor a complete filling of your Holy Spirit, Lord, and speak to our hearts. And Father, I do pray that when we leave this building, we would leave a a better people for you. Amen. Kathy, I appreciate that. And uh we're married 23 years ago today, my wife and I. And so it's been a wonderful, exciting trip. It has not been boring, I guarantee you that. Uh, but uh I love my wife dearly, and I can honestly say she is my best friend in the world And I love her dearly. Do you want to turn back to 1 Samuel chapter 18? 1 Samuel 18. Having said that, there was a couple driving down the road that had gotten into a big fight early in the day Now I know if most of you don't understand what that's like, but a few can relate to that. They had a big fight early in the day and they were still mad at each other And uh driving down the road, not saying a word, both just staring straight ahead. The tension was so thick you could cut it with a knife They're out in the country and they both happened to glance over at the same time and here was a farm and out in the meadow, the fenced in area in front of the farm along the road, there was a barnyard full of mules. Goats and pigs. And the husband very sarcastically said, Are those relatives of yours? And the wife responded, Yes, they're my in laws. Shall I give you another one? These are bad. Uh guy goes in the post office one day and there's a middle-aged balding man. Though there's I don't have anything against that. Um standing at the counter and he's methodically placing love stamps on bright pink envelopes with hearts all over them Then he took perfume bottle and sprayed scent all over 'em. Well this guy's watching him do this. He has a whole stack of these. He's he's mailing 'em out and uh he goes over and he asks him what's he doing? He says, I'm sending out one thousand Valentine's cards. perfumed sign Guess Who? He goes, Why would you do that? He said, I'm a divorce lawyer. And he was So sometimes you just gotta make business. First Samuel eighteen, I'd like for you to notice verse number one. It says it came to pass when he had made an end of speaking unto the s unto Saul That the soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David. And Jonathan loved him as his own soul. Then verse 3. And Jonathan and David made a covenant because he loved him as his own soul. I want to speak this morning on our theme for the day, and the title of the message is Love the Brethren. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father, we come to you this morning with grateful hearts for your goodness to us. Lord, we're grateful how you've blessed us in so many ways as a church and as individuals. Lord, as the Psalms, the theme of the Psalms this morning has been your great love for us, we rejoice in that. And Lord, I ask that the love of God that you've shown us would be shed abroad in our hearts. And that we would love one another as you've loved us. God, I yield myself to you as best I know how. I yield my will to your will. I present my body anew. I ask you to fill me again, Father, with your Holy Spirit. Pray you'd speak through me. Open our hearts and minds. And I pray we would be a church that's a testimony of the grace and love of God. We'd be a people that emulate the love of God to this world. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I love reading the Bible. I like to read the Bible through. And as you read the Bible through, we find the stories of many great men and women in the Bible. Men and many great men. Many great men and women throughout the Bible. In fact, some of the great men and great women of the Bible have many books written about them outside of Scripture In my library, I have probably a thousand or more books. And I have a number of volumes, books written by scholars, Bible scholars, and whatnot, on the life of Moses. I have books that are written on the life of David, of Elisha, Elijah. I have books written on the life of Paul. There are hundreds of thousands of sermons preached on the great men and great women of the Bible In fact, Hollywood has even got in on it and over the years occasionally will come out with a movie about David or Moses or some great man or great woman of the Bible But as you think about those throughout Scripture that stand out in our mind as great men There's one man that is almost always overlooked. To be very honest with you, I looked through my library, there's not one book in my library written on the life of this man. I recall no sermons. Now I'm not saying none have been, and after today there will be, but I don't remember any sermons in my Christian life preached on this man. And very few, as I said, if any, books written on him. Yet he was a great man in every sense. He was a man of God. He was a man of faith. And he was a man who was David's friend. And it was Jonathan. Jonathan. When you take your Bible out and you begin to study the life of Jonathan. And you dig into what the scripture tells us about him, you find a fascinating young man. My impression of Jonathan as I've studied his life this past week and reading of him over the years. Is I I have the impression of a very noble man in every sense of the word. Jonathan, as I see him, well, Jonathan was the son of a king. Of course we know that, Saul being his father. But I see him as a very noble young man in that He was able, he would, he could be out on the battlefield, and he would rub shoulder to shoulder with uh other soldiers, and he could he could spend nights in the trenches. And he could pay, was able and willing to pay whatever price the other men had to pay to win the battle. But he can right away turn around, clean himself up, and walk into the palace and conduct himself with utmost dignity. And was at ease and was very confident in the presence of other kings and ambassadors from other kingdoms, nations And do all of this with everyone's respect. In fact, my impression of Jonathan is the fact is that everybody respected him. His daddy Saul started out great, ended up terrible. In fact, the guy started doing really stupid things. And at one point he was going to kill his own son Jonathan over some ridiculous thing when Jonathan had eaten some honey and Saul had made a stupid law that nobody was allowed to eat anything that day and all this and Jonathan didn't know about it and ate some honey and his daddy was gonna kill him Because he broke that stupid unscriptural law. And the whole nation, the army that was there, the men, respected Jonathan to such a degree they stood up and said, No, you're not laying a finger on your son. He was respected. He was a noble man. Respected by everyone that knew him. Jonathan, you read his life, and we're not given a whole lot of it, but what we're told about Jonathan, we find a young man who's very courageous in battle. And he was willing to step out and risk his life on a number of occasions where there were very few or any with him, and he won great victories for the nation of Israel and for the cause of Christ. I think Jonathan, and this in my mind stands out most pronounced In Jonathan's life, I see him as probably one of the most unselfish men in the Bible. Unselfish. Now, I would say that in the day and age that you and I live, to find an unselfish person is very rare You agree with me on that? We live in a day and age where about everybody is selfish. The world revolves around them. But the fact of the matter is, that's probably been true through all ages. That is probably one of the pronounced, most pronounced characteristics of mankind is being selfish. But you look at Jonathan, and I see here, probably, as I said, one of the most unselfish men in Scripture. Now, and this is why I come to that conclusion. Jonathan, as we pointed out, was King Saul's son. That would make him the prince. As King Saul's son, humanly speaking, legally speaking, he's next in line to the kingdom. He is next in line to being the most powerful man with the most authority in all the nation of Israel. But you read his story, and we find that Jonathan comes to the conclusion in his interaction with David. Then it becomes obvious in Jonathan's mind that David is to be the next king, not Jonathan. And Jonathan realizes that at some point. And rather than resenting David, rather than envying David or And refusing to allow his heart to be filled with malice, he submits. He loves David, he respects David, and he surrenders his right to the throne. To God's choice, David. And no hint of resentment, no hint of anger. No hint of malice on Jonathan's part. He lovingly, respectfully, willingly steps aside to his right. And recognizes God's plan and lets David step in. Now that's all before he actually takes office. The fact is, when we think of Jonathan, we can't help but think of his love for David. I believe one of the greatest needs in the heart of soul of man One of the greatest needs in the heart and the soul of mankind is the need to love and be loved. It's one of our greatest needs. God created us with the need to love someone and to be loved by someone. It's a need of our very soul. Jonathan loved David. Alright, boys, you got give me your attention up here, boys. Jonathan loved David. I believe in this relationship that Jonathan and David have, we have an example. A pattern, you could say, of the love that God intends for you and I to have for one another. The love that God's people are to have for one another. The brothers and sisters in Christ, the love that they are to have, I believe, is displayed, modeled. And the love and relationship that David and Jonathan had. God, now get this. This is the message, alright? God wants his people to love each other. That's the message Now, do you have your Bibles with you? Brought your Bible to church today? Amen. Did you bring it to use it? Alright, I hope so. Because I want you to take your Bible. Now keep your place here. And I want you to come to the New Testament. We're going to quickly go through a series of verses, but I want you to turn to them, and I want you to see them, and I would like for you to underscore these in your Bible if they're not Now, if God tells us to do something one time, we ought to do it, right? We ought to pay attention. How many of you parents ever said to your kids, I'm telling you one time, I'm not telling you again. How many people ever said that to your kids? How many folks your parents ever said that? And how many folks it ended up being told several times before it was all said and done, yeah, I figure So God could look down to us and say, I'm telling you one time, I'm not telling you again. But he doesn't do that. He tells us over and over and over. And by the way, if God tells us something repeatedly, we better pay attention. We better pay attention. Now, having said that, turn with me would to the Gospel of John. And we're going to race through and look at a bunch of verses. I really I'm asking you to follow along with me on these. And uh note these, uh highlight them or somehow, some way in your Bible, because God repeats these over and over for a reason. And we need to pay attention. John chapter 13 And notice with me, if you would, beginning in verse 34. John 13 and verse 34. This is class participation. Alright? Everybody follow along. First John, I mean John 13, verse 34. A new commandment. Now, how many folks have a red letter edition Bible? What color is this thing? It's red. That means Jesus is speaking. Now if Jesus walked in here and he says, A new commandment I give unto you, how many folks here would pay attention to that? How many people would listen? If Jesus walked in here and said, Alright, not like I'm giving you a new commandment. How many people would pay attention? Raise your hand. How many people wouldn't pay attention? Raise your hand. Alright. Two. Alright Look at verse 34. Lord Jesus says, A new commandment I give unto you. That ye what? Love one another as I have loved you, that ye also love one another. Now you ought to mark that in your Bible. Turn with me if you would to chapter 15 of the Gospel of John. And notice with me verse number 12, chapter 15, verse 12. Verily, verily I say unto you, I'm sorry, chapter 15, verse 12. This is my what? Commandment. It's not a suggestion. God commanding us. This is my commandment that you what? Love one another as I have loved you. Come down if you would to verse 17, same chapter. Verse seventeen, John fifteen. That's in the King James Gatti. Um These things I command you that ye love one another. Come with me if you would to the book of Romans. And chapter thirteen, Romans thirteen and verse eight Owe no man anything but to what? But to love one another. Why? For or because, for he that loveth another hath fulfilled the law God says, if I love my brethren, if I love one another, he's commanded me to repeatedly already we've noticed that. So if I do that, I'm fulfilling the law. Wow, that's a powerful statement. Turn with me, if you would, to 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. And verse number nine Now, the church at Thessalica was a good church. God compliments them repeatedly. Notice what he says in verse 9. of chapter four first Thessalonians. But as touching brotherly love, ye need not that I write unto you. What's he saying? He said, I don't even have to deal with this with you guys. You've got it Brotherly love, it characterizes you guys. But look what he says. For ye yourselves are taught of God to love one another. He's saying God has done something in your heart that you have grasped, and that is to love my brothers and sisters in Christ God taught you that. It's not something the preacher beats you over the head or you're pressured into doing and said, I really don't like them, but I love them. It's not that way at all. God did something in their heart. It was a genuine concern and love and compassion for my brothers and sisters in Christ. Take your Bible again, turn to 1 Peter chapter 1. Are you still with me? Everybody still following along? Alright, good. 1 Peter chapter 1, verse 22 Are you noticing a theme through these verses? Verse 22, 1 Peter. Seeing ye have purified your souls in obeying the truth through the Spirit unto unfeigned. What does that word unfeigned mean? In other words, he's saying it's not acting. You're not just putting on. It's genuine. It's real. And to unfeign uh the spirit, unto unfained love of the brethren See that you love one another with a pure heart fervently. Now, when God says that we are to see, that means we're responsible for this. You make sure this happens. You love, look what he says. See that you love one another with a pure heart. Now that phrase pure heart means sincerely, honestly. Genuinely. And then the last word is what? Fervently. We're to be diligent about this. The word fervently comes from a word that uh means to uh if you put uh how many fellows here are pretty good at cooking, you're able to boil water Anybody here able to do that? I can pull it off every now and then. Uh boil water. It means that water, anybody here ever boil water and you forget about it, you put it on there, walk away. Come back, man, that thing's just blah blah blah boiling over. That's the idea of the word fervently there. That's the word picture. Love one another with a pure heart, sincerely, and man, it's just boiling over. It's not forced, it's not something that I But it's just woo. Alright? That's Greek word. That's the spirit moving, you know, as it's coming out. Turn with me Wood to first John. Verse chapter three First John three, verse eleven. For this is the message that ye have heard from the beginning. In other words, he's saying, this is what I've been telling you right from the get-go. Right from the start, we've been saying this. That we should love one another. Verse 11, same chapter. I just read that. Verse twenty three, same chapter This is commandment. You notice that word commandment throughout this? Commandment, commandment, commandment. This is his commandment, God's. That we should believe on the name of his son Jesus Christ. That's salvation. And love one another as he gave us commandment. Chapter four verse seven Beloved, let us love one another. For love is of God, and everyone that loveth is born of God, and knoweth God. Verse eleven, chapter four. Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another. For no man hath seen God at any time. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us. And his love is perfected in us. In other words, if I don't love my brother or my sister, then I really don't understand God's love for me His love is not perfected in my understanding. I'm very ignorant. I'm very immature in my faith if I don't love my brother and sister in Christ. One more. 2 John Right after 1 John, 2 John, and there's only one chapter, so it's verse 5. Now, and now I beseech thee, lady, this is the person he's writing to, not as though I wrote a new commandment unto thee, but that which we had from the beginning, that we love one another. Now, I had you follow with me and I made a comment on a lengthy series of verses here because I want you to see something That is very, very obvious in Scripture. One thing that we cannot escape from, and that is this. God has commanded us to love each other. You say, well, we don't have much in common. Doesn't matter. God's commanded us to love each other. Well, you know, we're just we're just our personalities class. Doesn't matter. God's command, it's inescapable. There are no exceptions, there are no clauses, there are no qualifications. God has repeated over and over and over and over and over My people are to love each other, brothers and sisters in Christ. I am commanding you to love one another. In fact, we are sinning against God if we do not love our brothers and sisters in Christ. Now let me throw a word of caution out here. This applies to young and old. By the way, God's words for young people just as much as old folks. Amen? They're held accountable to God just as much as adults are. I don't know why we get this idea somehow children aren't going to be accountable to God or teenagers aren't accountable to God. It's across the board. Here's something we need to be very, very careful about. And that is this. Saying these words, I hate that person. You better be very, very careful about that. God has strong condemnation in his word. When we feel that way. And by the way, not just saying that, but thinking that. Feeling that way. Having that attitude, having those thought processes. I hate that person. Better be careful. Brother, sister, you want to bring the wrath of God down on you. Start thinking that way. Go ahead. Go ahead. Well, I just can't stand her. I'd hate Boy, I'll tell you, you stand before the judgment seat of Christ. And have that attitude towards one of God's children, towards one of God's people. Brother, sister, you're in the hot seat. Am I right or wrong? God's commanded us. Love one another. Love one another. And we're sinning against God. If we don't. Now, having said all that, come back to First Samuel if you would please, and chapter eighteen. Alright, we've preacher, I've got the message. I'm supposed to love my brethren. Like I'm scared to death if I don't, God will kill me. I'm not saying that, but I am saying God takes it seriously. Alright? Are you with me? Everybody alright? So with that in mind, the seriousness of this isn't just an optional thing. This is something God's commanded us to do. With that in mind, let's go back to Jonathan and David's relationship. And I believe that we can glean some principles From Jonathan and David's relationship, particularly Jonathan, their relationship, and be able to apply them to our day and age and our situation and enable us to obey God's command, to love the brethren. To love one another. And so this will help us. And that's, by the way, that's one of the reasons God gave us these stories in the Old Testament. So they're examples to us, so that we can grow in our faith and be more obedient to the Lord. So let's do that. Uh principles here. The first principle I notice, and I encourage you to jot this down in loving the brethren, and I glean this from, as I said, Jonathan and David's relationship, is this the principle of acceptance The principle of acceptance. And by that I simply mean this: accepting my brother and sister in Christ for who and what they are. Just accepting them. Not demanding they live up to a certain level or they have a certain interest in the things I'm interested in, or I just accept them. Humanly speaking, Jonathan's position, as we mentioned earlier, Jonathan's position as future king was threatened by David's success. The more successful David became, the more popular he became, the more obvious it became that God had chosen David to be the next king. And that was, humanly speaking, a direct threat to Jonathan's future. In a very real way. David was Jonathan's rival. Nevertheless, Jonathan accepted David as a person. And recognize God's plan for David, the place that David held in God's plan. Jonathan recognized that, and Jonathan accepted that. That is God. I accept David for who and what he is. God's plan for him obviously is different than God's plan for me. Humanly speaking, he is a rival to the position that is rightfully mine, but I recognize God's plan. David is a person, and I love him and respect him and accept him for that. Boy, what a great thing. Romans 15, 7 says this. Listen to this. Wherefore Receive ye one another as Christ also received us. Let me ask you a question. Does Jesus Christ accept you for who and what you are? Absolutely. One of the things we teach our soul winners to say when we're out knocking on doors or out in the community sharing the gospel with people. One of our approaches is this, since Jesus Christ, when he died on that cross, accepted you the for who and what you are, and died for you for who and what you are, would you be willing to receive him as your Savior. And the answer to that is yes, he's accepted me. How many folks here are you're saved and you know it? Say amen. What kind of spiritual condition were you in when Jesus received you, uh when you accepted him and he took you as his child? What type of spiritual condition were you in? Lost. In fact, the only person that can get saved is a sinner. Ungodly. And yet Christ accepted us. Then he turns around and says, I want you to accept one another as I accepted you. Now here's the problem. When I say I can't stand him, you know what I'm doing? I'm making the requirement for my acceptance to be higher than God makes his requirements for our acceptance. And in a very real way, I am exalting myself above God. The requirements for my acceptance are higher. Than God Almighty's requirements for people's acceptance. That's bad. And people agree with me. That's bad. That's very bad. Jonathan accepted David. He's your rival. He's going to take the position you should rightly have. Oh, he's a man. And God has a plan for his life. He's a human being, a person, and I accept him for who and what he is. I accept God's plan in his life. Some have walls of anger around their heart and will not open their heart up. In fact, back up to Romans 15, 7. Again, you don't have to turn there. But I got studying that. Here's an interesting thing. It says, wherefore receive ye one another as Christ received us. That word received, and I was going through different dictionaries, definition of that word, and one stood out in my mind. And one of the definitions of that word receive was this, to grant access to one's heart He says, receive ye one another. Give access to your heart to one another. Just like Christ gave access to his heart. I had a man tell me years ago, it wasn't long after I became pastor here. Man told me, he says, I got I loved before and I got burned and I ain't never loving again. I said, well, you're going to live an awful lonely life. Say, if I open my heart up to people and I love them, I'll get hurt. Welcome to the world of Christianity. You know where no one gets hurt? Heart-wise? In hell? Because no one loves down there. It's just the walls of your self-world, and it's miserable It's outer darkness. It's loneliness. God says, open your heart up one to another. Accept people for who and what they are. Christian acceptance is not compromise or not tolerating sin. It's not what we're talking about. Let me give you a definition. This is Dennis Leatherman's definition of Christian acceptance. Now I bounced this off my wife. She said it's okay, so you can write this down. It's this Christian acceptance. I put this. Seeing the potential and value in another believer. And receiving them with love and respect as a brother and sister in Christ. Let me say it again. By acceptance, we mean this, seeing the potential and value in another believer, and receiving them with love and respect as a brother and sister in Christ. Then I added this. regardless of their growth in grace. The fact is, there are some Christians, brothers and sisters in Christ, that haven't grown very far in Christ Christ in their faith, are very immature in a lot of ways. Anybody ever realize that? There are some Christians who are very immature in their faith, and it's characterized by selfishness and petty little things and all that. It's immaturity, spirit spiritual immaturity. But I, as a Christian, am to accept them with love and respect, regardless of where they're at spiritually. They don't have to be some spiritual giant before I accept them. In fact, Romans says, receive those who are weak in the faith. So you may have a person that's been saved 10, 15, 20, 25 years, 30 years. Yet they're still weak in the faith, and they're very difficult, and they're very touchy, and you've got to walk on eggs around them. You know what the Bible says? You receive them. You treat him with love and respect. See God has potential acceptance The principle of acceptance. Another principle I have now. Real quickly, I need to give it to you. Second principle is this. The principle of allegiance. The principle of allegiance. Look at verse 3 with me real quick. Then Jonathan and David made a covenant because he loved him as his own soul. That word covenant is an important word throughout the Bible, especially the Old Testament. We talk about a lot in my preaching, we'll we'll make a big deal often about the fact that a covenant is not a contract. Right? How many folks are with me? You understand? Covenant's not a contract. A contract says I'll do this if you do that. We're we're there's conditions here in this contract. I'll sign here, you sign there, if you don't do it, then it's broke. A covenant's not that way A covenant is unconditional. I am going to be your friend no matter what. I am going to be loyal to you. No matter what. Covenant. Covenant. Unconditional commitment to one another. Pledging their undying loyalty to one another Most Christians are living contract Christianity. I'll be loyal to you I'll be kind to you. I'll be a friend to you if you are loyal to me. And you are kind to me. And you are a friend to me. That's contract Christianity. Covenant Christianity says, I'm going to bless those who curse me I'm going to pray for those who despitefully use me. I'm going to do good to those who do who are evil to me. That's contract. And David and Jonathan had a covenant. Jonathan said, I'm making a covenant with you. I will be loyal to you, I will be kind to you. I will bless you. You can curse me. You can despitefully use me. You can be evil against me. But I will not respond in kind. I will be gracious and kind and blessing. A contract conditions must be met before there's any kindness or any love show. Now I feel like I need to touch on something here. Is everybody with me? Everybody's still hanging in there? There's nothing outside but snow anyway, so you might as well just enjoy it There is a doctrine taught in Scripture that is misunderstood and often overlooked and often neglected that I feel like I need to touch on here, and it is the doctrine of separation. The Bible teaches that as a child of God, there are some people who I am to separate myself from. The Bible teaches that. Now, in some churches, if you'd say that, they'd be shocked. Oh, we're supposed to love everybody, we're supposed to accept everybody. Acceptance does not exclude separation. Um Proverbs says, make no friends with an angry man. If a person has a problem with anger And they're just mad at everybody and every little thing. Bible says, don't make friends with that person. Um Corinthians, God gives instruction to the church at Corinth, and he said, if any man be a drunkard or a if any brother Be a drunkard or a fornicator, do not eat with that person. Do not have fellowship with them. Separate yourself from them. Now that does not contradict the scriptural teaching that we're to love one another, that we're to accept one another, that we're to be loyal to one another. Under no circumstances in any situation am I to be unkind to another person Right? Separating myself from them does not equal being unkind to them. Matthew, the Lord gave instructions to the church. that if a member of a church or brother or sister is living in sin, one person who's aware of it is to go to them, confront them about it, and try and restore their relationship to the Lord. The whole point is restoration. If they won't hear that one, then two people are supposed to go, confront them of that sin, try and work with them, and I think over a period of time, do everything again, find anything there efforts are exhausted and they can't restore that one's relationship with the Lord, then he says, bring it to the church. And the entire church is to try and make an effort to restore that one. Again, the whole purpose is restoration. And if they won't hear the church, he says, make treat them as a publican. Now some Christians take that to mean if that person, if I'm to separate from that person, I'm to treat them like a publican, that means I turn my back on them if I see them in the store That means if they're coming down the aisle in the store, I'm coming down, I'm gonna quick run around and get away from that. That's happened. It's not what it's talking about. He says treat them like they're a publican. How do you how did Jesus say we're supposed to treat the publicans? The sinners and publicans We're supposed to win them to Christ. We're supposed to win them back. And what he's saying is this, these people that we are to separate from. These people are living in disobedience to God. They're angry, hateful, fornicators, drunkards. They're living in sin. A brother A Christian living like that. I'm not to spend time with them. I'm not to get intimate and close with them, but I am to love them. And I'm to be kind to them and be loyal to them in the way so that I can win them back to Christ. Does that make sense to anybody? Is anybody on board with me? That's what the Bible teaches. So don't misunderstand loyalty and acceptance, allegiance and acceptance as somehow compromise. There's still a place. The Bible teaches, here's a word for you, ecclesiastical separation. This is good teaching this morning, by the way Ecclesiastical separation. You know what that is? That is a church that's trying to obey God is not to team up with a church that is not obeying God. Right? You follow with me? You can ask for details later, I'd be more than glad to explain to you, but I am not a member of the Ministerial Association. And I can explain to you why. But that does not mean that the church that's trying to do right is hateful to the church that's not doing right. Amen? Well brother, if you're not an independent Baptist, you ain't welcome around here. Oh hog watch. We've let Sandy's mom come many, many times. This might not come back anymore now, but No, she's got a sense of you. You follow what I'm saying? We're not the only ones, right? And even if somebody is wrong, we're not to be unkind. Now we're not going to team up with them, and we're not going to come up on the platform here, and we're not going to do Ecumenical services together. We're not doing that. But we're not going to be unkind about it. You know what? There's brothers and sisters genuinely saved men and women in churches that are not going by the Bible like we are. Did you know that? Some Baptists are going to get to heaven and have hair lips because there are other people that aren't Baptists there. I mean, it's just going to curl their hair. So, the principle of allegiance does not contradict the doctrine of separation. We are to be loyal to our brothers and sisters in Christ's grace. Come back here. Look at verse 1 with me in verse 18. And I've got to start winding down here. The soul of Jonathan was, what's that next word? Knit With the soul of David. I think this idea of allegiance one to another. Boy, the souls of God's people. Members of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church ought to be knit one with another. Um how many ladies do knitting? Anyone here? Nobody. How many people ever heard of people years ago used to do knitting? Did you hear about the old lady? They wouldn't let her on the uh uh airplane because she had an Afghan. And uh they thought she was a terrorist, and uh forget it Knitting now I don't know. I'm not a I don't have a doctorate in knittology. But I understand knitting to be tying you're basically tying the thread together. Ladies, somebody help me out. Even if I'm wrong, say I'm right, please. Thank you. The word knit means literally tied together. It's the same word used in Joshua 2. 18, where Rahab tied the scarlet thread. She bound that scarlet thread and let it down the wall, remember, and the guys climbed down. That thing was knit to the whatever she tied it to, the post, that scarlet thread, and was able to hold the weight of the spies they could get down. Now, Jonathan's heart was knit to David. God give us brothers and sisters whose hearts are knit one to another. Tied to one another. We're bound. We're together. Things go great, we're together. If things go rough, we're together. We're bound. Our hearts are knit together. Allegiance. Principle of affection. Verse 4. Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him Gave it to David and his garments, even to his sword and to his bow and to his girdle. This was a lot more than just an act of charity or act of kindness. This was Jonathan surrendering his position as future king to David. That robe there, Jonathan stripped himself of his robe, that was a kingly robe. Jonathan was saying, I recognize God's plan for your life. I love you. I want you to succeed In what God has called you to do. And if that means I cannot be king, for you to be what God wants you to be, then I give you willingly my robe And my sword and my armor. I surrender my whole sit position. I give it all up so that you can succeed. So that you can be successful in God's plan in your life. Affection is love and zealous attachment to another. An intense desire for the goodwill and the success of another An intense commitment to the spiritual success of my brother and sister in Christ. Jonathan was yielding to God's will for David and committing himself to David's success. I wish we had time. I'd really like to go to Romans 14 and 1 Corinthians 8. We don't have time. But God help us to love one another. To the point where we are willing to commit ourselves to the edification and spiritual success of one another We get it doesn't matter what position I hold, it doesn't matter what attention I get, it doesn't matter whether I get this or not. The important thing in my life Is that you can be successful in your Christian life. So you, God, you can fulfill God's plan and purpose for your life. And that is so foreign from your average Christian in the United States today. We are so worried about me, myself, and mine And if they aren't making it too bad, that is unscriptural. God condemns that. We are to give ourselves to the edification of one another, building up. And he says, as you see the last days approaching, edify one another. Give yourself. You know why you ought to be faithful to church? Well, just because the preacher wants me to grow. No, because it encourages others that are coming. Amen. Couple, young or old, and they're dating. I tell you what, if that girl is trying to get that Christian boy To disobey God, that is not loving that boy. If the influence of your boyfriend or girlfriend, whatever the case may be If the influence of that is to take you away from the things of God, get you lying and cheating and disobeying parents, that is not love, that is selfishness. What if Jonathan would have said, hey, I'm the king here. You ain't getting this rope. You get it over my dead body. He wouldn't have loved David. He says, no, David, I want you to be everything God intends for you to be. And if that means I'm not king, then so be it. Here's my robe. And our love for one another ought to be, listen, I want God's will to be done in your life. Man, what a strong church you would have if everybody in the church was committed to helping others do God's will for their life. What would you have? You'd have a powerhouse church. Affection. Refusing to do, say, or be anything that would hinder my brother or sister from succeeding in their spiritual life. And the last Principle is this, we know time. It's in 1 Samuel 23, 16, the principle of admonition, admonishment. Where David, the Bible says that Jonathan encouraged David. He strengthened his hand. By admonishment, I mean to build up and strengthen and encourage one another. Nowhere in Scripture do you find Jonathan tearing down David Nowhere in scripture do you find Jonathan ridiculing David or discouraging David And nowhere in Scripture do you find God justifying or blessing God's people, ridiculing each other and tearing each other down and discouraging one another. That is not scriptural. Scripture is we build up one another. We encourage one another. We say things that strengthen that person's faith. We act in a way and treat them in a way that lifts them up. I ain't shaking her hand. You know what you're saying? I'm a little baby Christian That doesn't understand God's love. And you know what our response is to be? God bless you. I love you. I accept you. You're a brother and sister in Christ. I'm going to pray and try and be everything I can to help you be a good Christian. There was a girls' home, kind of like the roll-off homes, if you're familiar with them. And they had a time when they brought some of the parents in, and some of the parents, this was the very first time they saw their daughters after they had been committed. And they were having testimony time, and one girl in her mid to late teens stood up. And this is a true story. And she wouldn't look at the crowd, and her parents were there, and she especially wouldn't look at her parents. And she stood in front of everybody and she said this. Tears streaming down her cheek, tears of shame streaming down her face, her lips are trembling. She said, I have been a prostitute. For the last three years. She began to sob, and she says, I am so sorry. And the report goes this, as she stood there paralyzed by her vulnerability, her father left his scene. Walked to the front of the room, embraced the shaking girl, and said, When I look at you, I see no prostitute. You've been washed in the blood of Jesus. I see my beautiful daughter. She replied, I've forgotten the joy of being your little daughter. You know what Christians need to do? We need to treat each other the way that father treated that daughter. Not looking down our moralistic nose at other sinners. Not viewing each other as saints and you're a sinner, or I'm better than you are. But we view all of us as washed in the blood of Jesus, a bunch of sinners saved by God's grace, with our own set of problems. our own set of failures, our own categories of of uh of disappointments We love each other because God's told us to. Amen. Father, bless us. Help us, Lord. Husbands and wives, parents and children, brothers and sisters, church members. Help us to commit ourselves to love one another, to uplift, encourage, and bless. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many members of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church would say, Preacher, God stirred my heart this morning. I want to commit myself anew to loving my brothers and sisters in Christ. I want God to use me to help others Encourage others to fulfill God's will for their life. Encourage them in their faith and try and strengthen them along. So any like that by the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. God has stirred my heart. I want to be more of a blessing, encouragement, to help the others. And uplift and bless and love the brethren as God has commanded. God bless you, hands all around. How about it? Any others? I can't imagine a Christian not wanting to do that I can't imagine a Christian not feeling that way. The love of God is shed abroad in our hearts, those of us that know Christ. Is there someone here this morning saying, Preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die? If I die now, I'm afraid I'm going to hell. He said, Preacher, I need to settle that. Is there anything like that this morning? Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure I'm going to heaven. When I die, I don't want to go to hell. Preacher, pray that God will help me. Any at all? Father, bless our invitation time now. You saw our hands. You know where we're at, Lord. Help us. Help us in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bound, eyes are closed.