Chapter number five, if you would, turn in your Bibles, Matthew chapter five. I tell you the m uh might be a little strong here, Dave. I'm a little little nervous of the sound system after last Wednesday. If you were here, brother, you know what I'm talking about. But um Uh I've I've read through, I was thinking while Jerry was singing, I was just kinda looking through my notes a little bit. I'm still a little strong, Dave. Um The Sermon on the Mount is an amazing, amazing message. Um I think I've read it, I got to figure out I know I've read it at least three dozen times, and no doubt many times more than that. in my Christian life. If you could turn me down just a little bit more, I still think a little bit much there. But um you know, uh we're so familiar with a lot of these passages from the Sermon on the Mount, I think we miss how profound they really are. Some of the statements the Lord makes here and some of the uh instructions and the spiritual insight he gives us is absolutely profound. I can't say this authoritatively, but I doubt that there is anything in any religion even close to the wisdom and the spiritual significance of some of these statements the Lord makes through the uh the Sermon on the Mount. And uh I as I'm studying and preparing these messages, I've never preached through it. I preached from it many times I've never preached through it before and um uh uh I'm appreciating it more and more and it seems like every week I get under conviction more and more as I'm reading and studying this. And so we're at chapter five, we're at verse number forty-three. At the very end of uh chapter five, of course the sermon itself goes on through chapter seven, and so we're still in the early stages of it, the first third of the message And he makes this, and he says in verse number 43, Ye have heard that it hath been said, thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemy. But I say unto you, love your enemies. Bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you Why? That ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven. For he maketh his Son to shine upon the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust For if ye love them which love you, what reward have ye? Do not even the publicans the same? Now what are the publicans I mean they were despised. They were considered the bottom of the barrel. They were the worst of the worst. He says they even do that. They love those that love them. Do not even the publicans so? Verse 48 Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect. Now I want to look at verse 48 separately. We'll look at that at a future message. But uh I've just taken the statement the Lord here is uh gave here and used it for the title, Love Your Enemies. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now or study this passage. Lord, I'll be the first to admit that my mind is awfully small when we consider some great truths that are presented here. So Lord, I ask that your Holy Spirit would fill me and direct my thinking and my speaking as I try to present this message. I pray that on our part, your Holy Spirit would help us to be open-hearted and open-minded. to how this applies to our lives. And so we ask, Holy Spirit, in every one of our situations, in every one of our individual circumstances, dear Holy Spirit, I pray you'd take this truth, apply it to us, and help us to trust you and obey you. And just let you lead us and direct us here. So I present my body to me, Lord, and pray you'd speak through me in Jesus' name. Amen. As I said, this I think this passage right here in particular is one of the most profound passages, perhaps, in all the Gospels. It is perhaps one of the most exalted, highest, high mountain peaks Passages in all the gospels when he says, but I say unto you, love your enemies. Bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you. You know what the Lord's addressing here? The Lord is addressing a whole nother world It's a whole nother kingdom, the the value system of a whole different kingdom than what this world lives in And he's addressing values that are higher than any values this world can come up with. This is some profound stuff. Now if you remember, and I keep saying this over and over, so I think we've got it, I hope, but if you come back to verse 20 of chapter 5, remember he's saying, your righteousness has to exceed the righteousness of who? The Pharisees. And the and then from there on he's given these six illustrations of how the disciple of Jesus Christ, how the disciple's righteousness has to exceed the righteousness of these Pharisees, these great religious leaders that everybody looked up to. And uh and so he's illustrating this and what the sixth illustration that he gives and what he by uh by trying to illustrate what he means that your righteousness has to exceed the righteousness of the Pharisees. And I think they build on each other. I pointed this out earlier how they go one to the next to the next and they all tie in and particularly these last two really tie in. Uh the other week, uh last week and a couple weeks we looked at verse 38 through 42 And he says, and I you've heard it's been said, I try two through two, but I send you resist not evil, uh turn of cheek and all of that. And this one I think is building on that and he's going on. So he's He's addressing what genuine righteousness is. The Pharisees had a righteousness, but it was superficial. It was out it was external. It was a show. It was as long as everybody thought I was righteous, they were satisfied with that. As long as I appeared righteous, they were satisfied with that Didn't matter whether I was actually righteous or not, didn't matter whether I was actually what God wanted me to be or not, as long as I looked like that. And I'm telling you, we can fall in that same trap today, huh? Almost everybody thinks I'm okay, it doesn't matter what I really am. And that's the way the Pharisees are. And so he's confronting that. And what he's doing, he's comparing, all through here, he's comparing what I'm calling God produced righteousness as opposed to man produced righteousness. The righteousness that God produces in my heart as a child of God, as a disciple of Christ, versus the righteousness that man can come up with. The Pharisees' righteousness was man. And we see that. He says, You have heard it been said, thou shalt not kill. You've heard it been said, thou shalt not commit adultery. You've heard it said. He goes down through there. That's what man was able to come up with. He says, but what God produces The righteousness that God produces is far more profound than anything of that. It starts inside. It starts within the heart and what you are. And so he's going down through there. Now we're at our sixth illustration And if you remember, I j I referenced this a little bit here, verse 38 through 42. He is telling them, I think, verse four 38 through 42, and then verse 43 through 48. The first section, 38 through 42, is kind of a negative statement, what not to do. And then verse 43 through 48 is what we should do, a positive aspect of it. In verse 38 through 42, he says, abandon vengeance. Do not seek vengeance. Just don't even think that way. Just put that out of your mind. True righteousness does not seek vengeance. And then verse 43 through 44, in particular, all the way down to the end, he says, not only should you abandon the vengeance, but you should activate positive love. Not only do you not smite them back, not only do you not go after them, but you actually love them positively. You activate love for them. And so the two are very closely connected. Now, let's look at this. We're probably going to just look at verse 33 and 34. We may get down a little farther than that. But first thing I want us to notice tonight In verse number 43 is the perversion of the Pharisees. Here he makes the statement, the sixth time, you have heard that it hath been said. Remember, he's not quoting Scripture, he's quoting the Pharisees The Pharisees' interpretation of Scripture. Now, this statement here, they said, Thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemies. Now the previous five, you could go in the Old Testament and you would find a statement in the Old Testament where the Pharisees had taken that statement, and though they quoted it fairly accurately, they twisted it in its application. But this time there is no Old Testament reference that says that. There's nowhere in the Old Testament that says love your uh it doesn't where it says um uh thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemies. It's not there. What they're doing, and if you would, turn to Leviticus chapter 19, they're taking a statement from the Old Testament and they are perverting it. They're making it say something that it does not say. They're claiming it's teaching something that it does not teach. They're not just applying it wrong, misapplying an Old Testament statement. They are completely twisting what an Old Testament statement makes. Leviticus chapter 19, and look with me, I'm going to begin reading in verse 17. And verse number 18 is the passage we want to get to. But verse 17 says, Thou shalt not hate thy brother in thine heart. Thou shalt in any wise rebuke thy neighbor and not suffer sin upon him. Now here's the verse that they're referencing. Thou shalt not avenge nor bear any grudge against the children of thy people. But thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself, I am the Lord. Now from that statement, the Pharisees Twist it around to teach this. You can hate your neigh you you can hate your enemy. Now you gotta love your neighbor, that's fine, but It's okay to hate your enemy. Anybody want to take a shot? How in the world did they get out of that verse, that statement, that it's okay to hate your enemies? The best I can come up with is simply it says you should love your neighbor, doesn't say anything about your enemy, so therefore, by the argument from silence, therefore it's okay to hate your enemy. Now you know what that's called? That's called twisting scripture. It's arguing from silence, say, well the Bible doesn't say anything about it, therefore, then uh God obviously wants that to happen It is a perversion of this. They're limiting my love for my fellow man. They're limiting that love to just my neighbor. And in their mind, the neighbor was the fellow Jews. And by application it became this. I am limited in my obligation to love my neighbor, but only the neighbor that treats me nice. And they just limited that requirement to love down to such a narrow field. And then open the floodgates where you can hate the others. And uh, you know, it is amazing How good man is at twisting scripture around and getting it to say what we want it to say. Cults are experts at this I had the Mormons come by. It's been a number of years and we got into on the front porch and we're going back and forth. And it was cordial, but we were going back and forth and and um and uh and one of them said had me turn to Ezekiel I thought this is new. This is the first time I had that in Ezekiel. And I don't remember the reference offhand. But they had me going where the Lord Ezekiel is telling Israel, he has two branches And he takes the two branches and he brings them together and they become one branch. And this Mormon fella says, see, that is the one branch is the King James Bible. And the other branch is the Book of Mormon. And God brings the two together, and they have one message for us today. And I looked at him and said, something to this effect, you're kidding, right? And uh I said, Well how where do you come up with that? He goes, Well that's what that means. I said, Well let's read it. So I got my Bible and we began to read it. The one branch is Judah, the other branch is Israel, and God's telling Israel, one day I'm going to bring the divided nation back together against One nation together. I said, how in the world did you get Mormon, Book of Mormon out of that? I said, you didn't get that from studying the Bible. Somebody told you that's what that means. You didn't get it from studying the Bible. My point is this It's amazing how we can take verses and make them mean what we want them to mean and twist them around and take a phrase out of context and all these types of things and come to these conclusions. that the Bible does not come to. We have a lot of we have a big movement in Christianity for many, many years now that's claiming promises that God never made. We have to be very, very careful about that. And so the Pharisees took this one passage, and from this, somehow, they ex extrapolated. Is that the right word, Sandy? That sounds impressive, doesn't it? And uh I could have just said that and you all would have been, wow. They pulled out of that one passage the the this idea that, oh yeah, God's fine with you hating your enemies. God's fine with you hating people that don't treat you right. So it's a perversion of uh of an Old Testament passage. Really, what the Pharisees were doing, what they were presenting, what they were justifying, was simply the same attitude that the world has. The world's fine with hating your enemies. The world's fine with loving just those who treat you right and those that love you, you'll love them back. And so they were perverting scripture to justify an attitude that was really a very worldly attitude, a value that was the world's value. So the first thing I notice, let's come back here now to Matthew, the first thing I notice when the Lord says, you've heard of that, you have heard that it hath been said. Thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemy. That's not what the Bible says. That's what the Pharisees are saying. They perverted the scripture. The second thing I want us to notice here is the precept or the principle that the Lord gives. These Pharisees have been teaching you, yeah, love your neighbor. The guy treats you right, love him. You can hate it, hate anyone else, hate those that don't treat you right. That's fine. The Lord says, no, no, no. Here's the principle of Scripture. Here is how it should be. This is the precept that God has given. This is what God says. And then he goes on. He says, but I say unto you Love your enemies. Now think about this. These people, these followers, these disciples Their entire lives, the entire life of their parents, the entire lives of their grandparents, they had been taught You can hate your enemies. They have been taught that you only love those that love you. Um there were the the Jews were no you you think about the the Arabs, you know, and the hatred they have for the Jews and That goes both ways a little bit. But back in the day, particularly, the Jews hated the Gentiles. They called them dogs They despised them. They didn't touch them. They didn't touch anything a Gentile touched. I mean, there was bitter hatred. To what they've considered their enemies. So the Lord says, now Jesus shows up and says, hey, this is what true righteousness is. You love your enemies. Huh? The precept. What he's saying, now let's look at this: love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you. Pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you. Can I kind of summarize what the Lord is saying here? He's saying, my treatment of others must never be based upon the kind of person they are. So that's a hateful person. So I'm going to treat them hatefully. And what he's saying here is don't treat other people based on the kind of person they are. Or he's saying this: don't Don't base my treatment of other people. Don't base it on how they treat me. Don't treat others the way they treat you. Doesn't matter how they behave. Don't let their behavior be a factor or govern my behavior. Don't let their attitude towards me govern my attitude towards them. In other words, he's saying do not react to how other people are. You uh what I should do rather than treating others, rather than my treatment of others being based upon what kind of person they are or how they treat me I sh my treatment of others should rather be based upon what kind of person I am. Follow what I'm saying? Uh there's an old thing, uh uh uh used to go around, uh fella opened the door for a lady and she was a woman's liver. And she walked out, she goes, you don't need to open that door for me just because I'm lady. He said, I didn't open the door for you just because you're a lady, I opened the door for you because I'm a gentleman. Good answer. And what the Lord is saying here is, don't allow what other people are govern how you treat them. You treat them not by because of the way they are, you treat them a certain way because of how you are What you are. Don't let my treatment of others be based upon how they treat me, but rather let my treatment of others be based upon how God treats me. If somebody's hateful to me, well, I'll be hateful right back. No, no, no. He says, you're my disciple, you don't do that. Don't don't if someone's hateful to you, you treat them the way God treats me when I'm hateful. See what I'm saying? Love them. Love your enemies. Bless them that curse you. And so my treatment of others must never be based upon how they're behaving. or what kind of person they are, it should always be based upon the fact that I am a child of God. And God loved me when I was his enemies. While we were yet Sinners, God commended his love toward us. That while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. While we were in enmity with God, he still loved us. And he says, your treatment of those people who are hateful to you, your treatment of those people who curse you, your treatment of those who despitefully use you. should not be based upon or governed by how they're treating you, but it should be based upon and governed by the fact that you are a child of God and how God has treated me. That's a profound statement he's telling to the people here. I must never allow my love for others to be governed by their love for me. You follow what I'm saying? I shouldn't love somebody because they should love because they love me. I shouldn't hate someone because they hate me. I should love somebody because God loves me. I must never allow my kindness to others be governed by whether they're kind to me or not. I had a lady tell me years ago and she was a little sh she she would get offended very very easily at a walk do you ever you ever hear this statement you have to walk on eggshells around that person whether you're gonna say something to offend them And she made the statement to me one time about another person. They said, well, we are not on speaking terms. This is a Christian. I said, that is not a Christian attitude. I should not, it doesn't matter whether that person's kind to me or not, as a disciple of Jesus Christ, Jesus tell me my kindness to them should not be based upon whether they're kind to me or not. My kindness to them should be based upon the fact that God's kind to me, whether I'm kind or not. My goodness towards other people should never be governed by their goodness or lack thereof to me. God's, think about this. God's love for me is never affected in any way by my love for Him. Isn't that good? God doesn't love me more when I love him, and he doesn't love me less when I'm unloving to him. His love is unending from everlasting to everlasting. He loves us. Jeremiah 31, 3. And so he's saying in that same way, and we'll see this here in a little bit, he's saying, in the same way that I love you, your love ought to be for others. God's love for me is never ever God's goodness to me is never ever determined by whether I'm being good to God. Anybody anybody here God ever do something for you you didn't deserve How about like your last breath you just took? And God says that's the pattern. That's my my love for you and my goodness to you and my kindness to you and My blessings on you are not dependent upon whether you bless me or whether you're kind to me or whether you love me or whether you're good to me. That's not a factor. God loves us not because we're lovely. God loves us because He is love. And he's saying that you and I, as a disciple of Jesus Christ, ought to love other people, we ought to bless other people, we ought to do good to other people, not based on their behavior, not based on their character, but based on the fact that Look at verse 45 there, the second half. Look what it says about God. For he, the Father, maketh his son to rise on who? Look at verse 45 there, second part. For he maketh his son to rise on the evil and the good. You know what I noticed? I drive by a, I uh I grew up, I worked for a farmer, the guy was a cut. I mean, he cussed and um he drank and uh smoked. I mean he ran around womanized her He's in his probably early 30s. I was um about fourteen. I guess I was fifteen, sixteen. I got my license when I worked there. And uh I mean this guy was mean as can be You know what I f and the guy I worked before him on the farm, uh milk farm, he was a godly Christian man, loved the Lord, was akin to my father, and uh two completely opposite men. You know what I found out Both their cows gave the exam exact same kind of milk. Both their crops of corn grew just as well. One guy is an old heathen cuss, and the other guy is a God-fearing, humble uh Mennonite man, and their fields were the produced the exact same crops and their milks produced the exact cows pr their milk produced the same cows. I mean Um you follow what I'm saying? God's goodness to them, God's blessing on them was not based upon what whether they were what they were, it was based upon what God is God is good. Now you say, well, isn't there some consequence? Sure, there are obviously consequences. And yes, someday we have to answer to God. But the Lord Jesus is saying here, you need to base your treatment of others, base it upon God's treatment of us, not on their behavior. That's the whole point here. Genuine righteousness Heart, Christian, disciple child of God, righteousness, does not treat people because of how what they are, their character or lack thereof, or how they act. It treats them based upon who God is and what He's made us to be. Now, you know what that requires? I'll be the first to admit, what Jesus is teaching us here and what I'm preaching is tough. I mean some guy's just cussing you out and giving you a fit and the what my flesh wants to do is cuss him right back. Right or wrong. Now I would never cuss someone out, but if somebody wrote it out, I would sign my name to it. But um You know what I'm saying? And it's not easy. The old flesh wants to retaliate. The old flesh wants to seek vengeance in the previous section. And what did we say last week? Anybody remember our message last week? What did we say? If we're going to do, if we're going to be able to live what the Lord is teaching us here, we have got to do what? We have got to Die to self. That is the key to this whole thing. I have got to get self off the throne of my life and put Jesus Christ on the throne of my life because that is the only way I'm going to be able to do What the Lord's teaching us here. This is something God has to enable me to do. Because I cannot do this in my flesh When I'm living for self, when self is on the throne, when self is calling the shots, I'm going to be very, very sensitive. I'm going to be offended by every little thing somebody does. I'm going to be defensive. Somebody says, boy, I'm going to immediately put my defense up. I was working today with a couple uh preachers that are having a little fuss and I got in the middle of it. Not really a fuss, but they're just working through some stuff and I'm in the middle of it. And uh the one fella's getting all defensive. And uh I said, listen, you know, just trust God. Let God work this thing out. And when self is on the throne, and when when I uh when I I'm living for self and and uh Christ is not on the throne of my life, and I'm in the flesh, so to speak, what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna get very, very defensive I'm going to get very sensitive. I'm going to get very jealous. I'm going to get very vengeful. They're not getting away with that. That's all self. That's all characteristics of the self-life. But when Christ is on the throne, When I die to self, look what happens. Now I can love people who hate me. I can bless people that curse me. I can do good to people that hate me. I can pray for people who despitefully use me and persecute me. It's a whole different response. Regardless of what their attitude is, they're cursing me out. I can bless them. Not because of who and what they are or what they're doing, but because of who God is and what I am as a child of God I don't respond in kind uh uh um uh uh when Christ is on the throne. Here's our problem. This is when we get in trouble Think about this with me. Here's when we get in trouble. When we allow other people's actions and attitudes to dominate, to affect my actions and attitudes. That's when we get in trouble. Think about it with me. You get bitter. Why does a person get bitter? Because of something someone else did or said. Right? My pride is allowing them To produce bitterness in my heart. Somebody says or does something and I get angry. Wait a minute. Why are their actions determining my spiritual state? Why am I allowing somebody who is not right with God, somebody who is not operating according to Scripture, why am I allowing them to get me out of the in the flesh and out of fellowship with God? And that's what the Lord is addressing. Don't let their behavior, their actions, govern your behavior and your actions. They're cussing you out, but don't let that dominate you. You just bless them. Our failure is allowing other people's attitude to affect my attitude. I've often said this and it's obviously true. Anger is contagious. Yeah, one person get angry in a room, it's not long. Everybody in that room is angry. I mean boom, boom, boom. Now why is that? Because we allow others' behavior and other person's condition affect my govern my behavior. Bitterness. Get a cruel at Why does somebody have a cruel attitude? I'm thinking of a man I witnessed to a number of times. He lives in town here, he's unsaved, admits it And uh I'm telling you that man, his whole attitude is just cruel and mean he has nothing nice to say. And I've been by his house two or three times trying to witness to him. I mean nothing nice to say Now why is that? Now I don't want to allow that man's cruel attitude to produce a cruel attitude in me, right? I want to be able, the Lord's saying, listen, you've got to be able to bless them that are cursed. Don't let them dominate you. Don't let that govern you. Genuine righteousness, I believe the Lord is teaching here, genuine righteousness does not allow the hatred of others to diminish my love for them. Genuine heart righteousness does not allow the sin of others to extinguish my forgiveness. Does not allow the cursing of others to silence my blessing. I want to be a blessing, whether you're a blessing or not, whether you're cursing me, if you're cursing me, The Lord's saying you still be a blessing to them. Don't let their behavior govern my behavior. That's the principle he's teaching, the precept. Do not allow the condition of other people govern my spiritual condition. Do not allow the behavior of other people govern my behavior. Do not allow the kind of person another person is Govern what kind of person I am. You're a child of God. You're a disciple of Jesus Christ. You are above that. Do not become a servant. to their attitude and their in their uh sinful behavior. Bless them that curse you, love your enemies, do good to them that hate you. So that's the principle. That's the heavenly kingdom. So, but what's the purpose? Why does he want us to do this? Now I'm injecting this here. I'm going to suggest this Here's a person that's that's my enemy. They are uh and the word enemy, uh we'll look at it here in a minute, but the the word enemy there is hostile to me. They're hostile to me. Here's this person here. Why should I be kind? Why should I love this person that's my enemy? What would be the motive of blessing a person that's cursing me? Well, some people would suggest, well If you're nice to them long enough, eventually they will be what? Nice back to you. So if you treat them nice, then they'll become nice. That's liberalism. It doesn't work. My wife was asked uh years ago, there was she filled we were looking she was looking for a little something to do and she got this job looking for a part-time And it was to babysit a Vietnamese pig. They were going out of town for three months or a month or two, and she was going to babysit their Vietnamese pig for them. I thought, well, if she lives with me, she'd be good at that, and she could do that. And so she went and talked to them, and they said, yeah. And so they showed her and they had the basement. It was inside And his basement fixed something that had a little stereo, it had classical music, play that when you there, play this classic music, it had a little bowl to put its food in and a little pillow there it would lay on. They had it all laid out. They had just gotten it and they had to go away. And Kathy said, um, okay, what'd I do? They said, every day, certain time, come in, check the food, play the music a little bit, fluff the pillow, and take care of the little Vietnamese pig. It's a pig. So guess what? The first day she showed up, guess what everything was? It was a mess. Food was everywhere, the pill was there and w did what pigs do, and it was a mess. She's like, good night. So she cleaned the whole thing up and got it all nice, played the music. And the pig didn't pay any attention She did that for about two, three weeks, about a month I think they were gone. And every day she showed up it was a mess. And every day it was disaster. And every day she cleaned it up and she played the music and nothing changed Lo and behold, they show up about an hour before she gets there. And everything's disaster and everything's a mess and all that. And they said, Oh, you didn't even take care of the pig and she goes, I came every day and did all this and all that. She goes, Yeah, but Uh it wouldn't be a mess like this. If you did it every day, that pig wouldn't make a mess like this. But they fail to realize it's still a pig. And you can play all the music you want to and have the fluffiest little pillow to lay in it. It's still a pig. And we can be as nice as we want to people, it's not necessarily going to change them. So the purpose of us loving our enemies and doing good to them that despitefully use us and blessing those that curse us is not so that finally they'll come around and be like us That's probably not going to happen. So why does the Lord want us to do that? Why is he telling us to do that? So that we can manifest the love of God. Whatsoever you do, whether you eat or drink, or what shall we do, do all to the glory of God And what you and I are, as a disciple of Jesus Christ, we are representatives of God on earth And however they respond to it, my responsibility as a disciple of Jesus Christ is to accurately represent God to this world. And I am to treat others and I am to interact with others the way God treats me and interacts with me. How many people here? Have God been patient with anybody here? You know what God wants us to do? Be patient with us. Anybody here been forgiven for a sin? You know what God wants us? Show this world what divine forgiveness is. Show this world what heavenly patience is. Show this world what agape, unconditional love is. In fact, the word love there where it says love your enemies. is the word agape, unconditional, regardless of their behavior, you love them. And so I believe the purpose the Lord is telling his disciples to love this way and behave this way and interact with people that treat us wrong this way is because I am a re I am an ambassador of Jesus Christ. And I am to accurately represent who he is and how he treats his people And uh I think that's the purpose there, to manifest the love of God, the glory of God. Uh well, so what's the procedure? I got a couple minutes. Let's look down at this. All right. Uh the the perversion was, oh yeah, you can love those that are nice to you and hate the rest. Of course it's no no no. This is the principle. Don't treat others because of what kind of people they are or how they behave. You treat them because you're a child of God and you treat them the way I treat you. Why? So that you can accurately represent the love of God, be a representative of God. Let me give you number four, the procedure he gives to us. Now notice the principle is there. Thou shalt uh uh love you he says, but I send to you, love your enemies That's the principle. Then he tells us, I think, he's telling us how to do that. How do I manifest this love of God? How do I love my enemies? How do I do that? Well, he gives us a few things. Number one, bless them that curse you That's interesting. What does it mean to bless somebody? I heard of folks blessing someone out. It's not what he's talking about. What does it mean to bless somebody? I wish them well. That's not bad. I like this definition, to seek God's favor on them. Here's somebody that's cursing me. He says, you seek God. And the word curse there means to speak evil about, to seek my doom, to destroy me. They're cursing me. People will say they'll ask God to damn somebody. They're wanting them to be doomed. They're wanting God to destroy them, to send them to hell. He says, no, no, no, no. You bless them. You seek God's favor on them, not God's judgment. It has the idea of seeking God's prosperity, the idea of refuse to speak evil about them You say, but listen to what they're saying about me. Yeah? We're going to see here in a little bit. Did you anybody pay attention to what they said about Jesus when he was hanging on the cross? Anybody remember Jesus cussing anyone out from the cross? You bunch of nasty little rascals hanging me up here, yeah guys. No. Yeah. So he says Seek God's favor on them. Seek God's blessing. Don't speak evil of them. They're speaking evil of you, and they're seeking your doom and your destruction. Don't respond back. You seek God's blessing. You seek God's prosperity on them. Then he says, bless them that curse you. Then he says, do good to them that hate you. I like this phrase, do good. I thought this was a neat definition for it. It means to treat with honor, to treat with respect and nobly and honorably. Those that hate you, that despise you, they hate your guts. How are you going to treat them back? I'm going to treat them with respect. I'm going to treat them nobly. I'm going to treat them like a king. I'm going to speak respectfully to them. I'm going to speak very kindly to them. I'm going to treat them respectfully. In other words, that person hates you and they're coming by, you open the door up for them and you treat them with honor and respect. Do good to them that hate you. Then he says this. Now it gets interesting. I'm going to ask you a question. Everybody still with me? Everybody alright? He says, and pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you. The word despitefully used means to accuse you of things, to abuse you, insult you, threaten you, persecute means to drive you away, harass you, and trouble you, mistreat you, show hostility to you. Now notice what he said there. Bless them that curse you. Would you agree with me? Here's somebody cursing me out. Leatherman, you, da-da-da-da-da-da-da. I say, well God bless you, man. Listen, I'm praying for you. I'm not going to speak evil about them. But I'm engaging them, right? They're cursing me. I'm blessing them. I'm engaging them directly. Opposite, but I'm engaging them. Then he says, uh do good to them that hate you. Here's a person who hates me and I'm going to do nice things. I'm engaging them directly. But now he says, those that despitefully use you and persecute you, what am I supposed to do? Pray for them. That is not direct engagement Now maybe I'm reading more into this than what's here. Maybe I uh you know maybe uh I'm taking take taking it too far. But I was looking at that and studying that, I got this idea, you know, there's some people I probably ought not to directly engage them. It's just going to get ugly. No matter how nice you are, no matter how kind you are to them, it's going to get ugly. And the best thing in the world sometimes is not engage them directly, but go to the throne of God on their behalf. And pray for them. I I've often said this, you can get in a fight with a skunk and win, but you come around, you come out of that smelling just like a skunk. You can get anything out of it. And a skunk may be mean as can be to you, and you can be as nice as you want to it, you're still going to get sprayed And so sometimes, and I'm wondering if the Lord isn't suggesting here when he says, rather than engage them that despitefully use you and persecute you, he says, pray for them. I wonder if he isn't a subtle suggestion there that maybe don't necessarily have to directly engage them. But you're sure sure ought to pray for them. You ought to pray for them. So what do I pray for 'em? Here's somebody that's despitefully using me, they're They're threatening me, they're abusing me, they're insulting me, they're persecuting me, trying to harass me and trouble me, and they're hostile to me. Alright, I'm going to pray for them. What am I praying? God will kill them? No. Pray that God would save them would be something I put down here. Pray that uh God would help me be as merciful to them as God is to me. Pray that God would enable me to be as gracious to them as God is to me. That I would be as patient with them as God is to me. And so the procedure of loving our enemies is bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate me, I mean do good to them that hate me, pray for them that despitefully use me. And then last of all, I am with this the pattern we're supposed to follow, and the Lord gives us. Notice he says there in the last part of verse 45, For he may that ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven The idea there is you do these things, bless them, and pray for them and do good to them and love them because you are a child of God. God has set the pattern. You know what I found? I found my son sounding more and more like me. I find myself saying and doing things like my dad. You know why I I catch myself saying and doing things like my dad, which isn't bad? It's because he's my father. And my son, maybe to his chagrin, is doing things like me. Why? Because I'm his father. And God is saying here, listen, I'm the pattern you're to follow. Look there at verse number 48, and I'm going to preach another message on this. Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect. He set the pattern for us. You do this, you behave this way, even like I do. The Lord not only taught his disciples this, but he practiced it. We referenced when Jesus was on the cross. And he said, Father. Forgive them. He didn't throw accusations. I mean, they're railing on him. The thieves on either side are railing on him. They're saying all kinds of things, he saved others, he can't save himself. And not one time did he respond back in kind. He responded back in grace. And he says, that's the pattern for you to follow. I'm not only telling you what you should do, I'm going to show you how to do it. And not only that, the disciples. Remember, and we don't we don't have time to turn there, but in Acts chapter 7, at the end of the chapter, Stephen is being stoned. And just before he dies, does anybody remember what Peter sa uh what Stephen says right before he dies? He says, Father, lay not this sin to their charge. He did exactly what Jesus told us to do here. He blessed them that curse you. He prayed for those who were persecuting him, despitefully using him. They set a pattern for us. We are to behave in the same way that our Father does. Now, can I love to the same degree that God loves? No. Can I forgive to the same extent that the Father forgives? No. Can I bless to the same extent that the Father blesses? No. But in the same way, after that same pattern, I'm to bless others. You know what I believe would happen? And I'm telling you, I'm preparing this and putting this together, and I'm under conviction. God's dealing with my heart about how I respond, how I allow the actions and the character of others to govern my actions and my attitude. Even as he comes into my mind Yeah, and it's not easy. It is not easy. But this is what I believe would happen. If we would take this to heart and practice this die to sell Get filled with the Holy Spirit on a regular daily basis and live this out what the Lord's teaching us. You know what I think would happen? I think revival would come to the church. I mean heaven-sent revival. I think we start seeing people getting saved in the book of Acts degree. I think we would see the power of God upon us and our homes in powerful, powerful ways. If we would just follow this one little instruction here. Isn't it profound? And so I don't know if it affected you the way it did me when I was studying it, but I pray the Holy Spirit helps us to love those, love our enemies, and bless those that curse us and do good to those. Who hate us and pray for those that spitefully use us and persecute us, just like our Father in heaven does for us. Amen. Father in heaven, help us, Lord, to do this. I pray it's not just a speech, Lord. I pray it's not just me running my mouth. I pray, Holy Spirit of God, that you would stir our hearts and help us to be righteous. A righteous that exceeds just a superficial show we put on, we show up at church and make everybody think, but it would be genuine. At work, at home In our community everywhere. Help us. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I wonder how many say, preacher, I'm challenged. God's Holy Spirit has challenged me on this. And I I want God to help me die to self and to live this out as God desires me to. Is there any like that? Goodness, my hands raised. Now we need God to help us. We've got to die to self. We need the Holy Spirit to fill us. And I believe with all my heart, if we ask God to help us, He will. We ask God to change us. He will. And sometimes there's hard decisions have to be made, and sometimes there's tough actions need to be taken to make this so. But if we mean business and we're what we're that disciple we want to we believe we are and we claim we are. Sometimes we've got to make some hard decisions. Father bless us now, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen.