So, what I got tonight is a list. I just want to try and give it to you quickly. And this is the subject. This is what the list is: loving, unlovely people. Loving, unlovely people. Now if you would notice in Luke chapter 17, says then he, Jesus. Then said he unto the disciples. Now listen to what he says here. He makes an interesting statement. And by the way, he's telling his disciples this, he's preparing them He's preparing them for the ministry. This three and a half years he spent with the disciples. He was discipling them. He was training them, teaching them on when they step out in the book of Acts. And uh serve the Lord. And so notice what he says here. He said to his disciples, It is impossible, but that offenses will come. Now what he's saying is, it's pretty obvious, what he's saying is, listen, at some point in time somebody's going to do something that's offensive. It's impossible to live in this old fallen world, and somebody, at some point in time, somebody's going to say or do something that hurts you. Somebody's going to say or do something, in some cases, they're going to make you cry They're going to hurt you, they're going to be unkind, they're going to be unlovely. He said it's impossible to live in this world and not face that. But look what he goes on and says. But woe unto him. What's that next word? Are you with me there? Verse 1, chapter 17. Then said he unto the disciples, It is impossible that offenses will come, but woe unto him. Through whom they come. I circled that word through. What the Lord's saying here is this. He's saying, listen You can't live in this old fallen sinful world and somebody not say or do something that hurts you, offends you, makes you cry, makes you sad, discourages you It's impossible that offenses are going to come. But this is what he's saying. He says, you make sure you're not the one through whom those offenses come. In other words, you can't help but be the recipient, but don't you be the one dishing it out Woe unto you. And he goes down, he gives a stern warning. So let's pray. And I want to just give you a list. I've accumulated over time. And some original have picked some of these up and uh see if this helps us. Father in heaven, I pray you'd bless now. And Lord, my heart's desire is to be a bright, uh, be a light in a dark world. And Lord, to be a kind in an unkind society. And to be a good representative of the Lord Jesus Christ. Lord, I pray you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit and that you speak through me and challenge us, encourage us. Give us some direction as matter how to deal with unlovely people in a lovely way. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I think one of the biggest challenges in the Christian life and in the ministry particularly. How many people worked in Bible time this week? Raise your hand. Do you know you're in the ministry? You are. You say, Well, he's a preacher, he's in the ministry. No, no, no. Every one of us serving the Lord. We're in the ministry just as much as I am Different roles, different capacities. And so one of the biggest challenges, I think, in the Christian life in general, and in the ministry in particular, is dealing with people That's what the ministry is. You've heard me say this before. One of my biggest pet pees, this aggravates me to death, is when I hear somebody say, Oh, I love the ministry, it's people I can't stand. Now that just gets my goad, whatever that means. The ministry is people. Anybody notice people are fallen creatures? And we're people And so uh my statement is this one of the biggest challenges in living the Christian life successfully and being what God wants me to be, one of the biggest challenges in ministering to people and reaching people for Christ and and helping people grow and and uh you know discipling and helping people one of the biggest challenges is dealing with people who are not very easy to deal with People will say unkind things and do unkind things and hurt us. I mentioned in the message this morning, Paul made this statement in Corinthians. He said, the more I love The less I be loved. He's saying serving people, serving the Lord, and reaching people, seems like the more I pour out love to others, I don't get it back. That's often what the ministry is. And I want to give a list of things, as I said, on how do you what to do, how do what do we keep in mind, how to respond when somebody is unkind, somebody's unlovely. By the way, my experience has been the overwhelming majority of people are very kind and very gracious. But every now and then you have that one come along. I was thinking uh the other day, I was thinking out of every one person that's unkind to me that speaks unkind or rudely or tries to hurt me some way Out of everyone that does that, I bet I've got 10 or 15 that go out of their way to be a blessing to me. But guess which one that consumes my mind? Guess which of those two categories consumes my mind We get all discouraged when that one is unlovely, and then the fifteen are kind, and uh we just expect that. So, how do I deal with that one? How do we deal with that one? Let me give you some suggestions. Number one, I'll just give these down real quick. We'll be out of here in no time. Keep in mind, number one, here's the first thought. Keep in mind God's love is an unconditional love. God loves unconditionally. Now, what do we mean by that? What we mean by that is God loves you and me regardless of whether we're lovely or not. God loves you and I regardless of our behavior, regardless of our attitude. God loves us. Parents, don't ever tell your child, don't ever say this to your child, you better be good or Jesus won't love you. That's a lie of the devil. Now Jesus doesn't want them to be bad, but he loves us whether we're good or bad or indifferent. God commendeth his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. So God's love is an unconditional love. God loves the unkind church member God loves the person that fell into sin. God loves the person that walks away from church and the Lord and walks away from, He still loves them. Paul said, and again I referenced this this morning. Paul said, Demas hath forsaken me. Having loved this present world, he walked away. But you know, God still loved Demas. God still loved Demas. Number one, keep in mind, God's love is an unconditional love. Now, am I Am I in a higher position to decide who gets treated lovely? Am I in a higher position than God is? To decide who gets treated kindly? No. If God loves that rude, arrogant person, if God loves that proud, sinful, if God loves that one that denies him and walks away, he still loves them Who are you and I to decide that we're not going to be loving to them? If a perfect holy God can love me, an imperfect sinner Surely I, as an imperfect sinner, can love another imperfect sinner. Unconditional love. You and I, listen, you and I have got to display to this world what unconditional love is. The world doesn't have that That's a love only God has, and He sheds that abroad in our hearts. And this world has got to see someone that loves someone, regardless of whether they're lovely or not. Somebody that loves people regardless of their behavior, their attitude, how rude they are, how self-centered they are, how uncaring they are. They need to see the love of God and your love and my and and your life and my life. So number one, God's love is an unconditional. Number two, jot this down. Now I think this is an important one. This will help us, I think. Loving the unlovely is the primary way of displaying my discipleship. Loving the unlovely is the primary way of displaying the fact that I'm a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus said in John 13, he said, By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, because you carry a big black King James Bible. No. By this shall all men know you're my disciples, because you're arrogant and self-righteous and you condemn everybody else. No. By this shall all men know you're my disciples if you have what? Love one for another. If you'll study the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew chapter 5, 6 and 7. You'll find Jesus teaches disciples, he says, listen, he says, you need to bless them that curse you, and do good to them that despitefully use you He's saying that's how you display the fact that you're a disciple. If somebody cusses me out and I get mad and I cuss them back out, am I any different than they are? I'm just acting the way the world acts. I'm no different. Somebody's unkind to me and rude and hateful to me and I respond in kind. I'm no different than the world. Peter talks about that. We looked at that a little while ago But if somebody curses me and reviles me and persecutes me, and I respond back with blessing and prayer and kindness and loveliness. You know what happened to? We're saying there's something different about that person. They're a disciple of Jesus Christ. And so it's one of the ways. Look at it this way, this coming week, it's impossible, but that probably this coming week offenses will come. At work, at the store, on the road, somebody give you an ugly gesture or whatever, rather than Rather than doing that and stop and say, hold on, preacher said Sunday night, this is an opportunity to display my discipleship. I'm going to act like a disciple of Jesus Christ. God bless you. And don't respond in kind. Be loving to the unlovely. And so, number one, keep in mind God's love is an unconditional love. Number two When people are unkind to me, I have an opportunity to display my discipleship. Number three, would you jot this one down? Oh, I like this one. This is a good one When someone's unkind to me, here's the statement: think of it this way: God is using them to develop and strengthen my Christian character. Here's the thing about being a child of God. And here's the thing about being a child of God that is a sovereign God that's in control. Nothing can happen to me, and nobody can treat me anyway except that God allows it to happen. It has to come through the permissive will of God before it ever touches me. Now, does that mean God wants somebody to cuss me out and make ugly gestures at me? Does God want them to? The answer is what? No, he doesn't want them to. But God in his sovereignty and his providence Says, I'm going to let that happen because I can use that to help Dennis develop his Christian character. You follow what I'm saying? Rather than saying, oh, they hurt me, oh, they made me sad. They really hurt me. Rather than responding that way, how about we respond, huh? God allowed that to use that to help me be a stronger Christian. God used that. In Proverbs chapter twenty-seven, verse seventeen, the Bible says, iron sharpeneth iron. Anybody here ever use a uh a wheel to sharpen a knife? Or you use that little uh metal, um, what's it called? It has the little metal things. What is it? The the vi the vial? File. File, yeah, a file. Or I'm thinking of the little motor it spins grinder and it has a little brush, metal brush. And you t you can tell I work with tools a lot. You can see that. And you got that knife there and what's happening? Sparks are flying everywhere. And the I can hear the knife. Oh, this hurts. This is so unlovely. But the fact of the matter is you're allowing that knife to be ground so that it's sharper and more useful and more effective. And here's the way to do it. When someone is unkind to you, somebody at Walmart, they get mad at you for something, whatever, even a church member sometimes say and do something ugly Look at it this way. Ah, iron sharpening. God's helped me be another, a better Christian. God's helped me be a stronger believers. Anybody here think that any missionaries on the mission field ever get treated unkindly? What if they got offended and hurt? Oh yeah, I'm going home. We would never reach the world. But as we're here, as we're doing it, God allows these things to come into life to develop us and strengthen us and sharpen us. And then when we get opportunity, we can be a better witness. Take your Bible, turn to John chapter 15. There's an interesting statement. It seems almost out of place. John chapter 15, and look with me. Well I'll read verse 2, but verse 1, but I want to get to verse 2. John 15, this is a great vine chapter here. I am the vine, ye are the branches. I am the true vine, my father is the husbandman. Now look carefully at verse 2. Notice a statement he makes right in the middle of verse 2 that almost doesn't, almost seems out of place. Every branch in me that beareth not fruit, he taketh away. Alright, he's not going to use that. That branch, that Christianity, they're not bearing fruit. I'm not going to use them. I can't use them. He takes them away. Now look at this. And every branch that beareth fruit, so here you have a Christian, a branch that's bearing fruit. Sounds like you would say, Oh, I'm going to bless them, I'm going to make their life comfortable I'm going to make it wonderful for them because they're bearing fruit. They're doing what I intend for them. They're doing what they're created. I'm going to make everything nice and take good care of them. He doesn't say that. He says, every branch that beareth fruit, he does what? Purgeth it. What happens when you're purging a tree? You're clipping stuff off. And so you got this happy branch on this tree, and he's bearing fruit, little apples are popping out, and that's what You know? And the husband comes along, he's the Lord, and he says, Oh, look at that Christian. Boy, they're bearing fruit and they're being good. I'm going to purge them. Ah! Jack starts cutting stuff off The whole purpose is in doing that, it can do what? Bear more fruit, be more effective. Purging is an unpleasant experience. And what I'm trying to suggest is this: when somebody is unlovely to us, when somebody is unkind to us, they cuss us out, they accuse us of something, or whatever, they say hateful stuff Rather than saying, oh yeah, getting our hackles up. Rather than doing that and saying, wait a minute. God is using this to help me be a better Christian. God is using this maybe to humble me. Maybe I've been getting proud a little bit. I need to be humble. Maybe God is using this to help me see people and understand human nature a little better But he's purging us. Iron sharpens iron, purging that branch that bears fruit. And so when someone's unlovely Respond back in a loving way because God I have no doubt God is using them to strengthen my Christian character. I wrote this, by reacting unkindly, I may be hindering my own usefulness By responding unkindly, I may be hindering my own fruitfulness. God may be allowing that so that I can be more effective in my Christian life. What? Four. This is a very simple thought. Loving the unlovely is a matter of obedience. I mean, God's told us. Love your enemies. Love those that hate you. I'd encourage you, I'd encourage all of us to study 1 Corinthians 13 very carefully. Sometimes sometimes independent Baptists, sometimes Bible believers, we get a bad rap because we got to preach the whole counsel of God's Word, right? That means we preach against sin That means we've got to take unpopular stands sometimes. And we get a bad rap, and then people of the world will accuse us of, well, they hate us. And they're against us, they're mean, they're hateful. Love, not hate. I think we have to be very, very careful that as we are taking a strong stand for what God says is right and wrong, right and wrong. That we also be very gracious and very kind and loving. Very gracious, very kind and loving. And so it's a matter of obedience. It's a matter of obedience. Only two choices on the shelf. Loving God or loving self, obeying God or obeying myself. I can do what my natural reaction is, or I can say, hold it. God told me to love the unlovely. Number five. Keep this in mind. It's possible they might not be saved. Very possible they're still in darkness. Very possible they don't have the presence of the Holy Spirit in their life. You say, preacher, a church member was mean to me. You know, it's a very real possibility that a church member is unsaved. Now, I'm not saying everyone that's mean to you is unsaved. If somebody goes out and says something short to you or says something unkind, don't immediately point a nose. You need to get saved. Don't do that. But in the back of your mind, say, you know, that's very possible. They've never been born again, and they're still under darkness. They're still under the control of the old nature. And then use that as an opportunity to be a witness to them to the grace and love of God. Number six, keep this in mind, they might still be a spiritual baby. They're still under old habits that carry over. When I got saved, now God did something unusual in my life, I think, in that He just so dramatically changed me almost instantaneously But you know it took several days, a week or so, to get some of that language work out of me. I remember Monday I said some of the most awful words that in in in the English language And blasphemous things. I would just say it, never thought anything of it, never bothered me at all. Monday night I got saved. On Tuesday, I said some words, and man a lot, it pierced my heart. But what I'm saying is it took a little while for some of that to work out. I get convicted. Oh, I've got to stop doing that. No, that's not right. And they may be still be a spiritual babe, and they still may be working on some old habits and don't even think about it. You say, well, you know, they've been saved a long time. Sometimes people grow slower than others. And so keep that in mind. They may be a spiritual bait. Number seven, make them a matter of prayer. If somebody's unkind to you, move them to the top of your prayer list. And really start praying for them. I don't think much is going to change in anybody's life without prayer, right? Pray for them. How many people are thinking of someone now, I really need to pray for them? Not judgmental, condemning, but man, I need to pray for them. Anyone know what I'm thinking about? Sure. Knock that name up the list away. Put it on a higher priority in your prayer list. Not to pray for people is unloving, to not pray for them. Number eight, loving unlovely people is an act of faith. Jesus loved his disciples. They were arrogant, self-righteous, they condemned others. They wanted to pray down lightning and fire and burn up people they were mad at. They argued who was the greatest. Did you notice Jesus just plowed right on, just loved them, just carried on. It's an act of faith. Faith is sometimes doing something I really want to do. I don't doing something I really don't want to do, but I know God says I should, so I'm going to trust God and do what He says, even though I don't want to do it. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Now I'm not so much now anymore, I'm not uh I'm not arrived totally yet, but early on going out soul winning, uh uh Thursdays, Ed and I have talked a lot about this, when Thursday came around It was like I'd come up with every reason in the world why I can't make it out the Thursday night soul winning. I mean it doesn't matter. Man, my tomatoes need water. I gotta stay home and take care of these tomatoes. You know, or whatever, because I really I just didn't relish the idea of going out and talking to people. Now I had to come to the point where it was You know, God's told me to do this. I'm just going to have to trust God, whether I want to or not, and just go out and do it. You know what? I found out it's very enjoyable. Now it's a blessing. God bless it. I wish uh wish you all could see. Now it's not so much I've got to be careful here. On Thursday night, sometimes um we'll have some people show up on Thursday night soul winning and maybe they had a bad day at work And they are as grouchy as can be. They'll come out go soul winning and just grouchy. I'll say, Hey, how you doing? I'm okay. And I say, God have mercy, I'm sending these folks out and they're gonna go visit lost people and they're me they're grouchy as can be But I learned, you know what? They're trusting God. They're doing what God told them to do anyway. And I send them out and I pray, Lord, please help them be nice. And inevitably, without fail, they come back. Guess how they come back? Yay, oh it's wonderful. And just happy as can be. And that wa that applies to being kind uh to unkind people, being lovely. Somebody's hateful look at me very mean That's not mean, you're smiling and laughing. She's like a man, she's like, and I said, and I want to look mean back at her, but I said, wait a minute God says love the unlovely and uh sorry And I'd be nice to her anyway. You know what? I walk away a whole lot happier than I was if I'd have been mean back to her. It's an act of faith. Not what I feel like doing necessarily, but what God tells me to do, so I trust God and do what he instructs me, and brings joy. We talked about that this morning. All right, here we go. I've got to wind this down. Number nine I'll venture to say that unkind person is probably a very lonely person. They're probably very lonely. It's possible that they don't even realize how unkind they're being It's just the world they live in, the frame of mind they have, and they say and do things, and they don't even realize how deeply what they say hurts. How how unkind what they do, how it is. And they don't even realize it. They're very lonely people. And what lonely people need is someone to love them. I found the best way to get rid of an enemy is to make them your what? Friend, be kind to them. They're probably very lonely people. Most unkind people are very lonely. And last of all, and here's the one that strikes home: all of us At some point in time, they are pretty unloving. Right or wrong? You ever say or do something, you walk away later, you think, man, that wasn't very nice Anybody know what I'm talking about? Everybody's gonna say, boy, I wish I hadn't done that. That was terrible. I wish they hadn't talked that way to them. You know what I want? When I when I've caught when I catch myself being unloving and unkind To somebody. You know what I really want from that person that I was unkind to? You know what I we really want from them? I want them to be patient with me. And I want them to forgive me. And so what I need to do is turn that around. And somebody says or does something to me, I need to respond to them the way I would like them to respond if I had done that to them. What's the golden rule? Do unto others as ye would have them do unto you. That's good for independent Baptists as much as anybody else. Amen? I would like for them to be patient and forgiving to me when I'm ugly. I need to turn that around. I need to be patient and forgiving and kind when they're unlucky. You say, but they're un they're ugly all the time Well, be patient and kind all the time. Be patient and kind. I want people to be patient with me I think maybe if we learn to be lovely to the unloving, if we be loving to the unloving, we be kind to the unkind, we Be a good testimony of God's love and God's grace, it may impact those around us and may affect others. I just thought of this. My boys and I, when they were small, we were out at Harrington Lake. We were fishing for trout and catfish. We had our lines out. We're just sitting there. It was a beautiful evening, just still as could be And there was a couple fellows across the lake. It's not a very big lake, but they're just across the other side. And they had some of the most filthy language I'd ever heard in my life. Now we're out here in the wilderness, nice getting away And my boys are being exposed to this absolute filthy language. Boy, I was getting steamed. The fellow came along the damn breast. He came over to where we were. They were leaving straight at dark. He's come along. He said, Hey, are you catching anything? I said, No, not too much. I said, by the way I said, I really don't appreciate the language that was coming from where you guys were. I said, I got my two boys here, and they heard words tonight they never heard in their life. I said, I really don't appreciate that. And the guy said to me, he says, well, we live in an awfully unkind world, don't we? I said, yeah, we do. And you're not helping make it any better at all, by the way you're talking. We do live in an unkind world. We live in an ugly world. But maybe we could make a difference if we'd be kind. We'd be loving. We be patient. Follow my thinking? So this week, we've got a week ahead of us. We're finishing up the Lord's Day. We've got a whole new work week ahead of us. Hey, we'd be good just to kneel at the old altar and say, Lord, give me the love of God, shed it abroad in my heart. The kindness and the patience. In this old dark world that is so angry and so unkind and eat at each other's throats, Lord help me to be a light shining of the love of God. You follow my challenge? And let that doesn't mean we compromise, it doesn't mean we're soft or weak. It means and I'll be honest with you, being kind to an unkind requires more strength than being unkind to the unkind. That's easy But we need the power of God. We need the filling of the Holy Spirit. Father in heaven, bless your invitation. I hope this was helpful tonight. I felt like you laid this on my heart. And I ask you to help us die to self, be filled with your Holy Spirit, and be a light in an awfully dark world.