Uh earlier today. Um if you'll remember several years ago, probably eight, six, seven, eight years ago, Dr. Smith put a one of my sermons and the sword on hell and uh caused a little bit of a stir. There was a fella over in uh it's currently called Myanmar. Uh I think it's like Malaysia over in that part in the Pacific, North Pacific, some over in there. He got a copy of that and emailed me, if some of you remember this, and asked for permission to put it in print into a booklet form, and they hold crusade Well ever since then I've been getting about once a month, every other month, I get an email from him. It's a young fellow, he's uh I would guess by the pictures and what he says, he's probably in his mid-thirties maybe He has a little Bible college going on, pastors, and they hold these campaigns, these crusades, all through the islands. This is a heavy Muslim area and uh not very very little Christian. And uh he holds these campaigns. They'll go into an area, clear out the jungle. The other month he showed pictures where they take these machetes, clear out the jungle, cut off um stumps and uh make little r little uh mi uh little seats to sit on, very rough, and they'll invite people come out, they'll bring bags of rice, cook up rice, and invite people out and preach to 'em. It's just amazing thing. Then they give out these little booklets among other things. And this came today. I just want to take a moment to read part of it. This this stirred my heart. He says, dear Pastor Dr. Dennis His English is real broken. He says, uh I do sincerely give thanks, uh I do sincerely give thanks our Almighty God for saving one hundred and eleven souls during our crusade. I am so much humble before him and praise his holy name for what he has been doing in Myanmar. On the one hand, I can't express enough how thankful I'm with you for praying for me and the ministries. And then he takes a little bit of time, explains how he had to meet with the Education Department officer. It's a very authoritarian government there. Um who in this area that they wanted to have this campaign, he found out this guy was a Christian, knew the Lord was very sympathetic towards what they were trying to do, and uh allowed them to set up and do all this. this statement. Now this is a guy taking it on himself to go out into these communities. He says this. He says um Mendone, that's the place they went, is currently a very cold place. I guess because the time a year. He said I only slept a few hours that night due to the cold season. Apparently what I and from the pictures what he says he slept out under the outside that night because he didn't have any place to stay They just showed up and got permission cleared out and slept there. He says, I am coughing and suffering from throat p pain. He said, I expected around three hundred people, but it was more than three hundred and seventy came 420 including the children. Since people are getting more, it was some challenging for me and my friends concerning managing financially But thank God he sent the Education Department officer to participate in the giving. So the government authority came and gave them money to enable them to handle all these people. And um then he goes on and talks more about it and uh different things, pr asking us to pray for future campaigns they have and his children doing well. And uh he said this, I I I'm praying for you daily, Pastor Leatherman. Isn't that an amazing thing? Never met this guy. It's been a couple years he's been doing this. Never one time has he asked us for to send any money or send any Financially, which tells me a lot, because a lot of times you get this in their wanty stuff, and uh he just wants us to pray for him and uh prays for uh us. Uh that stirred my heart. Halfway around the world, somebody uh trying to do something for God. So. Alright, if you would. First Thessalonians chapter 1. We're gonna, or I'm sorry, chapter 4. I was talking away there. Let me get set up. First Thessalonians. That's in the I'm just going to read the first verse. And uh I tell you it this whole book's been interesting, but uh now we're getting down to the nitty-gritty. We will be here in the coming coming weeks as we look at this. Verse 1, notice it says, Furthermore, when we dis uh furthermore, then we beseech you, brethren, and exhort you by the Lord Jesus that as ye have received of us how ye ought to walk and please God, so ye would abound more and more. I've entitled it, Making Progress. And we'll look at a few thoughts in this verse, and I think you'll understand what I mean by that title. Let's pray. Father, blessed now are studying your word. Thank you for what you're doing here in our midst. And the opportunity we have to be involved in the gospel ministry, sharing the gospel with people in our community. I thank you for this, Brother Caleb. Around the other side of the world in a in a society in a setting we can't even imagine, and yet faithfully preaching the same gospel with such zeal and willingness and joy in uh giving to uh reach others. Bless his ministry, I pray. This whole this letter stirred my heart today, and I pray that uh you would help us to be faithful here in our responsibility. Bless our study of your word, I pray, and apply it to our hearts as we have need. Holy Spirit, fill me, I pray, and speak through me as we always ask. In Jesus' name. Amen We're now at the second segment of the book of 1 Thessalonians, the first half, the first several chapters, chapters 1, 2, and 3 He was uh explaining uh a little bit of uh of uh his love for them, as we mentioned. Uh Paul was explaining to them that uh you know uh what he did, why he did it and his concern for them. Now we're at a second half, and it's a little bit more practical. Paul's writings you're going to find in the books that God had Paul record, his writings as we call it Almost every one of the books written by Paul were uh have two divisions to them. The first half almost always is very doctrinal, is very um uh doctrinal. He talks about specific things. Then the second half, almost without exception, is uh very practical and how that doctrine applies to my life, how I should behave, how that should affect me. I've said for years back uh shortly after I got saved, whenever fur shortly after I started preaching, uh my heart was stirred about this matter of being fundamental in our doctrine. And we all understand what that means, right? Fundamental in our doctrine. We hold to the fundamentals of the faith. But being a fundamentalist, being fundamental, is more than just having the right words down, having the right doctrine down on a doctrinal statement being fundamental means those truths affect my life. They affect how I live. I was reading an article just in the last week or two, and I don't remember what the context was, but it was something about some great basketball players And uh they were saying, what made this coach? They were talking about a certain coach, and they said, What made this coach such a great coach? And what they said was this: they said he always held us to the fundamentals of the game. Got down to the basics of what basketball was all about, how it's played, and he said he kept us focused on the fundamentals. Now that if that's true in basketball, how much more true would it be in Christianity? We hold to the fundamentals, the basics of God's word. But if that basketball coach, if all he did was drill it on the whiteboard and had all the fundamentals of positions and uh you know and all that, but they never did it out in the field, out on the court. It would be meaningless. And we as a church, if we just have our doctrinal statement in our in our bylaws or whatever, and it doesn't affect us out in the workplace in our home, then it's meaningless So Paul's his writings almost always started out doctrinal and then they ended practical, applying those doctrines this. Now, 1 Thessalonians is a little different He starts out not so much doctrinal, but almost, I'm going to say it's emotional. He's expressing his love for the church there and explaining his actions, as we've been pointing out the last couple months. Now he's in the second half and actually and he's getting practical. He's saying, All right, this is what we need to do. This is the purpose of my writing Chapter 4 is divided into two segments, at least in my mind, as I read this. Verses 1 through 12, he's giving them some very stern commands. I mean, he's just getting serious now Verses 13 through 18, he's giving them some prophetic comfort. There was apparently a question had come up, and he deals with prophecy and how it brings comfort to them, how it encourages them, helps them. So this chapter is divided. We're at a second half of the book, and the chapter is divided into two segments in my mind. Now I want to look at verse 1 And kind of set the stage for our future study of this chapter. And I notice four observations. I make four observations from verse 1 here, and that's what I want to share tonight. Notice what it says here. He says, furthermore I put this down. Number one, we have Paul's conclusion. That word furthermore there has the idea of saying, all right, this is what I'm here this is what I've been leading up to. This is what I want to say. Kind of like alright finally this this is why why I stopped by. You go by and visit someone, knock on the door, you talk a little bit, hey yeah, this, that, and the other weather uh this that and they say uh okay well let me tell you why I came by. That's kind of what this is. Let me tell you what I what I what I'm here for. So he's giving this conclusion. As I said, first three chapters Telling them how much he loves them, explaining why he did what he did. Now he wants to give them instruction. He wants them to make progress in their spiritual lives. That tells me a little bit about what a church is all about. We're not just a social organization. We're not just here to get and hang out and enjoy each other and have uh all have uh you know talk about the weather and whatnot. We're here to help each other grow in our faith. We're here to make progress in our walk with God, become stronger in our trust in God. And so he says his conclusion here. Finally, furthermore, this is what I'm writing about. Then the second thing I notice here is his concern He uses two interesting words. He says, furthermore, then, we beseech you, brethren, and exhort you. We beseech you and exhort you. He injects these words here, of course, under the inspiration of God, but there's some intensity to this This is not just a uh you know this is not just a heartless letter he's writing. He he has a real concern here. The word beseech means this, and you may be aware of this, but it has the idea of requesting something Making a strong request for something. It's more than just asking for something. Could I borrow your pencil? That's not beseeching. That's making a request. Beseeching is, please let me have your pencil. You follow what I'm saying? It's an intensity to it. So he says, finally, furthermore, then, we beseech you Does anybody familiar with Romans chapter 12, verse 1? How's that verse start out? I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God that you present your bodies. It's a plea being made. There's a an intensity. There's almost the idea of begging I thought about preaching a sermon sometime on Romans 12 and entitled it when God Starts Begging And God is pleading that we dedicate our lives to our. That's what Paul is saying. I'm beseeching, I'm making an intense request from you. And then he says, exhort. And that word exhort there again has the idea of making a strong request that an entreat uh to entreat someone is part of the definition. So what I see here is this Paul's ministry to the church at Thessalonica, his preaching to them, you could say, was more than simply imparting information. There was an intense plea for them to obey what God said. Sometimes, if we're not careful, and I know I say this in our soul-winning, and it is true, but we have to be careful. Sometimes if we're not careful, we get this idea. Maybe as preachers or as Sunday school teachers or as soul winners, we think, well, all I have to do is give this person some information, and then my responsibility is done I've, quote-unquote, delivered the mail. And my hands are clean. But you don't see Paul have that mentality at all. When Paul shared a truth with someone, he was emotionally involved in that. He wanted he if if he was sharing the truth of the second coming, which is what we're going to get to here in the coming weeks. It wasn't just a matter, hey, listen, I just want you to know Jesus coming back. What you do with it, that's up to you. It wasn't that type of mentality at all. It was, man, I'm pleading with you. I want things to be right. And so there's an intensity here. I put this down. Paul's preaching and teaching was very personal. It was passionate in his heart and mind that people understood what God had for them and that they accepted it and trusted God with it. And so he uses two strong words here. I beseech you. Furthermore, then, we beseech you, brethren, and exhort you by the Lord Jesus Christ. So we have his concern. I put this down, number three, we have Paul's content. Now let me explain what I mean by that. Notice he says, furthermore then, we beseech you, brethren, and exhort you by the Lord Jesus Christ. That ye, that as ye have received of us, all right, that phrase there, now you're gonna have to kind of think with me here a little bit, that phrase there That as ye have received of us, this is, would you agree with me? That's something he's already given to them. Follow what I'm saying? You've received this of us. So in other words, he's telling us, he's giving us a little insight here into what he had told them. What he had taught them, what he had preached to them. We're getting a little hint as to the content, the general content of Paul, what Paul's message consisted of As ye have received of us, alright, what did they receive from him? What was the message he gave them? How ye ought to do two things. What are the two things he says there? How you ought to walk and what else? Please God. I put it this way Apparently from this, and this is very general, we're not giving any specifics here, but apparently Paul's message when he went to Thessalonica and preached to them He gives us here a little bit, he dealt with, let me put it this way, he dealt with their conduct. How ye, he says that as ye have received of us, how ye ought to walk. That's dealing with their conduct The term in the Bible, when it's used when the term walk is used in the Bible, unless obviously it's talking about literally walking, refers to how we live our life, our lifestyle, our conduct And so Paul's preaching dealt with how they lived their lives. You know what we ought to have? We ought to have preachers and teachers in our churches. that teach us from the Bible how we should live our lives. Well, that preacher, he's been meddling Uh you know what? If it's Bible, the preacher ought to meddle. Now if he's dealing with his own ideas, his own opinions and stuff, he ought to make that very clear. But Paul's preaching to the church at Thessalonica, he says, you receive of us how you should walk, how you should live your life, what you should do and should not do How we live is just as important as what we believe. Because what we believe will very much affect the way we live. I've got this quote somewhere, I don't know where, in one of the books I was studying. Preaching Christian duty is just as important as preaching Christian doctrine. Let me say that again. Preaching Christian duty is just as important as preaching Christian doctrine. Now I believe a preacher and teachers, Sunday school, children's church, wherever, we ought to preach the doctrines of this book. Amen? Amen? We ought to preach the deity of Christ. We ought to preach the blood atonement. We ought to preach the inspiration of scriptures. We ought to just go down the list. The Trinity. We ought to preach and teach these doctrines. They are very important We cannot neglect that. But on the other hand, as we're doing that, we ought to teach and preach how those doctrines affect the way we live. Duty. Now sometimes you get a church, I'm thinking of a church right now. When I travel, when I was on staff in the neighborhood, there's a church in Tennessee. Out in Memphis. And I don't remember the name of the church. I don't remember the pastor. They were as doctrinally straight as uh what's something that's very straight What? Arrow. They were straight as an arrow. Or even straighter. I mean their P's were their Ps were crossed. Their T's were crossed Their eyes were dotted. They had everything right. And it was as cold, compassionless, and dead as yesterday's I'm not very good at these little cliches. They're just cold and dead, and nobody's getting saved, and there is no presence of God. Oh, they had the doctrine, but something was missing on the duty part. Follow what I'm saying? Then you can go to the other extreme, you can get in churches and man they're just having a big time and boy they'll tell you how to how to have the best marriage in the world and how to handle your finances and How to do this and how to do that and just how to live a great life. And they never one time talk about the deity of Christ. And they never mention the inspiration of scriptures and the great doctrines that make Christianity Christian. And so there's a bounce there. And Paul says, he goes, uh, how he received of us how you ought to walk. And uh but nopex something on here. I exhort you by the Lord Jesus that as ye have received of us how ye ought to walk. In other words, he's not preaching what he thinks, he's preaching what Jesus said. I want to sit under a pastor who preaches me, uh preaches and says this. This is what God says you should do. This is what this is how God says you should live. Now, I might want his opinion on some things and you know his perspective on some stuff, but bottom line is I want to hear what the Lord has to say, what God wants from me. And so we get a little insight here into the content of Paul's preaching at Thessalonica. And part of the content was how you ought to walk. How we conduct ourselves. But there's another insight here. Remember we said there was two things they received of him, how they ought to walk, and what was the second one? And to please God. I put it this way: their conduct and their accountability. They were to be sure that their lives pleased God I put this down. God takes account of our actions and our behavior. God pays attention To how we live, our behavior, our actions. God pays attention to that. And he was telling the church at Thessonica, one of the things they received from him is that they need to be very much concerned that their actions are pleasing to God. He's telling them, in a sense, they are accountable to God. You're going to answer to God someday, and you need to be sure that your life is such that it pleases God and doesn't grieve him. Or even some extent, some cases, anger God. God takes great pleasure or displeasure in our behavior. And he gets excited and has music play when you're preaching good stuff. Oh, poor Betty. God bless you, Betty. Uh we were down at the sword conference one time and uh guys preaching away uh and we heard you could hear did you ever hear that Andy Griffith? And that's going on and everybody's sitting there what in the world? And so finally it stopped that evening Dr. Smith got up and he said, if anybody's wondering, he said that was my phone He was on the platform and it went off. So it happens to the best of us. God takes great pleasure or displeasure in our behavior. In other words, God is very interested in how we're living our lives. And it either pleases him or displeases him. And Paul said, listen, I've taught you how to live in such a way that it pleases God. We're accountable to God. I believe the highest ambition for a Christian is to please God with my life. I don't know of anything higher we can seek to attain than to please God with my life. Is God pleased with me? So his content of his ministry, his messages that he preached at Thessalonica, dealt with their conduct and their accountability. Then, last of all, and with this, I see a fourth thing here in this verse is Paul's challenge. Look what he says. Let me read the whole verse again. Furthermore, then we beseech you, brethren, and exhort you by the Lord Jesus, that as you have received of us how you ought to walk and to please God. Now, here's his challenge. So ye would abound more and more. Apparently when Paul sh preached there initially, started the church. gave them some groundwork and teaching and preaching how they should live and accountability, their conduct accountability. Apparently they got a hold of that pretty good And they started out good and they were concerned about their conduct and they understood, they want to please God. But he wants them, his challenge to them is what I entitled the message: is to make progress. You've got this. Now I want you to abound in this. You need to see more of this in your life. You've got your conduct and your accountability, and you've grasped that, and it's it's had an impact on you, you're doing good. But don't be satisfied where you are. You abound more in this, and more and more and more. The word abound there, this is interesting, I thought means to go over the prescribed amount. In other words, see if anybody's been paying attention, it's like you have a measuring cup And you're going to make oatmeal. And you have a mark on that measuring cup how much milk you need to make the oatmeal, and you take the jug. And you pour and you keep pouring and it goes to that point, but you keep pouring and it goes over and over and over. Has anyone heard that illustration recently? I gave it two weeks ago. The reason I used it again, look back up into chapter 3 and verse 12. And the Lord make you to increase and what? Abound in love one toward another. In that message we were pointing out, that word love there was agape love. And we're saying that our love for one another, according to that verse, should just be over and above what people expect from us. It ought to just be over the top. And the interesting thing here is in verse number one of chapter four, he uses the exact same word. And he says your spiritual growth should be over the top. Abound, yet more and more. I mean completely beyond what people would normally expect from a Christian. He said, I want you to go over top of that. The Bible calls Christians to go beyond what man considers to be reasonable. Can I give an illustration? I'm not meddling here. I'm just giving illustration. Guys gets saved. He's reading the study Bible. He understands from Scripture that God wants to give him a tithe. 10% of his income. So he says, I'm going to trust God. I want to do that. I want to my conduct. I want to please the Lord. And so he begins giving his tithe. His unsafe family finds out about that. They have a fit. They say, what? You're giving 10% of her income? What are you crazy? Well, you know, give a couple bucks a week, you know, maybe give a dollar or two. That's fine. But 10%, that is over the top. You follow what I'm saying? He's abounding. He's going beyond what unsaved world says is reasonable. Listen, I don't mind you going to church Sunday mornings, but you've got to go back Sunday night and then Wednesday night, come on. He's going beyond what the world says is reasonable The world has no problem with quote-unquote reasonable Christians. As long as we fit into their mold, as long as we don't stir up things, as long as we don't get too carried away with it It's fine. But God says, I don't want you just to be fine. He says, I want you to get carried away with it. I want you to go over the top I want you to abound in this matter of conduct and accountability more and more and more and more. What man considers reasonable in our love for the Lord In our obedience to the Lord, in our commitment to the Lord. So his challenge to them is this. You've received the meme, how you ought to walk, and how to please God. You got a hold of it. Here's my challenge. Don't be satisfied where you are. You just get more and more and more. You just don't have any limits to it. Don't put well I'll go this far and no farther. He says, just blow that out of the water, you just keep on going. I want you to bound yet more and more. Continue. And it's interesting, he uses the phrase That you would abound. You know, he could have just said that you would abound, go over the top some more. But he doesn't use that. He says, more and more. I think the idea there is this, just continually increasing and increasing and increasing and increasing. Continual progress being made Consistent growth in my Christian life. Now, see if you can't relate to this. This is the way 99. 9% of Christians who are growing This is their growth chart, their progress chart, so to speak. Here's new Christian, here's carnal, worldly Christian, fleshly Christian. Over there is the perfect 100% ideal Christian. That's our goal. That's where we want to bound. We want to keep growing towards everything. I'm everything the Lord wants me to be. See if you agree with me on this. This is the way most people's growth is. Three steps forward Two steps back. Three steps forward. Oh man, I'm really doing good. Revival meeting. We have a great day. dudes up, I got involved in this, we had scripture assembly, man, I was on fire for God. Then I got to work and man I'd messed up and messed up. And it's three steps forward. If it was a chart It would be like this. It would be up, then down, then up a little more, then down, then up a little more, then down. Listen, the steps b the steps back are understandable. We can deal with that. As long as there's steps, more steps forward than there are back. Follow what I'm saying? Proverbs 1624 says this: a just man falleth seven times and does what? Riseth up again. riseth up again. God's not saying, all right, if you've messed up, then you're done. No. He's saying he's not saying that if you're not continually going forward Uh if if there's any steps back, then you can't ever go forward again. No. He said, I just want you to keep making progress. Keep making progress. There may be some setbacks. But just keep making progress, just keep making progress. Consistent, consistent. Then you have some cool times, some mountains, some valleys, but just keep on growing. That's the challenge to us Don't set a limit. Don't say, well, you know, I'm going to do this and I'm going to go that far in my Christian life and then that's it. I put this in a margin of my Bible. Victorious Christian life requires progress. If I'm not progressing in my faith and getting stronger and closer, stronger in my faith and closer to the Lord in my Christian life, then I'm not being victorious. I must continually be progressing. There must be continual forward motion in my Christian life And let me put it this way, a stagnant Christian is a backslidden Christian. If I'm not growing, I'm backslidden. There's no other way to put it. You cannot get to a plateau and just sit there. Because if I'm not going forward, I'm disobeying God. Right? If I'm not growing in my faith, if I'm not abounding yet more and more, then I'm disobeying God. And I've got to go forward, got to go forward. My spiritual growth. So I studied this verse here inside and out and dissected it word for word. I come to this conclusion. My spiritual growth is dependent upon my obedience to God. I must obey God. If I disobey God, I'm not growing. I cannot grow. My conduct and my accountability. That's what I need to be concerned about and then just keep pressing on. Alright, I'm doing what God said of good grief. Oh, we beats in our head, read your Bible. How many people read your Bible every Sunday night? Alright, I'm reading my Bible. Well, don't be satisfied just reading your Bible. Then get a little something more out of it. Take that to another step. How about this? Enroll in Bible Institute. Take it another level. Abound yet more and more and more. And God will do great things. Let's pray. Father in heaven. Lord, help us to accept this challenge. Help me, Lord, as pastor and as an individual Christian, to accept this challenge, to abound yet more and more, to move forward, to make progress in my Christian life. And I pray as we wind up this year, 2011, we go into the new year, we have no idea what it holds. But God, I pray you would just stir our hearts to determine that our lives will please you And our faith will grow. Our Christian life will go forward. Hear us, Lord. Help us, I pray. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would Chair with me, say, Preacher, I God has shown me it's clear in my mind, areas in my Christian life where I can and need to go forward. Some areas in my Christian life where I need growth and strength. And you'd say, Preacher, God's challenged me tonight By his grace, I want to in the coming year go forward in my Christian life. How many like that by the uplifting hand, God bless you, hands all around? Of course we would feel that way. Goodness Let's ask the Lord to help us. Specifically, whatever area it is that the Lord brings our attention. Let's say, Lord, help me in this. Show me what to do. Give me wisdom. And I want to go forward. Father, bless now our brief invitation and have your way in our lives in Jesus' name.