And then by Wednesday we were we were up on top of things again. We had a appreciate your prayers for my father. We met with the surgeon on Tuesday had a great meeting with the surgeon, very confident, felt good about it, and my dad's surgery scheduled for September 1st. So If you would. We'll mention talk more about that later. But um appreciate your prayers for us and we were down at the National Sword Conference, got down there Wednesday afternoon, and had a great time down there. I wish everybody could go down there with us and get involved in that. Got back last evening. So let's look at our Bibles if you would. Malachi chapter 3. I just want to look at verse number 10. Malachi 310. Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be meat in mine house. Now look at notice this next phrase. And prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts. If I will not open you the windows of heaven and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it. In the middle of verse 10, God makes an astounding statement. God says to man, he says to you and I, I want you to prove me. That's what I want to talk about this morning. Man proving God or man testing God. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father, I thank you for the Word of God and we can look into your your word and find answers for our lives and find direction in life and find promises and help and warnings And Lord, as we look into your word this morning, I ask that you would speak to our hearts. You've told us your word is alive, it's quick, and it's powerful. Lord, we're asking that this book would pierce our hearts where we're at. God, you know our spiritual state. So help us to grow in our faith. I pray, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body anew to you. I yield my will to yours. Open our hearts and minds. Have your way. Help us to know, God, that you are who you say you are and you do what you say you will do. Help us to be confident of that. Help us to trust you. Lord, help us to have faith in you. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I would like this morning for this portion of scripture that we're going to be looking at, and for this message, I would like for it to challenge and encourage all of us. To trust God completely. That is my burden going into this. Is that we as individuals and that we as a church would simply trust God. Just believe what he says. I believe if we will trust God, take God at His word, our faith in Him will grow stronger. I believe that we can and will see his will being fulfilled in our lives as individuals, and his will being fulfilled in our church as a congregation. If we will simply get to the point where we say, you know, I'm trusting God in this matter. God said this is the way it should be. God says This is what needs to be done. So I'm going to trust him and I'm going to do it that way. And see God do some great things. Malachi, as we mentioned previously, is the last book of the Old Testament. Malachi is not an Italian prophet. My next statement is true. If I happen to make any statements that are true, I'll point them out to you. This next statement is true. I thought when I first got saved and was going through, I went to this seminar shortly after I got saved, and it was the thing to learn the whole Bible and kind of a survey thing of the whole Bible. And when I got to the book of Malachi, I thought it was pronounced Malachi. We were going to that that's the honest truth. I thought it was Malacci. I thought he was some Italian prophet that uh was back then. He is not an Italian prophet, he was actually a prophet during the time of Nehemiah You'll remember your book of Nehemiah, how Nehemiah was the cupbearer to the king in Babylon and He heard that Jerusalem was in shambles, of course it had been for many years, and he came back with the blessings of the king and supplies, and Nehemiah got back to Jerusalem and he began to rebuild what The wall of Jerusalem around the outside. He began to rebuild the wall. He was there a couple three years, and for whatever reason, we're not exactly sure what the reasoning was Nehemiah went back to Babylon. Perhaps he had to report on his progress. Perhaps uh he had some duties there. We don't know exactly, but for about a year or two, maybe three, he went back To Babylon. During that period, as so often happens, when the leadership was removed, the work began to deteriorate. Malachi was raised up during that period of time, and that's when he was preaching, that's when his ministry was, was in Jerusalem. to the the Jews that were there, fifty, seventy thousand Jews that were there, and he was trying to keep them going on for God and keep them uh from going astray while Nehemiah was absent It was a period of time, a brief but period of time, but a period of time, nevertheless, where they desperately needed a prophet. They needed someone to stand up and speak God's word boldly and clearly. Because if they did not have that, they were going astray. So, Malachi shows up. He's preaching God's word. It's a strong message. If you study the book of Malachi, it's a very strong message, a very straightforward. He's dealing with external religion. They had gotten to the point where they were going through the outward ceremonies. They were doing everything outwardly, but inwardly there was nothing real. There was no faith in God. It was simply doing what they could do, and they were satisfied with that. The name Malachi means messenger of Jehovah. And that's exactly what he was. He brought God's message. We know he's mentioned only one time in the Bible, Malachi chapter 1, verse 1. The only time his name is mentioned in the entire Bible, and we are told nothing about him. We have no record of who his parents were. We have no record of his ancestry, who is grandfather, great-grandfather. A lot of times in the Bible somebody will be mentioned and they'll say he was the son of so-and-so, who was the the son of so-and-so and the son of so-and-so. Uh we're not given any of that about Malachi. We know nothing about his parents, nothing about his interesting, we know nothing of his children, we know nothing of his financial standing, we know nothing of his social standing. We know nothing about him, other than his name means Messenger of Jehovah. Now that tells me several things That tells me one thing is the importance isn't you and I, the importance is God's word. Let me say a word to our soul winners and the folks that go out and preach and knock on doors and share the gospel. Listen, we are not the subject. Christ is the subject. We are simply the messengers. Who we are and what we think and our standing and our status is really not that important. What is important is that God's word is given to the world. So we know nothing about it. From reading the book of Malachi and studying it, we kind of get the idea that he may have been of the tribe of Levi. Perhaps he was a priest. He deals very detailed about the priests and their responsibilities and their attitudes they should have. And so it's possible That uh he may be of the tribe of Levi. It's possible he was a priest, but we don't know that. But we do know this: Malachi's message was of God. And so he was the spokesman What's the theme of the book of Malachi? I believe the theme of the book of Malachi is it can be expressed several ways. He's telling Israel, and because it's preserved for us in God's word, he's telling us that if we will be for real If we will just be for real in our faith in God, God will bless us. God will take care of us. If we will sincerely trust God, if God says I want you to do this. We can trust God and do what He says, and God will take care of us. If we his his message is this: if we will simply do what God says, the way he says to do it, everything's going to be okay. That's the idea, the message. It's going to be alright if you'll trust me. Now, if you want to take things into your own hands, you want to do it your way. You want to lean on your own understanding, well then we have no promise of God's blessing. In fact, he gives some dire consequences of not trusting God and trusting in ourselves. So If we will follow God's leadership, if we from our heart will obey God's instructions, God will take care of us. God will bless us. Everything is going to be okay. But if we question God, if we doubt God, if we want to do things our way and not God's way, then we're going to have an empty, then we're going to have a hard time of it. And we're going to find our lives to be empty. We're going to find frustration. And we're going to find difficulty. Malachi chapter 3 and verse 10 is a very familiar verse. How many people ever read or heard this verse before? Raise your hand. How many folks ever heard or read this? Alright, that's the majority. Let me have all the young people's attention up here, please. All the young people, give me your attention up here. Um this is a familiar verse. I put in my notes. This perhaps may not be a very popular verse. I'm not going to ask you to raise a hand, but I wonder how many, when you heard us read Malachi 3. 10, you thought in yourself, oh brother, I know what he's preaching about this morning. It is a familiar verse, but not always a very popular verse. Bring ye all the what? Tithes into the storehouse. Listen, this is not my message, but I can't let that go. Tithing is God's idea. God's the one that said, bring ye all the tithe and so on. And by the way, again, this is not my message, I'm not going to elaborate it, but tithing was not just for the Old Testament law, period. There's abundant scripture for that. We could very easily debunk that idea that, well, that was just for Israel. If you want to go that route, then we are obligated to give a whole lot more than just our tithe. But that's not my message, and I digress. Tithing is God's idea. God's the one that laid this out, not me, not some other preacher. God's the one. Hey listen, if you have a problem with tithing, then you have a problem with something God is instructing us to do. Amen? Now you say, what's the deal with the tithe? What's the big deal about it? It's very simple. Tithing is God's method of blessing us. God says, if you'll bring the tithe into the storehouse, and then he gets to the subject of our message, prove me. I'll open up the windows of blessing, the windows of heaven, and pour out a blessing on you. God says that tithing, and other scriptures bring this out, that tithing is a means of God blessing us. It's an expression of faith on our part, of trust in God, an expression of our love and appreciation for all that God has done for us. And God says, if you will do that, then I will take that as a as a means of pouring out my blessing on you in a great way. So tithing's God's idea. In the middle of this verse, as I said at the beginning of our message, God makes an amazing statement. Look with me again at verse 10. Bring me all the time to the storehouse that there may be meat in mine house. And look at this next statement. And prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts. If I will not open you the windows of heaven, prove me now herewith. Now, I got thinking about that. God Is sitting down behind the desk, putting you and I as the teacher, so to speak, and we are giving God the test. God has said, go ahead. The word prove here, the word prove means to put to the test. I like this definition. To try the integrity of something or someone. Uh we have uh how many people heard was it a year or so ago, was it up in Minnesota somewhere that uh bridge collapsed right at rush hour? Anybody remember that? The bridge collapse people were hurt, I think there's some people killed Every now and then you hear something like that. And if you'll notice they were talking about testing that had been done on that bridge. They were proving the bridge. They were testing the what? The integrity of that bridge. Whether it could bear the load. Whether it could accomplish what it was designed to do, whether there was flaws or failures in it, God says, I want you to prove me I want you to test me. Try my integrity. Go ahead and see if I'm a liar or not. Go ahead and see if there's any inadequacy in me or not as your God. Go ahead, prove me. Go ahead, try it. Give me the test. That's an amazing thing. That God, I don't know about you, but I think of this and I think about standing before God and thinking about giving, testing God. And I cower at the thought. Who am I to put God to the test? Who am I to question the integrity of God? Who am I to say, God, I know you said that if I do this, you will do that. But I just don't believe it's true. I'm just not going to trust you. I just don't believe your integrity is there. So I'm not going to do what you said I should do. God says, go ahead and test me. Go ahead and prove me. You think that I'll not do what I said I would do? You think that I word is not good? That there's no integrity there? Is that what you think? Go ahead and try me. God telling man to put God to the test. That's an amazing thing. The word prove is also used. In 1 Samuel 1739, if you remember the story of David came out to check on his brothers, and he had Cheez-Its and Cheetos he was bringing to his brothers. And uh there Goliath is out there and there's this, oh the boy of the nation, and everybody's running higher, and David says, uh, what's the deal? Why are you guys running higher? Is there not a cause? And they're all yeah, David, you're an idiot. Be quiet. David says, I'll take care of him. So comes to Saul and Saul gives him his armor. How many people remember the story? Saul gives him his armor. David tries it on and he gets the armor and now David's just a kid, he's 14 years old maybe. Saul was this big, strong king, and he was a warrior. He tries it all and he says, I can't use this because I have not. . Anybody remember what he says? Prove this. He says, I I don't know the integrity of this armor. I don't know if this is going to hold up. I don't know if this is going to work for me. I don't know if what you're offering me is going to do For me, what it's designed to do, I haven't proved it. I haven't tested it. God says, I want you To prove me. I want you to test me. See if I'll not do what I say I'll do. See if my word is not good or not See if I am not a God of integrity. All through the Bible we find God testing man. Now, to me, that makes sense. Amen? I can see where God would have some doubts about man. I've got doubts about man. I've got doubts about me. Several years ago there was a little fuss among the independent Baptists and And one guy was accused of stuff, and it was just the whole thing was the ridiculous. But the saying went around, I am one hundred percent for this certain preacher And I recoiled at that. Fact of the matter is, I'm not 100% for any man. I'm not 100% for myself. I disagree with me sometimes. Anybody? So I I can understand my mind can get a hold of the idea of God testing man. see whether man's gonna be good or not, whether his word's good or not, because a lot of times our word is not good. Can I get an amen? So you go through the Bible and over and over God is testing man. God is testing man. The classic Old Testament example of God testing man is when God told Abraham to take his son. his only son Isaac and do what? Offer him up for a sacrifice. Would Abraham trust God? Would Abraham pass the test? Thank God he did. Now there's other tests that went through, and Abraham didn't live up to it. His integrity fell short of what the test required. But now God turns it around. Now, the subject of the test is finances, tithing. That's the subject of the test. But that's the principle applies across the board. Can I trust God with my tithe? 10% of my income. Can I if God says I want you to bring the tithe? Can I trust him with that? Is his integrity good? He says if I do that, then he'll take care of me. Uh is God's integrity good? Now that's the immediate context, but the principle applies across the board. Now here's my first thought. There's only two points this morning. You'll be very glad to hear. There's only two points of the message. You'll be very sad to hear. There's 17 sub-points under each of the two points. Number one Notice the considerable proofs already given to us of God's power, goodness, and integrity. This is what I mean God says, prove me. Go ahead, test me. See if I'm good. See if I've got the power. See if I have the ability. See if my word is a word of integrity. Whether I'll exactly act, whether I'll do what I'll say. Now Consider this fact. We already have a ton of proofs that God is powerful, that God is able, that God's word is good. We have it all around us. God does not have to ask us to put him to the test. He's already given us tons of proofs. That he is who he says he is. That he does what he says he does will do. For instance, creation Is a proof of God's power and integrity. Creation, look all around. Keep your place here in Malachi if you would, but I really would like for you to turn with me to the New Testament book of Romans. And Romans chapter 1. Now I I'd like for you to turn there because I'd like you to see this in your Bible. How many people you got your Bible with you? Say amen. So don't take my word for it, alright? I want you to look at these and see them. Romans chapter 1, and look at verse 20. Romans 1:20 For the invisible things of him, from the what? Creation of the world are clearly seen. Being understood by the things that are made. Even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are what? Without excuse. What's he saying here? He says that the invisible things of God, in other words, his attributes Things that are true of God, His integrity, His truthfulness, His goodness, His power, the things that you can't see, they're seen in creation. And all around us, we look and see, we see the power and even the deity of God proven, evident in creation. Um you know, the longer I go on this, the longer I live, the more this idea that everything, life and All of our creation is simply a result of some haphazard, chaotic chance of things happening, the fall in place and Just the right time and just the right way. And the more I see that, the more ridiculous it seems in my mind. You look at creation, and the very first thing you see in creation, you see fixed laws. Things that are in place, the laws that are there, the law of gravity, the law of aerodynamics uh and just a whole list of laws that scientists say these are in place, these these mathematical laws And you see you see this order, you see design, you see purpose, you see increas in intricate complexity. One of the most astounding things is uh a number of years ago that uh we got uh uh I purchased this uh DVD presentation of of the world we live in, and they did an amazing thing, and this was not by Christians. And they portrayed computer animation, they portrayed traveling away from the earth. And I've mentioned this before, but they portrayed traveling at the speed of light, actually enhanced. And how long it would take if you left Earth to get out of our solar system, I think uh Pat probably knows something five minutes or whatever, traveling the speed of light or something. It's So I know more than Pat. Praise the Lord. And uh and uh And getting back there and they say after so many hours you see the earth off in the distance, then uh several years go by and you see our galaxy uh uh going off into the distance and then a hundred thousand years traveling at the speed of light times whatever and then you see hundreds and millions and billions of other galaxies Each one has hundreds and billions and billions of solar systems in it. And you back out and you back out, and the thing that blew my mind. was that they said if you could somehow, and I don't know how they know this, but if you could somehow s look at our universe from a difference From a distance, a great enough distance, there is literally pattern and design to all the galaxy In the universe. They're not just out there haphazardly. There is actually a design and a tapestry to the galaxies in our universe. And I look at that and I try and comprehend it, and I think, what an awesome God we serve. That he would design something on that immense magnitude. And even at that level, it has plan and purpose and design. What a God! And he tells us to prove him. You look around at the smallest molecules and the whole world and universe within the molecules. And the design that goes into little proteins that are literally little machines That the DNA assembles piece by piece, that makes up everything. God doesn't have to ask us to prove Him, He's proven Himself in creation. Creation proves is proof of God's power and integrity There's laws of creation. There's design in creation. There's cohesion. Everything is held together. You have your little electrons and your protons and your neutrons and Whatever they're made up of, and something holds them all together. And scientists are just now trying to figure out what it is that holds this universe together. What is it that keeps things together? It's all in perpetual motion. Why isn't it just scattering? I'll tell you why. The Bible says in Colossians, by him, Jesus, all things consist. He keeps things together. And so God has already given us considerable proofs Of his power and his wisdom and his integrity. We see it in creation. Don't tell me God doesn't know what he's doing. Look around. Don't tell me God isn't all powerful. You say, well, you know, I know God said that I should do this, but you know, I just don't see how that's going to work out. I know God said that this is what I should do or I shouldn't do that, and but you know I just see it this way. You're a fool God knows what he's doing. Just look around. God is wise. God is powerful. He knows what he's doing. He's able to take care of us. He's already given us that proof. So creation is proof of God's power and integrity. Not only that, but the conversion of a sinner is proof of God's power and love. Think about that. You have some dirty old rotten blasphemous nasty sinner, and he hears the gospel of Jesus Christ. And miraculously and many times, instantly, his life or her life is changed. Never to be the same. We could go all through scriptures and find examples and illustrations of that. I think of Rahab the harlot. Now think of her lifestyle. Think of the type of people Rahab spent her time with. Think of the nastiness. Of the life that Rahab lived in a pagan country. But she hears word of a group coming out of Egypt called the Israelites. Jews and their God is an awesome God. And He's doing these amazing things. And something in her heart is stirred. And the Bible gives testimony that Rahab believed that Jehovah was who he says he was. That Jehovah was going to do what he said he would do. She believed in the integrity of God. And her life was changed. And she literally becomes an ancestor of Jesus Christ. She literally becomes in the lineage. God, through her lineage, brings the Savior into the world. I'm telling you, that is testimony, that is proof that our God is a powerful God. He can change a life like Rahab. We could, time fails. We can look at Mary Magdalene. A woman, a prostitute, possessed of multiple devils. I mean, literal demon possession, not just of one, but of devils. And she hears of Jesus. She falls at his feet and yields herself, trusts Christ, and God cleanses her and changes her and uses her to be a great disciple. Isn't that a wonderful thing? The power of God to change a life. Take your Bibles if you're still in Romans, turn not too far, turn over to 1 Corinthians chapter 6. First Corinthians chapter 6, and I'd like you to notice verse 9. 1 Corinthians 6 9. Look what it says. Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived Now look at this list. Neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate nor abusers of themselves with mankind, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners, shall inherit the kingdom of God. Now look at verse eleven And such, what's that next word? Were some of you, but ye are washed, but ye are sanctified. But ye are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of God. He says, Listen, you guys were drunkards, you were extortioners, you were idolaters. You were adulterers, but God came in your life. The blood of Jesus cleansed you from all that. And your life is new. And now you're a testimony. You are a proof of God's power and love and goodness. A converted sinner is proof of God's power and love. All across this auditorium, there are people who could stand up and testify. Jesus Christ came in my life, saved me, and transformed my life. Am I right or wrong? All across this church and churches like ours around the world, tens of hundreds of thousands, millions of people Can stand up and say, My life is proof. My life is a testimony to the fact that God does what He says he will do if you'll believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. You shall be saved. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. The conversion of a soul is proof of God's goodness. God, give us some young people who will be proof to this whole world that God can keep a young person pure. That a young person can be humble and modest and true and dedicated to Jesus Christ and happy about it. God give us some young couples who don't get caught up in buying things and having stuff. But their soul desire as a family, as a young couple, as a young children, is to be a testimony to this old world Prove to this old world that God is good to us and the answer to happiness in life is not materialism or fleshly pleasure, but it is a humble submissive walk with God. God, give us some young people who be a testimony to this whole world. I'm telling you, God is better to us than stuff is. God, give us some seniors, super seniors, who will be proof to this whole world that the golden years of life can be some of the best years of walking with God and a testimony that God is good even when the old body's breaking down Converted life, a life submitted, humbly, walking with God, is proof to this old world that God does what he says he will do. God is true and God's word is true. He is a God of integrity. God intends for his people to be proof of his power and goodness. God intends for his church. to be proof of his power and goodness, huh? Tell you what grieves my heart as Pastor is to see churches Get caught up in this idea that somehow if we're gonna win the world we have to imitate the world. We have to look like them and act like them and Entertain like them somehow. Listen, that is not proving that God is good. All that's proving is we love the world. Said preacher, why do churches bring rock and roll music into their churches? I'll tell you why. Because they love rock and roll music. Not because they're wanting to be a testimony of the power and goodness and holiness and purity and sacredness of God. So, God has given us considerable proofs already of his power and goodness integrity. Then we come back to Malachi and we get to this statement again. And God says, prove me. Good grief, I think. Prove you. You've already proven yourself, God. What more could somebody want? What more proof would someone need to know that God is who he says he is? That God will do what he says he will do Good night. And God says, all right, if you still doubt me, you see creation, you see changed lives, you see the miracles I do, and you still doubt me Go ahead and prove me. And God challenges his people to prove him. Hey, thank God there are people all around. Our church, other churches like ours, who are proof. You look at their life, man, you see God all over it. Am I right or wrong? You look at their life and you say, man, God does what he says he would do. God God is good. You can see it in that person's life. So there are a lot of people who are proof of God's goodness, but there's also a lot of people who want proof. Still want it. Creation isn't enough. The testimony of people around isn't enough. Things that God has already done for them is not enough. And God says, alright, doesn't threaten me. Doubt me all you want. Doesn't change my integrity. Doesn't put a chink in my armor. You can lean on your own understanding. You can ignore what I say is best. You can go on that way. That's fine. Doesn't affect doing what I am as God. Go ahead and prove me. Excuse the lingo, but God is saying basically, bring it on. Bring your doubts on. Go ahead. Doubt me. Prove me. Go ahead. Try me. Test me. See if I don't keep my word. God has given us promises all through his word. A number of years, many years ago, my father, he reads his Bible through every year. And uh one year there he wrote down every promise he came across in the Bible. Took one whole year. Every day, come across a promise, he'd write it down. He showed me his notebook at the end of the year. It was a notebook packed full. He wrote the reference and the whole verse out. I mean, there was hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of promises God says, prove me. See if my promises aren't true. Now, you need to understand there's three types of promises God gives us in His Word. You know some preachers just can't take strong preaching, you know that? They just can't take it. Y'all pray for her, brother. There's three types of promises in the Bible. One type of promise is what's called a conditional promise. And that's just like the word implies, the name implies. It's conditional. God says if you meet the condition, then I will do this. If you obey me in this area. Then this I'll I'll guarantee this result. It's conditional. God says, I promise to do this. If You do that. Now, many, if not most of the promises in the Bible, the way I see them are conditional. We have to be careful sometimes. We'll claim promises that have conditions on them My God shall supply all you need according to his riches in Christ Jesus. That's true. But if you read the verses before that, there's some conditions there. If I'm trusting God with my finances doing whatnot For instance, Matthew 7 and verse 7 he says, Ask and it shall be given unto you. So if God's going to give something unto me, I need to do what? Ask. And then you go to 1 John and chapter 5 verse 14, then we're on further conditions put on that that we have to ask according to his will. Oh good. We're gonna have a king party Saturday night. I just want it to go great. I'm gonna ask God to bless my king party. Is God obligated to keep that promise? No, it's not according to his will. You're not meeting the conditions So a lot of promises in the Bible are conditional. If we do our part, then God does his part. If we ask in faith believing, feeling confident it doesn't violate Scripture, then I can be sure I can test God. I can prove them and if I'll meet the conditions, then God will keep his word. A number of years ago, my wife and I were talking about this a week or two ago. I hadn't thought of it a long time. There was many years ago, probably ten or more years ago. We were praying, this is a little personal, but we were praying that God would give us $10,000 There's various situations. We just, Lord, if you could give us ten thousand dollars, uh that would be helpful. And so we prayed earnestly, believing. I thought the way God would answer it was one day I'd walk out to the mailbox and there'd be a check for $10,000 in the mailbox That's the way I thought anybody can I get a witness? Anybody relate to what I'm saying? That's the way I thought it would answer. Or you know, something's somebody would die and something We weren't praying that anyone would die. But we were asking for that. Oh what? A year or two went by? Probably two years, no more than that. And one day I was praying and I got thinking, and I got a notepad out and I started writing stuff down. I went back and got some records out and got, look, I started writing things down. You know what I realized? That over a period of two years, probably not quite two years, God had provided Not through the salary or just the general every weekly income type things, but in outside means, various other ways. Over a period of time, we totaled that up. Guess what it came to? $10,000. And we were able to do the things we needed to do. You know what we realize? God's word is good. Now he might not do it the way we think. In fact, he never does it the way I think he does. But God's word is good. He says, prove me. You ask me, you meet the conditions, make sure it doesn't violate scripture. You come in my name and prove me. Just see if I don't do what I say I'll do. So there's conditional promises. Malachi 3. 10, the verse so many people don't like. Bring you all the tithe in the storehouse. And prove me that there may be meat in my house. And prove me now here with Saint Lord, if I will not open the windows of heaven, pour you out a blessing So, conditional promises, we prove God's conditional promises by trusting Him and obeying Him. You say, oh, how do I prove God? How do I put God to the test? Do what he says and see if he won't do what he said he'd do. That's how you prove them. Just try it. Just go ahead. Try me. Test me. Creation? See my hand in creation? That's not good enough. See always change line. That's not good enough. Alright, just do what I say. See if I won't do it. Prove me. Go ahead. Now, there's other promises in the Bible, and there are what I'm going to call prophetic promises. These are things that God promises He's going to do in the future. The biggie is he's coming back again. Now God promised he's coming back again. I will come again Now either he's telling the truth or he's lying. Right? Say how do I prove that? Just wait. Time proves God's prophetic promises. You say, well, that's lame. Just wait and see. No, no, no. In the Old Testament, he made 300 plus promises concerning the first coming of Jesus Christ. Christ. Every one of them were filled to the T. Place, time, process, everything. A Persian and the city of David, uh Bethlehem, it was all laid out. And every one of them was fulfilled exactly as he said. Therefore, it's safe to assume I can give it time, and God will prove Himself that what He says will happen in the future will happen exactly like He says. Are you with me on that? On board? And then there's a third type of promise, and those are unconditional promises. And those are the greatest of all. Where God says, I'm going to do this for you, no matter what you do. Whether you obey me or not, I'm going to do this for you. Whether you trust me or not, I am going to do this for you. It is an unconditional promise. Based not on your behavior, but on my power and my integrity. Now, there's not as many of those as there are conditional promises or prophetic promises But the ones that are there are fantastic. And one of the greatest is this: that if a person believes in the Lord Jesus Christ, they shall be what? Saved. Alright, that's conditional. If you're here this morning, you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven. If God has not dealt with your sins, cleanse them through trusting Christ, if you die in that condition, you will go to hell forever and ever and ever. That's Bible fact. But if you will believe on the Lord Jesus Christ of your own free will, choose to trust Jesus as your personal Savior in response to that belief, Christ will save you. That is a conditional promise. But along with that comes an unconditional promise, and that is this. Once that's settled, God promises that He will keep us saved. No matter what we do from that point on. Say, do you believe in predestination? Absolutely. Every person that trusts Christ of their own free will, from that point on, they are predestined to get to heaven. Be like Christ. You say, well, what if I get saved and I blow it? If you genuinely got saved, God's promise to you is secure that you are safe as a child of Christ. Now, another unconditional promise is this, he's going to chasten you. If you do wrong, you say, Well, good praise the Lord, I got a license to sin. Go ahead, try it. Go ahead. You're genuinely saved. Go ahead. See what happens. So God says, prove me. Head. You've got creation, you've got changed lives, you have the testimony of my word. That's got not that's not good enough. You still can't take me at my word. You still want to lean on your own understanding. You still think you know better. Go ahead and try me. See if I'm see if my word's not good. See if I don't have the ability, the power. We don't have time to elaborate on it, but he says, prove me now. Right now. Right now. Here's the thing. Sometimes somebody asks someone to do something, they say, Well I can do that, but first I gotta this, that, and the other, and uh I can't right now. God says, Listen, I don't have to change a thing Everything's in place. Go ahead and prove me right now. You say, well, I don't think God can save me. Trust my son is your Savior. Prove me. See if I don't keep my word. Well I I think my I don't think I could ever have victory over that sin. Alright, you come and trust me, you give it to me. Prove me. See if I see it. Right now, just right now, this morning. Here, now, you trust me. Prove me now! God today in 2009, August 2nd, 2009, is the same as he was for Abraham, for Noah, for Moses, for Elijah. For Paul, he hasn't trust changed one bit. He's the same yesterday, today, and forever. We can trust him now. Prove him now, just as Noah proved him in the ark, just as Abraham proved him at the altar with his son, just as Moses proved him when he walked through the waters of the Great Sea. God says, Prove me now I haven't changed a bit. I haven't changed a bit. Trust him for salvation and obey him for blessings. Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us. To simply take you at your word. God help us to trust you and obey you in the things you instruct us. Help us to lean not on our own understanding, but in all our ways acknowledge you. And let you direct our paths. Let you provide our needs. Let you take care of us. Our heads bowed and eyes closed. I wonder how many this morning say praying.