2 Samuel chapter 7, verse number 1, the Bible says, It came to pass when the king sat in his house. Now get a picture of this: King David sitting in his house. And the Lord had given him rest round about him from all his enemies. And the king said unto Nathan the prophet, so apparently Nathan's sitting in this house here with David. They're just having maybe an evening together. Maybe there's a fire on the fireplace going there. I don't know what the setting was. And uh the king says to Nathan the prophet, See now, I dwell in a house of cedar. But the ark of God dwelleth within curtains. And Nathan said to the king, Go, do all that is in thine heart, for the Lord is with thee. I'm going to stop there because that's all the farther we're going to get tonight. There's more to the story than that, as we'll see. If you would notice over in 1 Chronicles chapter 17 We have uh again another account of this same event. It's worded very almost identical, but um I wanted to read both of these tonight It says, Now it came to pass, as David sat in his house, that David said to Nathan the prophet, Lo, I dwell in a house of cedars, but the ark of the covenant of the Lord remaineth under curtains. Then Nathan said unto David, Do all that is in thine heart, for God is with thee. Now I do want to add one verse here on this section, verse number three. And it came to pass That the word of God came to Nathan saying, Now David said, I want to build a temple for God. I live in a nice house of cedars. The Ark of the Covenant is there in that tabernacle in a tent. Nathan says, yeah, it's a great idea. Do it. Do all that's in your heart. But look what happens in verse 13. Or verse 3. And it came to pass the same night the word of the Lord came to Nathan, saying, Go and tell David my servant, thus saith the Lord, thou shalt not build me a house to dwell in. Huh. I've entitled the message, and this is the lesson I want to try and draw out of this tonight. There's several lessons we're going to look at in the coming weeks. But uh the lesson I want to draw out tonight is this. Man's opinion versus God's word. What do you do when what I think is a good idea, what I think I ought to do, clashes with what God says should be done. So that's the question of the message. And the answer to the question I just asked, what do I do when my will and my idea and my opinion clashes with the Word of God? What do I do? The answer to that is what? Follow the Word of God. Put aside my opinion, put aside my idea, and let God's idea and God's will be done. And so that's the message. We'll just close and be finished. And uh now let's look at this here a little bit and uh try and pull some lessons out of it. Let's pray together. Father, bless our lesson tonight and uh teach us to trust you. And uh teach us, Lord, help us get to the point spirit so we're willing just to lay aside our reasoning, our own understanding, our ideas, and be willing uh just to trust you, Lord, let your will be done. So fill me with your spirit, I pray. Apply this to our hearts and minds. You know we need it. In Jesus' name. Amen. I think generally speaking, we tend, now bear with me on this a little bit. I don't know if you're going to bristle with this or not. But I think generally speaking, we tend to value our opinions and our ideas over God's word. Generally speaking. Now I'd like to not admit, I'd like to say, nah, that ain't true. But I think it's more true than we than we would maybe would want to admit We have a tendency to want to do things the way we think they should be done, or do the things that we think we should do, and tend to What God says, maybe that might clash with the Word of God, the will of God, and sometimes we tend to say, well, I'm going to go ahead and do it my way anyway. I'm going to go ahead and do what I think should be done. I'll tell you right off the bat, that's not a good idea. Can you think of anybody in the Bible, now think with me, it's Bible quiz time. Can you think of anybody in the Bible? That followed their own ideas or placed their opinion about something, what should be done, or how it should be done, over what God clearly said Should or should not be done. Can you think of anyone? Jonah's the first one came to my mind. God said, Go to Nineveh, preach forty days, and uh thou shalt be destroyed. And uh Jonah thought, you know, I don't think that's a good idea. And so he went down to Joppa and headed off to Tarsus. Um how'd that work out for him? Not so good. Not so good. Can you think of anyone else? I have a list here I put down. There's actually more in the Bible. If you think about it, there's more there than you realize. Adam, yeah, very clear. Adam and Eve. You know, God said, Don't you eat of it. Satan influenced them. I actually, the one I wrote down was uh their sons Cain and Abel. God obviously made it very clear that they're to bring a blood sacrifice, and Abel said, okay, that's fine. But Cain had a little different opinion. And Cain decided to bring fruit of the field, the grape, no blood sacrifice. And of course, all these sacrifices were pointing to the atonement of the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus shedding his blood for us. They were pictures of that pointing to that. And so that didn't work out so hot. Can you think of anyone else? I have several here Abraham, when uh he got to Canaan, God told him to go to Canaan, a famine hit in Canaan, and Abraham thought, Well, I don't think it's such a good idea to be here in Canaan, and where do you run off to? Egypt. And brother, that was a mess. Lied about his wife, not being his wife, and almost the Pharaoh almost took her, and then he comes back with Hagar, and that whole thing was a disaster I thought about the Tower of Babel. If you study at the end of Noah, when God's finished with the whole flood and to get out, and he tells them, and I'm putting small words, he tells them to disperse, replenish the earth. But the leaders at the time decided to all congregate together and build this Tower of Babel. And uh that didn't work out. So the point I'm trying to make is I think generally speaking Throughout history, we as people have tendons have had a tendency to put our opinion, our reasoning, what we want to do, and the way we want to do it Exalted that over the way God says we should do that. We see that in our communities, don't we? I've never lived in a community that followed God's instructions in his word to the T. Now some might be a little more conservative has some Bible principles behind how the community functions and others didn't. been to places. I think there used to be a uh a town on in New Jersey along the shore when I was young we would go camping and they had um there was no liquor allowed in that city limits of that town And um I say amen to that. And uh, you know, that's a biblical principle there. And uh and so, but generally speaking, communities lean on their own understanding. We think this should be all right. Well this is what we think should be done rather than the word of God. Governments tend to rule according to their own understanding. Here's the thing, even families, and more and more so is time approaches the coming of the Lord, we see more and more families rather than following the instructions and the guidelines and the structure that God has taught us in his word, we just kind of do our thing and kind of go or have follow our opinions, right or wrong. And we see the price that is being paid by mankind. Now here's the one that bothers me. I mean those all bother me a lot. Here's the one that's a little disturbing, even churches. Get their ideas and their own opinions, and this is the way the church ought to be, and this is why we're here, and this is what we ought to do, and this is And they put their own understanding above the Word of God. I want to remind myself and Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, God's word is our sole authority. And that is, if the book says it, then we ought to do it. I like what Bob Jones used to say. He says, if the Bible says it, then it's so. And so we tend to value our opinion over the Word of God. We tend to value trust our understanding over God's will many times. Proverbs 3, 5, and 6, what does that say? Trust in the Lord with all your heart and lean not unto thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge Him, and he shall direct thy ways. What a good statement. You know that was penned by David's son. It's altered by God, but Solomon's the one that penned that statement In all your ways acknowledge him. He'll direct your paths. Trust in the Lord with all your heart, lean not in your own understanding. Listen to Proverbs 29 and verse 25. This is a great verse. In fact, for I wish uh I'd like to turn there, but let me just quote it to you. It says this, the last part of Proverbs 29, 25 says this, Whoso putteth his trust in the Lord shall be safe. Isn't that a good statement? This is just, I don't know what you might be going through. I don't know what we're struggling. You're thinking, man, what do I do? I think I should do this. I think I should do that. I better do this. Wait a minute My Bible says you trust the Lord, you'll be alright. Trust do it God's way. What God says. Follow him. Follow the Lord there. And so To be a, if we can just get to the point, here's what I'm trying to get at. If we can just get to the point where we're strong enough in our faith, That when I have a face a situation or I have an idea or maybe I want to do something for God And I get it and I got it established in my heart minor, whatever the situation may be. But if I can get to the point in my Christian life, if I can get strong enough faith where I'm able to say, all right This is what I think. This is my opinion. But you know, God's word says that. And I'm going to set aside my opinion and I'm going to go ahead and trust God and do it his way. When we get to that point, boy, our faith is getting strong Then we're becoming mature as believers when we can do that, when we get to that point. David, we are told in the Bible, was a man after God's own heart And we're going to see here, now we're not going to get to all of it tonight, but we're going to notice here in this passage as we work our way through it He was able to lay aside his own ideas as good as they were, as great as they were. He was able to, and he was willing, and he did, laid aside his own opinions And by the way, Nathan also laid aside his own ideas, his thoughts about building this temple, and says, you know, let's follow God's sets. We're going to do it God's way. So David and Nathan both arrived at this point. When my opinion clashes with God's word, and when my plans clash with God's will. I need to be able to be strong enough in my faith to submit to God's word and submit to His will and say, alright God, I'm going to trust you, I'll follow what you say. Now, I got four observations From this passage we read here and a few other verses. Let me give you these four these four points, and then we're only going to look at two of them tonight But the first thing I notice is the peace that David experienced. And I got that from verse number one. We're going to look at it here in a little bit. And then the second thing I notice, the plans that David imagined about the temple. We'll see that. And then we have the opinion that Nathan expressed. Oh, you want to build a temple? Yeah, go ahead And then we have the prohibition that God established. God says, woohoo, put the brakes on that baby Nathan. You go tell him that he's not building me a temple. And God prohibited David from doing that. So let's look at the first thought here tonight. I want us to notice the peace that David experienced. Verse number one of 2 Samuel 7. It came to pass When the king sat in his house, that the Lord had given him rest round about from all his enemies. Man, God gave him rest. There's no rest like the rest that God gives us. Like sometimes, uh have you ever been in your Christian life, you ever been in it's just like everything, there's so much going on. Remember, David just went through that whole debacle I'm trying to move the the uh ark up to to Jerusalem and how Uza Uzzah was killed. Everybody remember our study of that last week? And uh and then his wife goes off on him And uh and and that whole difficult thing, as good as it was, and now it's like he's got his house built. This I think I read this is like seven years later, this is a number of years later, and he's setting down And it's like, huh. And God gave him peace. Do you ever get in the point in your Christian life where there's just everything is at peace for once Might only be 15 minutes, but there's a period of time where it's just God said, Anybody have ever experienced that in your life? Nobody. It happens, believe me. Where God just gives some rest and you say, Oh, there's no battles going on, the debts are the bills are paid for right now, um, you know, healthy as far as I know, and John God just gives us times like that. That's where David is. I got looking at that word rest. And it's interesting. It means what you would imagine it means. It means quietness. One of the definition was this, a lack of turmoil. Question, has David had any turmoil in his life up to this point? Good grief. That's all it's been. So now he rests. He's got his house, and he has rest. Lack of turmoil, absence of distress. How many people say, preacher, I could sure use some of that right now That's where David was at. There was peace in the nation, says they gave him rest around about from all his enemies Israel is not fighting anybody at this time. Boy, isn't it nice when a nation is at peace, not at war. That's the way they were. There was no wars going on, there was no skirmishes. There was prosperity, there was peace in his home, his prosperity. Twice it mentions in 1 Chronicles 17, 1, and here in 2 Samuel 7, verse 2, it mentions that his house was of cedars. Now I thought, why does it why does it mention? Why does God's word mention that? I think the purpose he's pointing that out was David had a nice house At this time at this time you had a house of cedars, that wasn't something to sneeze at, unless you were allergic to cedar, and then maybe you would, but This is a pretty nice house he's in. So here he is. He's king. The nation is settled down. The Civil War is over. That seven-year civil war is over. The Philistines have been dealt with. The Ark is back where the place where he prepared for the Ark, that is where it ought to be. The worship of God has taken place like it's supposed to He's got a beautiful house that actually Hiram helped him build, if you remember before when the neighboring kings helped him build, and he is at peace. Now, we're going to notice here in a moment, sometimes, when things are going well, And things, the needs are met, and we're in a time of peace, sometimes we have a tendency to neglect our walk with God. Right? There's there's no issues. Oh man, I'm nothing I really have to pray about. And uh and and we have a tendency to neglect our walk with God. Sometimes, uh how many people here ever went on vacation to go away and get some rest? Anybody here go on vacation? How many people came back from vacation and you needed to rest? Somebody said, we go on vacation We go on vacation. We're tired, so we go on vacation and we come back exhausted. But here's a danger. You know there's a spiritual danger to vacations We're sitting around the fire and we're doing that and and if we're not careful we take a vacation from our walk with God. And I always try and point out, you know, we're kind of a vacation area here. People come here on vacation a lot I always try and point out if somebody is in church that's up here vacationing and they come to church, I always try and point that out because that's a good testimony, you don't take vacation from your walk with God We always make sure we're in church. Make sure we're reading our Bibles. Keep those basics in place. And so David here I notice is uh the peace that David is experiencing. The second thing I want to notice Is the plans David imagined. Look at verse number two. And the Lord gave him rest roundabout. The king said to Nathan the prophet, See now, I dwell in a house of cedar. But the ark of God dwelleth within curtains. So here David is this time of peace. He's relaxing in his house, no doubt. A very nice house. Maybe he's look uh obviously he's looking around at his house and he sees he has a nice place to live in. His friend and his spiritual counselor, the prophet Nathan, is there. And um David's thoughts are on the things of God. Even in a time of prosperity and peace. Now you think when he's out in the trenches fighting the Philistines, he's probably praying a lot. He's trusting God, his life is in danger, but not now. But yet he keeps his mind on the Lord What does the verse say? Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose what? Whose mind is stayed on thee. So David, even in this Serene setting, in this very uh peaceful setting, his mind is still on the Lord. I tell you, that's characteristic of a man or a woman after God's own heart, when their mind is stayed on the Lord The Lord's always Does God ever stop thinking about us? Does God ever take his mind off of us? No. He doesn't sleep, he doesn't slumber. He's focused on us. And here David, he's keeping this mind on the Lord. So he's thinking about the Lord. He's thinking about the Ark of the Covenant. He's thinking about his responsibility as king. And he gets thinking about this, and he rather than squandering this time of peace, rather than squandering this, we might call it downtime, He decides, you know, I want to press forward in our nation's spiritual well-being. We want to take it to another Another level. Our theme for 2021, God laid this on my heart back in January, is pressing on the upward way And uh I'm glad that that we're coming out of all this lockdown crazy stuff. And I tell you, I want to I was talking to some preachers yesterday, I was at a meeting And uh I said, I'm gonna come out of this thing, horses blazing, guns blazing, horses running, pedal, pedal to the Ped out of the meadow and uh just going at it. And that's the way David was. His battles were over, he's got everything in place. He says, All right, we're not going to squander this. Man, we're going after it And he wants to press forward, advance the kingdom of God. Now look here, he says he compared his house with God's house. Down in verse 7, the Lord speaking says, In all the places where I've walked with all the children of Israel, spake I a word with any of the tribes of Israel whom I commanded to feed my people Israel, saying, Why build ye not me a house of cedar? David's he's he's uh living in a house of cedar. He's looking at his house And I don't know if he could look out the window or off of uh out off his front porch, I'm not sure, and look down and there he saw the tabernacle with its skin coverings, tent type thing, and inside the furniture, and he's looking at his beautiful house of cedar, and he gets thinking. He's a man I'm living in a nicer house than God's presence is. My home is more comfortable than the place that houses the presence of God. And uh he gets looking at that and he starts comparing his to the Lord's. Now here's the interesting thing down in verse 7, God says this, hey listen, I've never expressed displeasure with the Ark of the Covenant in the tabernacle. God was never dissatisfied with that. In fact, that was God's idea. God never expressed a desire for a temple. In fact, building the temple was man's ideas, not God's idea. God said, I'm satisfied I never asked for anything more than the tabernacle that I designed. It's actually patterned after the the presence of God in heaven. So David isn't doing this because God is dissatisfied with what it is This was David's idea. Now, I thought, I wonder if that doesn't teach me something about God What do we learn about God from the fact that He didn't desire a big fancy temple with gold plates and big carved doors and hallways and pillars of marble? In fact, if you'll study your Bible carefully, you never find God investing in buildings. You know what I think? God's investment isn't in big buildings. God's investment is in people. The tabernacle was to be there where the people were. The tabernacle was to be everybody was all around it. Now God doesn't forbid him from building a temple, and uh I mean eventually that God doesn't forbid, period, you can't build a temple. God allowed that. But you know, I think we put too much emphasis On the buildings and the material things in our worship of God. And we forget about serving God is serving people, not building buildings. Now is there anything wrong with building buildings? No. How many people would rather sit here than out in the woods out there tonight to have Bible study? Yeah We're going to build a little uh we're going to build an activity center over here. Um hopefully we're going to be breaking ground before too long. And so God's not against it, but you look at some of these cathedrals that men have built in the name of God and for the worship of God, I'm telling you, I don't believe for one minute that impresses God one iota. In fact, remember when the disciples were showing Jesus the temple, and look how amazing this is, and the Lord's like, tear this thing down. Someday this thing's all going to be rubble. Didn't impress God at all. And so David's looking at his house. He's looking at the Lord's house. He says, I got a nicer house than God does. And God says, Well, I never am satisfied with that. That's what I designed. That's what I did. I'm not interested in bigger, better buildings. I'm interested in people trusting me and loving me and serving me and living for me. That's what God wants. I'll tell you I would far rather and I I'm I'm th thank God for this, so don't misconstrue what I'm saying, but I would far rather have a handful of people people in a storefront church That actually love God and want to serve Him and win souls, then have this big cathedral with a thousand people who do nothing for God and have no heart for God And so David gets this idea to build this temple for God. Again, it was David's ideas, not God's. Building great buildings for God is man's idea, not God's idea. Now God is not opposed to it. He eventually, Solomon ends up building this temple, and he gives reasons why David should not. We'll look at later. But uh I want to think about David's idea here a little bit. Everybody with me? How many people ate too many hamburgers before church? Yeah, getting dozy now. I put a few things I thought about David's idea that he imagined here about building this temple. Number one, his idea was a good idea There's no rebuke from God as far as the idea of building the temple. In fact, we're going to notice this later on in the chapter in both of these passages. After God expresses his will and how God wants this to transpire, God gives some of the greatest promises to Israel in all of history. And by the time we end this passage, we're going to be studying what's called the Davidic covenant. And God gives that covenant to David in response To David's desire to do something for God. So what David is desiring to build this temple, I hope you don't misunderstand what I'm saying, it's not a bad idea, it is a good idea And God responds to it in a very positive way. So God uses this occasion to give some of the greatest promises to Israel and to the throne of David throughout the history of man. Number two, not only is it a good idea, but number two, it's a gracious idea. Now I like this. Who is David wanting to build this temple? David's wanting to build this temple for God But who's it who's it for? Is it for David or is it for God? It's for God. I don't believe David is wanting to build this temple so David can make a name for himself. Sometimes people like to build things. I know a preacher and he messed up. He's he's completely messed up out of ministry. But uh Uh he had he got and it's a good church. He's a good good in some ways he was a good guy. He was a friend of mine years ago. But he had he built this huge church. They went millions of dollars in debt and uh build this extravagant place and it was beautiful, you know, and all. But when I pulled in the parking lot, he had banners on all the big light posts out in the parking lot. I mean this is a big place He had these big banners and he had his picture on all the banners all around there. And it was like, seriously? You know? And uh I can't judge his motives. That was maybe I don't know. But uh my first thought was, who are we promoting here? You know, is this the church of God or is this the church of so-and-so? And um and uh so uh and maybe I'm being overly critical there, but I don't think David was going to engrave his picture on all the sides of the temple. This was a very gracious idea on David's part. In fact, David was building this in response to God's grace that he has shown David. It was a response to the grace that God has shown in bringing David to this point in his life. And David was this, I believe this was his motive. God's been so good to me. I want to do something back for him. I want to do something somehow to display the grace of God and respond to the grace of God. I want to suggest to you that should be all of our Christian life. We don't, we don't, uh, no teacher teaches Sunday school so that God will save them and accept them, right? It's not we teach not why we teach Sunday school. Um Sandy sang here a little bit ago and the men sang Sunday and I think that did the teens sing Sunday s uh folks sang Sunday, Mark maybe But people come up here and sing, they're not singing so that we can impress God with how gifted we are We're singing and we're teaching Sunday school and we're running buses and working on bus routes and children's church and cleaning the church. And giving sacrificially and generously, not to try and impress God, but you know what the proper motive is? Because God has been so good to us. God saved me from sin and hell. He's blessed me. Face it, just materially speaking, we we live more prosperous lives Than 75% of the rest of the world. We know that's true. God has been so good to us. And I just see David sitting there, he looks at the house he's living in Maybe he reminisces back over God enabling him to kill Goliath and God giving him grace while the whole time Saul was trying to kill him. And all God has done for him I can hear David thinking in his mind, I want to do something for God. I want to do something back for God. I like Romans chapter 12, verse 1, it says this. I beseech you therefore, brethren. Listen to this. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God. That ye present your bodies a living sacrifice. You know what Paul's saying? He's saying, God has shown us such mercy. God has been so good to us. A reasonable service is, hey, let's just give ourselves back to him. Amen? And so David here is uh, he's not doing this to earn favor with God. Boy, God will really be impressed if I build this temple. No, no, no. This was a gracious idea. It was response to the grace of God. I'm afraid too often we receive so much from God, and yet we give so little back. You get so much from God. Now I'm not rebuking our church. I think we have a very generous church. Our faith promise this past month was phenomenal. The building fund is coming along. Offerings are very generous. So don't misconstrue what I'm saying. But David's motive was, God's been so good to me. And I want to be good back to Him. I want to give back to God. And so, number one, it was a good idea. It was a gracious idea. Real quickly, it was a godly idea Um there's no selfish motives here. Uh this was a God-centered focus. We have to be careful. Listen, we need to be careful that we don't get wound up if we don't get recognition every time we do something for God. You follow what I'm saying? And I've run into that over the years in the ministry. Every now and then I come across someone and boy if you don't recognize every little thing they do publicly and if Uh I had one person years ago got very upset with me. I went through and thanked people for different things and completely inadvertently overlooked them. I had them there and I just failed to mention them. And brother, after church, they were upset. I do all this and I spend so much time and I invest so much effort and you didn't even recognize me. I apologized profusely. In the next service, I pointed out that I overlooked them, but they ended up leaving the church. Now listen, that ought not to be Whether we get recognized or not by man is meaningless. And David wasn't doing this for self-this was a God-centered idea. This was for the Lord. This was to draw attention from people to the Lord. Too often we want credit. We want attention. Too often we'll do things to kind of exalt ourselves Again, I mentioned the singing here and I love it. It is great. Our singers, our musicians, everybody is just has a heart for God. I absolutely know that But what I want to say is this, I would far rather have somebody sing maybe a little off-key and a little scratchy that is absolutely loves God and is singing for God's glory, then have some opera singer that is doing it so everybody's impressed with how good they are. Follow what I'm saying? And uh I I'd r like again, I'd rather have some preacher that maybe stumbles over his words and maybe doesn't have the most dynamic message. But brother, he loves God and he wants to point people to Jesus Christ and he wants God to use them. I'll take that over some hot dog out of Bible college can preach a polished message and it's all about him And so we have to be very, very careful about that. I don't believe David was doing this for his name's sake or for his glory I put this down. I asked myself this when I was studying it. When's the last time I did something for no other reason than simply that God gets the glory for it? Hopefully it's all we do. Number four, it was a good idea, it was a gracious idea, it was a godly idea. And I want to end with this. David's uh uh the idea uh the plans David imagined. They were good plans, gracious plans, godly plans And I put this down, it was a guided idea or guided plans. Look at verse 2. The king said unto who? Nathan the Do you notice David didn't just go out and start building this thing? He got this idea and he got this plan. I'm going to, you know what I'm going to do? I'm looking at this house of mine And I'm looking out there at that tabernacle, the whole temple, the Ark of the Covenants in. You know what I'm going to do? You know what I need to do? I'm going to build a beautiful temple for God He's been so good to me. And we'll put the Ark of the Covenant in there and the furniture in there. It'd be a whole lot better than this skin, uh this tent made out of animal skins And uh boy it'll be and I want to do and Nathan's sitting there. He says, you know what, I'm gonna run this by Nathan first. Nathan's the prophet You know what I think? I think it's one of the best things David ever did in this whole endeavor. He didn't just rush into it. Even though it was good, it was godly, it was gracious. But he wanted some input. He says, the king said unto Nathan the prophet, and he told him what he was thinking. See now I dwell in a house of cedar. But the ark of God dwelleth within curtains. Now it's not recorded here, but I think this is what David was doing. He says, what do you think, Nathan? What do you think? You think that's a good idea? Think that'd be alright? Now we'll look at Nathan's response here in a little bit, but what I want to take away from this is I think this is um One of the one of uh uh one of the best things David did. We're introduced to Nathan here. It's the first time we come run across Nathan And he's Nathan the prophet. Nathan is really, in my opinion, one of the greatest prophets in Scripture. We're going to look at him later on. I mean, this guy's fearless. He's humble. David, the king, who's with God later on, commits adultery with Bathsheba. Then he kills her husband and end up a swoop of other fellows end up getting killed. And David's hiding this. His heart is hard. His neck is stiff, his countenance is hard. And Nathan goes right up to the king, the most powerful man in the country. He points his finger, and the preachers always say this, he points his finger in his nose and says, David, you're the man. You're the one in sin. Brother, that I don't know about you, that's eight guts. And so Nathan is a tremendous man of God, a tremendous prophet. And so David says, I'm going to run this by pro by Nathan the prophet before I go anywhere with it before I say anything to anyone else. I think the best thing David did with his ideas he went to the man of God. Now the Old Testament, the prophets were spokesmen of God So it's not just some guy on the street corner, some co-worker, or some. This is a man of God. This is a man that gets messages directly from God. And David goes, I want your input on this. The Old Testament prophets were spokesmen of God. Here's what I want to suggest. Here's my advice based on this. All of our plans and purposes should be run through the filter of God's word and God's will first. You with me? Say, well, I got this idea. All right, let's run it by God's word first. Let's run it by God's will. What does God have to say about this? I want to end with this. Go with me if you would to Isaiah 55 I think the burgers are catching up to everybody here tonight. Or maybe it was uh the cheesecake. How many people ate cheesecake tonight? Well, I thought more would have eaten that. Isaiah 55, look with me if you would at verse number 8. Isaiah 55, verse 8. I love this passage of Scripture. Isaiah 55, verse number eight, the Bible says this. This is God speaking. And God says, for my what? Thoughts are not your thoughts. I looked up that word thoughts. You know what that's talking about? This would be a good thing to write in a margin of your Bible. It means this: my plans and my purposes. The thoughts I have, the plans and purposes that are in my mind. God is saying, My thoughts are not your thoughts. My plans and purposes aren't necessarily what your plans and purposes are. Then he expounds on that. Neither are my ways Saith the Lord. Neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord. The word ways means this, manner of operation. So God is saying, listen, what I think things ought to be, my thoughts, my plans, my purpose, and how they're to be carried out, are not the same way as yours. My thoughts are not your thoughts. Here's the thing. We try so hard to get God to see things the way we see it. And we got it backwards. What we need to do is go to God and be able to see things the way God sees it. Amen? You follow what I'm saying? We write out all our plans and say, alright God, here, sign it. Uh no God says, my my thoughts are not your thoughts. My ways are not your ways. And then he expands on that and he explains why. Or he kind of illustrates, for as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways my manner of operating, higher than your ways, and my thoughts, my plans and purposes than your thoughts. I think David wasn't no dummy. I think David was smart and spiritually mature and spiritually wise. When he got this great idea that he's going to build this temple for God And he says, before I act on it, Nathan, you're a prophet. You're a spokesman for God. You know God's ways. You know God's thoughts. You know his plans and purpose, how he operates. You've got direct connections. What do you think? I want your input. So we don't have Nathan prophets. We don't have prophets like Nathan today. We don't have these quote-unquote spokesmans for God today. So you say, well, preacher, you know, I got something, I got some ideas, I got situations, I'm trying to think how I should best way. I think I got some ideas. How do I run that pie of profit? Anyone want to guess? How do we do it today? We pray, but more important, and just as important as that, we go to the Word of God. This, alright, so to speak, this is our prophet today. This is God's word. And so we get these ideas. What does God say? Now here's the problem. I'm jumping ahead a little bit and I'm going to end. But Nathan sitting there at the fryer. Uh they're drinking iced tea and um eating curly fries And David says, here's my idea. You know, I got this beautiful house. I've been thinking, I want to build something nice for God. I want to build a temple for God. Just amazing. And Nathan, without praying, without going to the Lord, he says, sure, that's a great idea. Do all that's in your heart. Go for it. Then Nathan gets home, they finish up, clean up, put the fire out, Nathan gets on his horse or donkey or whatever, rides over to his house. Before he goes to bed, I I'm I'm actually I'm exaggerating here a little bit. Before he goes to bed, he gets maybe some scrolls of scripture out, he reads them, gets on his knees praising God, says, Amen He says, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. That's not my way. That's not how it's going to play out. And to Nathan's credit I'm way ahead of myself. He comes back and says, David, scratch the plans. N God says no. And to David's credit, David said, okay, what God says do, we'll do it that way. And we'll look at that later. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us, Lord, when our reasoning or our ideas and our thoughts clash with your word and your will. Help us to be willing to set ours aside and trust you. Even when it's a good thing, even when we're trying to do right. Help us to do our good things for you your way. I wonder with our heads bowed eyes because how many would say, preacher, I have a tendency to lean on my own understanding. I have a tendency to follow my opinions uh a and value them uh over God. Anybody like that, I have a tendency to sure. I think it's part of our nature, simple nature What we need to do is consciously say, all right, Lord, not my will, but thy will be done. Not my plans, but your plans. Not my way, but your way. And if we do that, we'll be saved. Whoso trust in the Lord shall be saved. Father, bless now, I pray, as we try to apply this to our lives. In Jesus' name, amen. Let's stand together, heads above, eyes.