Letter from uh Brother Canavan, him and Sean, of course, were with us Sunday. They left a thank you note behind. I want to take a moment, just read it to the church. Says Dear Pastor Leatherman and members of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, thank you for the privilege of preaching and presenting in your church this past Sunday. We pray you were as much a blessing. We pray we were as much a blessing to you as you were to us. And they were certainly a blessing to us, no doubt. We left both services encouraged and refreshed The warm spirit of your pastor. Did you hear that? The warm spirit of your pastor teens and members is truly special. We look forward to Lord willing visiting you on furlough. Please pray for the lost souls of Ireland, loving Christ Andrew and Sean. And so they were a joy to be with us. I'm glad they could be here. First Chronicles chapter 17. The first couple of verses, David has this idea. I don't know. I'm using my imagination here, but David's looking out the window of his cedar house that Hiram, the neighboring king, had built for him. Beautiful home, no doubt. Very exquisite, very um uh top of the line for the day, no doubt about it And maybe he's looking out there and he sees the tabernacle down in Jerusalem. He's cleared a place out for it and made a place right there special for the tabernacle. And he gets thinking, and David thinks, here I am in this beautiful palace made of cedar, and God's Ark of the Covenant, that is, represents the presence of God, is setting down there under this tabernacle, this tent. tight structure. And he says, I need to build God a temple. I need to build God a temple. And so verse 2, Nathan is there with him He said, verse 1, he said that to Nathan. Then verse 2, Nathan responds and he says, Do all that is in thine heart, for God is with thee. Now look what happens. Verse 3. And it came to pass the same night that the word of the Lord came to Nathan. Saying, Go and tell David my servant, thus saith the Lord, look at this, thou shalt not build me a house to dwell in. So our message, which we began, I think, last week, man's opinion, Nathan said, build it. God is with you. That was his opinion. God shows up and gives his word, and God says, no, you shouldn't. That's God's word. So what do you do when man's opinion collides with God's word? And that's what we'll look at here. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now. Help us, Lord, to learn from this event in David's life. Pray that you would speak to us and challenge us. I ask, Lord, with all my heart, that you fill me with your Holy Spirit, and I pray that you would speak through me to all of our hearts. our minds, affect our lives, that we would grow in our faith and be stronger in our confidence in your word and your will for our lives. I yield my will to you. I present my body with all my heart. I pray and ask you to fill me and speak through me. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I mentioned last week we generally think pretty highly of ourselves, don't we? Anybody here ever get offended when somebody does something disrespectful to you or all? Yeah, we think highly of ourselves. I deserve to be treated better that way. And we tend to think awfully highly of our opinions Now you don't believe that? Put your opinion on social media. There will immediately be a fight break out, a huge argument. You can't put anything there. It ends up in an argument. Because why? We think very highly of our opinions And when God's word conflicts with our opinion, then we, if we don't respond correctly, we have trouble. We pointed out Cain did that, the Tower of Babel, we mentioned various ones in the Bible. Well here we have David and Nathan have an idea. They have a plan. And Nathan gives his opinion. Yeah, that's a great idea. Go for it. God's with you. And lo and behold, God says, whoa, hold on there. That's not my plan. That's not my will. And how they respond to it. We pointed out last week, we noticed, number one, the peace that David experienced. This was a Time of tremendous peace. There's no wars going on. There's no internal division within the country. The country's unified They've conquered the Philistines and those that were enemies around them, so there's no active conflict going on without the nation. Apparently there's prosperity, the economy's picking up, and boy, they're going forward. And uh David's experiencing this peace. And if you remember, we pointed out, and I want to re-emphasize this, sometimes Peace and prosperity can damage us spiritually as much as trials and afflictions. A lot of times we'll mess up. A lot of times we'll blow it. uh will backslide when everything's going well. We think, oh, I don't need God. I don't need to pray. And I don't need church. I don't need Bible. And uh, but boy, things start falling apart. And we oh, I need God. And so David's in the midst of this peace and prosperity first that the nation has experienced in many, many years. But he doesn't let that derail him spiritually. He stays focused and he wants the Lord To be where the Lord belongs, the top of his thinking. He keeps his mind stayed on the Lord. So he's thinking about the Lord, the tabernacle, building a temple And um and so he's he's very uh focused there. So the peace he experienced we looked at, then we notice the plans he imagined, as I just said. He thinks he gets this idea. I'm gonna build God a temple. God didn't ask for it, we'll notice here. God wasn't complaining about the Ark of the Covenant being in this tabernacle. In fact, the tabernacle was God's idea. In fact, none of the temples were God's ideas. They were all man's ideas. There were various temples over the years, I think three. None of them were God's ideas. That was man's ideas. Man likes to do material things and try and impress God. And I don't think that's what was taking place here, but we have a tendency to do that Do you ever notice the cathedrals over in Europe and in some of our states, in some of our big cities? Man, they just touch the sky with their steeples and their architecture is phenomenal Yeah, I want to suggest to you none of that impresses God at all. But David gets this idea. It was a good idea we pointed out Uh he was uh there's no rebuke from God for him building this temple. It was a gracious idea. God he's saying, God's been so good to me, I want to do something for the Lord. That's a good thing Um it was a gu it was a godly idea. He had no selfish motives in this. He's not trying to get a name for himself. And it was, we pointed out if you remember, it was a guided idea. And what I mean by that was he bounced it off of Nathan. Now that was a good move. That was wise on David's part. We're not exactly sure what the setting was. Nathan was there. I'd picture it this way. They've got these lush Uh, what are those recliners called? Um lazy boys. Got a nice lazy boy, he's sitting there and Nathan's over there and his And uh there's a fire in the big fireplace and they're drinking iced tea and Nate David says, Nathan, he goes, yo Dave, what's up? And uh no he didn't say that And uh he tells him his idea and he bounces it off of Nathan. And that's a good thing. Nathan was a prophet of God. We're going to look at Nathan here as soon as I quit rambling and get to it Nathan was a prophet of God, and what the prophet of God was was really a spokesman for the Lord. In some ways, the prophet of God was to the people at that time what the Bible is to us. And so, to bring it into our context, David, before he goes forward with his plans, he says, I'm going to look and see what Nathan says, what the prophet of God says. Now that brings us to our point tonight, our third point in our study of this, and that is this, the opinion that Nathan expressed. And it's back in 2 Samuel 7, verse 3. It's worded almost identical. But I want to look at the Chronicles record of this Chronicles 17, 3 or 2. And Nathan said to David, Do all that is in thine heart, for God is with thee. Now this is the first mention of Nathan in the Bible. He's mentioned uh I think four times in David's life. He comes up in the in the account of David's experience here. And this is the first time. So I thought we'd take a moment and try and get to know Nathan a little bit here. Who is this guy? Where'd he come from? Um, you know, what's his role? Well, as far as who he is, um or where he came from, we don't know We're not given any record of his parent his uh his parents. We're not given any record of his ancestors. Uh we know little or nothing about him before this point If you would, keep your place here. Come to 1 Chronicles chapter 29, all the way back at the end of 1 Chronicles. I didn't think I said anything that offensive. Either if you're mad now, you'll be killing somebody by the time this is over, I'll tell you Now, look with uh uh what'd I say? 1 Chronicles 29. Come all the way back here. Look at verse 29 of 1 Chronicles 29 This is winding things up. And it says, now the acts of David the king, first and last, behold, they are written in the book of Samuel the seer. That's 1 Samuel. That's where we've been studying up to this point. Then it goes on. And in the book of Nathan the prophet, there's Nathan. And in the book of Gad the seer. Gad was another prophet. We come across him a couple times in the Bible. With all this reign and his might and the times that went over him and over Israel and over all the kingdoms of the country. So what we find out here, one thing we see definite, and another thing we We think might be true. One is that Nathan wrote a book. He wrote a record of David's life Now I don't know how what all that entailed. We don't have a copy of it. It might have been something like, do you ever notice when a president finishes their term. A lot of times they'll write a memoir. Anybody you see that? Or somebody in office, high office will write a memoir. Maybe that's what this type of thing was. We don't know. We know this. He wrote a book, and we know that it was not inspired of God. Now, it doesn't mean it was wrong, it doesn't mean it was inaccurate. It simply means that God did not author what Nathan wrote. Nathan authored it, and it was not included in the canon of Scripture. And so Nathan was wrote a book, and we know that he did not write an inspired book. He was not a penman that God used to record part of Scripture. Samuel was, obviously. Now, this is what we guess, and I didn't come up with this, I was just reading what others said, and it kind of makes a little sense to me. It is very possible that Nathan helped Penn Parts of Samuel, particularly the part after Samuel died. It would be hard to pen books after they're dead. Right And so it's supposed that perhaps Nathan may have helped pen portions of the book of Samuel and other parts of the record of David's life, but we can't say that for certain. He was a prophet. He was what you would refer to a court prophet. In other words, he served the king David and his son Solomon. Nathan had a role in Solomon's administration a little bit. He probably, again, we're guessing here, we don't know this. But it is believed that he probably was trained under the prophet Samuel. Now it's interesting, this is interesting to me. Many, perhaps most of these Old Testament prophets would have their own disciples. And some of them had schools. I think it was Elijah who had a school of the prophets. And they would train young men for the quote-unquote ministry. Maybe they had God's call in their life, and they sensed the Lord leading them, and they would come and they would sit under the ministry of some of these prophets, and they would train these young men. And it is believed that Nathan sat under Samuel And was trained and discipled by him in the things of the Lord. How many people agree with me that would be something to sit under Prophet Samuel? Wow, I would enroll in his college if he had one And Nathan, what a privilege if that's the case. He's mentioned four times in the life of David. And the reason I'm taking some time to look at Nathan here is because he played such a significant role in David's life. He's a key player and had tremendous influence. And I have no doubt in my mind, Nathan had influence in David's life in ways not recorded in Scripture. We just have highlights here recorded. There's whole you know, extended periods of time where these guys are interacting that we have no record of. So he played a significant role. Four times he's mentioned the life of David here, this matter of wanting to build the temple A little bit later on in chapter 12 of 2 Samuel, and David got involved with Bathsheba, and we're going to look at that event. He had Uriah killed. He covers it up for a year, and lo and behold, uh Bathsheba's expecting now as a result of this adulterous uh event, and uh he covers it up for a year. And Nathan is the one that approaches David and confronts him about the sin he's covering up. And so he shows up there at a key point. uh in David's life, a low point we could say, and he rebukes David. And then it's interesting He shows up again in the biblical record. Of course, Bathsheba, David and Bathsheba's first son that was conceived in adultery. What happened to that baby? Talk to me. It died. It's part of God's judgment. And that baby died. And that's going to be a fascinating study. But Bathsheba had a second child from David after the first one died. And Nathan showed up then. At the birth of their second child. And the interesting thing is, and we're going to look at this down the road aways, but he shows up, and basically what he does Is he assures David and Bathsheba of God's love for them? They had sinned grievously, God had judged them harshly, there were consequences David was going to have to live with the rest of his life. It took its toll in his family. But Nathan shows up and in so many words says, listen, God still loves you, still has a plan for you. God can still use you. Now, that's not our message, and that's not our subject tonight, but just uh just stop there for a moment and say this. I'm glad God can use us even after we mess up Say, oh I messed up too bad. God can't use you. Don't say that. It's not true. It's not true. So Nathan shows up after David and Bathsheba's second son. And here's another interesting thing. David and Bathsheba had another child, and their fourth son that they had, guess who they named the fourth son after? Nathan, fourth son. Now I'm guessing they named it after Nathan, but the baby's name was Nathan. The only other Nathan we read about is Nathan. So I'm assuming Nathan was named after Nathan You follow my reasoning there. And then the fourth time he shows up is all the way at the end of David's life. And David is basically on his deathbed. He has not long to live. Everybody knows it. And a fellow by the name of Adonijas, one of David's sons, he had a slew of them. And he puts this conspiracy together, and he sets himself up on the throne, unbeknownst to David. And Nathan shows up and says, did you put Anijah to be your successor? And David says, no, Solomon's the successor. And so Nathan helps him deal with that and correct that. So Nathan, I said all that to say this, Nathan is a tremendous, uh tremendously significant person in the life of David, and he is worth our study and paying attention to. Now I want to look at what Nathan does here. Nathan's response to David's idea Now, I'll be honest with you, I probably would have responded the exact same way Nathan did. Look back here with me. It says, and then Nathan, verse 2 of chapter 17, then Nathan said unto David, Do all that is in thine heart, for God is with me. I think if I was in his shoes, and I I wouldn't ever fit in his shoes But um I think I would have been, man, that's a great idea. Building God a temple, permanent dwelling place, and uh yeah, go for it, do it And that's what Nathan does. But I want to make three observations. I got looking at Nathan's response here. Now, again, it's very easy for us to look back and read this and be critical, right? We understand that Hindsight is what? 2020. Did you ever hear the term Monday morning quarterbacks? Go back and judge everything and criticize everything that was made. So I I want to be careful here. I want to tread lightly. But I do I made three observations. First of all, I noticed this. It was an impulsive response. This opinion was impulsive. We're just reading the account here, and then back in Samuel, I read it over and over and over. And it looks to me That he responded immediately to what David said. Right? Anyone else see that? I see no time frame in between here. It was just David said this. First thing that came to his mind, good idea, go for it And so it was somewhat impulsive. Now there was nothing inherently wrong with David's idea. We're going to see this. It was a fine idea, it was a good idea, it was godly. But the problem was Nathan didn't think it through, and he didn't give it much consideration. He just said what he thought at the moment. Anybody here ever, what comes to your mind comes out your mouth, and boy, you wished you'd have filtered that a little bit. Yeah, I mean it's continual. And I'm not suggesting that anything Nathan said here was sinful, but he was wrong. We're going to see that. And he just uh responded impulsively, and there's no it wasn't no thinking it through or giving consideration. Second of all, I put this down again, this sounds more negative than I mean to it and than I mean for it to be. And it sounds more critical than I mean for it to sound. But it was an ignorant response. Now I don't mean that in a critical way or a mocking way, but what I mean is this. If you'll think about this with me, Whose temp whose dwelling place are they talking about? God's Now, how many people here, if you were going to have a new house you're going to live in, before it was built or anything was done to it, you would like to be at least consulted first. About what's going to take place, or even if it's going to take place. Nathan responded. And did you catch at the end of verse 2 what Nathan said? He says, Do all that is in thy heart. Look at that last statement. What's he say? Talk to me. For God is with me. Was he correct? No. This wasn't God's idea. And God wasn't with uh uh with him building this. In fact, God's going to forbid it, we'll see here. And so what I mean by ignorant, he made a statement that he didn't know what the facts were behind the statement. This is God's house. This is God's tabernacle. You're talking about doing away with the tabernacle and putting a temple up without even consulting God about it. Now, it's not a bad idea, and eventually God is okay with it. God gives them Solomon the go-ahead for it. But it just seems to me it had been a good idea maybe to talk to God about it before you say God's with you on that. And I think by way of application, I think that's a good reminder for you and I, particularly in a church setting. Whose church is Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church? Oh, that's Leatherman's Church. It ain't Leatherman's church. It's God's church. It's the body of Christ. Every Saturday night at ten o'clock, Pastor Matt and I meet here. I've done it since I was pastor. The first Saturday night I was here as pastor. We kneel at the altar and we pray for the services on Sunday. Pray through the pews, pray through uh different folks. We anticipate coming out, different needs. We pray, pray, pray. And in my prayer, and you can check with Pastor Matt, and he started doing it also. In my prayer is always this, Lord, just restating, this is not my church, this is your church. And that's your word, and these are your people. And so we want your wisdom, and we want your leadership, and we want your presence, and we want your will to be done. Now that was God's house. That was the temple of God. The tabernacle of God. That was the temple of God. And I see no record of them seeking the Lord. Now again, I'm being overly critical here and looking back on it. But I think it's particularly in the church, but in our personal lives also It's a good idea to run all of our plans by the Lord. So he says, I'm going to do this for God. Wonderful. Praise the Lord. Is it God's will? I'm gonna go to the mission field. Amen. Praise the Lord. Did you seek the Lord about that? I've had off and on over the years, not very often, a few times. I can count on my hand. Times I've had fellows come up to me and says, um, God's called me to be a deacon here at this church. I said, uh it's not exactly how it works. Let's seek the Lord about that And so it's a good idea, particularly in a church setting, but in our private lives, when we do something, especially in serving the Lord, it's a good idea to run it by God. Run it by God. I want our Sunday school teachers to be teaching Sunday school because they know it's God's will. I want our bus workers running the buses because they know it's God's will for them, singing in the choir, leading things Children's church, you name it, fingerprints, bankets for babies. It's God's will. And every one of them will come to you and say, I know this is what God. God laid this on my heart. God led me to do this. And we don't want temple builders who are building temples that it isn't God's will. And so Nathan is a little ignorant here, and again I'm I'm using that word not in a critic in a negative way necessarily, but just make an observation. Is a little bit presumptuous To say God is with thee, and then ask God about it. So be careful what we declare about God. Be careful what we say about God. God's with you. Be careful about that. There's a lot of stuff being said out in the media today about God that I'm not sure is very godly So number one, it was an impulsive response. Number two, it was a bit of an ignorant response. But number three, I put this down about Nathan's opinion here, is uh it was an innocent response I don't think there was any wrongdoing on Nathan's part. Nathan wasn't being malicious here, trying to undercut God's will or get something done that That uh he knew wasn't the will of God. I think he was very sincere and and meant the best. And I'll tell you, and I'm I want to bring this out hopefully a little bit But my hat's off to Nathan for when God confronted him and said, No, no, no, you go back and tell him it was wrong. My hats off to Nathan, he did exactly what God told him and set aside his admitted his mistake, so to speak, and says, oh no, this is what God says. I tell you, if we can learn that lesson, we're on our way to growing and being useful to God. I realize I'm wrong. God points out I'm wrong, and I'm right away, immediately, without hesitation, without debate, without negotiation, say, wait a minute, I wasn't right, God's right, we're doing it God's way. And so Nathan gives his opinion, and I put it this way: the opinion Nathan expressed was impulsive, it was a bit ignorant, but it was innocent. He meant well, and we see that. He didn't mean any harm. He didn't mean any rebellion against God or harm to David. Number four, I notice this real quickly, in verses three, all the way down through verse 15. Then we have the prohibition that God establishes. So we had the peace that David experienced, and then the plans he imagined, and the opinion Nathan expressed. And now we have this prohibition of God. In other words, God said what? What's prohibition mean? No, you're not allowed. Look at verse 3 And it came to pass, now that next couple words are important, at least in my mind, it came to pass the same night. That the word of God came to Nathan saying, Go and tell David my servant, thus saith the Lord, thou shalt not build me an house to dwell in. God steps in. And God speaks up. I tell you, it's a good thing when we are going down the wrong path, even though it in our mind it looks like the good and right thing to do. I am so glad that God steps in and speaks up when we're going somewhere out of His will. Anybody ever have that happen? I can look back over my years and I numerous times where I meant well and God would step in and say, redirect over here. And uh if you don't get anything else out of the message, I hope you'll get this out of the message. Everybody with me? I hope you get this. It's best to cooperate with God. That is that is profound wisdom. It's best to cooperate with God. And again, to Nathan's credit, he doesn't, God shows up at night, I imagine he's getting ready for bed or whatever. Maybe he's having his evening prayers before he hits the sack. God says, Nathan, you go back there and tell him he shall not build me. And to Nathan's credit, he doesn't say, okay, and then just cover it up and ignore it, what God says. I wish I could say I've never done this. I uh I don't I don't want to it to happen, but I've seen it happen particularly in others Is where God speaks the heart. Maybe I'm preaching and I know God's speaking the heart and then and they'll just walk out and ignore what God said. That's a bad thing to do. And Nathan didn't do that Nathan does exactly what God says and he goes back. God steps in and speaks up, and the interesting thing is from verse 3 all the way down through verse 15 God gives this very lengthy response to their ideas and plans, David's ideas and plans, and he goes all down through here And God says, as we've been pointing out, God says no to David's plan. You know, this is not the last time God will say no to David. When David's child with Bathsheba, he was told the baby was going to die, the Bible says David sought the Lord and prayed and he fasted that that baby would live. You know what God said? God said, no, the baby's going to die. The baby's going to die. So this is David's being introduced to something that's going to happen a little bit later on. God says no. Now, God didn't say no to what David wanted to do. He didn't say no, no temple. That wasn't the problem. The temple wasn't the problem. What God said no to was who was going to build the temple and when it was going to be built. David was not the man for this job. And this was not the time for the temple to be built. Sometimes we get ideas that are good ideas and ideas that God can use But I might not be the person to carry it out, and it might not be this time to carry it out. Just because something is good doesn't mean it's God's will. David was not the man, and this was not the time. I put three, four observations real quickly down about God saying no. Number one We have God's revelation to Nathan in verse 3. And I notice how quickly God intervenes. The same night. He didn't wait a week. He didn't wait until David had all the supplies, started digging out the footers. Right away he says, no, no, no, no, no. Sometimes, often God's quick to confront our wrongs. I'm glad when God confronts our wrongs. He steps in before we go too far. Number two, I notice this God's reasoning for saying no. And verse 6, all the way down through I'm sorry. He gives the reasoning for why he said no, but he doesn't give it here. Take your Bible with me, go with me, to chapter 22 of 1 Chronicles, we find out years later we're given a little bit more information as to the reasoning That God did not allow David to build a temple. 1 Chronicles chapter 22. And come over, if you would, to verse number 6. David is talking about the temple. He brings Solomon in. And verse 6, then he called for Solomon his son. And charged him to build a house for the Lord God of Israel. That's the temple that God told David he couldn't build. And David said to Solomon, my son, as for me, it was in my mind to build a house unto the name of the Lord my God. But the word of the Lord came to me. I think it's interesting, doesn't say Nathan came to me. He saw the source of this. The word of the Lord came to me, saying, Look at this, thou hast shed blood abundantly. And hast made great wars. Thou shalt not build a house unto my name, because thou hast shed much blood upon the earth in my sight. Now we're not given that information earlier. But David tells Solomon that. And so God gives a reason. And all the only thing I can take away from that, I want to encourage us, when God says no to us about something, we can rest assured He has a reason. I tell you, I have had a lot of things in my life I wish so badly could be so. I've had things in my life I wish so badly could take place. And God has said no. And we have to trust God that when God says no, he has a reason. And God's reasoning for David was he was a pretty violent man. Now, as far as I can tell, all except for a few instances, uh his violence was justified, at least up to this point, when God said no to him His violence was pretty much justified in the sense he was defending his country and defending the people of God, fighting the enemies of God. But nevertheless God said no and gave a reason for saying no. And it's good to know that God has a reason when he forbids something. Number three, I put this down. Then God rehearses his dealings with David, if you would come back to chapter 17 there. And again, we're not going to take time to go through this. It'd be a great study. We'd study this for years. But God goes through and kind of rehearses with David, all I've done for you. Now, question. If God says to you and I, and he says, no, I say, I'm going to do this, and God says, no, you aren't Newt. Is God obligated to explain to us anything? No. But God goes overboard here. Apparently he had through Nathan explained about the blood issue. David was a violent man, shed a lot of blood. Apparently that was explained to him. But here you have God going on and reminding David of all these things he did for him And how I was with you and how I provided, I underscored a few phrases here. Verse number seven, I took thee from the sheepcoat. Verse 8, and I have been with thee whithersoever thou hast walked. In the middle of verse 8, and have made thee a name like the name of great men that are on the earth. You know what I think God's doing? God doesn't want David to get discouraged. And so he's reminding God that all these things for you, all of these things. You know what a good thing to do when God says no and my plans don't work out and God's got something else Good thing to do is remember how good God's already been to me. I can be sure that whatever He's doing, whatever the reasoning is, I can trust him, he's not being mean. So God's kind of gone overboard saying, listen, uh I I was with you. I think he's trying to encourage David. And then verse 9 through 15, again, we don't won't take time to look at all these verses. But God's reassurance of his blessings. And he says, listen, you might not build, you're not, you might not be a temple builder. But I tell you, I got other plans for you. I got other plans for you. For years, I mentioned this just about every year at missions conference. For years, before I'd sensed God's call into the pastorate, I wanted so badly to be a missionary. That was what I imagined myself doing and being. Going to the mission field, learning a language, and teaching people who had never heard of the word of never heard the gospel, and sharing the gospel with people. And I tell you, I spent probably hours and hours over the years at that altar saying, Lord, here am I, send me, Lord, here am I, send me. And I never got an open door, and I never got a green light from God. And so finally it was just, all right, God has something else for me. And I look back and I see how uh here's the thing, and I hate I hesitate to say this because we so desperately need missionaries But the fact of the matter is not everybody's called to be a missionary. To the foreign field, I should say. And so God's reassuring David of his blessings. And I look back now and I see how God had other plans. And God had other things. I decided, I say this all the time, you've heard me, but I decided, finally, I guess I was in Indianapolis somewhere finally sunk in I'm here in the States. This is where I'm going to be. And I made a conscious decision that if I can't go to the mission field, that I'm going to give every ounce of my being to help and support those who are going And try and God used me to call up others to go. And so God said no. And he said to him, this is what I was getting at, God in those passages there, verses um Verses 9 through 15, God is saying to him, Listen, you're not going to build me a temple, but what you are going to do is you're going to establish a throne that's going to last forever. I've got something else for you. I've got another work for you. I've got another role for you to fill. So what do you do when God when God says no? This is what I end with. When God says no, number one, sometimes it's simply God redirecting us. It's not necessarily a rejection, God rejecting me. When God said no to David, he wasn't rejecting David He just said, I'm redirecting you. It wasn't some kind of discipline on God's part disciplining David. Oh, you've been a bad boy, I'm not going to let you do that. I was at Walmart the other day and I was putting my stuff in I had the truck, I was loading the groceries in the truck, and right across from me there was a uh lady was getting out, she had a whole slew of kids, they're all piling out like clowns out of those little VWs, these kids are piling out. And the one girl was just crying and the mother came o I don't know what that poor little girl did, but she said something very naughty. I don't know what it was. And the mother says, You are not getting any ice cream. I thought, good, that's more for me But this wasn't God. When God said no to David, it wasn't, you are not going to build a temple, you've been a bad boy. It wasn't that at all. It wasn't God rejecting David or disciplining David. It was God redirecting David into another area. Number two, when God says no, it may mean Kind of along those lines of the first thought, but it may mean he has other work for me to do. Not everybody's a temple builder. Not everybody's a soldier. Not everybody's a king of Israel. He has another work for us to do. And by the way, God has a work for all of his people to do. I don't believe for one minute, a member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church that God doesn't have a work for you to do in our church somewhere. Dr. Lee Robertson used to say 10% of the people do 90% of the work. He used to say that. I think our church is a little better statistic than that, I'd like to believe. But um I believe God has a place for a hundred percent of the people, a role and and something to do. So God uh uh may mean he has other work for us to do. And when God says no, hey, here's a thought, he might be protecting us from future trouble. Who knows what would have happened? If David had built that temple. God knows. Here's the amazing thing about the omniscience of God. Not only does he know what will be, but he knows what could be or what would be if we took another path. He knows the end of all scenarios. He knows where they all lead. And so God in his wisdom David's a violent man. He has a lot of bloodshed. He's filled in this temple. Who knows what may have happened? It may have sparred the name of Jehovah. We don't know. But God may have been protecting David from future trouble. What I'm trying to say is this, if God forbids something, listen to God. He's trying to save us from future trouble and future problems. And then last of all, I'll end with this. When God says no, oftentimes he has greater plans in store. David did not build a temple, but he did establish a throne that would last forever. Come back with me, if you would, to 2 Samuel, real quick. This is the last passage. 2 Samuel chapter 7, back where we were the previous weeks. And look with me at verse 16. 2 Samuel chapter 7, verse 16. Verse 15 he says, But my mercy shall not depart away from him, as I took it from Saul, whom I put away before thee. And look at verse 16. And thine house, speaking to David, thine house and thy kingdom shall be established For what? Forever before thee. Now look at this last statement. And thy throne shall be established. Forever. Let me ask you a question. Did the temple last forever? No, it doesn't exist. They got part of the wall of Herod's temple. It's all they got. David built a temple. It wasn't going to last. God said, I want you to establish a throne. And for all eternity. Jesus Christ to be on the throne of David. Throne of David, at least through the millennium. Isn't that something? Isn't that something? I don't know if I'm talking to somebody here or maybe online. Somebody listening in You say, man, I want this, I want this, and God keeps saying no, God keeps saying no, God keeps saying no. Maybe God is redirecting you into a greater work. It was, you know, what if I'd uh what if I'd uh ignored God in I thought of this this afternoon What if I'd ignored what God, I felt God was leading me, and I said, I don't care, God, I'm going to the mission field. If nobody, if no doors open up, I'm going to go over myself. I wonder how badly I would have messed up and what disgrace I might have brought on the name of Christ if I'd have forced What God was clearly in my mind saying no to. And so let's trust God. Let's trust God. When God says no, it's best to cooperate with God. Well it's the Lord's doing, there's no doubt about it. So the what I'm trying to say is let's trust the Lord when He says no. Cooperate with them, let them redirect us. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask here, Lord, that you would help us to be sensitive to your word. Give us plans, Lord. Give us ideas. Give us some unction to do something for you. And then Lord help us to be sensitive to your word and your will and then let you direct us and lead us. And uh I believe you could use every one of us in a great way if we do that. Our heads are bowed, our eyes closed. I wonder if there'd be some say, preacher, it seems like God, there's some areas where God just seems to be putting up a roadblock And you'd say, I just want to trust him. However he redirects me, I want him to lead me and direct. Is anybody like that? Any like that? I just want God to lead and direct me. God bless you. God bless you. That's the way to be. How many would say, preacher, I need some ideas. I need something. God puts something in my heart and mind that I can do for him. You can't build a temple, but maybe God would put something on your heart and say, all right, here's what I can use. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray with me. God will show me what he can use me for. Give me a dream. To serve him. God bless you. God will do that if we want it. If we want it. God will lead us. There's no doubt. Father, bless our invitation, I ask now in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are back.