14. I would like for us to look at verse 2. Now we this is our scripture memory verse 2 and 3, and I hope you're working on this. This is the last Sunday. Actually the last uh services that we say this verse together as a congregation and we're set up and so if you know this verse and you can quote it bird per word perfect Uh go back by the little table in the lobby there and we'll have a nice little uh I think it's Twix or uh Kit Kat, one of those bars. And we'll have a nice little reward for you there. But um I want to encourage you to uh say this verse if you can. We'll have it this morning at the service and then again tonight. So If you haven't got it down, get this verse these verses down. But I want us to look at verse number two this morning. John 14 and verse number two. And it says this, In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. I've entitled the message, Mansions in Glory. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to speak our hearts this morning. Father in heaven We come to you on another Sunday morning. The week has raced by. We start off a new week in your house on your day. And I ask, dear Lord, that you would meet with us. Lord, this body of believers is the body of Christ. Today, the first day of the week is the Lord's Day. This is your day, Lord. And I pray that you would stir our hearts now as we've come to praise you Lord, we've come to encourage and exhort one another. We've come to look into your word and ask you to speak to us and teach us and help us in our lives. That we can live for you and please you and be the people you've created us and saved us to be. And Lord, you have to do that. And so I yield my will to you, Father in heaven. I present my body anew. All my heart, I pray and plead that you fill me with your spirit, dear Lord, that you would speak through me and change lives, save souls. And have your way, I pray. In Jesus' name I ask this. Amen. You read and study the Bible, you go from Genesis all the way through Revelation. And we find that God has preserved for us in His Word, He's preserved for us accounts of men and women who He used in tremendous ways. Now some of them were older men, some of them were very young. Some were older women, some were very young women. But they were people that God used in extraordinary ways. Um ordinary people is the way I put it, with extraordinary faith in God. And God did outstanding things. Now I like to do character studies. I like to find somebody in the Bible. I want to learn about them. What were they like? What was their character like? What was the influences in their life How did they make decisions and what were the consequences of the decisions they made? I love to study people in the Bible. In Sunday school, we're studying John the Baptist. And the vents of his very brief ministry. And if you study these people in the Bible very carefully, both Old and New Testament. You find that every one of the people that God used, every one of the people that God used to have an impact in this old world, they were imperfect people. God does not use perfect people. Anyone want to guess? Why does God not use perfect people? He doesn't have any All he's got to work with is imperfect people. People like you and me. So you look at these great men, these great women, young people, older folks, and what God did with them and through them and for them. And we find that they're imperfect people. We find that many of these people that God used in powerful ways, in extraordinary ways, were people that struggle with doubts. And struggled with fears, the events that would take place in their world during their period of time. They struggled many times with that. Very, very fearful. But they trusted God, and God used them. Many of them were very insecure people. I thought about Moses. Remember at the burning bush, and God called Moses, and I'm going to use you to lead my people out of Israel, out of Egypt And into the promised land. Man, what a calling. And Moses' first response was, I got this, God, I can do this. Right or wrong. Exactly opposite of that. Moses says, you got the wrong guy. I can't talk. I can't do this. And talk about insecurity. Now, I don't know what you know about Moses, but insecurity is not the first word that comes to my mind. But Moses was an insecure man when God called him. Doubts and fears. I read in my devotions, oh, it's been a week a week or so ago, but I read of Gideon And how God used just a young man that was threshing wheat behind the mill house there, and because of the enemies and the Canaanites and And uh and fearful, but yet doing what needed to be done, and God used them to bring great deliverance to Israel. God uses ordinary people, is what I'm trying to say, whether they're young or old People that have struggles, people that have doubts, people that have fears, people that have insecurities. Sometimes the people God used were people that were overly confident. And they had to learn that their strength was not in themselves, but in the Lord. I wonder if there's anybody here. Maybe you've been saved long enough or you've been in some sort of ministry And you got in a situation and you thought, yeah, I can handle this, and then you got into it and you found out you were way over your head. Anyone know what I'm talking about? I felt that way pastoring for many, many years. And what God does when we have our overconfidences and when we have our uh our self-reliance and well, I got this and I got a hold of this Sometimes God lets us fall on our face so that we realize it's not about us, our abilities, it's about his abilities. And God does it through us. When I'm trusting in myself, when I'm leaning on my understanding, when I'm trusting in my abilities and my talents or my gifts, if you want to put it that way, I'm trusting my abilities, I get what I can produce. But if we can get to the point where we trust in Christ and trust in God Then we get what he can produce. You follow my thinking? So from Genesis to Revelation, I find these people, young people, older folks. Some of them are very wealthy, some of them are borderline poverty. Some were kings and princes and very noble people. Others were farmers and fishermen. Some of them were very noble character, I think of Daniel And what a man of integrity, and a man of character and honesty. And then I think of Matthew, the publican, who was a liar and a thief. And yet God got a hold of them, and they simply trusted him. They simply let him have his way in their life, and God got a hold of them, and God impacted the world through them. Isn't that something? And the thing I want to focus on this morning to start off our thoughts here is this matter of overconfident people Notice here in our verse, in John 14, verse 2, my father's house are many mansions. But we need to understand the context. I think it's very important for us to understand the immediate context of the Lord's statement here, particularly verse 1 and down verse number 3 and 4 also. If you come back to chapter 13, we get the stages being set for these tremendous statements the Lord gives us that we've been memorizing. Look up at verse number 33 of chapter 13 of John. And in verse 33, well verse 31 says, Therefore when he was gone out, this was uh uh now this is the now is the Son of Man glorified. Um Judas has gone out, he's going to go betray the Lord. This is the night before that uh this is the evening that he goes out in the Garden of Gethsemane. He's about to be betrayed by Judas. He's going to be scourged, falsely judged, scourged the next day Crucified in the coming 12 hours from this time. He says, now is the Son of Man glorified, and God is glorified in him. And if God be glorified in him, God shall also glorify him in himself and shall straightway glorify him. Now look what he says in verse 33. Little children. In a little while I am with you. He refers to his disciples as little children. A little while I'm with you. And ye shall seek me. And as I said unto the Jews, whither I go, ye cannot come. So now I say unto you, and then he says, I give you a new commandment, love one another as I have loved you. He's throwing a curveball here to the disciples. He says, I'm going away. Now, I'm putting this in my own words, obviously, but it's like, whoa, whoa, whoa, wait a minute. What do you mean you're going away? You're the Messiah, you're the Christ. You have come to be king of Israel. You're here to deliver us from the Roman rule over us and the Gentile rule over our nation. You're here to establish a new independent nation of Israel ruled by God and not ruled by the Gentiles. Jesus says, oh no, no, no. I'm going away. Notice how Peter responds down in verse number 36. Peter said un Peter said Simon Peter said unto him, Lord, Whither goest thou? Where are you going? What do you mean you're going? Jesus answered him, Whither I go, thou canst not follow me now. Thou shalt follow me afterwards. Peter said unto him, Lord, why can I not I follow thee now? This bothered Peter. What he was saying did not fit into Peter's understanding. This did not fit into Peter's uh what he uh uh pictured, this is how this would play out I found this, God often does not work according to the way you and I think He should And we anticipate things and we build these things up and say, oh, this is how it's going to play out. And a lot of times it doesn't play out that way at all. And so Peter says, what do you mean? Peter said to the Lord, why cannot I follow thee now? Now listen to his statement. I will lay down my life for thy sake. Uh overconfidence. Anybody know what happens in the next 12 hours? Does Peter lay his life down for him? No. Peter saves his neck. His own neck, he says, he denies the Lord because he's afraid he's going to have to lay his life down for him. Question, do you think Peter was sincere when he made that statement here in chapter 13? Sure. Did Peter believe that? Sure, no doubt about it. Peter was absolutely confident. I'll die for you. I will lay my life down for thee. Look what the Lord says. Verse 38, Jesus answered him, Wilt thou lay down thy life for my sake? Really, Peter? You really going to do that? Verily, verily. Now when the Lord uses the term verily, verily, he's making a point. He's emphasizing something. Verily, verily, I say unto you, the cock shall not crow till thou hast what? Denied me thrice. Peter was very confident in his level of commitment to Christ. Peter was very confident in the strength of his faith. But you know, we really never know how strong our faith is until it's tested. Right or wrong? Never really know. I don't know about you, but in school I hated tests And I would wait till the night before they were due and then stay all at college. Uh I know you would this is hard for you to believe. But I would study all night long and cram because uh you say, why didn't you start two months before? You knew what the test was going to be. Be I don't know. But you know, you never really know what you learned in a class until you take that test. That's the whole purpose of tests. To determine how much how do I grasp this, how much do I know this. And our faith, we never really know the strength of our faith. Until it's tested, until it's put in the fire. Until God starts doing things and we don't understand what he's doing, doesn't make sense. And am I willing to still trust him? Peter was very confident in his faith. And Peter was very confident in his level of commitment to the Lord. But within 24, less than 12 hours, really. His world's going to be turned upside down. And his faith is going to be tested as it never was tested before. His commitment is going to be tried and stretched like it was never stretched before. I was qu as like everybody else has, I've been following the events in Eastern Europe and the war unfolding there in Ukraine. But I'll tell you what's been coming out of that that is absolutely challenged. My heart and faith is testimonies and examples of believers in that war-torn nation now who, in spite of danger, in incredible fear Are worshiping God and praising God. Maybe you saw some of the pictures under an overpass, a huge crowd of believers just singing praises to God. I saw one account where a Ukrainian soldier who was a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ had a family and he was leading them to Christ. In the midst of an assault by an atheistic Russian army. Isn't that something? What a testimony of faith in trial. Peter says, I'll lay my life down for you. The Lord says, Really? Really? I think we have a tendency to overestimate the strength of our faith. I think sometimes we have a testimony to overestimate our level of commitment. Now I'm not saying we should go around and belittle ourselves. But I'm simply saying we need to understand that our faith is going to be tested, our faith is going to be tried. Our commitment is going to be tried. And it is through those trials, it is through those Tests that our faith grows and we become stronger as we trust the Lord. Everything Peter thought he understood is about to be scrambled eggs. I mean, it is just getting blown out of the water, what he anticipated, what he thought this, how he thought this was going to play out. Here's the thing. Christ's purpose in coming to earth was far bigger than anything Peter ever dreamed of. Peter anticipated an independent nation. Jesus was coming to bring eternal salvation from sin and hell. Peter was looking for deliverance from a human government. Jesus was coming to conquer the devil and deliver lives from sin. Peter was looking for freedom to worship Jehovah as in the temple. Jesus was coming To give freedom from drugs and freedom from fornication and freedom from unbelief and freedom from hatred and freedom from bitterness What Jesus Christ was coming for was so far bigger than anything Peter ever anticipated. And he completely missed it. And his faith was tested. So that is the context of Jesus' statement here in the first several verses of John chapter 14. Now if we could go back in time and picture in our mind's eye the scene here, I see Peter just absolutely dumbfounded. Shaken to the core. They're having the Last Supper. Ten of the other disciples are there. Of course, Judas is gone. And Peter is absolutely rattled. This is not what he had invested the last three and a half years of his life in, for the Lord to leave I imagine the other disciples sitting there, they heard this conversation. They're looking at Peter in disbelief. If anybody was going to be faithful to the Lord, it was Peter. And no doubt the disciples are rattled and everything's shaken. And then we come to chapter 14 and verse 1. And the Lord says this. Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. They're about to find out that their faith was not nearly as strong as they thought. Their commitment was not nearly as strong as they thought. And we tend to do the same thing. And the Lord comes to them and says, listen, don't let this rattle you. You believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house. You're worried about Jerusalem. You're worried about the temple. You're worried about a temporal human government. Oh, I've got something much bigger than you ever dreamed of than you ever dreamed of. I have three thoughts here from this passage I want us to notice. First one is that in the midst of our disappointments, when our faith fails us, we can have a peaceful heart The Lord gives him a peaceful heart. Let not your heart be troubled. Then in verse 2, he tells us he has a place prepared in heaven for us. And then verse 3 says he promises his return. That he'll come back again. Let's consider that first thought here this morning. A peaceful heart. Look at verse 1. Let not your heart be troubled. Now they're rattled. You've got to understand the context when Lord's saying it. He's not just bringing this out of the blue, just making this meaningless statement. He's addressing a very specific situation. In fact, he's addressing an individual person, Peter. And he says, let not your. And when he says your, he's talking to Peter Don't let your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. In fact, later on, he repeats it to all the disciples in verse number 27. Come over there, same chapter. He says, Peace I leave with you. He's talking to all the disciples now. Verse 27, John 14: Peace I leave with you. My peace I give unto you. Now think about that. The peace of Christ that he experiences. He says, I offer that to you. My peace I give unto you, not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Look at here it is Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. Now that word trouble here in these both verses has the idea of being agitated Being worked up. Inward commotion. Turmoil. It says, don't let your heart, it's also used sometimes to refer to restlessness. Anxiety, being anxious or fearful about a situation. Anybody here ever have internal turmoil? Anybody know what? Yeah, that's what he's talking about. You lay at night and you toss and turn and everything uh everything that's going on. Anybody like that? You wake up two in the morning, everything in the world, and you're just worked up. Anybody know what I'm talking about At all, I'm so worried. I did a funeral years ago, and it was right after 9-11. It's a long time ago And a dear young lady came up to me, she was probably mid twenties maybe, a little more than that. And I did the funeral and Um gave the invitation, a number of people saved. She came up to me, and it was right after 9-11. She said this, oh Pastor Leatherman, she wasn't a member of the church, she was just there at the funeral. She said, Oh Pastor Leatherman, I am so scared. I am so fearful. She was afraid what was happening in our country. And the Lord says, don't let that be the case, Peter. Don't be that way. I was able to give her this verse and others. She claimed to know the Lord. Lord's saying to Peter, says, Peter, don't let your heart get so worked up and be so upset and so fearful. Now, the word that catches my attention, I circled it in my Bible, is the very first word of that verse. Let not your heart be troubled. In other words, uh it's the natural response to be upset or to be concerned or be anxious. When things don't turn out the way we think and things don't play the way we think they should, the natural response is to be worried and get worked up and be troubled. It naturally happens. And the Lord says, don't let that happen When our hopes and dreams are shadowed and confusion engulfs us, the natural thing is to get upset, the natural thing is to get worried and get fearful and get anxious. And the Lord says Don't let that happen. In other words, unless I take action, unless I do something, that is naturally what's going to happen. You follow what I'm trying to say He says, don't let that. It's going to happen. It's going to happen. You have to take action. You have to make decisions. You have to intervene in your own thinking to not allow that to take place. Let not your heart be troubled. To become troubled, I must not allow it to happen. I must intervene. Now how do I do that? You say, preacher, I can't help it. I see I'm watching the news and I hear this and You know that and oh it has me so upset and uh how do I not get troubled over it? He tells us Let not your heart be troubled, ye what, believe in God, believe also in me. Can I simplify what he's saying? Can I simplify what the Lord was telling Peter? He's saying this: trust me. Trust God. Trust what I'm telling you now. You trust what the Lord says in the Old Testament, you trust me. Listen, Peter, believe you believe in God, believe also in me. Trust me what I'm about to tell you. The lead is a conscious decision to place my confidence in the person of Christ. Did you get that? It's a conscious decision I make. That I am going to have confidence in Jesus Christ and what he says. I'm going to believe it. I'm going to trust him. To believe is a conscious decision, to trust that what God says is so. I would imagine I may be, I don't know, I may be talking to someone this morning, has a troubled heart. And you say, preacher, when you do you defined that word trouble, you were describing my inward condition. And I'm here to tell you there's a God in heaven. That is in control and that loves you and you can trust him. There's a Savior who died on the cross, was buried, rose again. that loves you enough and me enough to die and suffer hell for us, he says you must decide to trust me. But your confidence in me decide. Um, that would come Sunday nights. One of the young ladies was bringing them And I'd preach, and I'd talk to him a little bit, and I'd give the invitation, invite people to be saved, every single time. He just came Sunday nights for whatever reason. Every single time, as soon as I gave that invitation, man, his hand went up to be saved He'd come forward and uh one of our men would take him aside, sit down, and go through the plan of salvation, and the old boy would never get saved, would never get saved, would never get saved. Finally, uh they'd come out afterward and they'd come out and And uh Marvin was counseling Marvin come out shaking his head. I said, Did you trust Christ? No. And finally, after about two, three times of this, I pulled him aside one Sunday night. I said, I don't understand. What's the problem? He goes, I just don't have faith. I'm not a person that has any faith. It's pretty blunt of him. I said, that's a lie. You do have faith. You got in your car and drove here. You had faith those brakes will work. You didn't get out and check and double check that you just got in and drove You had faith they were gonna hold up. Put your money in the bank, you have faith the bank's gonna give it back to you. That is wavering a little bit, but uh But we all have faith. We all exercise faith. The difference is what we choose to put that faith in. I said, you just got to make the decision that you're going to trust Christ to forgive your sin, to cleanse you from all unrighteousness, and give you eternal life. You've got to make a conscious decision Put your hope, your confidence, your trust in the person of Jesus Christ to forgive you, give you eternal life, take you to heaven when you die. And the old boy would never do that. The last time I saw him, as far as I know, he was an unsaved man. It wasn't an inability to trust Christ, it was an unwillingness to trust Christ. And that's what it boils down to. And so Jesus is talking to Peter, and Peter's rattled, his world's turned upside down. And he says, Peter, listen. There's peace available to your heart and life. It's right there. You can, in the midst of potential World War III, you can have peace. But you gotta believe me. Believe in God? Believe also in me. Trust me. Put your confidence in me. Tell you what, if we're putting our confidence in Washington, we ain't gonna find no peace. If we're putting our trust in our stock investments, there ain't going to be no peace If we're putting our hope and trust in another person, we're never going to find peace. But there's a God in heaven. That we can trust and does bring peace to our hearts. And I thank God for it. We have an anchor for our souls. In the Lord Jesus Christ. So the Lord promises peace to the Lord Jesus Christ. A peaceful heart in a world filled with fear is a powerful testimony to God's goodness. A peaceful heart in a world filled with fear is a powerful testimony to the presence of Christ in my life. It's a testimony to the truth of God's word. Peace. When Christians are as fearful as the world is, we have no testimony. When Christians are as troubled as an unbelieving world is, we have nothing to offer. There's nothing unique or distinctive about a A Christian who has no more peace or confidence than the world does. Do you say, preaching, you mean we're not going to struggle with fear, we're not going to struggle with doubt, we're not going to struggle with with uncertainties? Yeah, we struggle with them, but we got a savior. We're trusting. That gives us. This is a supernatural thing. My peace I leave with you. Let not your heart be troubled. Believe in God. You believe in God, believe also in me I can allow my, listen, I can allow my heart to be troubled, just allow it to happen, or I can intervene. And I can make a conscious decision. Nope, I'm not going to let my heart be troubled. I'm going to put my faith, my confidence in Christ, and trust him. By the way, that's what we do for salvation, isn't it? We come and we put our faith and trust. If you're here this morning, you're listening, or you're under the sound of my voice. And you've never trusted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, I'm here to tell you you've got a lot to be troubled about. The wages of sin is death. And to die in our sins, to die unforgiven, to go out into eternity without eternal life, is to be separated from God for all eternity in a horrific place called hell that is as real as the place you and I are sitting in today. But there's salvation available. And I've got to make a conscious decision. I'm going to put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ. For forgiveness of sins, a home in heaven. Listen, if you're trusting in your church membership at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church to save you from hell and forgiveness of sin and get you to heaven with eternal life, you are lost. You're trusting in some baptism you went through, and all that's important. Church is important, baptism is important, but it does not save the soul. Jesus says, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man comes the Father but by me. And so it's a conscious decision to believe in Christ, to put my confidence. Say, preacher, are you going to heaven when you die? Absolutely. I know that for sure. Somebody told me one time, well, you're awfully you're awfully presumptuous I said, I'm not presuming anything. I'm taking God at His word. It's not my goodness that gets me to heaven. It's not me being a preacher. This may shock some of you, but I'm just as much a sinner as you are. Well, maybe not as much as some of y'all, but So that's what salvation is, is putting my faith, my trust, my confidence in Christ to forgive me. He's doing it all He's the one that gives me eternal life. He's the one that has a hold in me. He's the one that's going to get me, usher me into the presence of God, into heaven. I'm accepted in Christ. It's all through Christ. That's where my faith, my hope, my confidence is. And that's the same way we live the Christian life. Say, preacher, what's going on? What's happening? I don't know. I don't know where it's going to play out. We might have some Rough days ahead, but I know I'm trusting the Lord Jesus Christ. He said he'll never leave me, He'll never forsake me, He'll see us through. Worse comes the worst. We get to the second point, we've got mansions in glory So number one, he says peace. He says uh he promises a peaceful heart, a peaceful heart. Number two, Then he promises a place in heaven. Now remember, he's talking to Peter and the other disciples indirectly. They're upset. Their world is falling apart. They don't understand. He says, let not your heart be troubled. Don't let that happen. Intervene. Step in. Decide. I'm going to believe. I'm going to trust. The second thing he says, oh, by the way, doesn't say it that way, but oh, by the way. I go to repair a place for you. Look what he says there, verse 2. In my father's house. Oh, by the way, in my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. I put three things. Here we're given a little glimpse of heaven. And again, this is indicative of the fact that The Lord had something bigger than what Peter had in mind. All Peter saw was the temporal life here on earth. All Peter saw Was the buildings and the government and the nation he lived here for a few years here on earth? The Lord says, oh no, no, it's way bigger than that. We've got mansions in glory. In my father's house are many mansions. Peter, it's a whole lot more than what you're thinking of. It's bigger than any of that. I put three things here I noticed about this place in heaven. First of all, it's a precious place. I like how the Lord described it. He says, in my father's house, Are many mansions. When you refer to some place as your father's house, generally they're talking about home. It's my father's house. That's home. That's where I grew up. Jesus is saying, This is my father's house. That's where I'm from. I came from glory I came from the presence of God here to earth to give my life as a lamb of God and take away the sins of the world. But in my father's house, back home. I thought about the prodigal son. Remember when he was in the far country? Anyone familiar with the prodigal's experience? He's in the far country. The far country wasn't his home. It wasn't his father's house. He was a uh an alien. He was an outsider. That wasn't home. He's in the hog pen. He ends up in the hog pen By the way, riotous living will lead you to the hog pen every time. So he's in the hog pen, he's broke, his friends have all abandoned him. He's eating the husk. He never dreamed he'd get this low in life. He never dreamed he'd become this kind of a person. He comes to himself and he says, back at daddy's house, back at my father's house, things are good. Man, they got food to eat, got a place to sleep and clothing. My father's house. My father's house. Jesus describes this as a very precious place. How many folks here tonight you're saved, you know it? Say amen. And I remind you of something, this world's not our home. This is not our father's house. Our father's house, our home is in heaven. This world is not my home. I'm just uh what? Passing through. My treasures are laid up. Help me. Somewhere beyond the blue, back in my father's house. My father's house. Our time here is very brief You're in the if you're in the in the older side of life, you would agree with that statement. Our time here is brief. Amen or not I'll be 62 here in a couple May 6th if you want to write that down. 62. I'll be eligible for early Social Security, am I right? Man. Here's the thing. I thought it would take a lot longer to get to this age than what it did. This world's not our home. We're just passing through. It's just a brief time here. Our time here is brief. By the way. Our time here on this old world is uncomfortable. Look, come over to chapter 16, if you would, with me and notice verse number 33 what the Lord says. Just a couple pages over, John 16. Look at verse 33. These things have I spoken unto you. Last verse of the chapter. These things have I spoken unto you that in me you might have peace. There it is. In the world you shall have what? But be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. This world's not our home. This world's a very brief place to live. This world's a very uncomfortable place to live. I don't know how you feel, but I feel out of place more and more in this whole world. There's something down in the heart and soul of a believer that says this is not home. There's something down in the heart and soul of a child of God that lives in this world and says, this is not where I belong. Home is somewhere else. Home is better than this. Home is my father's house. My father's house. Jesus says there's a place in heaven for you. It's a very precious place. It's our Father's house. Our Father's house. By the way, if you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, It's not your home. You need to come to Christ for heaven to be your home. If the Lord Jesus Christ would come back today, if the rapture would take place, you've had opportunity to be saved and you've denied it and you reneglected it, you'd be left behind. Heaven is not your home. It's not your home. But those of us that have trusted Christ. And by the way, anybody in the world can trust Christ. And I want to take a shot at some false doctrine. Those that say that God chooses some people to go to heaven and God chooses some people to go to hell are liars. God is not willing that any should perish. God wants everyone to come to his home and house in heaven. God wants you to be saved. He says, listen, there's peace in your heart. Don't let the natural reaction of your heart take place. You've got to step in, you've got to intervene and put your faith and trust and calmness. Just trust me. And then he says, I've got a place prepared in heaven. It's a precious place. When I go back to Pennsylvania and I don't very often anymore, I need to get up there and Uh see my mom, but uh when I get back there I try to if I can work it in the schedule, I try to go by Harleysville, Pennsylvania, 234 Yoder Road Harleysville, Pennsylvania. Anybody want to guess what's there? The old homestead I try to go by there and I park in front of it sometimes and I remember that old tree where I just about broke my neck and um Had a little swimming we had a swimming pool in the backyard where my sisters tried to drown me every single time. Sweet memories But there's something about going back and seeing the old homestead in there. Something about even if there's bad memories, it's just something about it. I'm telling you, this world's not our home. Our father's house is our home. Don't ever forget that. Don't ever forget that Or just passing through. It's a precious place. It's a promised place. Notice what the Lord says here. I think this is interesting. In my father's house are many mansions. Now, personally, I don't think he would have had to make this next statement. But for the assurance of the disciples, and for you and I, and just to emphasize the reality of it, the Lord says, if it were not so, I would have told you. Now, sometimes I'll jokingly say in a message, I'll say it, I'll say, now what I'm about to tell you is the truth. If I ever happen to tell the truth, I'll point it out to you. Now how many people agree with me, I shouldn't have I wouldn't have to do that, right? You would assume I'm telling the truth. But um But the Lord says, in my father's house are many minutes, hey, listen, guys, listen. He's talking to disciples, listen. If it wasn't so, I would have told you. I'm not horsing around. It's for real. This is a promised place. Our assurance of a home in heaven is not in our good works or our Christian service or our baptism or our church membership, as I said. It's in the promises of God. I wish we had time. I'd love to go to 1 John chapter 5 Lord says, He that hath the Son hath life. If you have Jesus Christ as Savior, you have life. Verse 12, he says, These things have I written unto you, speaking about the Bible, God's word These things have I written unto you, that believe in the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that ye have eternal life. It's based on the promises of the Word of God God, my assurance of heaven, my security in heaven is based upon God's promise. God cannot lie, God will not lie. And if he says it's so, it's so. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. God said it. That settles it. So he says, listen, I'm promising you this is for real. We don't have to hope heaven is our home. We don't have to think so. We don't have to say, well, do you uh is heaven your home? Well I think so. Well I hope so. Well, maybe so. That's not the way God operates. God doesn't operate on insecurity. God doesn't operate on a lack of assurance. God operates on certainties. God operates on assurance. And you and I can come and take him at his word and know that we have a home in heaven. It's a precious place, my father's house. It's a promised place. And this place in heaven is a personalized place. Look with me here again. Come back to chapter 14 here. He says, in my father's house are many mansions, all right? My father's house. Though we're not so, I would have told you. I'm telling you the truth. Then he says, I go to repair a place. Now notice he doesn't just stop and say, I go to repair a place. Could have said that, but he doesn't. He tacks two words on the end. What does he say? I go to repair a place. For you? For who? In immediate context, who is he going to prepare a place for? Peter. That's who he's talking to. He's looking at Peter and says, Peter, I go, in my father's house there are many mansions. So I would have told you. Peter, I go to prepare a place for you. You. It's a personalized place. That word prepare means to get things ready, to put things together, to put them in place. It has an idea of preparing a place personalized for the one that's going to arrive. Jesus is going ahead, and he's making things ready for us. For Peter, and through the Word of God, it's assurance to us. That we have a place. Jesus made a place ready for Peter in spite of his failure, in spite of his struggles, in spite of his false security, and f in spite of his shortcomings. He said, Peter, I got a place just for you. Just for you. Lord's preparing, I believe, the Lord is preparing a customized place for you and I, just like he did Peter. I mean customized Now I may be getting a little fanciful if my in for if my imagination here, but I heard an old preacher years ago, he said, let When you're talking about heaven, let your imagination run wild and you'll come up short every single time. I think what the Lord's implying here, if he's not directly stating it, that for every believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, he has a place in heaven prepared specifically. For that individual believer, with their personalities, with their interests, with their characteristics all in mind. I think I think Wilbur's mansion in heaven has bird feeders right outside the window. I was preaching Mildred Harvey's funeral, what was it about a month ago? Something like that. I was talking about this. And while I was preaching, it dawned on me. Now I don't know if you guys do any preaching. Sometimes you're preaching and something dawns on you. And it dawned on me, and I never really thought of it this way before, I don't think. But when Mildred walked into that mansion that the Lord had prepared for her, she didn't feel out of place. She felt at home. Anybody here move into a new house and it took you a little while for it to be home? Anybody know what I'm talking about until you get used to it and just say, I don't know if I don't like the commode there and I don't you know this here. I don't know about that Anybody you know what I'm talking about? It just takes a while. You know what I think? I think we walk into that mansion in glory, it'll be like I'm home Oh. I think we walk in that mansion of glory, I think, will say something like this. This is where I belong. This is where I belong. Prepare a place for you. For you. Now some of y'all, your minds are racing, oh I hope it has this, and I hope there's a swimming pool and a shooting range out back. Listen, whatever it is or it isn't, you're not going to be disappointed. I prepare a place for you. When we get there, we're not going to be in shock. It's not going to take time to get used to it We're going to feel right at home. We're going to say, this is where I belong. Home. I was down in Dominican, as you know, for ten days. It was actually twelve travel days. You put them on. And I got home and I'm telling you, some of you all know exactly what I'm talking about. Maybe some of you military guys know exactly what I'm talking about. You walk in that front door and it's like as great as the trip may have been, it's like, ah, I'm home. Right or wrong. There's no place like home. And heaven's our home. Let me give you the last thought here real quickly. Then there's the promise of Christ's return. He says, in my father's house are many mansions. It's my father's house, very precious. If it were not so, I would have told you. I'm promising you this is the truth. I go to prepare a place for you. It's personalized just for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, look, I love this next statement. I will come again. And receive you unto myself. You mark it down, Jesus coming back again. He wants us to be where he is. Maybe today my Lord will come for me. Maybe today, my Savior, I shall see. Maybe today from sin I would be free. But you mark it down, Jesus will come. We're going to go home. And it may be today. Wouldn't that be something? You mark it down. Jesus coming back again. You mark it down. A lot of people, we don't know when, we don't know when he's coming, but we know he is. Can I say this? A lot of people aren't going to be ready. A lot of people knew how to be saved, knew they should be saved, kept putting it off. One of these days, I'm gonna I had a fellow tell me years ago, one of these days, preacher, I'm gonna get that settled. You know what usually happens? One of these days never shows up. If you're not saved, you need to get saved Our life here is brief. We don't know when the Lord's coming back. We may go home through the uppertaker, the rapture, or we may go home through the undertaker, through death. But we don't know when. And we need to be ready. Young person, are you ready? Grandma, grandpa, have you been saved? Are you ready? You know for sure you trust in Christ? Well, I hope so. I think no no no don't settle for that. It's too important. You need to nail it down Hey, Christian, those that are saved, are you ready? Are you living for the Lord? Listen, this is between you and God. This is probably none of my business. But what's in the home? That rapture takes place, you'd be ashamed. Our homes ought to be clean and pure. Amen or not. How are we using our time? Where are the places we go to? Now this is between you and God. You need to decide. But what I'm saying this, I'm afraid there's going to be a lot of Christians. Not ready, not living for the Lord. How safe? Heaven's home, God promised. But true. Not ready to meet our Savior. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now. Help us to be ready. Help us to live for you. Help us to be a witness and share the gospel and win others to Christ. Help us to be about our Father's business until that day comes. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. Maybe there's some this morning have a troubled heart. Peter was upset. The Lord says, don't let your heart be that way. You make a decision. You believe. You decide. Trust me. You're just going to put it in my hands. Trust me. Say, I got a place. Maybe there's some here this morning, and you're so caught up in this world. You've fallen in love with the world, the things of the world. Maybe this morning need to be reminded. This world's not our home. This world's not our home. One thing we've been emphasizing this year, and Lord willing continue through the years, Jesus coming back. We need to watch. We need to be ready. Father, bless our imitation, I ask now. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together