Good to have family visiting over here. It slipped in. God bless you. We're glad you folks are here. And uh I failed to mention uh Brannett uh Baptist Church is pastored by a good friend of Kathy Nars, uh Doctor is it Doctor Kurt King? Yeah. He's moving up in the world. Well uh we worked together in Bible college, Brother King and Janet and Kathy and I worked in the bus ministry down there and it's every time somebody from our church goes to theirs or someone from down there comes up here out of the slums and cities and scum of Baltimore. Uh come up here to fresh air and clean and but anyway, uh every time we do that, we have to talk about you have to ask them about the opera Yeah, every time. So when you get back, ask Dr. King about when him, Brother Leatherman went to the opera. You didn't know I went to operas and stuff like that. Jerry was telling me this morning when he got here that last night he was sleeping. Him and Connie were in bed about three in the morning, and uh there was a knock on the door real hard and you know how Jerry is? He said, I ain't getting out of bed three in the morning. I'm not going down there. So the guy kept hammering on the door harder and harder and harder so Jerry said he finally got out, drug himself down there, and there's a man standing there who was obviously drunk. I mean stone cold drunk. He says, um the drunk says, would you give me a push? Jerry says, No, get lost. It's three in the morning. I was in bed and he slams the door and goes back to bed. Doesn't that sound like Jerry? He gets up there, Connie says, What was that about? And he goes, Ah, some drunk at the door wanted me to help give him a push. I'm not gonna give him a push, he's drunk and uh so he's laying there. Connie says Jerry, that wasn't very nice. Can you hear Connie doing that? Remember that night when you were broke down in the pouring rain and you knocked on a man's door and he helped you get the car started again? What would what would happen if he told you to get lost Jerry says, the guy's drunk. Connie says, Jerry, doesn't matter. You're a Christian. So Jerry says, oh, all right. So he gets up, gets dressed, goes down the steps, opens the door, and down in Kittsmiller it gets foggy at night sometimes. So it's real foggy and the guy is not around And so he yells out, hey buddy, do you still want to push? And he hears out of the fog, he hears the guy say, Yes, please. Jerry says, Where are you? The guy said, Over here on the swing. Needless to say, Jerry is not going to answer the door at three in the morning. Luke chapter seven, if you would notice Verse number 40. I had Pat read the lengthy portion of scripture so we get the whole context of what's going on here. But right now I want to reread verses 40 down through 43. And notice what the Lord says. Jesus answering saith unto him Simon. Now, I believe Simon is not Simon Peter, his disciple. I believe that's the name of the Pharisee that he's visiting with. The name Simon was a very common name. Um it was like Bob or it's not it wasn't some weird name like Pat, it was Bob or Steve or s some common name. So I believe that was the name of the Pharisee. But look, notice what the Lord says. I have somewhat to say unto thee. And he said, Master, say on. There was a certain creditor which had two debtors. The one owed 500 pence and the other 50. When they had nothing to pay, he frankly forgave them both. Tell me, therefore, which of them will love him the most? And Simon, this Pharisee who was criticizing this sinful woman, Simon answered and said, I suppose he to whom he forgave most. And he, Jesus, said unto him, Thou hast rightly judged. I've entitled the message, Many Sins, Much Love. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, we thank you for the joy of being in your house here, Lord, on Sunday morning. We're so grateful for the folks that have come out, the visitors that are with us, and our regular folk Lord, we are blessed, have been blessed by the singing and the fellowship. Now, as we look in your word, dear Lord, I ask that you would calm our hearts. Help us to put out of our mind the issues and schedules of the week. And I pray that you would open our hearts and minds to the truths that are here And that your Holy Spirit would apply these principles to our life. That we could be better people. We could be the people you intend for us to be. And our lives would be pleasing to you. Our witness would be more effective. Lord, I acknowledge publicly to you that I have nothing in it of myself of any eternal or spiritual help. Lord, if any good's going to come out of this, Lord, you have to do it. And so I yield myself to you. I present my body anew. Fill me, I plead with you, Lord, with your Holy Spirit, and speak through me. To each of our hearts and lives. In Jesus' name. Amen. I would imagine most of us here that know the Lord Would say that when we first got saved, we strongly desired to please God with our life. I remember those beginning years of my Christian life, and it was also new to me. I was 19 years old, had been to Sunday school some as a child, but hadn't been to church for years And God saved me and changed my life dramatically. And He doesn't do this for everybody. Sometimes God deals different schedule for folks, but He transformed my life immediately in dramatic ways. And I remember as I was reading my Bible and studying as a new believer, and this book had become so alive to me. And I read, I remember reading with horror places in Scripture where Christians There was the possibility, and there were examples of Christians who became indifferent to their Christian life and to their walk with God. Revelation 3, verse 15 and 16 talks about God rebuking some Christians in a church. And he says, You're not hot and you're not cold, but you're lukewarm. You're indifferent. You really don't have any zeal or intensity or concern about the things of God in the Christian life. And he says, Because you're lukewarm, I spew thee out of my mouth Of course the Lord is speaking figuratively there. And I remember reading portions of scripture like that in other places where The possibility of a Christian saved, forgiven, on their way to heaven, but for various reasons, getting to the point in their Christian life where they just did not care. Whether their actions were pleasing to God, where they just did not care whether they were doing right or wrong. They were lukewarm, indifferent. And as a young Christian, I thought I never, ever want to be that way. I do not want to be a lukewarm Christian. I do not want to be a second rate Christian. Spin thirty This year it'll be 32 years ago, this May 7th, 32 years ago that Christ saved me. I wish I could stand up here this morning and say to the church, God has allowed me to pastor. I wish I could say that that intensity The intensity of my commitment to Christ in those early years. I wish I could say that it has never wavered these 31 plus years. I can't say that. There have been ups and downs. There have been times when that Zeal for the Lord wasn't as intense as it has been earlier. Now, y'all are looking at me awfully pious. I'd venture to say, anybody that's been saved any length of time, you would have to confess the same thing. It's reality. But I would like to believe that 30 plus, 31 plus years later, I would like to believe, and I do believe. That my desire to please God with my life is as strong today as it was when I first got saved. I believe that's true. I'm grateful, and I noticed this more in the last number of years. I'm grateful that there are an increasing number of people in our church, in all levels of the church, involvement. That share my desire to please God. And I'm sensing that a higher percentage more and more as each year goes by. And I thank God for that. I thank God for people throughout our church who share the same desire that our church please God as I do as pastor. I'm sensing, and I have for a number of years now among so many folks our church, but I'm sensing an increased burden. That we win people to Christ, of course that's number one, right? Get the gospel to lost, win people to Christ. But I'm sensing an increased burden, people sharing a burden that's becoming intensifying in my heart, that we not only see people find forgiveness of sins That we find people being saved from the judgment of God, eternity in hell. We see people trusting Christ, but sharing the burden and that increasing burden that we not stop there, but we see them go on for God. And live for the Lord and become productive, happy Christian lives where the the Lord the Lord is pleased with their life. They're finding fulfillment and satisfaction and seeing God working in their lives, not just trusting Christ, but actually living for God and experiencing the blessings of God on their life. And that burden in my heart is getting stronger each year, and I believe that is being shared by so many in our church. Not just seeing people saved, of course, and we want to see more people saved every year. Amen. Let me see more people come to Christ. Listen, hell is still as real and literal as it's ever been. Heaven is still as real and glorious as it's ever been. Jesus is still the only way for a person to escape hell by forgiveness of sins and have a home in heaven. That is bottom line. And so we've got to reach people for Christ. But we want to see them go on. We want to see them live for God, see God's blessings in their life, become long-term Christians. We want to see folks become zealous for the Lord. and commit their lives to living for the Lord Jesus Christ. Which brings us to our text. As I said, I had Pat read a lengthy portion of scripture this morning so that we can get the whole context of what's taking place here. I think that's important to understand what the Lord is saying You'll notice in the early portion, verse 36 and 37, 38, you have a woman. Jesus is invited by a Pharisee to come and have dinner, and this woman enters the house, obviously. And she approaches the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, this bothers the Pharisees for a number of reasons. The primary reason is they viewed this woman as a terrible sinner. Look with me if you would at verse number 37 again. Behold, a woman in the city, look what it says, which was a what? A sinner. Come down to verse 39. And when the Pharisee, which had bidden him, saw it, this woman come in and she's anointing his feet. When this Pharisee saw that. He spake within himself. Now, what does it mean he spake within himself? He's thinking this in his mind. He's not saying it outwardly. He's in his mind, he's thinking this. This man, Jesus. If he were a prophet, if he was what he claims to be, if he was of God, look at this, would have known who, look at this, and what manner of woman this is. That toucheth him, for she is a sinner Simon, this Pharisee, is thinking in his mind, Jesus does not understand what kind of woman this is. He does not understand this woman is a sinner. Now, it's interesting to notice the Lord doesn't refute him. The Lord doesn't say, oh no, no, Simon, you're not right. She's not a sinner, doesn't say that at all. In fact, the way it's worded and the thing here, I think it was pretty obvious to everybody. That this woman was exactly what Simon suggested she was. That wasn't in question. No doubt this woman was a sinner. No doubt this woman was the kind of woman that this Pharisee saw her as. Now we're not told what her sinfulness consisted of. Speculate. Maybe she was a drunkard, maybe she was a thief, perhaps an adulteress, maybe worse. We're not told the details, but the Lord does not dispute the Pharisees' assessment of this woman. She's a sinner. Simon, the Pharisee's mistake, was not in viewing her as a sinner, but his mistake was in viewing himself as righteous. That's where he missed the boat. Was she a sinner? Sure. It was obvious. Even by society standards. She was a sinner. But Simon, the problem isn't her seeing herself as a sinner. The problem is you seeing yourself as righteous You see, there's one thing clearly taught through all scripture, and that is this all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. There is none righteous. No, not even one Not the Pharisee, not the scribes, not the lawyers, not the preachers, not the Sunday school teachers, and not the woman of the street. The issue is not whether she's a sinner or not, Simon. The issue is whether you see yourself as a sinner or not. You say, Pharisee says, ah, but I don't live the way she lives. I go to the synagogue, I give my tithes. I don't smoke and drink and chew, and I don't hang around with those who do. It's one of my favorite poems. And the Lord says your whole problem the Lord's saying here, your whole problem is, not whether she's a sinner or not, Simon, you don't see yourself as a sinner. And you've got all these good things you do, and you have all these humanly righteous acts you're doing. But Isaiah 64 and verse 6 says, even our righteousnesses before God are as filthy rags. And what Simon the Pharisee needed to see wasn't that she was a sinner and he was righteous. He needed to see he was a sinner just like she was. Maybe it didn't manifest itself in the same manner, but sinner nonetheless. Then this Pharisee, of course, as I'm explaining here, he's criticizing the Lord for receiving this woman. For receiving this sinner. Now let me just stop. I don't have this in my notes here, but let me just stop and say this. I'm glad our Lord received sinners. Amen. May 7, 1979, 1030 at night, there was a messed up, sinful, perverse 19-year-old boy that knelt by his bed. And cried out to Jesus Christ to receive him, and thank God Jesus receives sinners. People all across here could testify the same thing. But this Pharisee is criticizing him. What are you doing? Don't you know what kind of woman this is? Why would you let her touch you? Why would you let her even into your presence? And that prompts the Lord to tell this story about this creditor that had two debtors. And he's trying to he's trying to open Simon the Pharisee's eyes As to the sinfulness of man, the graciousness of God, and our response as sinners to God's grace. Three things he points out here. The first thing in this little parable about the two men that owe the Lord one five hundred uh what was it five hundred pence? Is that correct? One five hundred and other fifty. Neither of them had the money to pay. So the creditor just comes freely and he says, Frankly, it's interesting, we'll look at that, forgave them both A couple things I want us to notice this. Number one, I think the Lord's pointing out here, first of all, the majesty of God's grace. The majesty of God's grace. Now, all of us here are different. You just look around, you can see that. I'm so glad no, I wish God would have made me rich instead of so good looking Mike said that. I like that quote. I wrote it in my Bible. But um you look around, we all look different. Some of us are tall, dark, and handsome. Other of us are short, fat, and not so handsome. Different. We have different appearances. I'd like for everybody to do something with me if you would. I'd like for you to look at the person beside you. Go ahead, look at the person beside you, and repeat after me, I'm glad. Come on, repeat after me, I'm glad I don't look like you Can I get a witness? We're all different in our physical makeup. We're all different in our personalities. Some people are just natural entertainers. You know what I'm talking about? Just something about them. They're always this the center of attention. They're always the life of the party. Other folks are naturally quiet. They're personalities such where they're not flamboyant and outgoing so much and they're more to themselves, they're quiet. Our personalities are different. Our preferences are different. You notice we don't all dress the same. Uh we talked in Sunday school this morning about some preachers. Uh uh don't like for fellows to wear preachers to wear colored shirts when they preach. They think they should wear white shirts and others the other way around and whatnot, and that's fine People have different preferences, we have different personalities, we have different appearances. We have different paths Some folks sitting, members of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, active, successful, supportive members of the church. You come from Christian home and you were raised by godly parents Liquor has never been in your house. Nasty movies have never been a part of your growing up. It's just been uh God has blessed you and You grew up in a good, godly Christian home and atmosphere, and we thank God for that. Others maybe come from a different background Maybe our home was a little rough growing up. Maybe it wasn't all that God would have intended to be, but at some point somebody reached you for Christ and you got saved. We all have different backgrounds. We have different pasts. We have different personalities. We have different preferences, different physical makeup. But regardless of our past, we are all saved from sin and its judgment the same way. We are saved by God's grace. Nobody, nobody gets to heaven because they had Christian parents. Nobody gets to heaven because of their personality or because of what type of past they had or their physical appearance. Nobody gets to heaven because of their preferences in the areas of life. The only way a person is saved from hell and gets to heaven is through the grace of Almighty God. It's the only way. And Jesus is trying to point out to Simon the Pharisee Sure, this woman is a sinner, but you are too. The only way we get to heaven is not because we're less a sinner than someone else. We get to heaven because God is gracious to us Now, what is grace? What does it mean that God saves us by grace? Now, we've referenced this in a message recently, and we've touched on this many times over the years. But the simplified definition of grace is simply this: getting something that I do not deserve. I probably shouldn't say this. Kind of like a president getting a Nobel Priest Prize. And we'll just leave it there, Brother Tom. Alright, just leave it there. Don't open that. But it's getting something I do not that was bad. I shouldn't have said how many people agree I shouldn't have said that. How many people wish I said it more often? Grace is getting something I do not deserve Hey, I got news for you. There's not one person, human being. I'm not talking about the Lord Jesus and God. There's not one person in heaven that's there because they deserved it. Not one person. The only people in heaven are people that God allowed them to come in spite of the fact they didn't deserve it. That's grace. That's grace. And that's what Simon the Pharisee was missing. This woman's a sinner. How does the Lord received her? Hey Simon, it's not the degree of sin, it's the greatness of God's grace. He uses this story of this creditor about the two men who owed him. One was 500 pence. The other was 50 pence. Now, we're not stretching this in any way to suggest maybe the guy that owed 500 pence Represented the sinful woman. Maybe the guy that owed 50 pence represented the Pharisee. As far as we tell, the Pharisee wasn't involved. I mean, it seems pretty obvious the Pharisee wasn't involved in some of the debauchery that this woman was involved in. But nevertheless, they were both in debt. And he says there, look what he says. He says, and when they had, verse 42, when they had nothing to pay, he, the creditor Frankly forgave them both. That phrase, frankly, forgave. I got looking it up, did study on it, found the words, how they're used other places in the Bible, and I came to this conclusion The phrase he frankly forgave them means this to forgive completely and freely Without any remuneration. In other words His he set up no payment plan. I'm gonna forgive you this debt, but You get it back in the future sometime, you can pay it back, pay it back. He says, No, I frankly forgive you. I completely, you owe nothing. Not now, not ever. There's no payment plan. There's no work schedule. It's completely forgiven. Completely forgiven. You are now as if you never owed me a thing. That's what the grace of God does. The grace of God takes an old rotten sinner that is in debt to God. We've broken God's law. We've blasphemed his name. We made decisions in direct rebellion to the Word of God. We are sinners. But God extends his grace. And he says, I will make you as if you've never sinned against me at all. There's a term in the Bible. It's a theological term in a sense that that's what it means. It's justified. You'll read that term in Romans a bit. Justified. When God in grace forgives my sin, I am justified. I stand before God. Get this. Just as if I never sinned, justified the grace of God Simon the Pharisee needed to understand that his standing before God was not because he was less of a sinner than this woman was, but he had a standing before God. If he had one, it was because God's grace. God frankly forgave them. The moment we trust Jesus, the moment a person trusts Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. Are you with me? Are you listening? The moment a person, rich, poor, young or old, good or bad in the world's eyes The moment a person trusts Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, the Bible boldly declares all sins are completely and freely forgiven. Not because of tears I've shed over my sins, not because of any praying I've done on my part, but simply, freely, and fully and completely forgiven by the grace of Almighty God. When I trust Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. When we realize When we realize how good and gracious God has been to us in saving us from hell and forgiving our sins. Boy, then we love him and want to live for him. Which of these two creditors love the which of these two debtors love the creditor the most? Simon says, I would say the one that he forgave the most. Yeah. And when we realize how gracious God has been, how freely He's forgiven us. It's not hard to love them. It's not hard to live for them. So the Lord is pointing out here the majesty of his grace. Frankly, forgave them. Then he's pointing out here that if we're gonna not lose our zeal for God, if we're gonna live a life that is pleasing to the Lord for the long term, Not only do we need to understand the majesty of, and by the way, let me throw this in there, it is just as much the grace of God that we are kept saved as it was that we are saved in the first place. Hey, I got some good news for you. A saved person can never lose their salvation. Never. Under any circumstances, in any way, can a person lose their salvation? You say, oh, wait a minute, what if they don't live for God? Hey, was living for God what saved me in the first place? No. And living for God is not what's going to keep me saved. It is God's grace. That tells me that 31 years, May, June, July, August, September, October. November, December, January, February. Thirty one years, eight months. And 15 days after God saved me, I can get up this morning and be just as excited about the fact that his grace has kept me saved today. as it was the day after I got up and with the day the day after God saved me when I got up. Does that make any sense? Greats Now the second thing I think he's trying to get Simon the Pharisee to see here is not just understand the majesty of God's grace, but understand the magnitude of our sin. These two guys owed the creditor 500 pence, 50 pence. Say, well, there's a difference. You know, he didn't owe as much, no, but the fact is they were both in over their heads. They were both unable to pay it back. When we compare our you know, the guy that owed fifty pence Could look at the guy that owed 500 pence and said, At least I'm not in debt as much as he is. The creditor shows up, says, I don't care. I could throw you in jail just as much as I can throw you in jail. You're still in debt. You're still over your head. The problem, we get in a lot of trouble. In fact, I suggested to my wife when I was preparing us, I suggested to her that one of our Biggest problems in life. One of the biggest mistakes we make in life is comparing ourselves to other people. One of the greatest hindrances to a person coming to Jesus Christ as Savior is comparing themselves to someone else. One of the greatest hindrances to an individual Christian to grow as a Christian is when I get the mentality that I start comparing myself to other Christians. That will kill spiritual growth. That will either produce unjustified pride on my part, or it can lead to discouragement and depression If I'm comparing myself to others. When we compare ourselves among ourselves, we might not look too bad. But when we stand before God, we're all hopelessly in debt. We're all hopelessly guilty When I was in Indianapolis working in as an assistant at the church there, we had a monthly ministry down at the Marion County Jail. That was the downtown Indianapolis City Jail, and there was just hundreds of inmates And we would go in there and one of the you'd go through all this rig of road to get in, they'd scan you and search you and leave everything there in these bars and uh TJ can tell you all about it. Um he's he's in jail a lot. He is. He works for the county sheriff, so he's and we go through all that. And one of the things I love the most about that ministry, one of the things I love the most about that ministry is we could leave. That was great. We could go out. But anyway, we get in there, there'd be a hundred or so guys would come to the chapel, and it was probably a It's about the size of this section here. And uh we'd preach to 'em and we'd give the gospel and we'd pour our hearts out and try and get the guys to trust Christ. And then those that wanted to could stay after and we'd counsel with them one-on-one there in the open area. And inevitably you had someone come up and they'd be convicted about their sin. They knew they needed to be saved. They wanted God to forgive them. But inevitably, you had somebody would come and say something like this. Yeah, you know I'm guilty, but I'm not as bad as that guy in the cell beside me I only killed one person. That guy killed three. Oh, well I'm sure God will be very proud of you. You see what I'm saying? No matter how low you go in the dregs of society, you can always find someone that's worse than you. And the fact that maybe he only killed one person and the guy in the cell beside him killed three keeps him from trusting Christ because he's better than that guy. And God says, it doesn't matter whether you killed one or a hundred, you're still guilty. Now it does matter whether you kill one or okay. But as far as my standing before God is concerned, I may be a wino in a street, or I may be the mayor of a city. When I stand before God, I'm still a sinner. I'm still guilty of violating God's law. Take your Bibles, if you would, and turn with me to 2 Corinthians chapter 10. Second Corinthians chapter ten, this is a verse that says very clearly what I've been trying to point out here. Second Corinthians chapter ten and verse twelve. Now if you underline verses in your Bible, this I think would be a good verse to Underscore in your Bible or highlight in some way. Notice what he says. Verse 12, for we dare not make ourselves of the number of, or compare ourselves with some that commend themselves. Now, the last state phrase here, he kind of clarifies what he's saying. But they, measuring themselves By themselves and comparing themselves among themselves. What are those three last words? Are not wise In other words, if you're evaluating how good you are by how bad other people are And you're determining whether your standing with God is based upon how much better you are than other people. You are not wise. Now, if somebody's not wise, what are they? Foolish. I put in the margin of my Bible. Foolish exclamation point This is exactly what this Pharisee was doing. This woman's a sinner. I'm not. Therefore, I must be more righteous than her. Therefore, God accepts me and rejects her, and he missed the whole point. About how sinful he was. He had pride, he had self-righteousness, which is just as condemned as this woman's obvious immoralities. I want to give you a statement. It's important to understand. All sin is equally condemned. All sin is equally condemned. If a man goes out and commits adultery, does God condemn that? Yes or no? Obviously. It's a violation of one of the commands. Another man doesn't go out and commit adultery, but he looks lustfully on a woman in his mind. Jesus said that man is just as condemned. As the one that went out and did it. All sin is equally condemned. Whether it's self-righteousness Holding a position of a religious leader as a Pharisee, or whether it's a woman of the street, they're both guilty before God, condemned for their sin. Now, I always feel like I need to qualify that statement. All sin is equally condemned by God, but all sin does not have equal consequences. Some sins have greater human consequences than others. For instance If a man goes out and commits adultery, the consequences of that action are far greater than if he thinks it in his mind. Would you agree with me on that? So, because of that, the Bible gives differing levels of human response to sin. Some sins they'd pay a fine. Other sins they would take their life. Because the consequences of those actions had devastate had uh varying degrees of effect on society. So the human response to it was varying. But as far as standing before God, they're all equally condemned Equally condemned. So we need to understand the magnitude of a sin. When we understand how sinful we are by God's standards, Rather than viewing ourselves as being better than others, then we can live forgotten long term. We can please, we can love the Lord greatly. Now let me end with this, real quickly. We had the majesty of God's grace, we had the magnitude of our sin. And last thing, I think we need to understand, he wants this Pharisee to understand the importance of manifesting our love to God. And boy, you could preach a whole message on this, this woman's response One thing about this woman who was a sinner, she understood how sinful she was. And this dear woman understood how much God had forgiven her. And as a result of that, she comes into the house where Jesus is. She can't restrain herself. She bursts into Simon the Pharisee's house. She falls at the feet of Jesus. She anoints his feet. She begins washing his feet Not trying to earn Jesus favor, not trying to become good enough to get uh his acceptance But because he has forgiven her, because he loves her, because he receives her as she is, she loves him dearly I think I notice here in verse 37, she wanted to be near the Lord When we understand how gracious God has been to us, how sinful we really are, and how merciful and gracious God has been to us, man, we love the Lord. That's the whole point of this. And when we love the Lord, we want to be near the Lord. She wanted to be where he was. Well, when my walk with God is unimportant When I get to the point in my Christian life where I really don't care whether I'm in the presence of God or not, whether I'm walking with God or not, that is evidence. That my love for God is very, very weak. Because when I love the Lord, I want to be where He is. Now, where in the world is the Lord? Can I offer you some suggestions? You'll find the Lord in daily Bible reading. Get alone with God with your Bible open and read your Bible and you'll see the presence of God and He'll apply His Word to your life and you will grow as a Christian. The time in prayer, getting alone with God and bowing before God and telling them the needs in my life. I'm in the presence of God. Can I suggest to you in the church services We come together. Jesus said, where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst. And when we love God, we want to be with Him. We want to be where He is. And I suggest to you, we'll want to read our Bible and pray, and we'll want to come to church. I tell you, I'm real concerned. I'm real concerned about a person who claims to be a Christian and does not want to go to church. Something's not right. Something doesn't square with scripture. Want to be near the Lord Another way this woman manifests her love for the Lord, she humbled herself before the Lord and the whole world. I mean, she fell at his feet, she's kissing his feet and washing his feet. Man, how many of us would be willing to do that? In front of everybody, God in the world and everyone. We love the Lord. No deed done for the Lord is too lowly. We love the Lord. Just an illustration, we can clean the commodes in God's house and be happy about it and praise God for it. Nothing's too lowly. I heard a preacher say one time something we were talking about, it was a matter of witnessing and different things. And he made this statement That's burned in my mind. He made the statement. That is below my dignity. Well We love God. Whatever we can do for Him is a blessing. Maybe my job is to turn the lights off at the end of the service. But if I can do that for God after all he's done for me, what a privilege. What a privilege. God says, God instructs us to be a witness and maybe I can take a gospel track and hand it out to people. You say, oh, that's embarrassing. Hey, if I can do that for God, He's loved me so much, forgave my sin, he's gonna take me to heaven, gave me a new life, I'm glad to do something embarrassing for Jesus. Does that make sense? She wanted to be near the Lord. She humbled herself before the Lord and the world. Any service done for the Lord is noble, is dignified. And then the last thing I notice here, this woman, she was unashamed to be identified with the Lord. I mean, these guys are, I mean, they are trashing her. They're insulting her. Right in front of her, they are saying to the Lord, Do you know what kind of woman this is? This woman is a sinner. And she's right there. She didn't say this, the Bible doesn't record it, but I can see it in my mind's eye. She's washing his feet and kissing his feet and she goes, Yes, I'm a sinner. But he forgave me. And I want to be identified with the one that loved me and forgave me You're right. We're not much of anything. But my Lord is everything. I'm not ashamed. Yes, I'm a Christian. God has forgiven me. You're one of those Bible carrying, you're a Bible pumper. I'm not much, but I love the Lord. I want everybody to know I'm one of God's children. I'm a follower of Jesus Christ. Not that I'm anything, but because he's everything. How do you do that? Can I suggest a few things real quickly? When you trust Jesus Christ as Savior, one of the first and most important ways to identify with the Lord Jesus Christ is to follow Him in baptism. Let people know, yes, I've trusted Christ. I believe He died for me, was buried, and rose again. I want to be publicly And uh uh boldly known as a follower of Jesus Christ. I'm one of his believers, I'm one of his disciples. That's what baptism is. Same thing as a wedding van You imagine the day we got married, by the way, it was 20, 40 years ago, this past Monday, I married my wife. And the neat thing is she married me too. That was the hard part. Imagine we get down there, walk down the aisle, here comes actually I was over here. Here I wasn't in this church, but here comes a boy, all dressed in wide, and uh however the song goes, doo-doo doo doo She gets up here. Do you take uh that Simon, do you take this woman beat off the way having to hold till uh that to be apart? I do Kathy Michelle Schiffler, do you take this man to be your awful husband having a hold? To obey and to um I underlined that part in the thing. Till death you part. Hadoo. You may now exchange rigs. Can you imagine? Can you imagine if I said, sir I'd really rather not wear the ring. Huh? Why not? Well I just, you know, I don't want people to know I'm married. Do you think my wife would have been thrilled with that? Think maybe it would hurt her? What? You don't want people to know you're married? You don't want to be identified Hey, when we trust Jesus Christ as Savior, my baptism is my identification that I'm a believer in Jesus Christ. Giving out gospel tracts, faithful church membership and attendance, all that is part of my witness that I'm one of God's. Living pure, separate from the world, it's the fact that I'm one of God. We were in Indianapolis. We had a boy. His name was Brett. Brett was a mess. He was a sinner. He fell in this category over here. I'm just telling you, he was a mess Brett trusted the Lord as Savior, but his thinking was still messed up. And he came to church, and I mean he's doing, he's just living out wild. He's very wealthy, but just wild. And um, but he came the church. He rode the bus. He trusted Christ. I believe he is sincere, I guess. One day after church, he says, Preacher, Pastor Dennis, I want to talk to you. I said, okay. So we shook hands and bowed, everybody's going. We're sitting on the front steps of the church. It was summertime. And he says, I want to be baptized. I say, good. I said, that's the right thing to do. You got saved and be baptized. Let everybody know. He goes, but I don't want anyone to know I'm getting baptized. I said, what do you mean? Because I want you to do it sometime when no one's around just you and me, and don't tell anybody. I said, Brett, you're missing the whole point. The whole point of baptism is to let people know you're not ashamed of Christ. You want to be a disciple. He said, I'll never do that. And he never did, as far as I know. Never mounted the much for the Lord. About that same time there was another boy coming to church. He was a mess. Basically living on the streets. He came and trusted Christ. And he came and says, Pastor Dennis, I want to be baptized. I said, great. He said, next Sunday, we're ready to baptize every Sunday. I said, uh, he goes, I get baptized next Sunday He came to church, got baptized. Same age as Brett. Came Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night. Started coming out, soul wouldn't. Went to the public schools. He had not been the school. He went to school. I saw his report card. He missed 178 days of school. in Indianapolis Public Schools missed 178 days he did not go to school. Reminded me of Tom. But um 178 days he did not go to school and they passed him. He went to school two days in the school. Passed him. He comes and says, Preacher, is there some way I can go to a Christian school? Daddy wasn't saved, mama wasn't living, just lived on the streets. I said, we'll figure out a way. I went to different fairly wealthy people in the church, told him, I said, could you sponsor? I mean, I said, this kid means business. Would you would you sponsor him? We got people in the church to sponsor him, paid for his Christian schooling. He moved into our house for the school year. We'd take him down to school, get him up, shower them, got him clothes. And today, in fact I just got an email from him this week. He's out driving truck, but he's faithful to his church. He gives testimony in his church. He's teaching a Sunday school. He was supposed to preach a little while ago And he went on for God. And I believe, in corresponding with Charles, that he is in he is determined today to please God with his life as much as he was back yonder when he first got saved. Why? He understands how gracious God has been to him. He knew what a sinner he was, like all of us. And he determined to let people know that he loved Jesus. He just let him know. Now what about us? Question. Do you understand how gracious God has been in saving you and me? We don't deserve it. Do you realize how sinful we really are? Don't come to me and say, well, I'm not that bad. Read the Ten Commandments. You are that bad. Read what Christ said in the Gospels. You are that bad. Well, I'm s I'm better than so-and-so. Yeah, maybe you are, but you're both so far in debt to God over your heads You have no hope apart from God's mercy. If God has saved you, if you've trusted Him as your Savior, don't be ashamed of Him. Come out for Christ. Love Him. There's something wrong with a husband who won't tell his wife he loves her. Come on now. Something wrong Something wrong with a husband who won't publicly show that is his wife that he loves her. Now be appropriate, guys, okay? But hold her hand. Put your arm around her. Let people know this is my wife. I love her. I'm committed to her. And as Christians, let's do that for the Lord. Jesus is my Savior. I love Him. I'm committed to Him. Not ashamed of that. God will bless us, and we can live lives pleasing to the Lord. Father in heaven, bless us. Help us Not to be like this Pharisee. God help us to see ourselves as sinners. Help us to rejoice in your grace and let this whole world know that we love you. And we want to follow you and obey you. We want to be everything you intend for us to be. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many this morning would say, Preacher I thank God that He saved me by His grace. This morning I just thank God that He freely forgave me for my sin. And you say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me. Be the kind of Christian that loves God with all her heart. Is there any like that this morning? Preacher, pray for me. Of course, that's the desire of every Christian. I want to love the Lord with all my heart. Maybe there's some this morning who said, preach, you know, I've been saved, but I've not been baptized. I don't want to be ashamed of the Lord. I understand that's God wants from a new believer. You say, Preacher, pray for me. Pray with me that God will help me take that step of obedience