Look at verse thirteen. Paul uh Peter is writing his um kind of his uh final statements, his greetings to uh the folks he's He's been addressing these persecuted believers. And he's speaking on behalf of a number of people here, two in particular, and sending their love, sending their respect, their honor, their salutations. Verse 13, he says, The church that is at Babylon, elect together, saluteth you. And we looked at the church at Babylon last week. And then he makes this little statement here that I thought was interesting. And he says, And so doth Marcus my son. Marcus my son And I want us to look at who this Marcus is that Peter references and see if we can't learn something about him. So let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless as we study Marcus here in the Bible. Pray that you would teach us some things about him. And Lord, I pray that your Holy Spirit would take some truths or some observations we make And apply them to our lives, Lord, that our faith can be what it ought to be, that our testimony would be what it ought to be, that our walk with you, our spiritual condition Would be what you intend for it to be. So Lord, your Holy Spirit has to do that. I can't. So I yield my will to you anew tonight, this hour. I present my body anew You'd fill my body with your Holy Spirit. Fill me, my heart and mind with your Holy Spirit. That you would speak through me And the words that are said are the words that you intend for to be said. And speak to our hearts. Have your way, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. He mentions this fellow Marcus, and he's just about, you can see, obviously, he's just about to the end of his letter And he he mentions this guy, Marcus. I got wondering who he is. I started looking up in references where else he's mentioned in the Bible And one fellow said this about Marcus, one commentator said this. He said he is a minor biblical figure. Just a minor figure in the Bible, some person in the Bible, just a minor player in God's plan. I got studying this guy. He may be a minor biblical figure But I think he's a major biblical figure in the grace of God. So I learned this guy. And by the way, and I don't mean to take issue with whoever this fellow was that said that But I don't think God has any minors in his service. In fact, Corinthians, he says, those that are the least esteemed in the man's eyes are the greatest esteemed in the eyes of God. And so regardless of who you are, regardless of what role you have, if you're committed to Christ, everything you have and are able, or your abilities and talents and resources are available to the Lord You're a major league player in the kingdom of God, in my mind. And so John, this fellow Marcus, I got looking it up. He he goes by three different names Sometimes two of the names are used together. We know him, well, one of the names he goes by is John also. That is his Hebrew name. The name John means the grace of God. Very common name. He's also known, now this is how we know Marcus by best. He's known as Mark. He's sometimes called John Mark, reference. The word Mark is his Greek name. John would be his Hebrew name, John Mark, he's referred to. His Hebrew name and his Greek name is Mark. The word Mark, the name Mark means this. Now get this. The hammer. The Greek name Mark means the hammer. How cool a name is that. I'd want to be the hammer. You know, if I if if if that was my Greek name, I'd have a leather jacket with a big hammer on the back of it. And then he's known as Peter refers to him here as Marcus. That would be his Latin name And that means a defense, a defender, a defense. So John Mark, also known as Marcus. Uh I got looking up about him. I found there some early church had some legends they would talk about John Mark or Marcus. And some of the legends, now we don't know that they're true. We don't have any solid, irrefutable documentation on this, but the early church passed these oral uh legends about him about. They said his nickname, get this, his nickname was Stumpfinger. Stumpfinger. Stumpfinger. Anybody want to try and figure out where would you come up with the nickname Stumpfinger? He might have lost some fingers in an accident or something, just uh, you know, maybe they called him stumpy for short, I don't know But uh we don't know. But uh apparently uh there was some sort of disability, maybe with his hand or his fingers, and he was uh nicknamed Stumpfinger. Um By legend says that he established the first church in Alexandria, down in Egypt. That's very likely. That could very well be. I know the apostles and a lot of the disciples They scattered all throughout that whole region of the world, starting churches as far as Babylon, 500 miles to the east, and even into India and farther. Um and so it's very real possibility he started he established the first church in Egypt, in Alexandria, and uh uh um another legend has it that he was actually martyred for his faith. in Alexandria. And again, that's very plausible. We don't know. We can't prove it. The Bible doesn't say. But the early church passed these uh stories around about him. So what does the Bible say about Marcus? So I hope you'll bear with me tonight. I just want to go through and look at different things the Bible tells us about this fellow that Peter refers to as Marcus, and he says he's my son. John Mark. He says he's my son. If you would, take your Bibles. Now keep your place here. Take your Bibles. Come back to the book of Acts. And here we are introduced, Acts chapter 12, we are introduced to Mark. Acts chapter 12. And notice with me verse number 12. The context of this here is Peter has been in prison, and the church was meeting in a home, in a house, and they were praying. All night long for Peter to be released from prison. How many people remember this account from the book of Acts? And they're praying all night long And uh the Lord comes in, an angel comes in and wakes Peter up. I kind of think it's interesting interesting the way he wakes Peter up. He kicks him on the side, or he smites him on the side, wakes him up. And um Uh and so anyway, Peter wakes up and uh he uh opens the gates, the gates open, Peter thinks he's in a trance, they get outside And uh Peter goes to this house, this home here, and he begins knocking on the door. I mean it's like two, three o'clock in the morning. He's knocking on the door And they're inside, they're praying all night long. They're having an all-night prayer meeting. I mean they're praying. God let Peter out. Lord get Peter out of prison. Do a miracle Somehow, let him get out. They're going to kill him the next morning. Wake him up. Lord, please, uh, get him out of there. Get him out of there. And Peter's out there knocking. Finally hear this knock and they say, What in the world? Who would be at the door at three in the morning? This is all in the Greek, if you read that. And uh and they send this young lady out there and she uh I'm sure she's very timid, you know, and there's persecution going on and stuff, and somebody's knocking on the door at night, and she creaks the door open And lo and behold, it's Peter standing there. And she is so shocked to see Peter, she slams the door shut and runs back in. And she comes in, they're all praying, oh Lord, you can hear, you know, 25, 30, maybe 50, 60 people praying, oh Lord, let Peter out. And you hear the murmuring of their voices. And she goes, hey guys, guess what? What? Peter's at the door. That was him knocking. It can't be Peter. We're praying for him. He's in prison. We're praying he gets out. It can't be him. She goes, it is And they come out, and lo and behold, there's Peter. Now I said all that to point out verse number twelve. It says, and when he had considered the thing, he came to the house of Mary The mother of John, this is Peter's coming to the house when he's going to knock on it, came to the house of Mary, the mother of John, whose surname was Mark, John Mark. That was his house, where they were having that all-night prayer meeting. His mother's name was Mary. Now it's not Mary, the mother of Jesus, it's another Mary. We'll find out here in a bit. She's the sister of Barnabas. But John Mark's house was a meeting place for one of the early churches there. We understand, we're led to believe that they were apparently fairly, he came from a fairly, perhaps very wealthy family. They had a house that was large enough to accommodate a very fairly large and very fastly growing church. They had a servant. This lady was a servant of theirs. And so we uh kind of implies to me that Mark comes from a wealthy family with a large house, had servants, apparently. This is possible, some have suggested. Now this is just kind of interesting information. Bear with me if you would. But some have suggested that John Mark's house is the place where the upper room was. When Jesus had called the disciples together that last time, they had the Passover meal. He introduced the Lord's Supper. It's a real possibility. That was John Mark's house where they met. It was a well-known assembly place for the church. In fact, when Peter got out, that's the first place he went to. He knew that's where they would be. It had a testimony of a place where Christians were safe, Christians were welcome, the church could assemble there. In Colossians, now we won't take time to turn to all these, but in Colossians chapter 4, we learn something else about. John Mark, is that he was the cousin to Barnabas. John Mark's mother, Mary, mentioned here, was Barnabas' sister. So this was a pretty strong Christian family. This is a healthy Christian family. And love the Lord. And not just love the Lord, but were serving the Lord. Some have suggested that Peter led, well we we believe pretty strongly, that Peter led John Mark to the Lord here in his house, maybe in one of these church services. One of the meeting times they had together. Remember in 1 Peter he referred to him as Marcus my son And so Peter, no doubt, led John Mark to the Lord. Come over to Acts chapter 13 and look at verse number 5. Now we're in Antioch, and God has called out Barnabas and Paul to go on their first missionary journey. Church prays over them and raises up the funds and sends them forth. And notice in verse 5, says 4, it says though they being sent forth by the Holy Ghost departed unto Seleucia, and from thence they sailed to Cypra. The big adventure begins. They're heading out on this journey, this missionary journey. And when they were at Salamis, they preached the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews. Can you feel the excitement as they're getting out? This is all new area, and they're coming out and they're preaching Christ. And notice it says at the end of verse 5, and they had also John to their minister So when it says that John, this is John Mart, Barnabas' uh uh uh nephew he's bringing there, Barnabas' cousin, I should say, is bringing him there, uh he br has him to his nephew. He has them to their minister. What does it mean when it says John was their minister? What is John doing on this missionary journey? He's preaching, but he's ministering to Paul and Barnabas, which means he's doing what? Yeah, he's serving them. I think this is what I think. I think he's carrying luggage for them He's hauling their stuff around. He's going ahead getting things set up. They're going to have service or something. He goes and sets stuff up. And he just wants to help He just wants to be a part of this. He's excited. And he's to their minister. He's assisting them. He's their servant and helping them, whatever area they needed. And uh and the missionary journey gets real. There start, then there's some satanic opposition. You know, it's fun serving God, it's fun working a bus route, it's fun teaching a Sunday school class, it's fun pastoring a church until Satan raises his head up and starts to oppose it Right? You follow me? If there wasn't no spiritual warfare about it, it would be cake. But there is spiritual warfare. And there is a very real devil. And there is a real opposition to the gospel. And Mark is serving along. He's all excited, no doubt. He's all part of this And Satan raises his ugly head. There's some demonic activity taking place. And notice with me, if you would, in verse number 13 And when Paul and his company loose from Papphos, it's where they had uh uh this um uh uh Eliamas, the sorcerer, and opposed them When Paul and company loosed from Papros, they came to Perga in the Pamphylia. And John, what's that next word? Departing from them. Return to Jerusalem. I circled that word departing. It means this, to desert, to abandon. Let me say this. John Mart failed. He failed. He quit He walked out. Matthew Henry, the great commentator for hundreds of years, he said he believes that John left without Paul and Barnabas' consent. He went against what they were telling him. In fact, John Matthew Henry said he believes he left there without their knowledge. In other words, he packed up in the middle of the night. He slipped out and got out of there. Without John, without Paul or Barnabas even knowing he was gone. Donmark failed. He really did in his ministry and in his uh and in his walk as a Christian serving others. He abandoned them. Now we come down to chapter 15 of Acts. We're studying the life of this fellow, Marcus, that Peter references. He said he's my son. He sends salutations to you. Chapter 15 and verse number 36, Armbarabas are going to go back out on their second journey. John Mark quit. He went back right at the beginning of the first one. They want to go back and see how things are going. Verse 36. And some days after Paul said to Barnabas, let us go again and visit our brethren in every city where we have preached the word of the Lord and see how they do. Great idea. Barnabas, look at this. Barnabas determined to take with him, with them John, whose surname was Mark. Here he is. Barnabas said, let's give him a second chance. Let's bring him out again with us. I think he'll do all right this time. I think he learned his lesson. But Paul thought not good to take him with them, who departed from them from Pamphylia. And went not with them to the work. Always put off by this. Always upset by John Mark's actions Paul said, we're not going to risk it. This is too important. This is the work of God. We can't have people we don't trust, we can't rely on. And look what it says. And the what? Verse 39. And the what? Contention was so sharp between them that they departed one from another. John Mark's failure was the source of contention between two great men of God. Barnabas and Paul. Now, I'm not saying I'm not blaming John Mark for the contention. You know the only place contention comes from? Pride. Proverbs tells us, only by pride cometh contention. There was pride involved in these great men of God. They butt heads. But it was John Mark's actions that triggered that. John Mark's actions. Our actions have consequences. Decisions we make, the direction we go, the actions we take as consequences affects others. And John Mark's actions had a profound effect. So, verse 39, so Barnabas took Mark, sailed to Cyprus. They went on their own missionary journey, and we know nothing about it. We have no record of Barnabas and John Mark's journey to Cyprus, what it produced, what happened, how it ended. We know nothing about it. Paul chose Silas and he went on with what their original plans were, and we have that recorded in Scripture. Would you agree with me? That's a tragic That's a tragic story to this point. Will you agree with me? Young man, good home, solid church, good church. Stepping out, so excited this missionary journey. Paul and Barnabas, oh man, these great men of God. He fails. He wasn't as strong spiritually as he thought he was. He wasn't as wise spiritually as he thought he was. And he goes back. He fails. If the story ended there, it would be a tragic story, but I'm glad it doesn't end there. If you would, take your Bibles and go with me to Philippians chapter number one. Of course, Paul, or I'm not sorry, not Philippians Philemon. Chapter It's only one chapter, so, but Philemon, chapter one, right before Hebrews. Paul is the penman of the book of Philemon. He's writing about a prisoner that escaped from Philemon, Onesimus. And um Notice at the end at the end of verse number twenty-four, if you look at verse twenty-four, Paul Paul is writing. And he says, verse 23, that there salute thee, Epapyrus, my fellow prisoner in Christ Jesus. And look at this, Marcus. Aristocus, that's another fellow, Demas, Lucas, and look what he calls them. What? What's he say at the end of verse 24? My fellow laborers. Marcus, my fellow laborer. Somewhere in this whole event, somewhere in this whole story of Marcus's life, there's reconciliation made. And Marcus gets back right with God. And Paul takes Marcus in, John Mark in. And he says, he is my fellow laborer. Turn with me, if you would, to 2 Timothy chapter 4. He references John Mark again. Now, 2 Timothy is towards the end of Paul's life. Paul's not going to live long after he writes this. So a brief time. After this, Paul is. Martyred for this faith. And in 2 Timothy chapter 4, look with me through wood at verse 11. And he says, Only Luke is with me. All alone here, Luke's the only one that's with me. Take who? Mark. And bring him with thee. He wants him now. Earlier he said, no, he ain't going with us. Are you kidding? Now he says, bring Mark with you. And look what he says about him, for he is profitable to me for the ministry. What a turnaround. Can you imagine someone of the caliber of the Apostle Paul? Saying your name and saying, bring them to me. They are profitable to me in the ministry God has given me. What an honor. What a tremendous thing to have said about you. And here you have a young man who has such a tremendous start and such tremendous opportunities, and he messes up and he messes up bad. And there's consequences to that. But God takes that whole mess and He turns that thing around And he raises up a man who Paul says is profitable for the kingdom of God and for the cause of Christ. I'm telling you, God can take your mess and my mess, and He can turn it around and use it for His glory to save souls and change lives. Don't give up on somebody. Um be and by the way, I didn't say this John Mark becomes the pen of the second gospel in the New Testament. The Gospel according to Mark. That's the Marcus Peter is referencing. That's the Marcus who Peter is writing to them and saying, hey, he's sending his love. He's sending his honor and his respect to you guys out there being persecuted. They knew immediately who he was. They knew his story. And they knew what God had done in the life of Marcus. And it encouraged them. And it was a blessing to them. Now, I said all that. Let me say this: we can rise above our past. Somebody say amen right there. We can rise above our past. Don't let your past define you. Marcus was a quitter. I'm under the impression he was very dishonest when he left Paul and Barnabas and how he went about that whole thing. He was sneaky, I believe. That's my impression. But he was a quitter, he abandoned them, he deserted them. And it hurt Paul and Barnabas, but he rose above it. And he didn't let his past define his present or his future. I come from a broken home. And I don't mean to be too personal in this, but I'll be very honest with you. It's hard for me to remember being a home where there was happiness with mom and dad and the kids. Very difficult for me to remember, very, very young. And I thank God God was able to take me from a home and from a life of drugs and all of that. And God did this, but to take me and use me in some capacity to bring others to Jesus Christ. We cannot allow our past to define us. Our God is a God of miracles. Our God is a God that takes broken things and fixes them and uses them for his glory. Don't let your past define you. You know what the devil does? The devil likes to throw our past in our face. The devil wants to remind us what a terrible home we had. Devil wants to throw in his face. God can't you. What kind of person are you? Look at the home you come from. Listen, I don't care what kind of home you come from. Our God in heaven uses people. Regardless of their past, regardless of their home, regardless of any of that. And it's the devil that wants to run you and me down. Because of what's in our past. Don't you listen to it. Don't you listen to Christians or unsaved world or schoolmates Or anybody that tries to tell you that you're not worth something, or you're useless, or you're not that or you're not this because of what your past is. You listen to God and God alone. The church, New Testament church, was filled with broken people. Who were the people Jesus gathered around him? Drunkards and harlots and publicans. And you know what the term is the Bible uses? Sinners Sinners. That's the best we can offer. We're sinners. Don't let your past define you. Young people come in our church and uh others and have a difficult past, some of them have difficult homes. Listen, they're valuable to God. Adults with past were valuable to God. I wrote this down when I was studying this. I'm so glad no Christian ever ran me down because of the home I came out of. I'm thankful for that. I'm glad I don't remember ever a Christian running me down because of my past. I'm grateful for that. Now the devil throws it at me. But I'm thankful no Christian does. So don't let your past define you. Number two, we can put past disagreements behind us. But past disappointments. Paul, he was adamant. Mark ain't coming with us. No way. John Mark, he not second trip. No way. He failed totally. But he didn't hold a grudge there. And when Marcus came around, when Marcus got back in tune, he was out of whack, and when he got back in whack, Paul said, hey, he's good. Okay, we can use him. I'm glad Paul didn't hold grudges. And what I'm trying to say is this: listen, you may have had a disagreement with a Christian or somebody in the past, but don't hold a grudge. Don't hold a grudge. Forget it. Put it behind you. Go forward. We need each other. Paul was able to pick Mark up and use him again and see God use him. Personal opinions and biased attitudes must not interfere with the body of Christ. And number three, I am with this. God can and will use anyone. Willing to die to self and let God use them. God can and will use anyone. They're willing to die to themselves and let God have his way. God can use our past foolishness and God can use our past failures to mature us and help us grow and be what we ought to be. I want to end with this statement. I'll give the invitation. Thank God. For the grace of God. The grace of God. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to take these thoughts and stir our hearts. The truth was known, we all got some sort of past. Probably everybody's got skeletons in their closet. But we're not proud of that. We're ashamed of it. We live in a fallen world, Lord. We understand that. I'm so glad for your grace. So glad you take us as we are, and you mold us and make us, you break us sometimes. And then you use us. Help us to trust you. Water with heads bowed, eyes closed. And I don't really know how to give the invitation on this, but let me just put it this way. What are there some tonight, say, Preacher, God spoke to my heart? Maybe God encouraged you, maybe God convicted you But you say, God spoke to my heart tonight. I want the Lord to have his way. Any like that by the uplifted hand? How about it? We're going to go into a new work week. Maybe an old altar is a good place to kneel and say, God, why don't you take me, forget my past, I'm going to forget it. Why don't you take me and use me this week? Help me be a testimony. Help me be a light. God use me. Be a witness Gold altar is a good place to make that decision. Father bless our invitation now ask. In Jesus' name. Amen.