Well I enjoyed that song. Um I am going to turn this lapel mic on. I'm going to try to stand still tonight. I am uh I sometimes walk around But um in the course of doing that, I lose my place where I'm at and I wanna sit with my notes tonight, but I'm gonna do my b my best to stand right here I saw in the prayer list that Jessica Kent on there. She had her baby on Monday. She had a little football player. It was nine pounds, ten ounces. And I heard Mike Thomas said if it had been a boy she'd have been getting down there and sign her up. But um as a little girl, so but they are doing well. The kids are doing wonderful Um chubby little baby, I think it's the smallest one they have had so far. So uh I said so far because knowing Brother James, I'll probably have about ten more, but uh anyhow, they are doing really good, so I know they appreciate your prayers and everything. Um Tonight we're actually going to start in the we're going to stay in the book of Genesis and uh I'll get to that eventually. I said eventually, I will not be long tonight, I don't think. I don't want to disappo Yeah, I don't want to disappoint nobody. But um I do wanna say something. I do appreciate your pastor. Um I'm excited to be your tonight, but I I I love your pastor. He's um He's very easily um in the my top if I had to take a list top ten of my favorite preachers, your pastor hands down without a doubt would be in the the top within the top ten of my favorite pastors. Preachers, forget pastors, preachers My pastor is my favorite pastor, but your preacher being a top ten preachers, I'm just not thinking I'm standing here and you know in his church but easily And if I really narrowed it down and stuff, he'd probably be within the top five if I had to really think about it. He whenever he comes to our church, I mean I just I get so excited about it. And you know It's amazing how a church can take on a personality of the pastor. Your pastor, he's just uh he's exciting to be around everything. And I want to say something. Your church has a very exciting, just a personality about you guys also. And um minute you guys have a sweet spirit about you. And I don't know if you, you know, I travel around somewhat, not so much preaching. I mean, I have done somewhat of that, but um This far as my wife's from North Carolina, so we'll sometimes travel here and there and stuff and stuff at different churches and everything. And I don't know if you guys realize what you have here. In in in the the pastor you have But also in the church you guys have right here. You have an incredible spirit, incredible atmosphere. Just me, I'm gonna tell you right now, I can tell God's in this place and uh it's it's good being with you. And it's amazing how the Spirit of God just bears witness And I you know, uh you guys hear a lot of phenomenal preachers come through here and uh I can tell this church is um really a mature church this fact you guys are here on a Wednesday night. And it's amazing what a difference a uh we can make in weather also 'cause last Wednesday was something else. But you say I say I do love your pastor. I've known him since two thousand and two. I can see him a good friend. I consider him a good friend even though he has never bought me a birthday present. He has never uh he's never he's never you either. He he he he has never given me a birthday card. He has never even invited me to Australia with him. I But anyhow, maybe we'll change that someday. Speaking of friends, I have a good friend and uh he was having some financial difficulties one time and I I helped him out with it. And he told me, he he said, Brother Brian, he said, I want you to know he said I'll never forget this. And true to his word, a year later he called me, which was going to lay out here. He called me and says, hey, I've had some I've had some more financial calls. Can you help me again? So you gotta be careful when you help people and stuff because they they um will take advantage of you sometimes. But tonight, listen, I want to talk to you about the Christian home. And more specifically, I want to talk to you. I know it's Valentine's Day, and I don't really like to preach messages geared towards holidays like Veterans Day. I just kind of want to preach what is there, but I want to talk to you tonight about the marriage I have never in my life seen a time when um the Christian home is more under attack. Now I've only been saved for about twenty-two years now But I actually have been saved for twenty-four years, living for God for twenty-two years, serving God. And I've seen a lot of things in my life, but I have never in my life seen a time when the Christian home is is more under attack, when Satan's coming after it It's just uh it it's amazing what is going on. Even today I spent several hours today talking to a a dear friend of mine. It's just he got I mean, he has got sucker punched out of left field things going on. He never saw coming or anything. It's just Totally landblasted by it. And what is it? Is this a satanic attacks of what it is? So tonight I want to talk to you about that And hopefully it'd be a help to you. And you know, in in the course of writing this message even, is a help to me also just to um reminisce and also to help me a little bit in our I think in my marriage as well But you know, I you know people sometimes they uh they they think about marriage, they turn things off, they think, well, I've been married for X amount of time. I I know I know all about it, and they turn things off. I ask you not to do that tonight though I asked you just to listen. But sometimes I think people that um we we see things and we see people and sometimes I'm not saying everybody, not everybody now, but sometimes we I'm gonna get to our verse here in a minute And I promise I am short-winded, okay? But I think sometimes we see people, even Christians, we see a veneer of who they really are. Not everybody. But sometimes we see a veneer. You know I can pick a piece of veneer and I can put on a piece of of cheap wood, I can put on a piece of plywood or a piece of fake wood. And from a distance, it looks really good. I mean, I can dress it up really nice, and it looks really nice and presentable. But when you get up closer on it, you can tell it's not a the real thing. And you know, we first bought our place, and when I we first walked in our home, I walked in and one of the first things I noticed was our cabinets. I said, wow, I said, is that real old cabinets? And you guess it sure enough, they weren't real cabinets. And I found out within about ten years those things weren't they was laying many cabinets, things fell apart, got wet, isn't that? But anyhow, I think a lot of times people, you know, that's where we are and stuff. They're just they they don't they're not the real thing sometimes. But the Bible talks about in 2 Timothy chapter 3 verse 5 it says And some having it's talking about having a form of godliness, but it's not denying the power thereof. And that's just what happens is they have a form of godliness. They know the the things not to say. They know where to go, where not to go. And they may look the part, they may play the part. But the whole entire time the Bible tells in 2 Timothy, they're denying the power thereof And that's what I want tonight to talk to you about when I say the marriage. Look, you know the fact that you here tonight, if you're if you're looking, if you're dressing apart, if if you're you're playing a part If you're not really walking with God and be what God wants you to be, if your marriage is not what God wants it to be, you're denying the power that God has for you. I had a friend if he went to Christian school all of his life His parents sent him there, and this is what he told me. He said, Brother Brian, I want to tell you what I learned in Christian school. He said, I learned in Christian school how to be a real good faker. I said he kind of set me back. Now this is after he graduated Christian College. Now, by the way, he got saved in Christian college his his junior year I said, I caught him by name. I said, what you? I said, what she just kind of kind of threw me off. This guy's going so winning. We're serving the bus ministry. I said, it kind of threw me off. I didn't know him that well. I said, what'd you say? He's a brother Brian in Christian school. He said, we talking about something. He said, I learned how to be a real good faker. I said, what do you mean by that? Explain that to me. He said, well in Christian school, he said they they taught me how to how to how to say no sir, how to say yes sir, no ma'am, yes ma'am. They taught me a good Christian shouldn't do this He said they taught me a good Christian shouldn't do that. He said, I learned what my parents want me to say, what they didn't want me to say. He said, I just played the parts, what I did So tonight I want to talk about the marriage here for a briefly, not real long time. If you're playing a part tonight, I want to challenge you and stuff to don't be playing a part because if you're playing a part of a Christian If you're maybe you are saved, I'm not saying you're not, but you can be saved. But you can just be playing the part, come to church and smiling, putting on air and everything, so to speak. But the whole entire time, according to 2 Timothy, if that's you You're denying the power of God and listen, that is what your marriage it that's what your marriage needs. If you ever want your marriage to be what God wants it to be, if you ever want to be the spouse you got that you want to be for your husband, for your wife, whatever it may be You need the power of God on your life. You need that. Let's go to 2 Genesis. Genesis chapter 2 out of 2nd Genesis. Good luck. That's an NIV, but anyhow, Genesis chapter 2, and we'll look at chapter um Genesis chapter 2. I'm sorry, we'll look at verse 18 through 24 Verse 18 through 24. And it says, And the Lord God said, It is not good that the man should be alone, and I will make him a helpmeet for him. And out of the ground the Lord God formed every beast of the field and every fowl of the air, and brought them unto Adam to see what he would call them. And whatsoever Adam called every living creature that was named thereof. And Adam gave names to the cattle, and to the fowl of the air, and every beast of the field, and to Adam there was not found a help meet for him And the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he slept, and he took one of his ribs and closed up the flesh there the flesh instead thereof And the ri and the rib which the Lord God had taken from the man made he a woman and brought her unto the man. And Adam said, This is now bone of my bone, and flesh of my flesh uh she shall be called woman because she is taken out of the out of the man. Therefore shall a man leave his father and mother and shall cleave to his wife, and she shall be one flesh. Let's pray Father, I thank you so much for allowing me to be here tonight, Lord. I pray in our short time together, I pray that you to speak to our hearts. And Lord, tonight, I do count it an honor to be here, and Lord, but I want it to be a time well spent. Lord, I want it to be a time to where you speak through our hearts. And Lord, I want to be nothing more than a vessel tonight to which you speak through a conduit, Lord, to which we hear from heaven to where you'll speak to our hearts. And Lord, I pray tonight, no matter how you speak to our hearts, including myself, Lord, that we'll act accordingly, Lord, and we'll make changes that as you see fit to challenge us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. So a story is sort of a man. Sometimes let me back up. Sometimes people marry for good reasons. Sometimes people people marry for bad reasons. But a story is told one time of a man, he's in his late 80s, never been married or anything. One time he called his nephews in, and he says, Nephews, I want he had four of them. He said, Nephews, I want to tell you something. She said, Your uncle's going to get married Well his nephews was trying to think was was thinking he's in his eighties, going to get married, and one of them spoke up and says, Well uncle says, you're in your age, you're getting married, he says, this woman must be one beautiful woman if you're gonna get married and you're in your age, you've never been married before The uncle says, No, says she's not really that beautiful. One of one of the other nephews spoke up. He says, Well, says she's not beautiful in your age of getting married. Said, Well then she must be a real good cook then And he says, nah, she's not that good of a cook either. And another nephew spoke up and he says, Well, let's see she's not beautiful She's not a good cook. I got it. He said he says, Well uncle he says, if she's not beautiful, she's not a good cook, then she must be really rich then. And the uncle says, Mm no, says she's not really a a good cook either Well they got to thinking for a little bit and the fourth nephew says, Uncle, I just don't get it. He says you're in your eighties, you've never been married, you've always been single. He said, Why on the world are you getting married in your eighties? The woman is she says she's not beautiful She's not a good cook, uh she's not she's not rich, says why are you getting married for? He kinda winked at him and says he says she can see the drive at nighttime As I said, sometimes people get married for good reasons and sometimes for bad reasons. I I'm forty-five years old now and I'm starting to understand I'm starting to say, uh I understand why you're getting married now. It's hard to see at nighttime. By the way, sweetie, you're driving home tonight But you know, people marry for all kind of different reasons, but tonight I want to briefly briefly, I want to look briefly wish for the word red knot, I fell out of place a little bit. But anyhow, um I want to talk briefly about Mary and what the Bible has to say about it. And the first thing I want to look at is in Genesis chapter 2, verse 7. I want to look at Adam. It says, and the Lord God formed man, and the dust of the ground, and he breathed into the nostrils the breath of life. and a man became a living soul. The first thing we want to look at the first husband and wife and the first thing we look we I want to look at was Adam. Adam was a special person. When God formed him, he was very unique. Got God uh he was formed out of dust of the ground. The Bible tells us that God breathed life into his lungs. Now what made him special was the fact the Bible tells us also in Genesis chapter 1, verse 27, that he was made in the image of God. So so God formed him, God breathed life into his lungs, and got God also, he has made an image of man. Now, what made him special is well I think I think also and we know Genesis chapter 3 verse 8 that God would come down and and God would would fellowship with him on a regular basis. So God formed mounted dust, God God would come down, I mean God breathed life into him, and God would come down on a regular basis and his fellowship with him You know, in the Bible, it doesn't say anything. God didn't come down in fellowship with the animals. God didn't come down in fellowship with the animal with the birds. God didn't come down and stare at his handiwork and say, huh, would you look at that? I made that. No, God came down in fellowship with Adam, the man he made, which made him a very special person, had a special relationship with him, I believe. But not only that, what made him unique, made Adam unique, was the fact that he's very intelligent, I believe You think about it, and Genesis chapter 2 verse 19 talks about where God brought all these animals, all these creatures to Adam, and Adam named them I I can't even you know it takes us a week we get a new pet. It takes us a week to think but we want to name this pet. Like we say we let's call it this. No, let's call it this. Well what about this? We've got five children You all be in our house, uh hear our conversation sometimes. Let's call it this, no, let's call it that. Can you can you imagine how smart though Adam must have been? I mean, uh uh think about who a platypus, who comes up with a name like that, or or may maybe a a hippopotamus? I I I I good good and I alive. I mean we we come up with simple names like w whatever. Our dog's called Lexa, I think. It it took us two months to think of that name I think it was. I mean something simple like that. Well I I was thinking the other day stuff about any or that's kind of a a simple name come up with an eater. That'd be a real easy one. I could probably think of that one there, you know, or a zebra would be something easy to come up with. But you know, he here's Adam He he I believe he's very smart, very gift, in order for him to name all these animals. He he had to be smart. And we also know that from Genesis chapter 3, verse 19, that we know the butt we know that God put him in the garden. Uh We we we know they didn't have to work hard. We know he put him in a garden to uh to dress it the Bible says. But he never had to work hard. We we know that he was smart Uh we know that he had eternal life up to that point up to the point for the fall of man. Uh he never had sickness because there was no sin in the world or anything. He had all these things going on for him. He there's no manual labor until after the fall of man All these things are going on for him, and yet God looked down upon, had all these things, had this going on, this going on, this going on, this going on, and yet God looked down at him and said, You know what He's all by himself down there. Hey, he's missing something. Hey, there's there's no help meet for him. Adam needs a help meet So I want to talk about that real briefly tonight, as I said earlier. The first thing is the purpose of marriage. Jesus chapter 2, verse 18. The purpose of marriage, I believe. It says, and the word God said in verse 18, It is not good that the man should be alone. I will make him a helpme for him And let's go look at verse twenty-two. And the rib which the Lord God had taken from him made he a woman and brought her unto the man. You know, God made listen, God made the woman to be a companion. He made the woman to be a companion. You know, I don't understand. I know that in the Bible, I know that But God tells us to go God tells them to go forward and and the the multiply and everything. And I know that also in the Bible the marriage is a picture of the uh the Christ coming back for the church and everything. And listen I I'm all for multiplying w I mean having children. We have five children like I said. Matter of fact, my pastor, Pastor Bowman, he came to me one time and he's and he's made me feel good about myself about two seconds. He came to me when our last children our last child was born. She's five now He came to me and says, man, he said, those girls got all of you. He said, those girls got all their looks from you. And I was like, well, thank you, Pastor. Because you don't have none left. I said I I you know, I told someone that same story and it wasn't supposed to laugh there by the way I I told someone that same story and said, They got your hair too, didn't they? I th I appreciate that. I'm all for that. But listen, probably the primary the primary reason God God made a woman, I believe, was for companionship. I personally don't understand there's there's guys I drive school bus also. I'm on staff at church, but also I drive school bus to supplement my income for insurance and whatnot. But there's guys at work, I don't understand. They'll stay at work and they'll hang out and they'll hang out and they'll hang out and they'll hang out They'll look for excuses not to go home and be with their their children to be with their wife. I I don't know why they don't want to go home, but they'll make excuses of why they can't be there. And that is the primary reason why God made the woman It's a bit for companionship. He wants you you're supposed to be there for that reason right there. So let me ask you a question. Do you spend time with your spouse? Do you spend time with your spouse? Husbands, you spend time with your wife? Wives, do you spend time with your husbands? Hey, that's why I believe God instituted the marriage was for companionship. He says right there, hey, it's not good for man to be alone. I will make him a helpmeet. Do you spend time with your spouse? I know sometimes wives, you know, gotta have a girl time, you know. They gotta have time to go out and be alone just to be with the with the No, I'm not can I'm listening, I understand friendships I understand that kind of s I understand some of that, you know. But listen, I personally I like being with my wife. I I just I love being with my wife, I love spending time with her. I whenever I when I get off my school bus I I take a clock out the time clock, I get my Jeep, I go home, I leave, there's people sitting there's guys sitting there and they I I I guarantee they sat there sometimes for two hours. Well, I just I personally don't understand that. Listen, wait, we'll get that later. But listen, God created the primary reason I believe is for companionship You know, your spouse is from God as a gift to you. Why would you thunder your nose at that gift God's given you? God has given you that Can you imagine your child, uh, you know, I can't go a child, can you imagine your child making something for you, whatever, collaring it, drawing it, whatever it is stuff, and and giving it to you, presenting it to you, like, yeah, I see that. Just Well, God has given you your spouse. He has, as a gift from God, God has given that to you Do you do you spend time with your spouse? Your spouse is for companionship. You know, I see c you know I see couples courting and acting like they're married. But then at the same time, you know, you see married couples acting like they're just coexisting together. Hey, you know, you're setting an example for your children. You know, I think about all the time, you know, and I listen, I we're not perfect. By no means are we perfect stuff, but all the time I always remind my wife all the time, hey, we're sending examples for our kids I want my daughters to look at my wife and I as marriage and say, you know what, that's what I want someday. I want that someday. And I want I want them to say, hey, you know what? Our marriage is not like that. And no again, we are not perfect. Do we have difficulty? Absolutely. We're There's only one as perfect as Christ. But listen, I want to say, hey, you know, I want to at least strive to be like that and be even better, you know. But God created a marriage for companionship. Uh the next thing I want us to look at, but look Yeah, that's going to the next thing. The next thing, keeping with my promise right there, the next thing is uh fulfillment. God created I believe he can ful completely he he Let me talk. He created marriage for fulfillment. Uh back to Genesis chapter two verse eighteen. Uh it says, And the Lord God said, It is not good that man should be alone. I will make him a helpmeet. Help me is f that is um a helper. It gives a thought if someone falls short and helps them with something. You know, sir sir, has it ever dawned on you that you're not correct about everything? Uh oh. I I listen My wife reminds me a lot that I'm not correct about everything. You say, your wife, no well listen, my wife don't run the house. I run the house. But my wife, listen, I I full well know I don't have all the answers. I I full well understand that. I But listen, it's good sometimes to go to your spouse. It's good for her sometimes to go to your wife and say, hey, you know what? It's good for us to say, you know what You're wrong about that. It it's good sometimes to say, you know what, do we really need a third brand new car? I don't have one brand new car by the way. But do we really need a second brand new car? I mean, do you really think we can afford that It's good sometimes just to go to the spouse, you know, and and and talk to him about that. And ma'am, if your husband's a is uh especially if your husband's a is a spiritual guy, it's good just to Sometimes submit it's good to submit and just take the leadership. I know sometimes we may not Not we. I'm not a woman. But uh but it's it's good as take the leadership, you know. And you know what, by the way, there is safety in leadership. If your husband makes a decision and it is flat out wrong and if you fall fat in your face, don't you say, you made that decision, wasn't me There's safety. Hey, there is safety in that right there, ladies. That's like my boss at work. If he makes a decision, like there is no way I would do that right there. Well, hey, just go in and do what he says, and if it's wrong, whatever, hey You made a decision if he yelled at you. It wasn't me that made a decision. You made that decision. And it's like, oh, what's he going to do? Yell at you for it? No, because he made that decision Uh he made that for fulfillment. Listen, I um it's been said, now listen to this. I want to mess up something read to you, that men were designed needing three things. It's been said We need a bow to fight. Number one, we need a bow to fight. Number two has been said, this is from a ruler perspective now. I I read this. I thought it was good though Number one, we need a bow to fight, men do. Number two, we need a venture to live. And number three, men, we need a beauty to rescue. It's also been said in that same article, it says, on the other hand Women need to feel that they are the beauty worthy of being rescued. Women need to feel that they are the beauty that is worthy of being rescued. You see, we complement each other. Compliment each other. You know, I I know I have weaknesses, and I'm, you know, I'm going to share something personal with you a little bit, I feel, but you know, I had a stroke two and a half years ago. And sometimes my I think I'm about nine percent back to where I need to be at. But the first the first six months, man, it was it was tough for me. Then the first at then the next six months was a little bit better. Then I almost say by the first by the end of the two year period it was it was I was pretty much it's back to functioning, but Sometimes my he's saying you're preaching to me tonight? Sometimes my person If I start slobbering or something, they'll say, oh bless his heart. But but anyhow I feel like I'm slopping up a second. But anyhow, sometimes my perception sometimes my perception's a little bit off. You know what I need? And that's why I gotta come to my wife and say, Hey, what about she's like, I think you're Now listen, I need that ladies. I need my wife to come to me and say, hey, and she doesn't a very sweet and listen ladies, you've got to be spiritual and you've got to be godly yourself also whenever whenever you go to your husband. You've got to be in the right spirit. You've got to if my wife came to me and said, You know what? You g no, no, no, no, no, no, that ain't gonna work. But you've got to be sweet and you've gotta be godly also and you've got to make sure you're right with God. You've got to come to your husband and say, Hey My wife, she last night I we got see it work whatever, we gotta fill our time sheets out and everything and we gotta verify and check them and I got something and I I I looked at it, I was like, it it hit me wrong. And uh I asked my wife says Now that's there's a note in there from my employer. It wasn't a very pleasant note. And I read it and I said, not just sitting with me. And I said, come over here. I said, I said, you read that. I said, is that just me? Or I said Is that not right? And by the way, it wasn't right. But see, listen, I rely upon my wife. I I need her. I I need I I need that from her Listen folks, we complement each other. You know, you know, is ever a dawning we're not alike? If you don't know that, maybe you ought to be downstairs in children's church with the rest of them, but uh we are we are not alike. We're just We're we're not like that. Uh we're we're we're different. There's a man one time and he used to they was married maybe ten, fifteen years, whatever. Is it's a story and um His wife and got a uh every time they get a loaf, uh I'm gonna get ahead of my I'm getting ahead of myself here. I don't get ahead of it's a different story, I'm gonna get ahead of myself Okay, complement companionship. The next thing is a plan for marriage. Genesis chapter 2, verse uh 22. Genesis chapter 2, verse 22. It says, in the rib which the Lord God had taken from the man, made he a woman and brought her unto the man. The first thing I want to look at here is built by God. If you ever want to have a good marriage, it better be built by God. You know, a good marriage is dependent upon walking with God. You want to have a great marriage if they will be built by God. Psalms 127, verse chapter one, I mean verse one, and the first part of it says, Unless the Lord God builds the house, his builders labor in vain You know, I remember being do you remember when you I saw something take it back. Do you remember when you was single, when you was first married? There maybe you s the person that you was attracted to, maybe they had some little bit of flaws or They have a little bit of differences and and sometimes the flaws of what attracts you to the person or they're they're a little bit different. You're like, you know what? But you know what? After you're married for a while, those differences that you're attracted to, if you're not a spiritual person, those differences that you're attracted to will actually be irritants to you They'll actually wear on e to a fact where it will cause contentional and it will cause you problems if you're not a spiritual person You better make sure you're walking with God. You better make sure you're right with God. If God don't build the house, there's gonna be different there's gonna be problems. You know, there there's all of us have different personalities. You and your your spouse, you're gonna have different personalities, you have different opinions. You're gonna have different ways of looking at things. And if if you're not spiritual, if you're not godly, there's gonna be problems. praying w working through things, whatever, and uh always and stealing her o always, always. When you're looking for a spouse, when you're looking for a mate Keep the spiritual first. Now listen, I understand the physical attraction part. I understand there's got to be some physical attraction. There has to be. I understand that. But The spiritual had better be kept first. If the spiritual is not first and you and you put the the physical first and put the spiritual way down here, there is no spiritual You know as well as I do that the loops are gonna run out eventually someday, unless you're my wife, that they never run out. And you never you never aged past twenty-five either. Is that what you want me to say? Thank you. Anyhow Anyhow, um what was I saying? Oh if you if you d if there is no spiritual, you totally delete the spiritual and you have only physical There is going to be some serious problems when the different personalities come out, the different opinions come out, the different views of things come out. There's going to be some serious issues, but however, if the spiritual is first Man, it's going to be good. But you think about Delawa. Samson saw her and he's like, man, what was that? There was no spiritual whatsoever in that equation at all. He said He says, I want that. And we know what happened to Samson. Uh Absalom, the Bible tells us that there was no blemish in him from the sole of his foot to the crown of his head, no blemish whatsoever. And we know what a rotten scoundrel uh Absalom was We need to make sure in our life that we are the spiritual person we need to be. If not, your marriage will never, ever, ever be what God wants you to be. You will never be the spouse that God wants you to be if you're not a spiritual person. Very much sure God's building it. Now here's the thing I've had little kids up there. I do it. I tell my girls we have devotions every night, um, except for church nights we don't usually. But anyhow, it's like a triangle, it's like a person starts here and a person starts here And I tell him, I said, always keep God first. Keep God first. Keep God first. So it lets let's say the spout one person starts here and they're starting here. Now if they always keep God if if if right here is the focal point is God, if they always have God in view, they always have if they're always walk walking working towards God, always going towards God If they're going towards God, if the person they're supposed to marry is going towards God, guess what they're going to do? They're eventually going to meet up, they're going to meet each other. But they keep their eyes on God. And listen, folks, that's what we do. We do it's if we keep our eyes on God and your and your spouse is on God, we're working towards God, we're going to meet up. And it listen, your marriage is going to be a beautiful thing. It's going to be running right. You still want difficulties? Yes. Yes, you still want difficulties. But listen, you'll be the spouse God wants you to be. You'll have a good marriage as a result. Secondly Your marriage, first of all, is going to be built by God. Secondly, it's going to be built on love and commitment. Genesis chapter 2, verse 24. I'm wrapping this thing up here. I'm coming around the corner. Genesis chapter two verse twenty-four. It says, Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife, and they shall be one flesh The word cleave here means stick with. Close and longside. The same applies implies the leave and forsake everyone else. You know, when you get married, It becomes your family becomes something new. It becomes a new family. Uh you know your spouse becomes the most important person in your life. Jesus Christ is first, and then it's your spouse. It's not your kids, it's not your co-workers, it's not your boss, it's not your mama, it's not your papa. Now I have both those things. That's not the most important person in your life When you get married, you leave your mama, you leave your daddy, you all all that behind, you leave them all behind, and now your spouse is the most important person in your life Jesus Christ first. He's first. After him, it's your spouse. That's the most important person in your life Uh it doesn't matter, listen, it doesn't matter how your your daddy did things, uh, didn't doesn't matter how your your mama did things. All that matters is your spouse. Uh it's not work doesn't matter no more. Uh uh It matters, okay? Uh it's not it's not it's not working overtime to make extra money. It's not the it's not the most important thing. It's your spot, it's not the big game Uh it's not going shopping. Uh like I said earlier, it's not your parents. It's all about your spouse. And I started telling a story earlier, I got ahead of myself. There's a man one time, they was married twenty years, and he's always he's always he was always diaping on his yelling at his wife. If you get a ham and uh he say cut the ends off of it, cut the end off of it, cut the end off of it. And that's what he says, I shame ain't wasting the ham and cutting the end off the ham And she he's like, Cut the end off the ham. And she goes, I ain't cutting end off. So they were twenty years arguing about cutting the end off the ham. And you do why he wanted to end cut off the ham? 'Cause that's how his mama did it. His mama cut the end off the ham, so he wanted to he wanted her cut the end off the ham She goes, I ain't cutting up and they fought and they fought and fought for twenty years. So finally one day, the wife asked the mother-in-law, why do you she says, Listen, for twenty years I'm gonna fight my cutting and end off the ham. And she started the mother-in-law started laughing She goes, Why do you cut the end off the ham I I gotta know, why do you cut the end off the ham for? So she started she started laughing at hard and stuff. She goes, Well honey, growing up grew up during the Great Depression And our pan was so small I couldn't fit the whole entire ham in there, so I had to cut the end off the hem to get to fit in the pan. That's why I cut the end off. He he had no idea why she did that for. He just wanted the end of the ham cut off. That's how mama did it. So that's how he that's how he wanted his wife to do it Listen, I it doesn't matter how mama did it, doesn't matter how daddy did his stuff, all matters is your spouse, okay? Um Listen, sometimes it's hard hanging in there. Sometimes I know it's difficult. You said you said, Brother Brah, I've seen more bad days and I have good it it doesn't matter. This in the Bible says a just man follows seven times and rises up again. In other words, it's not talking about sin here. It says it's false. It's not talking about sin. It's talking about Listen, you you try to be a good spouse and just you fall a little bit short. Get back up and try again. And the number seven is a continual number here. In other words, you you you try and you you fall, get back up and try again. You you try, you fall, get back. It doesn't matter if you it doesn't matter if you try you do it forty-nine times, you get back up, you do it a fifty times. Doesn't matter if you do it five hundred and fifty times. You get back up the next thing you keep on trying, you keep on trying, you keep on trying, you keep on trying. Hey, you never stop trying to be the spouse that God wants you to be You never quit, you keep on trying and keep on trying Let me ask yourself a question. What kind of example are you setting for your kids? Well listen, I am grown, my kids are growing, are growing. What about your grandkids? What kind of example are you setting for your grandkids You're setting example for someone people are watching you. What kind of example are you setting? And I'm round the rack with the wagons here. So what shall our response be to marriage? Well, Genesis chapter 2, verse 23 What shall our response be to marriage? Genesis chapter 2 verse 23 says, And Adam said, This is now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman because she was taken out of man. I believe Adam was very grateful for what God has given him. I believe, I believe, I'm speculating, I believe she was he God created her, that he was awakened. It's like That's m that's mine. Wow. She's bone on my bone and Flesh in my f flesh in my flesh. That's how our response need to be about our mate, about our spouse. We say, yeah, that's my woman. Yeah, it's my old man. Yeah, we're gonna go out and get something at church tonight. It's Valentine's Day. We probably will, but but anyhow, when he was like, man, that hey That's been on my bone right here. That's that's flesh of my flesh. Thank you, God. God. Man, I I was all alone to you. I I had no one Do you remember those single days? Do you remember before you was married? I I I don't know, but I I do. Do you remember those days before you was married before you had anyone? Do you remember how you perhaps you maybe you longed for someone? You remember maybe, I don't know, maybe you begged God to bring someone to your life. How you longed, how you say, God, I just wish, and and God, and and when one day God finally did bring a person into your life, and now they're in your life, and How do you treat that person now? Do you treat him as a precious gift that God has given you, or do you just Oh well, yeah, like I said, that's that's more. Ephesians chapter 5, verse 28 and 29 says, so ought men to love their wives as their own bodies. This thing about all have no self-esteem, well according to Scripture, that's not so. So ought men to love their wives as their own bodies. He that loveth his wife loveth himself Here we go. For no man ever yet hated his own flesh. According to Scripture, verse 29, for no man yet ever Ever, ever it says, hated his own flesh, but nourisheth and cherisheth it, even as the Lord his church. Listening, Adam one day realized, man, God gave me this. This is bone in my bone, flesh in my flesh, and She was his equal, I believe. She w she was his friend, and more importantly, she was a treasure gift A treasured gift that God had given him. He loved her. I believe he nourished her. I'm speculating, but I believe he treated her like she ought to be treated. Proverbs 31 verse 10 we know is it talks about the virtuous woman are prices far above rubies. Hey, you cannot put a price on a virtuous woman Ladies, you are pr if you're a virtuous woman, the Bible says you are priceless. Absolutely cannot put a price on you if you're a virtuous woman. It's not possible. Impossible to price on you. And the Bible says you're a priceless if you're a virtuous woman. Guys, we need to treat them that way. If they're a virtuous woman, we need to love them, adore them. We need to treat them like they're a priceless gift. God's giving them to us. Man, I'm going to tell you what. Again, for twenty-two years now, I've been involved in people's lives in the bus ministry, eventually on staff and this assistant pastor, youth pastor. I've seen all kinds of stuff. I'm going to tell you what, if you have a especially if you have a good woman, oh my soul, you have better love her, adore her treat her like the queen she is. So I'm telling you what I have seen some rotten stuff in my life. And the same way, ladies, you got a man that brings you to church and treats you like anything, she better take good care of him and treasure him also because I'm telling you I have I have seen stuff until they blow my mind. And just when I thought I'd seen everything, something else pops up. I was like, where where in the world are they getting this stuff from? I I Just today of my friend the things he's going through, I'm like, You've got to be kidding me. It's like his his wife has lost her her ever living mind, the things she's involved in, the the things she's doing. I'm uh You better love your spouse and you better take care of them. One of the directors from B I M I about twelve years ago was at our church and um Someone had told me that he made a statement that the number one reason that missionaries are coming off the mission field is because of their wives. Well he that statement was made twice. And the mission at the the director for BMI one of the one of the directors for BIMI was at our church when me and him was going soul winning, we paired up together. And we was in a car riding, it was in my car riding down the road, whatever, and I said, and I called him by name I said, I want to ask you something. I said, it was said that you made a statement. I said, is that so? And he chuckled a little bit. He says, yes, that's so. And he says, you want to know the rest of this rest of my statement? I said, there's more to it. He said, yes, sir, there is. He said that he says, you know the number one reason why missionaries are coming off of mission field? I says Yeah, I'm very interested in knowing. He said it's true. It he says part of the reason is because of their wives. He says the rest of it is because husbands are not meeting their needs Missionaries are coming off the missionary field because of their wives, but it's because husbands are not meeting their needs, he told me Listen, they're serving God but they're busy doing this and doing this and doing this and doing this and doing this. I mean they're going soul winning, they're they're they're they're they' They're ministering their cows and doing all these things But their wife's sitting a home being neglected, not being taken care of, and they're not meeting their needs. We need to make sure we meet each other's needs as far as I'm concerned. Listen, take care of the gifts God's giving you I'm gonna wrap this thing up here. Guys, we need to do something once in a while that's painful to us. It's called sh shopping. Listen, I know the pain starts about down here somewhere and travels up and it's I know I know it hurts. But listen, every once in a while we that clean ourselves up and if we shave, we need to shave And Paker Lady's shopping. I know I'm shooting myself in the foot by saying 'cause I don't like to shop. I'm one of these people who all spend two hours on the internet. You say, You do that? Don't tell Pastor Leatherman. But I uh maybe I don't I'll spend two hours on the internet and I'll research something, I'll read reviews, man. I'm a I'm a review person and I'll read reviews and I'll I'll spend two, three hours and I'll find j I'll find out just what I want. I'll go to wherever it is, Walmart, Sears, wherever it's at, I'll go buy it. I'll go I'm I'll go right back to the pick it up, pay for it, and walk around to my car and leave. We have this one daughter. She can spend weeks our second one she can spend weeks looking for clothes to find she'll spend three or four hours out shopping to find nope Can't find anything. And this thing go on for like weeks, sometimes sometimes months. Like, what do you mean you can't find you've been to three malls a day, you spent six hours shopping. What do you mean you can't Now maybe you can relate that later. Can't find anything. Like what your sisters find stuff. I just I don't relate to that, but guys, maybe we need to clean ourselves up and just take our women Ladies shopping. Women, let you got yourself in trouble just now. But anyhow, l let me ask you a question, ladies. You know, what you did to get your husband, are you still doing that now to keep your husband? I don't know what you did to get your husband. Maybe you took a baseball bat to him out. If you did that, don't don't do that, don't do that no more. But uh what you did to get your husband, are you still Doing that. You know, we'll fix yourself up, go to Walmart or grocery store. Would you fix yourself up for your husband? I'm just putting it out there just asking the question I say, well, well never mind, we won't go there. But do we are you still doing what you did before? I'm wrapping this up with this story. Let me say this: never, never, never, never take your spouse for granted Don't assume they'll always be there because you know I'm getting older. Just the other day, I forgot to tell you about just the other day uh somebody down the road from us, 46 years old and 45, 46 year old died from aneurysm We never know. We we never know. Never, never, never, never take your spouse for granted. This lady, she um Her and her husband was married ten, twelve years, I forget what it was. And her marriage had grown a little bit stale and and Her husband had kind of grown a little bit distant and she they agreed to work things out and get back together get back together before getting their marriage back to where it needed to be. So they started to spend more and more time together and they got counseling from the pastor and everything And time had passed and they finally she this is what she says. She says she fell for the hype. This is what she said now She said she fell for the hype that she gotta renew your vows and get married again, so she decided that once they got things worked out, she wanted to renew her vows and she wanted to And it's what she said. She said she wanted to get a ring or whatever to to s to make it more to solidify things. So she said they went shopping one day to find the perfect ring. And she said he went to the jeweler and said, Well they was there looking for their um I think she called an attorney ring. So they found the attorney ring and while they was waiting to get it get it size, she was leaning over the counter and had her engagement ring on And a jeweler saw it and said she he said, Hey can I would you like if we take our engagement ring, take it back and sign it up for you and everything? And she says, Well yeah, if you want to, that'd be fine. And she said they took her engagement ring back and was shining it up and while they was doing her sizing her engaged her attorney ring. She said on a car ride home they said that engagement ring was really sparkling, it was really shining everything and She was sitting there just looking at that engagement ring and she said she got to thinking how beautiful it really was. She said she realized that she never she didn't need no new ring. She said all you think she needed was her old ring shined up and just need to get the grime off of it and the the grunge off of it and she didn't need nothing new. What she needed all along was already there. Folks, we don't need nothing new. If you're married, we listen, we don't need nothing new. What we need, God has already given to us. We just need to work at it. We just maybe need to put a little bit of effort, clean it up some, so to speak, your marriage. It's like a garden. You know how a garden gets weeds in it, so you gotta you gotta take care of it. You just can't just let it go. You gotta take care of it Let's bow our head and close our eyes. I'm not sure how you guys do things here on Wednesday night, but um I'm not even sure how God might have spoken to your heart tonight or if he did, but listen, God has laid this message on my heart. Perhaps it was for me. Like I said, when I was studying for this, God has really, really Just impress upon me. Even things in my life that needs to change, I believe, and things I need to work on, improve, to be a better husband, be a better spouse. And again, I don't know how God might have spoken to your heart tonight But in just a minute, as the music begins to play, we'll have an altar call. If you like to use the altar, maybe God didn't speak to your heart, but you just want to come just to renew yourself, rededicate yourself to your spouse, or to promise God you'll be the best spouse you can be. But Also, you know, maybe you're here tonight, maybe you're not saved. I never want to leave a Wednesday night or any church service without given a opportunity to be saved But if you're here tonight, you you'll know you're saved, you'll know you're going to heaven. Maybe a perfect time to take care of that. But as the music begins to play, if God spoke to your heart, I ask you to use the altar The invitation is open. If you're not here, you're not saved. You'd like to know how to go to heaven. See a leader here, see myself, or see one of the other adults here. Love to help you with that.