46. I'd like for us to read just that one little verse together there. And um verse 46, Luke chapter 1. You got it there? Ready? Here we go. All together. And Mary said, My soul doth magnify the Lord. I want to speak this morning on Mary's song. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father in heaven, I thank you for this time of year. I just thoroughly enjoy the Christmas season and Lord, I just the traditions and the festivities that all go with it But, Lord, as Christians, we want to give this thing some spiritual meaning and recognize the incarnation of your Son, the Lord Jesus, our Savior. And so I pray that maybe this morning in the next couple weeks you'd help us to get to know Jesus a little better and understand a little bit more the significance, the importance of his arrival. here as a little infant child and then to live a life as a sinless man for us on our behalf. So Lord, I can't do that in and of myself. My flesh has no spiritual value or anything to offer spiritually. So, Lord, I need your Holy Spirit to fill me and to speak your word through me and apply it to our lives, that we that know you as Savior, we'd be better Christians. We'd be more Christ-like Christians. And Lord, those under the sound of my voice that do not know the Lord Jesus Christ the Savior, that are outside the family of God. That maybe this thought would uh pierce their heart. They'd believe and make that decision to trust you as their own personal Savior. So bless now. Again, fill me, I ask, Lord. As I yield my will to you in Jesus' name. Amen. If somebody says that something is rare, For instance, let's say they come out and say we found a rare photograph of Abraham Lincoln. What do they mean when they use that term rare? What do they mean by that? Something you don't see very often, um, anybody else, something that's very uncommon, correct? Um there's a video, I think we showed it in church here this past year. There's a actual motion picture of Billy Sunday preaching It's very rare. There was not many of them uh uh available that m uh and it's very uncommon to have something from that time frame to have it on a motion picture. I saw a week or so ago, or in the last several weeks, uh on the computer a little video of the streets of New York City from the early nineteen hundreds, one of the first motion pictures and what life was like. And very rare, um, something that is very uncommon. It does not mean that it never happens. It does not mean it's the only time it happens. Just that means it doesn't happen very often. For instance, there are some rare births in the Bible. For instance, Sarah, she gave birth in old age. That's very rare. It's very uncommon. It doesn't mean it never happened before or after. It's just very uncommon. When we talk about the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ, We're not talking about something that is rare. You follow what I'm saying? We're not talking about something that is uncommon. Because the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ was unique. And by saying it's unique, we mean it's what? It's one of a kind. Never happened before, is never going to happen again. The birth of the Lord Jesus Christ is unique. Unique. Actually, when we talk about the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ, and I'm going to backpedal here a little bit, there is nothing, the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ was not unique. The birth of the Lord Jesus Christ wasn't even rare. Jesus Christ was born as any other child was born. You've just the normal birth process itself was the same as you and I when we were born experienced, and any other per every other person, any person that was ever born was born the way Jesus was Is there anybody here that was not born? Has never been born. So it'll be all of us. So what was unique about the Lord Jesus Christ if it wasn't his birth that's unique? It was what? The conception of the Lord Jesus Christ. That a virgin would conceive a child without the seed of man. That is miraculous. That is where the entrance of Jesus Christ into the world Is so unique. Look with me, if you would, at chapter 1, verse number 31. Mary is being approached, she is being told what is going to take place And notice in verse number 31 what the what the angel tells Mary says, and behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb. And bring forth a son and shall call his name Jesus. Here you have a young lady. That has not known a man, his virgin is pure and pure, and yet she conceives a child in her womb. What an amazing thing. And it's not surprising. And uh maybe I may preach on this, I'm giving it some thought, but down in verse 37 You know, Mary says, how can this be? Verse 34, come down to verse 37. For with God nothing shall be impossible. And so we have at Christmas, we celebrate the incarnation of the Lord Jesus Christ, we celebrate this miraculous event. Where a young woman by the name of Mary conceives a child in her womb without the involvement of man whatsoever, direct from God. What an amazing thing that is. Now, when we think about the birth of our Lord Jesus Christ and the supernatural conception of Christ. We understand that Jesus is the focus of all of this. Jesus is Christmas. Christmas for a Christian is Jesus. But I think we make a mistake if we fail to recognize Mary's role in all of this. Mary played a vital role in the incarnation of our Savior. She was chosen of God for this unique one time in all of history event that she would bear this child an amazing thing. There's two there's two extreme views about Mary. Is everybody with me? Everybody alright? There's two extreme extreme views about Mary. One is where she is overstated Now I'm not I would I'm not going trying to pick on anybody, I'm not trying to be any kind unkind to any other church or any other teaching out there, but truth is truth. And there is an overstatement by some about Mary and who she is and what she is and what role she played. Pope Pius IX. made this statement of the in a Pope of the Catholic Church made this statement. He says, he said, God has committed to Mary the treasury of all good things. Listen to this. Through her are obtained every hope, every grace, listen to this, and all salvation He is saying that all of salvation comes to us through Mary. Listen to some of these other statements that have been made about Mary. Pope Pius XII. Said this, she has a great part in our salvation. She cooperates in our redemption. Others have said this about her. She is a co-redeemer. And what does he mean when someone says that Mary is the co-redeemer? She is what? She's equal in our salvation as the Lord Jesus Christ. Other statements: she's the mediator of all grace. One Catholic early Catholic leader made this statement: Death through Eve, a life through Mary. Now I got reading my Bible and I read where Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. But yet here they're attributing Mary characteristics and attributes that are only true of the Lord Jesus Christ. She is referred to by many as the mother of God. One theologian said, No man goeth to Christ but through Mary And it's almost as I was reading and studying and reviewing some of these teachings about Mary, it's almost the attitude that Jesus is very harsh, Jesus is very hard to approach. Jesus is very unapproachable. And if we want our prayers answered and if we want to come to the Lord Jesus Christ, we have to go to his mother And she has inroads to him that you and I do not have. Thus they pray to Mary to approach Jesus on their behalf. She's referred to as the Queen of Heaven. One theologian said this: Mary delivers our souls from death. Mary does. Another one said this: Mary made atonement for our sins. Mary is sinless. These are all wrong. Mary was a sinner saved by grace, no different than you and I. She was a chosen vessel by the grace and mercy of God to bear the unborn body of our Lord Jesus Christ and deliver him and raise him. To accomplish the purpose for which he came. Mary is just a sinner saved by grace. I want to suggest to you that there were many, many, many godly, pure. Young ladies alive at the time of Mary, just as pure, just as gracious, just as as uh uh uh kind as Mary was, no different, but God in his plan and purposes chose Mary for that specific responsibility. So one view of Mary is to extremely overstate who and what she is, even, can I say this, even to the point of blasphemy. To attribute to a mere human the attributes that are only true of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, that, my friends, is blasphemy. Now, there's another extreme view of Mary, and that I don't think it's deliberate necessarily, but that is this, and that's to understate. her role and importance. To simply neglect Mary and the part she had and and how God used her, or to ignore Uh in some circles, and I think maybe if we're not careful, we might be guilty of this, all Mary is is just a little figurine in a nativity scene that we set on the shelf or in the windowsill, in the window display. And I would suggest to you Mary ought not to be ignored. I want to suggest to you, she's more than just a figurine of a nativity scene. She is someone that God used in an absolutely miraculous way. Uh in a way of uh uh of um uh uh uh uh that is hard to comprehend that God would do this. I think of Mary. I think of a tremendous woman that you and I can learn much from. I got thinking as I was preparing this week and thinking about Mary and studying and praying. uh you know what to learn. I thought, can you imagine we get to heaven? And I think about how maybe I lived my life or how you lived your life. And then in heaven we come up and we meet Mary. And I just think, I wonder how ashamed I would be. How worldly, how carnal. As a Christian, I or maybe some of us have lived our lives. And here's a woman That God chose to bear our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Do you understand what I'm trying to say? She had a unique role. And uh she's not what these others claim to be co-redemptress and uh you know sinless and this immaculate conception. Some suggest she never died She ascended. That is blasphemous. That's outlandish. But we ought not to ignore her either. And we can learn much from her. How many folks are familiar with the Hallelujah chorus? Anybody here know what I'm talking about? The Hallelujah chorus handles Messiah. How many people feel like I do? That is an amazing That is an amazing, amazing piece of uh orchestration and music. Anybody anybody here know what I'm talking about? I'm I feel like singing it right now. And all God's people said, No, don't do it, don't do it. When when Handel's Messiah, when when Handel's Messiah is performed, I guess you would call it performing it. I don't know, that doesn't seem right. But when they get to the hallelujah chorus, oh I'm not gonna do it. I'm not gonna do it. Traditionally, what do people do? They stand. Because it's such a phenomenal piece of work and so amazing. I want to suggest to you that what Pastor Matt read a few moments ago Exceeds handles Messiah in the greatness of what it communicates And I'm calling it Mary's song. Now I know what some of y'all are thinking. You looked at verse number 47 there, 46, and you said, and you're saying, she didn't sing that. It says she what? Look at verse 46. And Mary said, it doesn't say she sang. All right, I know it. A lot of commentators who look at it, they'll refer to this as Mary's song. If you have notes in your Bible at all, it probably has something like this up at the head or somewhere that will refer to as Mary's Magnificent Does anybody see that in their Bibles? I have it in mind. And they get that from verse 46. My soul doth magnify the Lord. So it's really, technically it's not a song. I'll give you that But it is a statement of praise. Mary learning what has happened to her, realizing the role that she is going to play. in the salvation of mankind and carrying uh the body uh the child of the Lord Jesus Christ in her womb and and realizing all this and she breaks out with this praise That is absolutely outstanding. And I'm referring it to a song. To me, it's presented as a song. It comes across to me as a song of praise. I don't know that she really sang it. I think if she did, she would have done better than I would have I sung it. But I'm going to refer to it as Mary's song. And I want us to notice What I believe could be perhaps the greatest Christmas song ever. I see three things in this passage here: the statement of Mary. This magnificent of Mary. I see first of all it's a, and again I'm referring to it as a song. I see it as a song of faith. I also see it as a song that is focused, and I see it as a song that is firsthand. Now let me explain what I mean by those three. First of all, a song of faith. Now try, if you would, this morning with me, try and put yourself, go back 2,000 some years, and put yourself in the shoes of Mary. Young lady, we we don't know, but no doubt in her teens. Just a young lady Been very, very careful, everything we know about her. She's been very, very careful to be pure in body and mind. She loves the Lord, there's no doubt about that. She's committed to Jehovah. She has, by all we can tell reading her, she has very high standards of right and wrong. She knows the scriptures. We're going to see that in a little bit. Not only does she know the scriptures, she has understands them, and by all evidences, she's seeking to live out the teachings of Scripture exactly as God gives it. She is, by all of our understanding, a young woman that God is very, very pleased with Now put ourselves in her shoes. And she has just found out that she is with child What? She has been told something that nobody in all of history has ever been told before. That the Holy Spirit of God has placed within you the body of the Messiah. You are with child. She's experiencing things that humanly make no sense. In fact, if you notice there a little earlier, she made this statement. She says, How can this be? How can this be? I've not known a man. How can I be with child? If you come to verse number 29, I see, first of all, she's beset with fear. This scares her to death. Look at verse 29 of Luke 1. And when she saw him, the angel, she was what? Troubled at his saying. And cast in her mind what manner of salutation this should be. This is the idea of that statement. There is what in the world is happening What do you mean by this? That word troubled there has this idea, and it's translated other places this way. It has this idea to be greatly disturbed. Look at verse number 30. And the angel said unto her, Fear not, Mary. Now, why would the angel be saying to Mary, Fear not? Because she was what? She was afraid. Not just I think just the angel appearing to her would be terrified. How many people, if you tomorrow morning about five o'clock, all of a sudden, boom, an angel appears in your room, how many people would die of a heart attack right then and there? The other the other night, this this past week one time, I was I was up working and Kathy goes to bed early. And um I was turning lights off, I took my medicine and took care of the dog and put stuff away and I was heading back. And Kathy had gotten out of the bed and she was she gets cramps in her legs real bad and she was uh she'll kill me for telling you this. I hope she's not listening. But um she was laying with her back on the floor in a hallway and had her feet up on the wall, um, you know, trying to get these cramps out. And I didn't know she was there, and I I turn away if I walk and I see this person laying in the thing. I about died. It's the big one. I said, what are you doing? Now, think about Mary. Boom! And then what this angel tells her, you're gonna you got a child in your womb. You're expecting She is beset with fear. She is completely bewildered. Verse 34, how shall this be? Seeing I know not a man. How can this be? This doesn't make any sense. This is impossible. What are you talking about? Now, I know I'm no doubt putting words in Mary's mouth, but I can almost see this. No, you're wrong. This can't be true. This is impossible. But she's talking to an angel of God. And the angel's not wrong. And what he said is true. And then I think of Joseph. He finds out. Mary says, Joseph, and now you understand they're not married. We all know that, right? Uh their espouse, that was the custom of that day. It wasn't married, but it was as binding as marriage. It required in most cases a legal separation to break that espousal. For in that day and age, engagement was not something you just jump in and out of. It was as about as binding as marriage was. Now put yourself in Mary's shoes and she has to go to Joseph, who we know is a pure godly Man that loves the Lord has kept himself for God and has been very, very careful to please the Lord, and God is no doubt very pleased with Joseph. She has to come to him and say, Joseph. I'm gonna have a baby. What? Harry, what have you done? What in the world? How do people agree with me? That'd be heart-wrenching Be heart-wrenching. Now Joseph being a just man, he loves Mary. He doesn't want her to suffer shame and Old Testament law of she's been involved in fornication. Old Testament law is pretty severe. And he loves her and he doesn't want her to be ashamed. He doesn't want her to be hurt. And so he's just going to somehow work it out and put her away privately And Joseph's world is turned upside down, and his heart is absolutely broken, and Mary's bewildered. What in the world is going on here? And here's what I'm trying to get at. And yet, she trusts God She believes that what God has said to her is true. Even though humanly their world is turned upside down. Humanly, this is impossible. Humanly, this makes no sense. Humanly, this is shameful But I'm going to trust God. And she makes this statement here, what I'm referring to as her psalm, this tremendous song of faith. That God has done great things to me. What an amazing thing. She responds in faith. Look at verse 38. What a tremendous statement. Would to God, you and I Could take this attitude that Mary had. Look at verse 38. And Mary said, Behold the handmaid of the Lord. Who is she referring to when she says, Behold the handmaid of the Lord? Who's she referring to? Herself? She's presenting. Say, Lord, can I put it, can I, can I ad lib here a little bit? Lord, I don't understand what in the world's happening. I don't know what all this means. I don't fully grasp this yet. I don't even know how this is even possible. But Lord, I'm yours. If this is what you choose to do to me and with me, I'm your handmaiden. And look at this next statement. What a powerful, powerful statement of faith. Be it unto me according to thy word. Wow. My respect for Mary has gone through the roof. Do you understand what's going on? This doesn't make any sense. This has never happened in the history of the world. I know that I'm pure. I know that I've done right. I know that I've done nothing wrong. And yet here I am with child, and God says. That he put this child in my womb. And I'm going to trust God. As far as physical concern is, she's just operating on the Word of God at this point. That's all she's going by, is what God has told her. What a tremendous act of faith on the part of Mary. I'm suggesting this is a song of faith. A song of faith. Now, I put some things down here. I put, first of all, faith in God brings peace to our heart. She could have absolutely been in a turmoil. I think I know myself well enough to know I'd have been worried sick, at least for a period of time. This would have thrown me. This would have this I I I'm telling you, I would have uh had a hard time sleeping at night. Can anybody relate to what I'm trying to say? This would have been tough. But Mary exercises faith in God, and as you read this magnificent, you read this song here, I see complete peace on her part. Even when things don't make sense, if we'll put our faith in God, God will bring peace to our heart. Let not your heart be troubled, Jesus said. You believe in God? Believe also in me. Listen, I'm here to tell you this morning, God can give you peace in your heart. I have no doubt I'm talking to somebody right now. I'm talking to somebody. I don't know this for a fact, but I'm absolutely convinced I'm talking to somebody that is in this auditorium right now, and this week you have been worried sick. And no doubt I'm talking to somebody, I don't know anyone in particular, but you had sleepless nights recently. I know that's true because I know mankind and I know what we are. And I've dealt with that myself. And you know what I'm here to tell you? I'm here to tell you, God is still in control. And if we will just trust Him, we can have peace in our hearts and lives. We can sleep well at night if we just learn to trust God. Put it in his hands. Behold thy handmaiden of the Lord. I'm just putting this thought I don't understand. This doesn't make a bit of sense. This is going to change all my thoughts and dreams for the future. Lord, I just put myself in your hands. And I see tremendous peace on the part of Mary. Faith in God will bring peace to our heart. I put this down: faith in God gives purpose in trials. Again, at least for a period of time, this made no sense. For a period of time, they were very sick. For a period of time, Joseph thought, man, what if my plans are gone? But they learned to trust God. They put their faith in God and they understood that, get this. They understood that what God was putting them through had a tremendous purpose. God was doing something that was far bigger than themselves. He was providing a savior for mankind. And when Mary trusted God and simply believed what he said, she understood: God has a purpose. God has a plan. God is doing something. How many times we get off track and something doesn't go the way we think, or something comes up and it doesn't make sense to us, and we get bitter and we get angry and we start throwing blame and We get all derailed in our spiritual life and our walk with God gets derailed simply because we won't just trust God and say, wait a minute, God, I believe you're in control and you can do this and you've got something you've you've allowed this for a reason. I believe you have a purpose. Last I checked, Romans 8. 28 is still in the Bible. And we know that All things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. And Mary, though it didn't make sense, and she's saying, How can this be? And she's troubled and she's scared. She goes, nevertheless, I'm going to trust God because I know God has a plan and purpose what He allows in my life. God has a plan and purpose. And then I put this down: faith in God brings power for living. Brings power for living. Mary exercised faith very, very early on in this whole experience When God shows up unexpected, He announces that she is a child, that she is going to give birth to the Messiah, they're thrown for a loop And uh, but they exercise faith in God and they trust him. And I believe that act of faith on the part of Mary prepared her For many, many years of heartache and difficulty. How many folks here have children? Raise your hand. How many folks here you love your kids? What parent would it? How many folks here you hated it when you saw other kids treating your kids bad? Anybody here know what I'm talking about? How many people hear your heart broke over things the way maybe your child was treated or things that happened to him? Anyone know what I'm talking about? Put yourself in Mary's shoes. Here's her child, he grows. And he hears a bunch of spiritual leaders, Pharisees, preachers, so to speak, saying all these horrible things about her son that she knows are not true. Think about Mary when she sees her son taken, beaten into the courts, and stand before Pilate and the authorities and the high priests. And they say lies about them, lies about them. And she sees them come out all beaten beyond recognition. In fact, she hardly even recognizes that it's her son. What do you think is happening in her heart? And then to stand there, as the Bible tells us, and she watches her firstborn son crucified. And yet, everything we can see about Mary, she maintains her peace, she maintains her composure. Why? Because she believes that what God has said about her son is true. And that God is in control, and God enables her, empowers her to deal with the issues of life without being destroyed, without being bitter. And she trusts God. So as I read what Mary says here in this passage, our text, I see a tremendous faith on Mary's part, trusting God, believing. That is exactly what he says. And I'll tell you what we need, I need, and we need in our churches, in our homes, in our own hearts, is a renewed faith in God. And renewed confidence that what God says is so. I tell you what's killing us. We're leaning on our own understanding. And we're taking the word of God and we're pushing it aside and saying, No, I think it's this way or it's that way and I'm going to do this or I'm going to do that. And then we wonder why our hearts are so empty and we wonder why our minds are so messed up and we wonder why we're So frustrated. And what we need is a renewed faith in God. Say, God, I believe it's what you said. I believe it's how you say it is. I'm going to trust you. I'm going to follow your instructions. And the peace of God that comes, and the understanding God has a purpose for my life, and He enables me, empowers me to live that life that He intends. So I see, first of all, a song of faith, and then I see a song that was focused. Look with me if you would at verse number 46 again. We read it together. Mary said, now think about this. Mary, God has chosen you to be the mother of the Messiah. You're going to give birth to the Messiah. Now, your average 2018 Christian and your average church would say, My soul doth magnify me. Look at me. I'm the one gonna do this. I'm gonna be uh I'm gonna bear the uh the Messiah in my womb. I'm gonna nurse the Savior of the world. I'm gonna care for the Savior as an infant. I, I, me, me But we don't hear any of that from Mary, do we? My soul doth magnify who? The Lord. It's all about the Lord. It's what God is doing. It's what God is doing. The word magnify means to make great, to esteem highly. I like this one definition: to make conspicuous You know what Mary's saying? Mary's saying, I want to make sure everybody sees God's hand in all of this. I want to make sure everybody sees what God has done, what God has done, not me. In fact, you go down through there, the humility she displays is impressive It's not about me, it's not about me, it's not about me, it's what God is doing, it's what God is doing. I've tried very hard, and no doubt I know many times I have failed. But I've tried to, when I share my testimony, I tried to emphasize the fact that my salvation, the only thing that I contributed to my salvation was being a sinner. That's the only thing I had to offer. Lord, I'm just a sorry, wretched sinner. And my salvation, as anyone else's salvation, has not been about me at all. It's been all about the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's exactly what Mary's saying. My soul doth magnify the Lord. My focus, everything in my life is pointing to the Lord, Lord God Almighty. Mary was determined. She was not going to let this be about herself. Mary was determined. She was not going to live for herself, but it was going to be all about her God. It was going to be all about her Creator. It was going to be life was going to be lived for her Lord. Not for herself. It's interesting, John the Baptist had that same mentality. When he was introducing the Lord Jesus Christ, and there was this big debate about who was John the Baptist and who was Jesus And John says, listen, I'm not even worthy to loosen his shoelaces. And he made that classic statement. He must what? Increase. But I must decrease. The Apostle Paul had that same attitude. He said in Galatians 2:20, For I'm crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live. Yet not I, but what? Christ liveth in me. It's the Lord Jesus Christ. It's the Lord Jesus Christ. When you and I can learn to die to self, when you and I can learn to get us out of the picture, and it's not all about me and not this world doesn't revolve around me. And rather it's all about the one that created me, the one that is the God of this universe, the one for whom I am created to live for. Oh, we'll find a uh we'll have a whole lot more peace of mind We'll have a whole lot we'll we'll we'll we'll live a much more fulfilled life. You know who I found and in my my experience in my own life? You know who those who are the most empty in their heart and soul Are those who are consumed with themselves. Me, me, me. I don't see Mary taking selfies. Here's me with the angel. Here's my belly with the savior in it. It's all about the Lord. My soul doth magnify, say it with me, the Lord, the Lord, the Lord. She was determined to magnify the Lord. This song, and it's interesting as you read down through what she says here, the passage, she's not even really talking about the Lord Jesus. She's talking more about the Father who sent his son to be the Messiah. This whole passage is saturated with Old Testament references. It's saturated with Old Testament theology. And I got thinking about that. Here you have Mary, she's just a peasant, little peasant girl. Very, very young, not wealthy by any stretch of the imagination, but boy, she knew her Bible. And she knew the Bible's teaching, and she knew theology, and she knew the Old Testament doctrine, and she knew the God of the Old Testament. And she references that all down through there. She focuses on verse 46 through 49. She focuses on the grace of God. She never viewed herself as being better than others. She never viewed herself as being holier than others, or smarter than others, or more deserving of this privilege than anyone else. She just references the grace and mercy of God that he would choose me to do this. Can I suggest this? Being a Christian is a tremendous privilege. That God in His grace and mercy has bestowed upon us. And then for the opportunity to serve God, now not one of us will have the opportunity to give birth to the Messiah. That was Mary's and Mary's alone. But God has given you and I many, many opportunities to serve our God, to serve our Lord. in so many capacities, and I'm suggesting to you, it is just as much of the grace and mercy of God that I can stand behind that pulpit and preach as it was for Mary to give birth to the Savior It's just as much a privilege and mercy and grace of God for you to teach a Sunday school class or run a Sunday school bus or sing in a choir or give out gospel tracts or Knock on doors in a neighborhood, anything that we are able to do for God, it is simply because He is gracious and merciful to us And when we finally get to heaven, and anything we may have done for God, when we stand before Jesus Christ, and He presents us with crowns for our service. Then, probably more so than ever in our lives, we're going to recognize it really wasn't about me at all. What are we going to do with these crowns that God gives to those that serve him? We're going to take them and we're going to say, Lord, you did it all. And we're going to cast them at his feet. That's exactly what Mary is doing. She's given it all back to God. God, it is you. Her focus, her song is focused on the Lord God, His grace, and then verse 50, His purpose. Verse 51 and through 55, His faithfulness. She's exalting the Lord. And then last of all, I notice this. It is a song that is firsthand. You say, what do you mean by that? I mean by that it's this, it's personal. You read down through here, this is intensely personal. My soul, my spirit, my God, my savior, my Lord. Mary had a personal relationship with God. Can I suggest to you? Can I say, and I'm not going to suggest, I'm going to say it. Christianity is not a religion. Biblical Christianity is not a religion. Do you understand what I'm saying? It is a relationship with a living Savior. Now, if you don't know what that means, if you don't understand what that means, that's probably because you really don't know the Savior. Can I be so bold? Because Christianity is not going through a ritual, it is not doing stuff, it is not a religion It is a personal relationship with a sinful creature, with a holy and gracious and merciful Creator. And when a person accepts the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, that is the initiation of a personal relationship with the God that created everything. And I'm afraid. And I'm afraid in a lot of our churches, and I'm talking about Bible preaching, independent fundamental Baptist churches, I'm afraid in a lot of our churches, Christianity is just something you do. It's a name tacked on. It's something we do on Sunday mornings. And there's no personal relationship with the God that made us. Let me ask you a question. Do you know Jesus Christ as your personal Savior? I didn't say, did you say a prayer? I didn't say did you kneel at an altar? I didn't say did you get baptized? Do you know Jesus Christ as your personal Savior? That's what biblical Christianity is. It's being born into the family of God. It's having relationship with the Lord. Somebody help me, am I right or wrong? I know I'm right. I know I'm right. And Mary wasn't just some ritual thing, doesn't say, oh, I'm a Christian, I'm a member of church. She had a sincere, genuine walk with God, a relationship with the Lord. She loved God, God loved her, they interacted. It's a personal thing. And that's what we pray for our young people. That we're not just indoctrinating them to think a certain way, but we're introducing them to a living Savior. And they fall in love with that Savior and they know that God and they want to please him, they want to live for him. They're not here because dad makes me. I'm afraid a lot of times we got people in church who would far rather be out there doing something else, but they're stuck here. As they're worried about what somebody would say. That's not Christianity. Come on, help me. That's not Christianity. Christianity is a relationship with my Savior How many folks here, when you got saved, something changed in your heart and soul, and you wanted to go to church? You wanted to be with God's people. You hungered for the Word of God. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Where is that? Mary had that. This was intensely personal. She had a personal relationship with the Lord. She had a personal response to her God I got looking at this, this is interesting. She's in the presence of Elizabeth when she's making these statements. Elizabeth is there, Elizabeth is with child with John the Baptist. No doubt there's other folks around, perhaps. But you read this, you read that, and it's like Mary is alone, standing alone before God. It's like she's oblivious to anyone else being around her, and she is so focused on the Lord. And that leads me to this thought. How many times do we worry too much about what other people around us think? Hmm? She it doesn't matter what anybody else thinks. She is responding to what God has done for her personally. It's not because it's not that I'm worried about what Matt's going to think about me. Oh, if I go to that altar, what will he think about me? Boy, if I do this, if I make that change, if I carry this Bible, what are people going to think about me? If I live for God, if I bow my head at lunch at the workplace, what will people think about me? If I tell someone I go to church, what will they think about me? What a sorry way to live. To be ashamed of my Savior, and to be worried about what other people think about me. I wonder how many people are in hell today because they were worried about what other people thought about them, never trusted Christ, died in their sins, separated from God all eternity, because they were worried about what other people think. Huh? I wonder how many Christians go through life sorry, emptied Christian lives. And not respond in any way, and don't let God change their life, and don't trust the Lord, and don't follow the Lord and obey Him. Why? Because they're so scared that I might not be cool. This world might think I'm odd. And so I and so I throw my Savior under the bus. What kind of Christianity? We're not gonna we're not gonna see revival in our country with that kind of Christianity. Am I right or wrong? Hey, I'm not preaching any different than independent Baptist preachers have preached for hundreds of years. What a shame. To be ashamed of our Savior. What a shame to be worried more about what the world thinks of me than what my Savior thinks of me. I look at Mary. Man, she's not co-redemption. She's not equal with God. We don't pray to Mary to get to God. We don't do any of that. She's a sinner saved by grace. But I'll tell you one thing She's a pretty good model of what it means to live by faith. She's a pretty good example for you and I to trust God and live for Him and please Him. I was reading and I left the article back in my office. I was reading this week about two missionaries, and maybe you remember seeing them in the news. They were in the Philippines about 15 years ago And they were held for one year, just a few days over a year, they were held captive hostage by Muslim terrorists in the Philippines. And uh their names escape me. Does anybody remember that in the news a number of years ago And uh what happened was the Filipino military finally came in. They they had paid a ransom, they were asking for ransom and the ransom was paid, then the the terrorists said, no, we want more money and they wouldn't release him, re release them. And they kept them for a lot longer. They upped the ante for the the they upped the ransom. Finally the Filipino military said, we've had enough of this. And they stormed in there. There was a big firefight. This deer missionary, him and his wife, he was shot and killed. But she was rescued. She wrote a book and she was lecturing just recently somewhere, and she said that that year she was so bitter. At the terrorists that were treating them so badly, the horrible things they did to them And she goes, I was so bitter at them and I was so angry at them and I wanted them destroyed. And then my husband was killed. And then she said, God got a hold of my heart. And she said, I realized how much God had forgiven me And that God had a plan and purpose through all of this. And she said, I began loving those that had so mistreated me. And 15 years later, I think she said it was four or five of the terrorists that were doing these terrible things to her, had come to Christ and had been saved. And she attributed all to the fact that I learned just to trust God, even when things didn't make any sense at all. And that's what I want to. I want to be able to trust God. Mary's act of faith. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us and challenge us. Help us to take very seriously our relationship with you. Help us to take very seriously our spiritual well-being and where we're at. And I pray that your Holy Spirit would overcome our stubborn neck, our stubborn heart, our hard hearts, and that we would be willing to say, as Mary did, be it unto thy servant. According to thy will. Lord, let your will be done in my life. And I tell you, Lord, we know that's where the peace is. That's where the fulfillment comes With our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many this morning would say, Preacher, this winter season, and there are some things that don't make sense. There's some things I'm really struggling with personally. And maybe they're private and nobody else in the world knows about it but God. But you'd say, preacher, I've been challenged by God's Holy Spirit. I want to just trust the Lord. I'm going to put that in his hands and have faith that he knows what he's doing. He's allowed this. I'm going to let his purpose play out. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray with me. There are some things that I just don't make sense. I don't understand. They hurt. Confused, maybe, but I'm going to trust God. God bless you. A bunch of hands around. Bunch of hands around. How many would say, preacher, you know, I've not been living by faith. I've allowed the world and things to creep into my Christian life and Maybe I've been worried about what others say or think. You'd say this morning, I want to turn from that, and I want to be concerned about what God says. I want my life to please Him. Is there anything like that? By the uplifted hand, preacher, pray for me. I want my life to be what God is pleased with. God bless you. Bunch of hands around. That's our desire. Let me ask this real quick. Is there any this morning to say, preacher, I'm not sure that when I die my sins are beginning on my way to heaven? Maybe you're very religious. My daddy was very religious. He was lost. Until he trusted Christ, and then that relationship was established. Is there any this morning? Say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved. I'm not sure my sins are forgiven. I don't have that personal relationship with Jesus Christ. And I want that. And I want that. Any like that by the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I've got to get that settled. I've got to get that settled. Now, Father in heaven, you know our hearts, you know where we're at. I ask you'd stir us And help us to learn from Mary this submissive faith in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer is playing the invitation hand.