What I want to do tonight is I wanted to talk a little bit about just master clubs. I always try to- I mean most of you have heard it, but not everyone. I see some new faces here that weren't here last year. So I want to go over that a little bit. I want to talk about the founder of Master Clubs and how we got to have Master Clubs here. And then I just want to give a really brief challenge at the end. I feel like I'm missing a sheet here somewhere. So that's what I want to do, and I'll try to get you out of here on time. But that never happens. Um this past week, does anyone here sell uh sell anything on like the online yard sales or Uh eBay or uh Craigslist or anything like that. You guys have any luck with that Selling stuff. I I don't I don't really never done any of that before, but I have a four-wheeler this past week that I wanted to sell. And uh I thought well I'll just have uh one of the ladies at the office put it on the online yard sale. And maybe I'll maybe I'll be able to sell it that way. Probably won't, probably won't get what I want out of it, but maybe I'll be able to sell it there so I had her put it on there within fifteen minutes a guy called is gone. I was like wow that is great. I sold I mean I sold that thing just just like that. It was it was really good. And I've been messing around with eBay a little bit also selling some stuff on there. I don't know if any of you knew this, but I I had some homing pigeons And uh I was able to sell those homing pigeons on eBay this week for the twenty-first time. It's really been working out really well for me with with that. If you didn't get that a little while later you might get it. I heard that this week, I thought that was pretty good. And it was funny because the when I heard it Um there were some other people. And like twenty seconds later the guy one guy got it and he just bust out laughing. He went, I just got it. Jackie wasn't sure what homing pigeons were, so That was my weak attempt at at a joke tonight. But I do want to thank everyone for coming tonight. Got a good crowd out tonight. I always say when I'm preaching, if I'd know if I'd have been told I was preaching, I probably would have stayed home. But uh thank you all for coming out. I want to thank you all for your support, Mr. Dave and Pastor Matt said that. Just want to thank you for your support, both prayerfully, financially, as Pastor said, without without you all giving, you know, we couldn't do what we what we do here. And uh I just want to thank you for that. And I think we have a successful uh uh children's and teen program here And I think that is because of the support of our church. And I I don't think that if the church and you all were not behind this, and I don't think if the pastor was behind was not behind this, I don't think it would work I don't think it would be a success. So thankfully I feel like we have we have the support of the church behind what we're doing. And it's evident when we when we need something. Um you ask for it and it you know the Lord provides it through through all of you. So I do want to thank you for that. Um I'm gonna pray here and then we're gonna get into this here. Let's pray. Father, thank you. Uh for another day you've given to us, Lord, and I just thank you for the privilege it is to be able to serve you. And I thank you for all these young people. Uh Lord, and uh they're a blessing. Thank you for our church and uh thank you for our pastor and his leadership. Lord, I just pray that you would uh continue to bless our church. that you would help us uh to get through this uh current uh crisis we're going through and be able to get our buses back running and and build our our our our ministries back up forward to where they were and just uh Keep going forward, Lord, and we see uh see young people saved and discipled and uh and just go on to live uh for you and to serve you. And we pray this in Jesus' name, amen. Alright, if you want to turn in your Bibles, uh we'll get there after it's gonna be a little while, but uh Matthew nineteen. We're gonna look at one verse there. But I did want to just review, like I said, for some of you maybe don't know what even Master Clubs is, I'll just tell you the story of how we came to have master clubs here. Um I got with Jackie and we got some dates together for when this all started. Back in 2010. Uh that was ten years ago. Um time flies. I don't know how long we had been here. When did we come here? Seven? Maybe oh seven. We've been here about three years and uh we were starting to work in the children's ministry. and uh and and those types of things. And a pastor came to me and Jackie. Uh he had received a postcard in the mail. From First Baptist Church out in Milford, Ohio, inviting uh churches to the Loving and Leading Conference out there that they have each year And uh if I remember right, Pastor asked me and Jackie if we would go. And I've told you before, you probably remember I said, uh well, I said we'll probably think about it. And uh I really didn't want to go. But as I said earlier, faster asks you to do something, you better off just do it. 'Cause I think I think he has the wiz Lord's wisdom a lot of times when he asks you to do things that maybe you don't think you should do or want to do, but I think, you know anyways. But uh he asked us to go, so we uh we decided to go. Um and we've been back every year since. Um and it's been a it's been a real blessing. And I think it's had a tremendous impact. on on our church and our people and our our mini our youth ministries. I really do. Um a lot of the the the things that we learn and ideas we get out there is a real help. So out it out there we uh were introduced to master clubs and I always say we went there and they didn't shove master clubs down our throat They weren't like a salesman trying to force us to do do this program. I think they they figured out that you know, uh th the program works for itself if you'll just try it. So we went there a couple of years, a couple three years. I think the first year I came back and I thought that's a pretty neat program. We didn't have anything going on for the young peop the I was like on Wednesday nights Then so um a couple years and I was talking to Pastor about it and we were like, well yeah, maybe we'll do it, maybe not you know and uh one year I came back um 2014. And uh we spoke with the pastor about it again. And it's just one of those things you can talk about forever, and unless you just decide to do it, you'll never get it done. And uh pastor said, let's just do it. So um well we didn't you know we didn't have workers or like where we're gonna get workers for it. But uh we decided just to start master flow. So in 2014 Uh we got a group of teachers together, pretty much the same ones that are still here. Sarah was helping us then with game time. We pushed her up to the teens. But uh but uh We got a group of people together and uh we started master clubs. And uh it's just been a a real real blessing, I think, to our church, and I really enjoyed it. um having it here. So obviously Master Clubs is a club for kids. We do it on Wednesday nights. And it's just what it is. We are training and teaching the kids about the master. The master club verse is Matthew 23, 10. And it says, for one is your master, even Christ. And that's what we're trying to teach these young people, is uh that they have a master whose name is Jesus. And um that they can they don't have to wait until they're adults to serve him, but they can learn how to serve him now. And teaching and training them how to serve the master. That's that's the goal of master clubs We uh out at Milford we met uh a man out there. The pastor know, I don't know how long you knew Ab, long time. But we met we met a guy out there uh named Ab Thomas. And uh Ab was the founder of Master Clubs. We met Ab and Janice and Paul and got to meet the family. I have a brief history here. I'm just going to read it. We don't miss anything. We mess anything up. This is just a brief history. While working with teenagers at Howland Park Baptist Church in Chattanooga, Tennessee, Ad Thomas discovered that in order to order to have a great team ministry, he needed to develop an exceptional children's ministry. After refining many ideas and overcoming countless obstacles, he developed Master Clubs, a discipleship ministry for children. But unlike other children's discipleship materials, he developed master clubs to go beyond just teaching children the truths of the Bible, but actually help children apply and live out those truths. In 1973, Ab Thomas and his family began shipping out materials to churches with the same vision for discipling children. Then in 1978, his church hosted the first national competition event for kids. Since that time, churches around the world have been using master clothes to disciple and evangelize children for Christ. Today, Master Clubs, a division of master ministries under the authority of First Baptist Church of Milford, Ohio, continues the passion displayed by Abb Thomas, now under the leadership of Daniel Jessup. Master Clubs continues to provide Baptist churches with the King James-based resources they need to effectively teach and train people to serve the Master. Masterclubs is currently used in over 550 Baptist churches in North and South America, Europe, and in the Philippines. So that's just a really brief um history of uh of where master clubs uh came from. I'll probably talk about that more in a little bit. Um so why we chose master clubs for our church, I know um there are uh other uh programs out there. And uh you know, but we chose um we chose master clubs. I gotta figure out where I'm at here. I lost something already after I Wait a second. We chose Master Clubs because Master Clubs was developed from a local Bible-believing Baptist church. One reason. And it was designed specifically for Baptist churches. A discipleship program, as James said, a discipleship program for our children. And unlike a lot of other programs, I looked up a few other programs and I know some of them some of them are okay, but a lot of them have drifted as much of the world is drifting. um in in their music, in their uh version of the Bible, and in and in a lot of other things. But as far as I can tell, Master Clubs hasn't hasn't drifted. It's continued to stay on the same path. Still everything that they put out is is in the King James Version. Um I didn't realize it until I started looking this up, but in uh 2010, the first year we were out there, was the first year that Abbott turned over um turned this over to another individual. It was Kirby uh Kirby Richman was the the director at the time. And his focus stayed the same. Stayed the same as as as Ab's, and now it's under the direction of Dan Jesse, and it's still the same. So uh we prayerfully it will continue to remain the same. Uh God doesn't change and the Bible hasn't changed. So uh no no need and change in uh no need and change in Master Clubs. Um But I I kind of skipped there something. But uh one thing uh and just real briefly, um our master club is broken up into a few different uh Sections we have rally time, we come in at night, we have just a brief uh couple minutes to get the kids try to get the kids energy out of it. Some of them it's impossible. Looking at the twins. But we try. Try to get all the kids focused on the Bible, get them get their minds off of what they were on, and focused on on master clothes. We have Bible time, which is just a simple Bible lesson that we have with them. Book time is really the the main focus where they work through their workbooks each night and they do a lot of work at home to design do a lot of the work and memorization at home. And then we have award time. All the materials, the vests and the badges is all provided for us from uh from First Baptist out there. So that's just kind of another thing that I miss back up later. We have a regional competition. Some of you know about regionals. This is our our sixth year in Master Clubs. Hard to believe we've been doing this for six years. My f what originally um sparked my interest in master clubs was these regional competitions. uh was was teaching these young kids how to to uh teach a Bible lesson or a Sunday school lesson. or uh the young young boys uh to do a five to seven minute sermon. You might say, well that's not a lot, but seven minutes for uh for a This is sixth grader, fifth grader or fourth grader even. Uh I think Isaac did when he was fourth grade. Um that's a that's a that's a big deal, I I think. That's a big deal. Gets them gets them started. And that really intrigued me was these regional competitions. To be honest, the church out there scared us to death. about these regional competitions. They said it'll be a mess for first year. And I told him, I said, you need to stop telling people that. Um so we were we were like, I don't know. But our fourth year we decided finally Melissa we we just said we're just gonna do it, right? We just said we're going. So me and Jackie went out to Ohio to observe one. And uh I mentioned that a little bit later also. And uh and when we went our first year last year and then this past year or year we went um to regional competitions and to see those kids um you know Work hard and and and do those is just it's amazing. It's amazing. Teaching them how to teach them how to replace us, right Brother James. Teaching us how to replace us Alright, I want to just talk for a few minutes about Ab Thomas, the founder of Master Clubs. Ab, like I said, we got to know Ab out there ten years ago. We met him. Uh it's a privilege to get to know know uh brother Thomas and uh his wife Janice and Paul and just great people. I don't know how to say it. They're just great people, humble people. Uh you know how y you can't er forget a lot of people's laughs like Byron Fox. Uh Ab has this little giggle I can hear it right now. He's just just just great people. We had him here at our church. We had had Ab and his family come in and do a teacher training for us a few years back. And uh that was a blessing. Um, you know, see AB now and I mentioned this many ago, I have a picture in my phone of AB when me and Jackie went out to Ohio to to to uh to observe that regionals out there. I'll never forget I took a picture of him. I think I sent it to Pastor. But there was Ab up in the corner of the bleachers, just back off in the corner all by himself, watching regionals, taking pictures. and uh just cheering away. And uh you know he's he's still still at it. Just uh maybe a little bit more in the background now, but he's Uh he's still teaching, still training, still going out on the road training, still writing materials. He's wrote put stacks and stacks of books and materials. I just always had a burden to uh to to help teach and train uh teach and train people and uh is still still producing materials Um today. That's one page down. I only got one more to go. So anyway. I got something I want to read about ab. This is the best way I know to do this. He has been training teachers for over 40 years. His passion is to train those who are Sunday school teachers, children's church workers, bus ministry workers, and teen ministry workers to be effective in teaching God's Word. Ab graduated from Tennessee Temple in 74. In 69, he was asked by Dr. Lee Robertson to direct a teenage ministry at Highland Park Baptist Church while still attending Tennessee Temple. A year later, he also took on the role of Children's Ministry Director. Here at Highland Park, Ab began compiling the children's training course that would later be known as Master Clubs. This ministry is a nine-year discipleship program for three-year-olds through sixth grade. Master Clubs is now being used in hundreds of churches across America. Ab and Janice were at Highland Park for twenty years until 1990 when they moved the Master Club ministry to First Baptist Church in Milford, Ohio, under the map under the leadership of Dr. Charles Keane and now Dr. Bill Dutch. The ministry is still thriving there today. Having turned master ministries and master clubs over to an extremely capable staff in 2010, Abbas dedicated the rest of his life to training teachers in the church settings and enhancing their teaching abilities. The Thomas family has four children who have been a great blessing. Their fourth child, Paul, is a Down syndrome child. Who travels to most training sessions and conferences? Paul serves the Lord alongside his father and mother, and he is a great joy to all he meets. And I know if Ab was here tonight, he wouldn't like what I'm saying about him right now. He wouldn't like to be recognized for anything, um, because he gives all the glory to God. for everything. But I just thought that was it would be good to just give you a little background of of the founder of Master Clubs and why we have it here and just a little bit of background on it. All right, my last part. Av has a saying, I don't know where he got it from. if it was original with him or not, but he always said, and I'll never forget it, he always says, never underestimate the potential of a child. And I may have said this last year at the awards program, very possibly. The same thing. The good thing is my memory is bad and I can't remember. And I'm hoping that all yours is bad and you can't remember what I said either. So if I said any of this before, it will be like it's new. The dab always said, never underestimate the potential of a child. I know I said this before because I remember saying that I am guilty of that, of underestimating the potential of our children. Let's go to Matthew nineteen, thirteen, and fourteen real quick. Jesus is talking here, Matthew 19, verse 13. It says, Then were there brought unto him little children. That he should put his hands on them and pray. And the disciples rebuked them. But Jesus said, Suffer little children, and forbid them not to come unto me, for of such is the kingdom of heaven. Verse 1 and 2 says, And it came to pass that when Jesus had finished these things, he departed from Galilee and came unto the coast of Judea beyond Jordan, and great multitudes followed him. And he healed them. Jesus is uh is in his ministry time here. He's uh out teaching and and preaching, he's with his disciples. And it said there was a whole bunch of people following him around. It says there was a great multitude. Jesus was healing people, doing miracles, and as I said, teaching. And I believe training is training his disciples, because uh Jesus knew one day he wasn't going to be here, and uh someone was gonna have to take his place. Um I noticed uh in in verse thir uh verse uh thirteen there, it says, Then were there brought unto him little children. So I noticed that I don't know these people, someone evidently had brought these children to Jesus. uh that these people uh were concerned uh for these children. They wanted Jesus to uh to pray for them. Um but the disciples What did the disciples do? The disciples rebuked him. The disciples, you know, said, well, you know, Jesus doesn't have time for these children. Um and they they they told him you know they rebuked him. They said don't don't bring him here. Um Trying to get my my my thoughts together here. I'm sorry. But Jesus Jesus saw um and these these children, Jesus said, no, don't don't send them away. The the disciples uh he said uh the these children are um the next generation. Our our parents I I think of when we raise we think of raising children sometimes we think well that's the church's responsibility. And I think sometimes we we think that the church is responsible for raising the children And technically it's not our responsibility, it's not the pastor's responsibility to raise the children, it's the parents' responsibility to raise your children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. But it is also the church's responsibility to help. and to teach and to do our part and uh in training uh the children. Um I just want to suggest that these children, I said this already, these children are our next generation. James says it often. And they're we're raising them up to uh to replace us. And we have to we have to teach them. We have to train them. We can't underestimate the potential that these children have. And I know I think Ab saw this, and if you if you in the one one part that I read there, Ab saw That by the time they were teens, in order to have have a good teen ministry, we can't just wait until they get to Pastor Matt and say, here they are, Pastor Matt, you do it. Um it's not too I I wanna I I was thinking, you know, when when a teenager comes in it's not too late. When Pastor Matt gets the teens, it's not too late. But what a what a missed opportunity if we allow our if we let our children allow our children to to to grow up in the church and we don't teach them, we don't train them, we don't see the potential that's there, we don't develop that potential. that's there and we just bring them up and then in a as a teenager we just expect 'em well they're mature now, right? I mean now they they'll really stick out they'll really stand out for God. They'll really they'll just do everything right. Um sometimes they do, but that that would be rare. Um but it but Ab realized that that we we have to we have to set a foundation. We have to start we have to start with them at a at a young age. and start teaching them, start training them, disciple them, teach them that they can serve um they can serve when they're in third grade, when they're three years old. They they can start to serve Uh we expect uh teenagers to show uh the potential, but if we don't I put cultivate, me and Randy have been talking about planting a little bit. If we don't cultivate them and uh and teach them, if we don't feed them, we've been talking about plant and food plots for for the deer. I don't know if any of you guys do that. Me and Randy do a little bit. Randy's a little better at it than I do. He's teaching me But uh I'm not real happy with mine this year. I don't think I've been doing it right. But in order for us to have a good food plot for our deer so we can you know, prepare them and make them nice and tasty when we eat them. Um we gotta feed we gotta feed that. We gotta cultivate it. There's a right way to do it. And there's a wrong way to do it sometimes. And sometimes it's trial and error, but but we we gotta we gotta teach them. Um I don't have I don't know if this statistic is exact anymore, but at one point it's somewhere around eighty percent of people uh accept Christ between the ages of five and twelve. That sounds about right, Pastor, somewhere right in there. Eighty percent of people trust Christ between the ages of five and twelve And the last time I checked that doesn't include teenagers. Um and i if we miss that, I mean that's huge. That's just huge. And a lot of times a lot of churches neglect that that age group. Most of their budget goes above that and we and we miss it And it's it's a problem. Um a problem that I had have had and I think that we have, I don't know if this will make sense, but I wrote we don't see potential Until we see the potential. Does that make sense? We don't look, sometimes we don't look at people and we don't see the potential in it until we actually can see it with our eyes. And uh and we miss it. We don't we don't develop it until we see it. Um we need to see the potential of our young people in the nursery. You know, we don't think about those nursery kids, but um we don't have to just let those nursery kids lay in their cribs. We can be singing songs to them, Bible songs to them in the nursery. You think well those kids can't Yeah We need to start start with our children uh from the time they're born, through the nursery, and uh and on up through, so that when they get to Pastor Matt And then they start they come in here and sit down and and and and get in with the adults that they have have that developed in them. Uh the people that brought the these children to Jesus, they saw that evidently they saw something in these kids, so they wouldn't have bothered bringing them. It says there in verse uh thirteen, and they were brought unto him Little children, that he should put his hands on them and pray. So evidently uh whoever these people were saw saw some potential, saw the need, and these children, they saw the need for Jesus uh in in these these young people. Um they saw that Jesus could help them. Um and obviously Jesus saw it. What did Jesus say? Jesus said, Suffer the children to come unto me and forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of heaven. Unfortunately, at this time at least the disciples didn't must not have saw it, because the disciples Rebuked him. And they said Jesus Jesus said no time for them. But Jesus said, No, bring it bring them to me. I'm about done. Uh when I think of uh seeing the potential in a child, and I'm wondering if maybe this isn't where Ab got some of this, was uh anyone in here that's met their son Paul I know a lot of you have got the chance to meet Paul. Paul is a Paul was born with Down syndrome. And if it's my understanding, I don't know if it's in this country, but I know some countries uh these days if you're if they determine that your child uh has Down syndrome, uh guess what they want you to do with them? Um we're not we're we're we're we're definitely neglecting the potential of our children in this this country these days with abortion. But um uh Paul was was born to uh to the Thomases uh with Down syndrome. And I'm no doubt, you know, a lot of people look at at at kids with Down syndrome or other um, you know uh physical or or mental uh defects or something like that is is a burden, something that's gonna you know require constant attention and care and and all of that. But At least as far as Ab and Janice I th I think went, I don't think they saw that in in Paul. I think they saw uh uh a a young man that that could be something for the Lord. And uh they uh Paul I I had his little pamphlet, I didn't bring it with me, but has uh for for a a a boy a guy with down syndrome has achieved tremendous things. Uh he he you know graduated from the the the s the high school there at at Milford. He went through Master Clubs. I think he got the Ambassador Award, which is the highest award in master clubs. I forget how many merit badges. He has a third degree black belt in karate. I mean if you think I mean third degree black belt and karate. He uh ushers, teaches, uh he he works in all the ministries in the church. He uh coaches basketball. I mean the list just goes on and on and on and on and on. And he is I I he he's just a unique individual. He's the happiest person I think I've ever met in my life. Uh they they say that you'll never out love a Downs child. And he he's just And but I I look at Paul and there's a lot of stuff I want to want to say about him. I forgot he preaches. I mean he preaches. Ab says he calls his dad the old man. But Ab says he doesn't get asked to preach anymore, everyone wants Paul to come preach. But God has disused him in a tremendous way. You know, they're just that's just an example of of you know, someone who you might think might not have much potential, but they they they took they they put into Paul everything and they trusted God that he'd use him and and God has used him just in In in tremendous, tremendous way. And I think sometimes if we just will see the potential in these young children and and put time and effort into them, we don't know what they're gonna be, we don't know what they're gonna do But I think if if if we'll do that and I think God will will will honor it and use them um for his his uh glory. I got a a little uh illustration I want to do. I need some help though. So I need Brandon and Brooklyn. If you guys could come up here. And I need Evan. Brandon and Brooklyn if you could stand over here. And Evan if you could stand over here. Nathan, would you mind coming up here? Nathan Yelly, would you mind going up here? He's like, seriously? Would you mind standing over there on the other side of heaven? Stand over here at your sister. What's that? Is there a couple of them? Oh I'm sorry. Could you stand over on the other side of Evan, please? No, I don't know I don't know Nathan that well. He's been coming coming here for a little while. Um but I just want to, this this is what I used to see in people. If I would come into this church and I would see Nathan there, Nathan's a you know big strong guy, young guy, how old are you? Thirty eight. Thirty eight. You look younger than thirty-eight. But uh I look I look at Nathan and I say, Man, that guy's got some potential. I think he could He could he could probably do something. He's a big strong guy. You know he could we could get him here. We'd get him over all kinds of stuff. Um but I I look at him and I say, man, there's there's some real potential there. And I look at Evan and I see Evan And I see Evan and I think Evan I said man that guy uh most you guys know Evan. Evan I I see some potential in Evan And I think Evan could really, really uh I think the Lord could really use Evan. Watched Evan from a little little kid um grow up. So I think Evan was how old when we came here? Just a little baby. Hard to believe But I've seen Evan preach. And he can preach better than I can. He might be able to preach better than past no, never mind. But uh Evan's a good preacher and he really he's really got a heart to serve the Lord. He's got a heart to uh to uh to to to change the country, I think, and uh to to he's got a heart for God. And I I see Evan and I think, man, I got he's got some potential. He could he could really do something for the Lord. And then I look at Brandon and Brookie And I gotta admit that until a little while ago I'd look at them and I just I'd look back, I'd get back to every year. I'd look at these guys because I I see you guys you guys you guys can do something for the Lord, right? And I I just I forget about 'cause I'm like, well they can't they're too little. You guys can go back down now. Thank you. But um uh God kind of convicted me on this, and this is where I just know to never underestimate the potential of a child. The Bible says here uh and they brought verse 13 if I can find it And they brought unto him little children. And uh I look at Brandon in Brooklyn there and I have no idea. Brooklyn's going to be coming into uh first year in Master Clubs this year. Brandon had one year. of this past year, but I look at them and I don't I don't have any idea what what God can do through them. But Now I'm looking at them and and I'm I'm seeing that that there's potential in all of our children to do something for the Lord. But we gotta take uh we gotta take them and uh and and do our best to teach them and train them and and cultivate them and I think that's one thing that Master Clubs does and uh what we're trying to do is uh is take these young young people and uh and teach them that even right now as young as they are that they can serve they can serve God right now. Um I think they can, right? What do you think? Yeah. We need to see I just want to finish, we need to see the potential in them, and I just want to finish uh with this verse. Jesus Said to these uh to these disciples who rebuked him. The disciples, these people brought these young children to to Jesus, and the disciples said, No. So he rebuked him. He said, No, we Jesus didn't have Jesus didn't have time for these little kids. But Jesus said in verse 14, he said, Suffer little children, and forbid them not to come unto me. For as such is the kingdom of heaven. And just thinking, those two little kids right there and others out there too. But uh these those right there, that's our future, James. And uh that's our that's our future Um there the back down, thank you. I'm done. I'm gonna pray and then uh I'll let Pastor uh do an invitation however he wants, but maybe you just wanna our kids need uh need our prayers. Um so maybe you want to just come up and pray for the kids tonight or whatever else. Let's pray. Father, thank you uh for uh this day, Lord. It's been a good day and uh It's been a blessing to uh be able to work with these young people over the years and I think we got a good group of uh of people here, workers, and we've got a good church that supports our our young people. And Lord, I just pray you continue to bless our young people and help us to uh to work just disciple them from young children. And uh we pray that you would You raise raise these these children up to to serve you, Lord, maybe uh they'd be a missionaries or pastors, teachers, or whatever you want for 'em. We just want you want your will. Doctors, lawyers, whatever it is, whether it's full-time ministry or a job out here, a secular job, Lord, whatever it is, we just pray that you would continue to bless our youth ministries. In Jesus' name we pray. A baby, let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I think we're just told to do what Mark suggested. Let's just pray tonight for our kids