Chapter 5. While you're finding that passage, you know, I don't know if you notice, we have a few boxes up here on the altar. These are Uh the book of Romans and in the beginning of the Romans is um the illustrated plan of salvation. They're very similar to what we put together uh back here, many, many tens of thousands, probably at this point hundred thousands We put together these are ones in English, and we're going to be taking these to St. Lucia. We leave a week from Tuesday, very, very early Tuesday morning. And we're going to be going down to St. Lucia with one of our own missionaries, Brother Um uh Wes Bartley, his wife Faith M. And uh they've got a little church they've started about a year ago and they've won some people to Christ. We're gonna go down and spend about six, seven days with them. And uh we're going to be doing some door to door through the south part of the island there. We're going to be doing, I believe, some paint work and uh some help around the facilities. And then each evening, Thursday, um I think it's Thursday, Friday, and then Sunday and Monday we're doing um sessions on uh Christian living for the new believers and trying to teach them how to read their Bible and pray and do some basic things. So I had the young men, the young fellows carry these up here, and what we want to do is that uh after the at the end of the service this evening We want to just have a special time of prayer, pray around these, that God will use them. And the reason we're doing it this week is I'm going to send these home with the folks that are going. We've got to pack them into our suitcases and whatnot and whatnot and um and uh get them packed in and so we won't be able to do that next week and so we want to have some real special prayer. So we're excited about it And appreciate everyone that helped. Uh have been praying. Many folks have given very sacrificially to make this possible, and we're very, very grateful for all of that. We praise the Lord. I praise the Lord for a church that has a real vision in getting the gospel into all the world. That is a blessing to me. Sandy said something to me a number of months ago and I've not forgotten it and I'm trying to use it in messages when I'm preaching out, particularly on missions, she said she's grateful for a church and I may you may have shared this in testimony sometimes. She said she's grateful for a church that's not only missions minded, but a church that is missionary minded. And not just have a vision for getting the mi the just the mission, getting the gospel out, but those who are part of that mission, the missionaries, and supporting them and helping them. And uh I agree. I'm very, very grateful for that. James chapter number five. Uh we begin this message last week, this passage I should say last week. Well, I'm going to read down through verse six And we're on the last chapter of the book of James. Go to now, ye rich men, weep and howl for your miseries that shall come upon you. Your riches are corrupted, and your garments are moth eaten, your gold and silver is cankered, and the rust of them shall be a witness against you, and shall eat your flesh, as it were fire. You have heaped treasure together for the last days. Behold, the hire of the laborers who have reaped down your fields, which is of you kept back by fraud, crieth, and the cries of them that have reaped are entered into the ears of the Lord of Sabbath Ye have lived in pleasure on the earth and been wanton. You have nourished your hearts as in the day of slaughter. You have condemned and killed the just, and he doth not resist you. Wow What an indictment. How many people believe that if James preached, if James was a preacher, he'd be what you call a hard preacher? Anybody pick that up? Goodness I mean he's just laying it out there. And what he's talking about here is I've kind of changed the title a little bit. What he's describing here is what we would call materialism. Materialism. So let's pray. I'll briefly review what we touched on last week. I'll give you a little outline tonight. So let's pray together before we look at this. Father Uh this is a pretty straightforward passage here, Lord. I believe it applies to us as Americans, perhaps more than we recognize, but more than we'd like to care to admit. And God, we don't want to be guilty of materialism. We don't want to be materialistic. We want to be spiritual and Christ-minded. And we want to have biblical values and biblical priorities. So I ask now as we look into this passage that you would please fill me with your spirit, challenge us and help us in this matter of dealing with stuff. And money. And I pray that we would have a right approach there. So please, uh again, fill me with your spirit, I ask, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. You remember I said if money talks, all it ever says to me is bye-bye. Anyone remember that? Uh Stumpy was would go to the um uh county fair every year with his wife, and every year they had an airplane there, and for ten bucks You could get in the airplane, he'd give you a plane ride and come back. Every year Stumpy wanted to get in that plane ride and for ten bucks ride a plane and every year his wife would talk him out of it And she say, ten bucks to go on a plane ride? Well, you're not going on a plane ride for ten dollars. He says it's only ten dollars. And his wife always said that. Stumpy, ten dollars is ten dollars So the next year would go by, he'd go back, the same thing happened again. It was always the same pilot there. And after a number of years, uh Stumpy was getting up there and age a little bit, and he was 80-some years old and came up to the airplane, he told his wife, I want to go on a air airplane ride. And the pilot said, ten dollars. And his wife said, Sweetheart, ten dollars for an airplane ride? Uh ten dollars is ten dollars. And finally the pilot had all he could take. And he says, listen, you two, every year you come by here, every year you fuss with each other, and uh every year, I tell you what, I'll give you the plane ride for free. If You both not say a word the whole time we're flying. Not a sound. And they looked at each other and said, it's a deal, we can do that. So they both piled in the plane. He took off. He got up in the air. He did every trick he knew how to do. He flew upside down. He did loops the loops. He did barrel rolls. He did skull dives. He did everything. And lo and behold, the whole time they never made a peep. Finally landed and uh as they're getting out and they're sitting behind the pilot, the pilot kind of leans back over and he says, Stompy, I'm impressed. He said, I did everything I could to get you and your wife to holler or scream or make some kind of sound, and you never made a peep. You get to fight for free. And Stompy said, Yeah, you just about got me there when my wife fell out and um He said, Good night, your wife uh why didn't you tell me how to stop? He goes, Well, ten dollars is ten dollars. Now we laugh about that, but the fact of the matter is if we would stop and really evaluate our priorities, I'm afraid a lot of times we sacrifice some things that are far more valuable than money. For just a few bucks. And that's what materialism is. If you remember, we pointed out that materialism is not simply owning material things. There's nothing wrong with that Materialism is not necessarily just having money or even a good bit of money, a lot of money. It's nothing, it's not uh simply owning a nice house or a very nice house or cars or whatever. That in and of itself is not materialism. Materialism is this, and this is the definition we gave, if you'll remember. Materialism is a preoccupation with or a overt emphasis upon the material aspects of life. In other words, putting too much of an emphasis or too much of a priority on money On possessions, on comforts, or on pleasures, to the point that I neglect my spiritual values To simplify it down, it's simply this, taking, it's simply this, giving to money and to stuff a higher value Than the value I have on my relationship with God. On giving money and things, material things, a higher priority than my relationship with God and others. That is materialism. If you remember, I asked you, I asked all of us three questions last week. I believe we ended with this. Let me ask you them again, and then we'll set up the outline that I put together here from this passage. Number one, here's my first question. And I want us all to ask ourselves this. All right, here's our first question. Am I content with what I have? Can I honestly say in my heart, I am completely content with what I have? Or do I constantly need something else? If you never got anything else for the rest of your life, would you be happy to spend the rest of your life with what you have? Now, the second question I gave us was this: Am I using the possessions God has given to me for the purpose they were given to me? Remember, we touched on the fact that we are actually stewards of what we have. We don't own anything, it's all the Lord's, really. And God has entrusted us with our possessions and with our finances. with the the various aspects of life? And are we using them for the purpose that God has given to us? I look out in the world and you see in the media and whatnot there are people out there that are very, very gifted. Some musicians are very gifted Some artists are very gifted. People are very gifted in many ways. Whether they realize it or not, those gifts are given to them by God. Those abilities and those and talents are entrusted to them by God. And we see so often people of the world using these talents that God has entrusted them, not for His glory and not for the advancement of the gospel. but for their own enrichment and their own exaltation. And so as a Christian, you and I, I need to stop and say, all right, here are the things that God has entrusted me with. Am I content with this? If he never gives me another thing, would I be content with what I have? Am I using what God has entrusted me with for the purpose he's given it to me And then we had this question, and I put it this way, when God and gold are in conflict, who wins? If it comes between, is it going to be my desire for money or my desire to please God? Which of, when those come in conflict with each other, which one wins? Which one comes out? So those three questions and an odd answer to those three questions will tell me where I'm at in this matter of materialism and how strong of a grip material things have on my heart and life. When we start viewing God's blessings, when we start viewing God's provisions as an end in themselves We are beginning to develop a materialistic mentality. In other words, God entrusts me with X number of dollars a week, maybe my salary or your income or whatever. Um when I begin viewing what God provides for me and I just an end in itself getting that money or getting that possession or getting that new clothes or whatever it may be, getting that, when that is becomes the end of itself, rather than receiving that as a trust from God to be used as God intends. I'm looking at it becoming mine. Mine. I'm developing a materialistic mentality. Now, let's look at our passage here. I'm going to give a few thoughts about materialism that I see In these six verses here. Number one, I noticed in verse number one that materialism brings sorrow. Materialism brings sorrow. When you and I are living for the sole purpose of stuff And that is our focus, and that is our priority, is things and finances and all that. It will bring sorrow to our lives. Look at verse number one. He says, he begins the the passage here with an uh uh an unusual statement. Go to now ye rich men. What does he mean by go to now? What what does that mean? Go to now, ye rich men. It's kind of like something we won't say it this way. Oh, come on now? Oh, does anybody ever say something to you and you're a little incredulous about it and you say, come on. Anybody know what I'm talking about? It's like, seriously? Uh no, he says, come on, you guys, go to now, you rich men. Are you guys serious? Are you really doing this? Go to, you rich men. Weep and howl for your miseries that are going to come on you And he's trying to get their attention. He's making the statement, and I can imagine if he was preaching this passage as a sermon, and the church was now, and uh he's transitioning now to a new point from the previous chapter, and he says, Go to now, you rich men. I'll tell you what, the rich men in there, they brought their heads up. That he's caught their attention. They're listening to what he has to say. And what he says to them is that their materialism, their their prior their placing their riches and their and their uh uh money at such a high priority is going to cost them. Now the term rich men there has this idea. It's a sp a very specific term what it comes from. It means people who are abundantly wealthy. People who are abounding in riches. This isn't just the guy. He's not just addressing, and although it would apply to them, but he's not addressing the guy that's Got his bills paid and maybe has a couple bucks put up on the side and you know he's middle class getting by. That's not necessarily who he's addressing, though the principle would apply. He's addressing the rich folks I mean the extremely wealthy folks, those who are overabounding in riches. So he says, go to now, you rich men. First of all, he gets their attention. Then he points out to them under this idea that brings sorrow, he states the intensity of their misery. Look at the terms he uses. Go to now, ye rich men. Look at the terms he uses. Weep and howl for your miseries that shall come upon you. If you see somebody You knock on someone's house or you go visit a friend and they're sitting in the living room and maybe they're sitting on the floor, their hands are in their face, and they are weeping and howling What does that tell you about them? What would be your conclusion? You see somebody, friend, they're sitting on the floor, their hands in their face, and they're weeping and they're howling. What's your conclusion? They're really upset. Something terrible has happened. Their heart is breaking. Their world is collapsing. And this is an intense misery that he's describing here. It's an overwhelming sorrow. And when he says weeping and the idea of howling, it's an uncontained sorrow. Did you ever see something or a situation, maybe you watch something or whatever, and it kind of broke your heart and you began to weep, but you were trying to hold it back. Anyone know what I'm talking about? You're trying to hold those tears back and And you're holding back and you're trying not to. Anybody know what I'm talking about till we get there? Well this is a sorrow. That was pretty good, wasn't it? Uh Dennis here when he's describing your weeping and your howling, it's the whole idea like this sorrow has completely taken over. I can't contain it anymore I have seen it many times at funerals or whatnot, particularly. Often it's a funeral of an unsaved person, and the family's there, and they are so broken. And they are so overcome by grief and sorrow they cannot contain. And they begin to almost the term here is how they just weep so overwhelming weep over the situation Then it gets worse. Look what he says. Weep and how for your miseries that shall come upon you. He is painting a horrific picture here. The word miseries has the idea of intense hardships, intense trouble, overwhelming calamities. And what he's saying is this, because of their wrong attitude towards their possessions Because of their wrong attitude towards their riches, great heartache and great trouble is coming their way. Intensity of it. Money does not alleviate troubles. Did you get that? Money does not alleviate troubles. And uh not if uh uh um if I don't uh if I don't value it correctly, if it'll intensify my troubles Um, we had and it's kind of interesting how this comes together, but this past week in the news, you see that the big uh lottery thing going on somewhere, I don't know. uh what state it was, but I mean just ridiculous amounts of money and everybody's all worked up and everybody's uh they're buying these and uh going on And uh uh somebody made this statement. I don't remember who it was, but I thought it's pretty good. They said this, if you're unhappy before you win it, you'll be unhappy after you win it Now I adjust that. If you're unhappy before you win it, you'll be even more unhappy afterward. I'm telling you, money does not alleviate troubles. Money does not alleviate sorrows. If it's not handled right, if it's not valued properly. It makes them even worse. I know a fella uh very, very close. Some folks in this church know will know who I'm talking about. One years ago, won a tremendous amount of money, tremendous amount of money. And he was on top of the world and living high on the hog for years. But you know, all that came collapsing down. And now he's in debt. Beyond, he'll never get out of debt. His marriage is gone. His wife has left him. He's in shambles. You know why? Because money does not alleviate troubles. It intensifies them if we do not have a right priority. A miserable I came across this quote, a miserable rich man has spiritual problems, not financial problems. And a miserable poor man has spiritual problems, not financial problems. Because the joy of the Lord is never based upon my level of income. And the blessings of God and peace in my heart is never dependent upon the amount of money I have. And when I start looking to material things to do for me what only God can do for me, I'm only asking for trouble. And that's what he's addressing here. Some of the most miserable people on earth are people who are tremendously wealthy Uh how many people here recognize the name Louis Lemour? Anybody recognize that name Louis Lemour? Broke Great Westerns. I've read them all. My dad loves them. I've read them for years Um we have a friend of our family, uh Bob First, lived in southwest Colorado. I was out there uh a number of times to see him out bit hunting with him years ago, and uh Bob was an outfitter, he would take guys up in the mountains hunting. And uh in the off-season, one of his jobs was was to deliver propane to the different places there in southwest Colorado, in the Durango and Cortez, that bottom corner down there. And uh He would deliver, I believe it was propane, he would deliver propane to Louis Lemoire's ranch. Louis Lemour was intensely wealthy, unbelievably wealthy. He said his ranch was just phenomenal and the house was amazing. And he said usually he would just deliver it and then leave and interact with one time for whatever reason he had to go in and lo and behold Louis Lemour was there And he had to do some paperwork with him. I don't know exactly what it was, but he came back and Bob told me this. He said, Dennis, he says, that guy's unbelievably wealthy, unbelievably successful And he said he's unbelievably miserable. He said, I think I met one of the most unhappy people I've ever met in my life. He's miserable. Miserable. Some of the most miserable people on the planet are rich people. Can I say this? Some of the most miserable people on the planet are poor people who want to be rich. And they're never satisfied, and they're never content, and no matter what they get, it's never enough What I'm trying to say is this, materialism brings sorrow to the heart and life. In fact, he points out here that misery is going to be inescapable. Look at the verse again. Go to now, you rich men. Weep and howl for your miseries. That shall come upon you. He's saying, listen, it's inescapable if you're living for things If your light consists of money and stuff and material things, if that is your world, and he doesn't say it this way, but this is what he's getting to, if that is your God, little G God You are headed inescapably for sorrow and misery. And it's inescapable. He says it shall come upon you. I put this statement down. Money and stuff can never meet the spiritual needs of my heart and soul. Never can Our spiritual well-being can never be met by material possessions. My soul can never be filled by material possessions. If I'm looking for material things and riches to do for my heart and soul what only God can do for me, I'm going to be left empty and sad and miserable. Turn with your Bibles, if you would, to Acts chapter 6. Keep your place here. We're going to look at these other this other passage real quick. But I want you to notice something. In Acts chapter 3, we are in the very early days of the New Testament church. These Christians have just experienced the filling of the Holy Spirit of God. Jesus Christ has ascended to heaven, the Holy Spirit has been given, and they are out in power, zealously preaching the gospel. In Acts chapter 3, notice with me verse number 6, if you would. Well, let's get the context here. In verse 2, it says a certain lame man, laying from his mother's womb, was carried and laid at the gate of the temple And uh he'd ask Psalms. And look at verse 3. Peter and John, leaders in the church, on fire for God, just filled with the Spirit of God. Go to the temple, and he saw Peter and John about to go to the temple, and he asked them for alms. Verse 4, and Peter, fastening his eyes upon him with John, said, Look on us And boy, this poor guy, he's excited now. And he gave heed unto them, expecting to what? Receive something of them. You know what the world's always looking for? The world's looking for something. Look at their response. Then Peter said, Silver and gold have I what? None. What this man was looking for to meet his needs, what this man was looking for to fill his soul and give him purpose and meaning in life. Well stuff, money. He says, we don't have any of that. That's not going to meet your need. But such as I have, such as I have, give I thee in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk. They didn't have money, they didn't have riches, but they had the power of God upon them, and that could meet the needs of mankind. Never was the church any stronger than it was at this point in time. Never has the church been growing more mist m miraculously than it was at this time. Never have Christians been healthier spiritually than they were at this time, and never have they been poorer than they were at this time. Their hope was not in stuff. It was in the Lord. It was in God. Uh one of the um reformers was confronted by a leader in the Catholic Church back, I think it was like the 1700 15 or 1600s. And the leader in the Catholic Church referenced this, and he said, no longer does the church have to say, silver and gold have I none. Catholic Church. And the reformer, I don't remember the fellow's name which one it was, he made this statement back and he said, yes, and no longer can the church say rise up and walk. And it was an indictment against the Catholic Church that they had sold out the truth of God and the presence of God for gold and silver, and they lost the power of God. And when you and I become materialistic, and we begin to value stuff and we begin to value money more Then we value our walk with God and our submission to God. And we begin to live for things rather than the glory of God. Sorrow is inevitable Because we lose the presence and the blessing and the power of God upon our lives. And so my first point here I notice in James chapter 5, verse number 1, is materialism brings sorrow. Never, I don't think there's ever been a time in American history when Americans have been as miserable as they are now. And there's never been a time in our nation's history where America has been as wealthy as it is now And they're looking to riches and material things to bring happiness, to bring, to meet the spiritual needs of their heart and soul, and only God can do that. And when we neglect the Lord for things, we are sorrowful. So my second thing I notice here, second point I notice first, materialism brings sorrow. I see that in verse 1. I put this down, materialism is short-lived Look with me at verse number two. Your riches are what? Corrupted. Your garments are what? Mothbeaten. Your gold and silver is Canker, and the rust of them shall be a witness against you, and it shall and shall eat your flesh as it were fire ye have heaped together for uh ye have heaped treasure together for the last days. Psalm or Proverbs chapter 23 and verse 5 says this: Wilt thou set thine eyes upon that which is not? For riches certainly make themselves wings, then fly away as an eagle toward heaven Do you catch what he's saying there? Riches make themselves wings and they fly away as an eagle toward heaven. My dad was down over Christmas, as you know. We went out one day to a place I like to fish and there's a uh occasionally there'll be a bald eagle there, sometimes there's two of them there, and I was doing a little trout fishing and dad was uh sitting by the truck there and just we're enjoying it and I said, Dad, look across the lake there. There's a bald eagle up in the in the tree. And I think Kathy was with us. And uh we looked and sure enough there was a bald eagle sitting up there watching me catch fish. or watching me not catch fish. And uh and uh it was just a neat setting and we got talking a little bit and I was trying to point it out to Dad and I was fishing away there and I just glance up at that thing and lo and behold I looked up one time and that thing was gone. And I looked around, I looked around, where'd it go? It was right there. I mean it wasn't that far off, it was right there. And that old bald eagle was able to slip out of there and flew away, and I never saw that thing take off And I read that verse and I thought, that's just like my money. Can I get a witness? Where in the world did it all go? How did it get away from me? What in the world? We call it this way: putting your money in bags with holes. And the Bible tells us that, listen, if we're putting our hope and we're basing our happiness on what we have and the things we have and the money we can uh can pile up and the stuff we can get, if that's where our happiness is, if that's where our focus is, if that's where all our energy is going into He says, listen, you're investing yourself and your time and your efforts in something that is very, very short-lived. Take your Bible if you want. I'd like you to see another passage, Matthew chapter 6. Back there, the first part of the New Testament, if you turn there real quickly, Matthew chapter 6 And Jesus touches on the same subject. In fact, Jesus touched on this a number of times through his teachings in the gospel. And in Matthew chapter 6, he points it out this way. In verse number 19. Notice what he says. Now I have this underscored with a red pen in my Bible because I think it's very, very important truth here. He says, lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth That'd be materialism, where moth and rust doth corrupt. Doesn't that sound like James chapter 5, verse 2 and 3? Where moth and rust doth corrupt. Where thieves break through and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures where? In heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal. For where your treasure is There will your heart be also. If my treasure is on things on this earth and piling up money here and piling up stuff here, if that's where my treasure is, that's where my heart is, and if that's where my heart is, then I am materialistic. I am living for something that is temporary. That is going to corrupt, is going to be morph eaten, and is going to rot away and rust away. He's saying, listen, he's saying we have a choice. I can invest myself and I can invest that which God entrusts to me in temporal things or in eternal things How many people here are familiar with the story of the rich man in Lazarus in Luke chapter 18? You know the story. And the rich man dies, and in hell he lifts up a he lifts up his eye being in torments And uh I want to point this out. He did not go to hell because he was rich. I want to suggest to you he went to hell because he allowed his riches to keep him from Christ. And in hell he lifted up his eyes, being in torments, and he said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me. And send Lazarus name, dip the tip of his finger in water, and cool my tongue, for I am tormented in these flames. And the Lord responds back to him. He says, Thou in thy lifetime receivest thy good things. Thou in thy lifetime, you received the things God gave you. You received thy good things. And you based your heart, you put your heart on them, and you And you made them your treasure, and you made them your God, and you live for the things that God gave you. And now they're gone. They're gone. They were temporary. And now here you are, lost without Christ in all eternity. Lost. Everything he lived for was temporary. Everything he invested his life in was temporary, morphe, and rusted. The words back here in James, he says, your riches are corrupted. The word corrupted there has the idea of rotting away. You see an old dead possum along the road in the summertime, and you go by and you look at it and it's like, ew. And um That thing is corrupted. It's rotting away, decaying away. You say that's what's going to happen to your riches. Moth eaten. It's the idea of a b uh it's the idea of a uh you don't have this so much anymore, but used to be uh if a moth got in the closet. What would happen? And you'd have holes all over your clothes and everything. How many people remember back when you used to have mothballs? I don't think do they still do that? Really? No wonder my clothes all have holes in. I don't know they still had them. But uh it's the idea that it's being consumed. This stuff you're investing in is just rotting away, it's being consumed, it's temporary. Then he goes on and he gets more destructive. Your gold and your silver is tankered The word cankered means all covered with rust. And is cankered, and the rust of them shall be a witness against you. The rust will prove to you and be a testimony. That this is temporary, at best it's temporary. And so, number one, if you and I Place money and things and material stuff too high and we put our heart set our hearts on that It's going to bring sorrow guaranteed it's bringing sorrow can't escape it It's short-lived. That which we are investing so much in is just temporary. It's going to be gone. And last of all, I notice here in verses 4 through 6 that materialism is selfish. It's selfish. Look what he says. In fact, there at the last part of verse 3 actually touches on it. He says, ye have heaped treasures together for the last days. Behold the hire of the laborers who have reaped down your fields which is of you kept back by what? Fraud He says, you've got to the point where money and stuff has become so valuable to you, become such a priority to you, you are hoarding it up. You're hoarding it up. You're just piling it up. Listen, he's not talking about legitimate savings. Bible in Proverbs in several places talks about, you know, savings. That's a legitimate thing. That's a wise thing. It's a godly thing to do. I think every young person ought to uh as soon as they start making money ought to learn to put a little bit up, a little bit up, a little bit up. That's not what he's talking about here, a legitimate sensible biblical saving thing, what he's talking about here is living for the very purpose of getting more. The whole drive in life is to get as much as I can. The difference between a legitimate savings and hoarding is the motive. What is my purpose? Am I taking a little money and putting it up, a certain percentage of my income, putting that up so I can help my children and leave a blessing to my uh grandchildren and my and my next generation? Am I doing that? so that I can maybe save some money up and there's a mission trip, I can help somebody go to that mission trip? Or is it simply to get stuff more and more and more and I can sit in my closet And count off how many uh ba uh uh who's on the hundred dollar bill? I saw one of them once, I'm trying to remember. Uh and counting them off there and just see how many I have. He says materialism is selfish. There's only one reason a person lives for money and stuff, it's for self. I notice there in verse 36, not only does this selfishness produce hoarding, but this selfishness actually hurts other people. Materialism is selfish and it hurts other people. Look at verse 4 again. Behold, the higher of the laborers you have reaped down your fields, which is of you kept back by fraud. It cryeth. God says, I see what you're doing to others I see how you're ripping them off. You're not pulling anything over. They might not be aware of it, but I see it. Um The cries of them which have reaped are entered into the ears of the Lord of Sabbath. Ye have lived in pleasure on the earth and been wanton. You're hurting other people. These people are working hard You're using the money and material for your own gain. You're abusing others in the process. Now, this isn't a direct application, but I want to squeeze it in here a little bit When you and I get so wrapped up in what we get for ourselves and how much we compile up for ourselves, And we fail to see the role that we have in getting the gospel to people around the world like Kazakhstan and ministries like Beacon of Truth. Where the gospel is going out, and I just want to hoard it up and hoard it up and hoard it up. And people who are in desperate need of the gospel, and I don't help them out, I'm hurting those people Listen, I'm not trying to put a guilt trip on anything. I'm not trying to go beyond scripture, but I will say this, if we don't help with faith-promise missions, we're hurting people in the mission field who could get the gospel if we would be willing to give of ourselves a bit I'm not saying sell all you have and send it to missions. But I am saying this. If stuff is more important to me than the souls of people on the mission field, something's wrong. Something's wrong. And he says, you're hurting others. You're hurting others. You're not being fair. So selfishness brings up this materialism is very selfish. It's what it is. It produces hoarding and it hurts others. It hurts others. So here's the question. You and I, let me make this statement. You and I live in a materialistic society. Can I get you to agree with me on that? We live in a materialistic society. We are saturated with materialism. I want to suggest to you the overwhelming majority of stuff on TV is preaching materialism. You have to have this. You need this. Everybody will think you're an idiot if you don't have this. Buy more of this. Get a bigger one of that. Get more of these. Invest in that and do this. And the whole basis of it all is the love and worship of stuff. And you and I are baptized in this world. We live, we're saturated in it. And you and I, as a child of God, have got to rise above that. And we have got to guard our hearts and keep our focus and our love and our commitment to Jesus Christ. And his glory and his gospel. Are you saying, preacher, are you saying preacher? Are you saying it's wrong to be wealthy? No, it's not wrong at all. We've already talked about that If God provides and God blesses and God does that, praise the Lord. All I would say is just use it as God instructs. Use it for his glory There's nothing wrong with having a nice house. There's nothing wrong with driving a nice car. But I need to understand I'm operating for God's glory and following his direction. So here's what I want to end with. How do I have victory over materialism? I live in a society and it creeps in our hearts. Our flesh loves it. How do I have victory over it? I've just jotted a few things down. I end with this. Number one, I need to settle my salvation. If I'm not saved, I am vulnerable to materialism as you can get. That rich man in hell did not go to hell because he was rich. I want to suggest to you that rich man went to hell not because he was rich, but he allowed his riches to keep him from Christ. And there are people that have no time for God, have no time for the gospel, have no time to think about their soul because their world is wrapped around stuff. And I've got to get that salvation settled. And I need to push the stuff aside, and I need to look to Christ. Number two, I put this down. If I'm going to have victory or materialism, uh materialism. Settle my salvation. But here's once we're saved, we've got to do this. I need to establish an eternal perspective. We're only here for a little time, folks. This world's not our home. We're just what? Passing through. We're just passing through. We're just passing through I use this illustration probably too much, but it fits perfectly here. When I was youth pastor, we were in Indianapolis, we would take the teens once a year down to Cincinnati to King's Island. And um we'd have it all figured out. They needed so much money to get in the gate to go in there and then they would buy, we'd stop, you know, we had fifty teams and have to stop every other exit because all the girls had to use the restroom. So Um that's a whole nother message. I'll preach against that someday. But uh So anyway, we go down there. We had it all figured out. There's one guy in the youth group, Steve. This guy had been in a car wreck when he was young and had various uh physical handicaps as a result of it and he got this phenomenal uh thing from the wreck and from insurance. I mean the kid was the richest kid in the richest person in the church probably. And it was in a trust fund and when he got a certain age, I think sixteen, then he was able to get a certain amount of it, and it was you know, it was just incredible. And, you know, he was s pretty severely injured as a result of it, and it was going to be a lifetime thing. He's going to be disabled the rest of his life. And so no doubt every time we pile in there, this old guy had more money than anybody. And he'd just have it there, you know, he's a 16-year-old kid. got a stack of bills and and uh he's just like yeah and he's a good kid every time we'd stop he'd go in and spend forty bucks you know he'd have soda pie everybody soda pie And every time we did it, the four heroes there, every time we did it, we got to the gate of King's Island. Guess who didn't have any money left to get in the gate? Steve. He spent it all on the way down. I said, Steve, you have got to see beyond the truck stops on the way down. There's somewhere we're going you're investing down there And I think of that, and I think about a lot of Christians. And we act and we spend and we invest ourselves as if this life is all there is. We're just past this is just Route 65. This is just truck stops along the way. Our destination is heaven, is glory. Don't waste everything here on this old temporary earth. Let's keep an eternal perspective. There's more to life than just the physical, and there's more to time than just the present. There's an eternal future. And let's not forget that. When I get materialistic, all I start seeing is this light, this light, this light, this light piling up. This is old, it is corny, but it is true as can be You never see a U-Haul hooked to a hearse. Right or wrong? Never do. Never do. And if anybody would do that, that would tell me that all they saw in life was the here and now, and they never saw beyond. So number one, settle your salvation. Number two, establish an eternal perspective. And last one is this: submit. To my responsibility as a steward. I keep coming back to this. And I believe the cure for materialism is understanding that all this stuff is not mine. It is God entrusted it to me for me to use in a responsible, Christ-honoring way. To advance the gospel, to glorify the Lord, to be a blessing to my to people around me. And so submit to my responsibility as a steward. Martin Luther made this statement. I have held many things in my hands and have lost them all. But whatever I have placed in God's hands, that I still possess. Isn't that a good statement? I don't want to believe that anybody in this auditorium is materialistic. I don't want to believe that. I don't want to believe that. I don't want to believe that your pastor has any materialistic thinking or values in his heart and life, but I know this, that you and I have a sinful flesh. And we live in the richest wor uh we live in the richest country in the world. We have more stuff available to us than Walmart has than entire nations have, no doubt, in parts of the world, entire areas. And you and I, with a sinful nature and an overwhelming prosperity around us, are vulnerable to materialism. And we've got to guard our hearts. And we need to keep an eternal perspective. And we need to understand that we don't own any of this. Every bit of it is God's. Hey, I want to suggest to you the air you and I are breathing, it's not ours. It's God's letting us have it and use it. So tonight, let's ask the Lord to search our hearts. Let's reevaluate my perspective on things and money. He said, You tell me I shouldn't have. No, no, no. We already said that. It's nothing wrong with being wealthy. It's nothing wrong with having stuff. Nothing wrong with it. It's my attitude and the value I place upon it. And my perspective. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us tonight. This is a straightforward challenge from your word. Old James. I'd like to hear him preach this, Lord. I pray you'd help us. I pray you'd search our hearts, my heart. And that we would view the things that you entrust us with with the same perspective and put the same value on it that you do, Lord. And we would use it and enjoy it for your glory. In Jesus' name. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many times