Alright, Joshua chapter 4. I want to read verse 6 and 7. Then we're going to go to the very last verse of the chapter, 24, where we'll read that together in unison. Joshua chapter 4, verse 6 says, That this may be a sign among you, that when your children ask their fathers in time to come, saying, What mean ye by these stones? Then ye shall answer them, that the waters of Jordan were cut off before the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord. When it passed over Jordan, the waters of Jordan were cut off. And these stones shall be for a what? A memorial unto the children of Israel forever. Now come over to verse 24 and let's read that last verse together in unison Already? Here we go. That all the people of the earth might know the hand of the Lord, that it is mighty, that ye might fear the Lord your God forever. That statement in verse 24 is declaring one of the purposes for these memorial stones that Israel was to set up when they crossed the river. Is that all the world may know the greatness of our God. So I want to speak this morning on memorial stones. So let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, we come to you this morning very grateful For the privilege of living in the land that you have placed us in. We love our country, Lord. We love the world. We want to reach everybody in the world. You love the whole world. You gave your son for the whole world But this is where you've placed us, and God, we're grateful. And we're grateful for the men and women who paid the ultimate price for our freedom, for our liberties And we ask you would help us to honor them in an appropriate way. We're grateful for our spiritual forefathers that gave their lives so that we can hold a Bible, so that we can worship freely. Lord, we thank you most of all for the Lord Jesus Christ who gave his life so we can have eternal life. So now as we look in your word at this event in the history of Israel, I ask that you would speak to our hearts. Take some thoughts, some truth, some principle that's here in your word and apply it to our lives, I ask, that we our faith can be stronger, our witness more effective. Lord, I yield my will to you, and I present my body anew, and with all my heart I ask you fill me with your spirit, and yet you speak through me And help us on this special weekend. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Memorial Stones, Israel crossed the Jordan River miraculously. And God gave very clear instructions that as they crossed that dry bed of the river, as God uh held back the waters, they crossed that dry bed of the river, they were to come back, when they got to the other side, they were to come back and grab twelve stones. Pick them up, carry them to the other side, and set them up there as a memorial, so that Israel would never forget what took place on that day and the significance of it. Memorial. We have today Memorial Day. I did some little study this week, a little research, and I found that Christmas of 2021, this past Christmas, Americans spent over $859 billion on the one holiday, Christmas holiday. $859 billion. That makes it the most expensive holiday on the American calendar. $859 billion. Just by way of interest, just out of curiosity, I looked up, I was curious what we spend on Halloween. I found out that Halloween comes in as the second most expensive holiday, $10. 1 billion. Spent on Halloween candy, Halloween decorations, Halloween costumes. Now, I love Christmas. I love Christmas, celebrating the birth of Christ. I do not love Halloween. I just have a hard time. Let me just take a little rabbit trail here. Just get this off my chest. But I have a hard time with people celebrating a day that exalts death, fear, gore, violence, and darkness of every sort. I just have a hard time with that. So these holidays in America that spend billions, hundreds of billions of dollars on these holidays, but we have one holiday On the American calendar, that is more costly than all the other holidays combined. And I believe that is the Memorial Day holiday. When we stop and remember and honor 1. 5 million Americans that gave their lives On battlefields throughout the history of our country. I mean paid the ultimate price. Left empty chairs back home. Weeping mothers, sorrowing wives, children without daddies, without mamas, because they were willing to put themselves on the line on the battlefield and give their life So that you and I can do what we're doing here this morning. Worship God freely. Live for the Lord. Have the freedoms and the rights that we have. This is one day when our nation stops to remember and honor the more than 1. 5 million Americans. Who gave their lives on the battlefields throughout the world in defense of peace and freedom? Someone has said very eloquently, it is the soldier Not the minister that gave his life for freedom of religion. It is the soldier, not the reporter, who gave his life for freedom of the press. It is the soldier, not the poet, who gave his life for freedom of speech. It is the soldier, not the politician Who gave his life for the right to vote? Now, I want to be quick to declare that it is only the grace and mercy of God that we have any of the freedoms that we have. It is only the grace and mercy of God that we have any rights at all. It's only the grace and mercy of God that this country has enjoyed what it has enjoyed. And I think we need to recognize the fact that without the grace and mercy of God, we have no liberty. Without God's grace, without God's mercy upon our country, we have no freedoms. Without the grace and mercy of God, we have no rights. Now, having said that, we understand the bottom line behind it all is the love and grace and mercy of God that He has shown upon us. But nevertheless, I think it's important to remember and honor those who gave their lives for our country. We tend to be forgetful Can I get a witness? Tend to be forgetful. Can't remember what I was gonna say after that. I have came across a study this week, an article, and apparently recently they've done a study. I don't know who they are that do these studies and I don't know how they come up with these studies, but apparently somebody somewhere Did a study somehow, and they came to this conclusion that forgetfulness indicates a very high IQ So we've got a church full of very intelligent people here, huh? Your preacher is very, very intelligent if that's the case. If you're forgetful, you're very intelligent. If you're forgetful, you have a high IQ. Now, I'll be honest with you, I'm very skeptical about the conclusion of that study. That may be the case. But my I got thinking, why do we forget? Why do we forget stuff? Anybody here ever forget anything Yeah. I mean not within the last hour. I mean I wish I wished I had a ten dollar bill for every time I left my office, walked up here to get something, got up here, couldn't remember what I came up here for and went back. That's how I stay in such great shape walking back and forth all the time. Why do we forget stuff? I think sometimes it's just we we're our schedules and our lives are so overloaded. And so busy that we we get so much going on that we overlook and forget things. And it's very innocent, and we don't mean to, but it's just we have too much going on in our heads. I think sometimes forgetfulness is just a symptom of old age The older you get, you know, it seems like we have a hard time remembering things and this old brain, you know, just like the body, begins to uh lose some of its effectiveness and lose uh some of its strength. And so sometimes forgetfulness is attributed to uh mental overload. We just have too much going on and Sometimes it's simply time taking its toll on our cognitive abilities. But I think sometimes forgetfulness is the result of unconcern. Something I'm really not too concerned about, and it doesn't have a high priority in my mind, and I forget about it. Can I get a witness? Just that doesn't concern me. And so we forget. Sometimes I think forgetfulness along those same lines is just indifference. I don't care about that, and I don't think about it and I forgot about it. Just I'm not too concerned. Just indifference. I think sometimes forgetfulness is a result of ingratitude. I'm entitled to something. Somebody does things for me, and I forget that they did that for me. It doesn't mean a whole lot to me. I'm entitled this. Become very ungrateful. I found that ungrateful people tend to forget the good things people do for them and the opportunities that we have. So indifference, unconcern, ingratitude, selfishness will tend to promote forgetfulness. An entitlement mentality that I earned it, I deserve it. We forget the price that was paid. You and I, as Americans. Have tremendous, tremendous privilege to live in a country that is so prosperous, that has been so blessed of God that we have such freedoms. And such liberties and the peace as a nation that we've experienced over these years Now I know what everybody thinks, and I think the same thing. Yeah, but look what's happening, and I know it's horrendous. But I want to remind you there are still millions and millions of people every year risking their lives to get to this country something better than what they have. If these liberals think America is so awful, why don't they go somewhere where it's as wonderful as they think it is? Why are they fighting to get here? Why are they risking their lives? Why are they breaking the wall to get into our country? And it's a danger of you and I forgetting the cost and the price that was paid of becoming ungrateful. And taking for granted. You want to see the fall of a society? Develop an ungrateful society. A self-centered society, a self-absorbed society, it'll collapse. It'll collapse. So I think in my mind Memorial Day, as far as us as a nation, I'm talking right now. I'm talking about the nation you and I live in, the country that you and I are citizens of. I think this holiday weekend is one of the most important holiday weekends we have. It is a memorial to remind us. To bring to our mind again the price that was paid. I'm all for picnics. I love picnics. Um I'm all for grilling steak and hamburgers and hot dogs and cheeseburgers, chicken. I'm all for all of that. The lobster. I'm all for those of that. But I think we need to be very, very careful we stop and remember the price that was paid. Are you with me? Everybody with me? It's interesting. If you would, take your Bible. Now keep your place here in Joshua. If you would, come back to the book just before Joshua, Deuteronomy. And go to find chapter number six in Deuteronomy. And it's interesting as you're turning there All through the Old Testament, God exhorts Israel to remember things. Over and over and over, he stirs them and challenges them, instructs them. Remember, remember. In fact, there are some places in the Old Testament, in Psalms and various places, where he rebukes Israel sharply. Because they forgot their God. They forgot what He had done for them. Look at Deuteronomy chapter 6, and look with me if you would at verse number 12. It says, he's speaking to Israel. They've come out of Egypt. They've been in the wilderness now for 40 years. They're about to enter into the promised land. And verse 12, he says this, then beware. Lest thou what? Forget the Lord. Beware, lest thou forget the Lord, which brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt from the house of bondage. Thou shalt fear the Lord thy God and serve him, and shalt swear by his name. You shall not go after other gods, the gods of the people which are around you. And he goes on and challenges them But he makes a very clear instruction, gives a very clear instruction, and it's on the it's on it it has the hint of a rebuke to it Forget not the Lord thy God. Can I say this? All that has been paid for your liberty and my liberty, our freedoms and your freedoms. All that has been paid, we are living in a nation that has forgotten God. I mean, as a society, we've forgotten what God has done for us. God exhorts Israel to remember what He did for them. He exhorts Israel to remember all the promises that He had made them. About the promised land and about him taking care of them. And he exhorts them to remember what he did for them, what he promised them. He exhorts them to remember the warnings he gave them. Remember, remember, remember, forget not. He gave ceremonies to the nation of Israel, some very elaborate ceremonies around the tabernacle, later the the temple that was built by Solomon. And all those ceremonies, many of those ceremonies were designed as rememorials, reminders. Of God's promises and God's plan for them. They had feasts, they were to come in harvest time to remember God's goodness and God's blessings on them. He gave them memorials to put up, as here in Joshua that we read. All through the Old Testament, God exhorts Israel to remember him. Remember what was done for them. Remember how God took care of them. Remember how God instructed them. We forget. Then we get to the New Testament. And all through the New Testament, we find God exhorting the church to remember the price of our salvation. Our church, now the Bible doesn't tell us how often we are to do this, but the church is instructed on a regular basis to have what we call the Lord's Supper. We do it on a monthly basis. And the Lord's Supper, the whole purpose and design of the Lord's Supper is to remind the church. of the awful price that was paid for our salvation, the broken body and shed blood of our Lord Jesus Christ I think I can speak on behalf of our church when I say some of the most touching services we have are the services with our Lord's Supper. presence of God there, reflecting in our mind the price that was paid and what God did for us in saving our souls. How many people here remember Brad Renard? Anybody remember old Brad? I love Brad. He's been with the Lord many years now. He used to always sit over here about where Mabel is or Dave or over in that area of the church. And every time we had Lord's Supper, we'd take part in the broken bread and the wine, or the wine, the grape juice. And afterward we would sing, on a hill far away stood an old rugged cross. The emblem of suffering and shame. And I'd be down here, I'd look over, and Brad would have his hand up and tears just rolling down his cheek. You know what he was doing? He was remembering Remembering what Christ did for him. Remembering how God saved his soul and changed his life. Memorials are important. Memorials are given to us by God. So that we remember. So the Lord exhorts the New Testament, all through the New Testament, exhorts the church to remember, remember the price that was paid for our salvation. That's why we have the Lord's Supper. He exhorts us to remember the goodness of our Savior. The Bible talks about singing psalms, hymns. and spiritual songs unto the Lord. You know why we sing these hymns that we sing? They're memorials Reminding us of the goodness of God. God is so good. God is so good. Anybody here get so caught up in the issues and problems and trials of life, forget about how good God is? Yeah, we go around griping and complaining. You know what we're forgetting? We're forgetting how good God is. And so we sing these hymns, we sing these songs, the choir sings for us. To remind us a memorial. Hey, we have a great God. Don't lose sight of that. Don't forget The holiness of our God and the power of our God and the wisdom of our God and the goodness of our God. Don't forget I think it's a good thing to commit these hymns to memory. As you go throughout the day, lift your voice up and so on. Anybody here ever wake up in the morning with a hymn on your heart and mind? Anyone? Man, that happens to me. O Lord my God, when I in awesome wonder consider all the world's thy hands have made. I see the stars. I hear the rolling thunder. Thy power throughout the universe displayed. Sing it with me. Then sings my soul, my Savior God to thee, how great thou art! How great thou art, then sings My soul, my Savior God to thee How great thou ought! How great thou own. Would you agree with me? It's good for us to be reminded how great our God is. We look at this world and the wickedness in the world, we forget. I'm here to tell you our God is greater. Our God is above all of this. Maybe today my Lord will come for me. Did you ever get going and you forget about the fact Jesus coming back? Good heavens, the Lord's coming back. We better straighten up. These songs, God, all through the New Testament, God gives us memorials to help us remember the Lord's Supper, singing these songs and hymns and spiritual songs. to help us remember the uh the return of the Lord. You know a lot of the preaching If a preacher is going to be a faithful Bible preacher, which by the way, I wouldn't be interested in any other kind of preacher than a faithful Bible preacher. But if he's going to be a faithful Bible preacher, you know what a lot of preaching consists of? Just reminding God's people of what God has said. What God has instructed us. Now for a new Christian come along, some of the preaching's new. You know, man, wow, that's not, I didn't know that was in the Bible, wasn't it? But you're saved any length of time. A lot of the preaching is, oh yeah. Oh yeah. How many people how many people here ever heard a sermon? You say, yeah, I've heard that 45,000 times. Do you know what? We've forgotten it 45,000 times, too. If you study, and I don't have time to do it, I wanted to, but we go to 2 Peter, and it's interesting how 2 Peter he mentions remember, remember, put this in remembrance, remember Put them in, bring remembrance. If thou be a good minister of God, put them in remembrance. We need to be reminded Now, I don't know that forgetfulness is an indicator of great intelligence. I know some people that are very forgetful. They don't seem very intelligent to me at all. If you would, look at our text here, Joshua chapter seven. A couple thoughts here real quick. Joshua chapter four, I'm sorry. God's instructing Israel to set up these memorial stones. They had crossed the River Jordan miraculously, as we'll see here in a moment. And as I said, he instructs them to get these 12 stones and stack them up for memorial for their children and the generation to come to come back and say, what do these stones mean? Let me tell you. Let me tell you. Number one, my first thought here is I see two purposes for these memorial stones to be put up. The first one, I believe they were put up to prompt their memory It's what we've been saying this whole message so far. It's to prompt their memory. Look with me at verse number six of Joshua chapter four. He tells them, Passover in the midst, take you up. Verse 5. He says, Take you up every man, you a stone upon his shoulder according to the number of the tribes of Israel. Then look at verse 6. That this may be. He's given the reason for this. This is why I'm telling you to do this. That this may be a what? sign among you that when your children ask their fathers in time to come, saying, What mean ye by these seven? Look down at verse 7, you shall answer them Waters of Jordan were cut off before the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord when it passed over Jordan. The waters of Jordan were cut off. Now look what he says here. And these stones shall be for a what? Memorial unto the children of Israel. He uses two words. I circle them in my Bible. Sign and a memorial The purpose for these stones was to be a sign. The word sign means this: a token, a mark, or a remembrance. It's used in Genesis chapter 9 when God put the rainbow in the sky. As a token, as a sign, as a reminder that God will never flood the world again. It was a sign, a reminder. How many people ever how many people here ever saw a rainbow in the sky and your thoughts went back to Noah and that event? Yeah, just about all the time. I see it and I think about Noah. The world's not going to flood We don't worry about a universal flood today because God has promised us and He reminds us every time we see a bow in the sky And so it's the same word. In Genesis chapter 17, God gave to Abraham and the people of Israel the circumcision. And he says that was to be a sign. It was to be a token, a reminder of God's covenant with Abraham. And that they would be his people and they would dwell in the land. Now they wouldn't forget that one, I'm sure. And then in Exodus chapter 12 and verse 13, he gave the Passover. When they were slaves and servants in Egypt, and God sent a death angel over, and they put the blood on the doorposts. And from that point on, they were to celebrate the Passover. And uh as a reminder that God had delivered them by the blood on their doorsteps. And then the verse number, and then verse 7, the memorial. These stones shall be a memorial unto the children of Israel forever. It means a reminder, a record, a remembrance. So there are some things we must not allow ourselves to forget. Everybody with me still? Everybody doing alright? Some things we must not take for granted These memorial stones, I believe, were given to prompt the memory of Israel of three things. Number one, they were to prompt the memory of Israel of the fulfilled promises of God. Come back to chapter 3, real quickly with me. Chapter 3, look with me at verse number 10. And Joshua said, Hereby shall you know that the living God is among you, and that he will without fail Drive out from before you the Canaanites and the Hittites and the Hivites and the Perizzites and the Gergeshites and the Amorites and the Jebusites Behold, the ark of the covenant of the Lord of all the earth passeth over before you into Jordan. God had promised that you are going to have this land. Don't forget what God has promised you. Don't forget what God has assured. You will end up in that promised land. You will get exactly what I promised you. I tell you, we could save ourselves a lot of depression and a lot of discouragement and a lot of defeat if we would just stop and remember the promises God has given to us. I love Hebrews chapter 13 and verse 5. He has said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. That's a good promise. I like John chapter ten and uh and uh verse uh twenty uh twenty-eight. John ten twenty-eight, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish Thank God, we ought to. How many folks here you're saved? You know it. Say amen. You know it would be a good thing to remember, you can never lose that salvation that God gave you. We're secure, we're safe in the hands of Christ. And so He wanted, he put these memorials up as a promise. Of God's fulfilled promises. You know, we're quick to claim God's promises, but I think we ought to be diligent to remember fulfilled promises. We ought to stop and just look back. Think of all the times God has taken care of us, all the times God has kept his promises to us. You follow my thinking? Anybody anybody here ever have a God promised something and God came through? Anybody here ever something of answered prayer or something? Yeah. Yeah. We ought to remember that. We ought to remember that We start forgetting what God we s we get to forgetting how good God's been to us. We get forgetting how God has blessed us. We get forgetting how God has kept his word to us all these years. And then we get a bad attitude, right or wrong. We've forgotten how good God is. Tell you what, it'd be good for us to just take a day and just stop and say, Lord, I want to reflect back and think about how good you have been to me. It might cut down some of our complaining. Alright, uh first of all, it was a remind them of the fulfilled promises of God. It was a remind him of the faith of the priest. Look at verse 12 of chapter 3. Now therefore take you twelve men out of the twelve out of the tribes of Israel, out of every man uh out of every tribe a man, it shall come to pass. Now pay attention Pay close attention here. It shall come to pass as soon as the soles of the feet of the priests that bear the ark of the cov of the Lord, the Lord of all the earth, shall rest in the waters of Jordan That the waters of Jordan shall be cut off from the waters that come down from above. And they shall stand upon a heap. Did you get what God was instructing them? Everybody with me here? Did you pay attention to what he was telling the priest? They're to take the ark. Here's the Jordan River. Alright, just put your imagination. I'm a priest. I'm on the edge of the Jordan River. That river's flowing down there. And uh, you know, and uh and he says, as soon as the priest's foot Go, and there's a key word there, I circled in my Bible, in the water. Then he says that water will stop f I'll stop it from coming down. In fact he says it'll pile up. How many people would like to have seen that? I'd have been looking for fish in there, huh? And uh that that water piled up. No sprays walk across there with the ark, and all of Israel comes across. Dry land, water piling up, piling up. I don't know how it worked. I know God can do anything. And he says, I want you to put those stones there. and remember the faith of those priests to put their feet in. If they'd have stood there and waited for it to dry up before they crossed, they'd still be on the other side. They had to step out in faith. They had to step in that water, trusting that God would do exactly what he said he would do. They step in the water, boom, the water stops, they cross over. And I think it's important for you and I to remember the faith of our forefathers. The ladies just sang, faith of our fathers living still. And I'm telling you, we have men and women who have gone before us who had tremendous faith in God. About once a month, Brother James will give a missionary biography. And will be reminded of men and women who believed God, answered his call to the mission field, and give their whole lives To reach others with the gospel. It's good for us to remember the faith of our fathers and challenge us to live by faith. To trust God. Hebrews chapter 11, by faith, by faith, Abraham did this. By faith, Abel. By faith, Noah built the ark. By faith, by faith, by faith. And then Hebrews 12:1, he says, These are witnesses, this great cloud of witnesses, they're testimony to us that we can trust God. They're a testimony to us that we can have faith in God. I don't know what you're going through, and I don't know what trials you may be fighting, and I don't know what struggles you're dealing with, but I know this. There's a God in heaven that we can trust, and we have a whole history of testimony to that effect. That we can trust God. So it's a reminder to them of fulfilled promises of God, of the faith of these priests, and then the unfailing power of God. Look at verse 16 of chapter 3. The waters which came down from above stood and rose up upon a heap very far from the city Adam, which is beside Zaratan, and those that came down toward the sea of the plain, even the Salt Sea, failed. and were cut off, and the people passed over right against Jericho, and the priests that bare the ark of the covenant of the Lord stood firm on dry ground in the midst of Jordan And all the Israelites passed over on dry ground until all the people were passed clean over. I'm telling you, our God is an awesome God. And we need to be reminded of the power of God. We must never forget that our God is an all-powerful God. And this whole world wants to minimize God, and this whole world wants to laugh and mock. And I think it's interesting. I uh let me just say this. I think it's interesting. Every time we have a tragedy in our country. And this past week we had one of the most heart-wrenching tragedies that I know in my lifetime. Little children executed. And the first thing this world wants to do is mock the concept of prayer. The first thing they do is attack prayer. Well, we don't want to hear about your prayers. Oh, yeah, you're going to pray, but you ain't going to do anything. I don't know anybody that says we ought to pray and not do anything else I'm telling you, we got a God we can come to when our heart is aching. We have a God we can come to when we don't understand. We have a God that we can pray to and trust. Our God is an all-powerful, all-wise, good God. I understand I don't understand. I look at my Bible and I look back and I see that God is a powerful God. Any God that can stop water, God can take good out of bad. I tell you, we need to remember. This old world minimizes God. This old world mocks our God. This old world criticizes our faith. But I look back and I see in my own light how God has been faithful. God has done miracles. He took me out of drugs. He took me out of drunkenness. He took me out of bitterness and anger and hatred He gave me hope and a new life. Must never forget the power of our God, the unfailing power of God. I like that little song, He's Able. He's able. I know he's able. I know my God is able to carry me through. Need to remember that. Need to remember that. Number one, to prompt their memory. Number two, I'll end with this. To provoke their witness. He says you put these rocks up here as a memorial. One of the reasons is so that you can tell other people, you can witness to the next generation what God has done for you. What God has done for you. God's goodness to us should provoke us to boldly declare the gospel. Look at chapter 4 here. This may be a sign unto you, verse 6. Shall be a memorial unto the children of Israel forever, verse 7 Come over to verse 19. And the people came out of the Jordan the tenth day of the first month and encamped in Gilgal in the east border of Jericho. And those twelve stones which they took out of Jordan did Joshua pitch in Gilgal, and he spake unto the children of Israel, saying, When your children shall ask their fathers in time to come, saying, What mean these stones? Then shall ye let your children know, saying, Israel came over this Jordan on dry land, for the Lord your God dried up the waters of Jordan from before you until you were passed over as the Lord your God did to the Red Sea, which he dried up from from us before until we were going over, that all the people of the earth might know the hand of the Lord. It is might that it is mighty, that you might fear the Lord your God forever. We need to declare to this next generation and remind them and show them what God has done in the past. What's the old saying? They that forget the past. are doomed to repeat it. Israel forgot what God did for them and it destroyed them. We must not forget how good God is We have churches dropping the Bible, churches bringing the world in. You know why they're doing that? Because they've forgotten their God. They've fallen in love with the world. When I first got saved, On a Monday night, nobody twisted my arm, nobody called me up Saturday, nobody came by and knocked on my door twenty-five times and said You're saved now, you need to go to church. Nobody did that. In fact, my daddy didn't even know I was saved at the at the time he'd been on the road all week. But something down inside my heart and soul said I need to go to church. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Anybody here ever you didn't really feel like it, but down inside, I ought to go to church. I need to go. Sure. And a new believer, one week old in the Lord, just fresh, clean off of filth and drugs and everything. God changed my life and I dug out my Bible and I'm going to church. First church I went to was Liberals meeting. I was the only person there that had a Bible. I said, that's not it. Next week I went to a independent Bible preaching church. I didn't know the difference. I just went. I knew the first one wasn't right. I went. I was sitting there. Service began. Big church. 600 people. I was uh I was there, and you won't believe this, but I had long hair down over my shoulders, beautiful, silky, uh, lovely hair You ladies would have loved to have hair like mine was, and um, and uh had uh my uh uh polyester bell bottoms This is the truth. Silk black shirt, my uh um what were the shoes called? Uh platform shoes is it What was it? Uh and uh real high shoes and I was John Travolta walking in there. Seriously, let me back up But I came in as the way I was dressed. I walked in and sat there. Everything was new. And they started singing a song. I am so glad that my Father in heaven tells of his love in the book he has given. Wonderful things in the Bible I see. This is the dearest that Jesus loves me. I'm sitting there, I thought I started singing it I had learned that song as a little child when we went to Sunday school as a little kid. And it was there in my mind all those years, stored in the back of my brain. And when they started singing that, that memory came back. It was a memorial to a new believer, a young man with a new life. I started singing a song, I am so glad that Jesus loves me. Jesus loves me. Jesus loves me. I am so glad that Jesus loves me. I'm telling you, that stirred the heart of a young believer when I remembered That Jesus loves me. I want to remind you this morning, Jesus loves you. And he died for you, and he died for me, that we can have eternal life. And we have peace of mind, and we can have purpose in our life here and now, and meaning and fulfillment. But we've got to remember what He's done for us. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. To not forget your goodness. And in a world that is so dark and so evil, help us to remember and look above and beyond. Remember your promises and remember your goodness. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many this morning would say, preacher, I tend to forget. I tend to forget how good God's been to me. I tend to forget what has been done for me in years gone by. And you'd say, preacher, help me. To remember. Any like that by the uplifted hand. On a daily basis, help me to remember my God, to remember my Savior, to remember his promises and his instructions. Maybe there's some here this morning say, preacher, I know someone that's away from the Lord. They're unsaved or they're away from the Lord. And they need you to be a memorial to them, just like those stones. When they see you, they're reminded of what Christ did for them. Maybe God can use us to bring others to Christ, that we be that memorial. Is there any like that, preacher? I know someone that needs Christ. I know someone. And I want my life to be a testimony of God's goodness and God's power. Any like that? Sure. Let's pray, ask God to help us Is there someone here this morning say, Preacher, I don't know for sure that when I die I go to heaven? You'd say, preacher, I gotta get that settled. Listen, you don't want to go to hell. You've got to know Jesus as your Savior. You've got to. Turning this morning, say, preacher, I need to be saved. Pray for me. I need to trust Christ. I need to get this settled. Any at all? Online, anywhere. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless our invitation now. Have your way in Jesus' name.