Chapter number three, if you would turn there. We only got a few minutes. I just want to try and give you the outline of our passage tonight. We have Lord's Supper here in a little bit, and so Um if you would just turn to Ecclesiastes, keep your Bibles handy. We are going to reference a number of passages and um Uh Ecclesiastes chapter 3. I'm going to begin reading in verse number 18. I'm going to read down through verse 22. I want to try and cover this segment here this evening. Of course Solomon is the penman, God's ultimately the author of all scripture. Solomon is recording here a sermon he preached, apparently. to uh the city of Jerusalem later on in his life. And as those of us that have been involved in this series, you know that Solomon is far from God. He has gotten to the point through various reasons, the various women he married drew him away from the Lord. I believe his prosperity and uh the peace that he experienced and God blessed him with factors in him getting away from God and he has completely pushed God out of his life And he is he is summarizing or he's he's preaching the sermon, I think, uh giving an account of his fall away from God and the thinking that got him to the point where he pushed God out of his life. Now we're here in chapter three, we're well into his sermon. Verse eighteen we'll begin reading there. He said, I said in mine heart now this is Solomon speaking to the people of Israel I said in my heart concerning the estate of the sons of men, that God might manifest them, now look at this, that they might see that they themselves are beasts. For that which befalleth the sons of men, befalleth beasts. Even one thing befalleth them, as the one dieth, so dieth the other. Yea, they have all one breath. So that a man hath no more preeminence above a beast, for all is vanity. Are you listening to what he's saying? Now read on. All go to one place. The men and the beast. All go to one place. All are of the dust, and all turn to dust again Who knoweth the spirit of man that goeth upward, and the spirit of the beast that goeth downward into the earth to the earth Wherefore I perceive that there is nothing better than that a man should rejoice in his own works, for that is his portion. For who shall bring him to see what shall be after him? Wow So I read that and studied that. I believe that could be taken from a modern sociology book in our universities. Man is no better than a beast. Man is no different than a beast. And when we push God out of our life, that becomes our frame of mind. So I want to speak, and again, I just want to do this quickly, but I want to speak men and beasts tonight. So let's pray. Father, I ask now you'd bless our time and help me, Lord, to get to the point. And uh I pray you challenge us. And Lord, I ask that you would guard our hearts and minds that we would never get to the point where we take this worldview that Solomon has taken. That you would guard us from this and we would have a biblical view. And so help us to live as children of the King, men and women created in the image of God. And we're not bees, and so help us, we pray, in Jesus' name, Amen. He's gotten so far from God And as I'm studying this, I'm coming to the conclusion that Solomon has allowed cynicism to replace his faith. Now the question is what is cynicism? If somebody is a cynic, what do we mean by that if we say that person is a cynic? Yeah. Uh they're very skeptical, it's a good word. Uh anybody else? If somebody is a cynic, they're very skeptical about things. Anybody else want to take a shot at it? The glassy, yeah, they see the negative aspect of it. I got looking up the word, and it's somebody, a skeptic, they doubt everything. A skeptic will uh uh view things as uh as they get very disenchanted Um the one definition I can't I came across was a skeptic is someone who is characterized by negativity I mean, we're not, and that's what I see in Solomon here. We're no better than a beast. I'm a human, but the things that happen to me are no different than the things that happen to a beast. He's allowed his skepticism, his negativity, his doubt, his unbelief to push out his faith. And I see no faith in God at this point. His cynicism has ruined his focus on life. He no longer sees reality clearly. He no longer views life correctly. I believe, I am convinced, that the only way to see reality correctly is I have to see it through faith. I've got to see life and reality from God's perspective. I thought of as I was preparing this and I've used this illustration a number of times and I think just recently, but uh some of the ladies will do quilting and cross stitch. Pat Bowser was here last week. She had a little cross stitch that she does. How many people know what cross-stitch is? How many guys have no clue really could care less. Yeah, that's what I figured. Uh but my grandmother did quilting and did the little cross stitch. And you know, depends on your perspective, as that thing's being made, depends on your perspective Your view of it depends on your evaluation and your conclusion you come to. And you've heard me say this before, but if I was little, I'd crawl down underneath that quilt. And uh that thread was just confusion and chaos and it made no sense because I had the perspective from underneath looking up. But if I had climbed up on top of that table and looked down on it, it has a wonderful pattern. We have a quilt on our bed that my grandmother had given to us, and that's huge butterflies, all cross-fitched, just absolutely beautiful and ornate. And from the top side, I see purpose, I see plan, I see beauty, I see something very positive. But from the underside, looking up, it's chaos, it makes no sense. This is vain, this is vanity, it's vexation sphere, it's ugly, it's terrible. And that's where Solomon is. He's viewing life from the perspective of skepticism. And he says, I'm no better than a beast. Life is for man is no different than life for a beast. And he's allowed this doubt and this unbelief. To cloud his vision and to blur his understanding of what life really is. Now I'm getting a little ahead of myself. I want to get to the point here, but Romans 8. 28, and we know that All things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. If I see life from that perspective, Believing that no matter what my circumstances are, no matter what the situation is, there's a God in heaven who loves me. There's a God in heaven who is sovereign. There is a God in heaven who is working in my life. And these circumstances and situations I look at, I see them from the perspective that God has a plan. God is good, and this is going to work out in some way for his good and his glory. Now that's one perspective on life. However, Solomon's at the point, and we live in a world that very much sees life like this. They have pushed God completely out, and all they see are the circumstances. And they say, there's no meaning. There's no purpose. It's chaos. It's confusion. There's no hope. There's nothing to rejoice in. Just eat, drink, and try and be merry because you're gonna die. That's where Solomon's at And that as I'm reading this here, he is viewing life from under the sun. It's all he sees. He doesn't see God's hand. He doesn't see God in any way here. Now I want to here's my outline real quickly. Number one, I noticed Solomon's calculations. And we've seen this statement before, in fact not long ago. Verse number 18, the first part, he says this I said in mine heart. Now, what does he mean when he says, I said in my heart? Well, last week, we looked at a few verses before that, we noted that he's talking to himself. He's saying in his heart, he's going through. But I think what he's doing here, when he says, I said in my heart, he's reasoning. He's thinking. He's calculating. And what I thought, what I noticed here, he does not say this. Now he's talking about what man is, what we are, and what life consists of. His conclusion, we're going to see, is that we're no different than beasts. Just wild raccoons and and uh um uh squirrels uh squirrels Why'd you bring up squirrel? There was a squirrel on my bird field this afternoon. I was furious at that thing, chasing it around the yard. But anyway Uh we're no better, we're no different than that. Uh he threw me. I lost my train of thought now, squirrels. Uh oh, it's interesting, he says, I said in my heart, and he and uh he's reasoning, he's calculating And he and he's ca and he's calculating with God is pushed out of the equation and he comes to the comes to the conclusion, oh, I'm no different than a little animal running around a possum, running around, get hit by a car, just laying there, nobody cares. You know, just running around. And we're no different than that. What I thought was interesting, he says, I said in my heart, I think that's another way of saying this. He's leaning on his own understanding. Notice what he did not say. He did not say, I read in God's word. When you and I start calculating things of life to the exclusion of what God has said about life We become cynical. And our view of life and our view of reality becomes clouded and is incorrect. He doesn't say, he says, I said in my heart He doesn't say, the Lord revealed to me. God's pushed out of his equations. God's pushed out of his calculations. And I want to suggest to you and I, anytime we're dealing with issues of life, we must never push God out of the calculation. He needs to be the center of it. He is the creator of all things. He is the sustainer of all things. He is the God that is in control and pulling the strings and planning the events of this world. And if I push him out of the equation and I start reasoning w to the exclusion of God, I'm going to get a mis uh I'm going to have a uh a misunderstanding of reality. I'm going to have a uh uh uh uh an incorrect conclusion about what life is and what my circumstances are. So he's calculating here He's leaning on his own understanding. He has come a long way from Proverbs chapter 3, verse 5 and 6, who, by the way, God used him to pen. What's Proverbs 3, 5, and 6 said? It says, Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, and lean not unto what? Thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him And he shall direct thy paths. What's he saying there? He's saying, listen, you need to put God in the calculating. Don't lean on your own understanding. Don't go by what you say in your own heart. Trust God, see His hand in all things, and He'll direct your path. You'll have a very clear, a very accurate, a very correct understanding of your circumstances and the events of life and who and what you are as a person. So Solomon is calculating here, and his calculations have excluded God. Whenever I am leading on my own understanding, it will always result in wrong calculations. Always. Now I notice here verse sixteen through and seventeen he sees injustice in the world. We looked at that last week. He says there's wickedness and the place of righteousness and Uh and how did he word it? He says there's a uh the place of judgment, wickedness was there, the place of righteousness, iniquity was there, that bothers him. And now he's calculating and he comes to this conclusion. Now look here, he says, man's physical makeup is no different than beasts. Look here in verse 18. I said in my heart concerning the estate of the sons of men. The word estate there means their standing or condition in life. They say to the Sons of Man that he might manifest to them that they are themselves beast. They themselves are beasts. He's saying I'm no different than an animal. And he's referencing the physical makeup. If you come down to verse 20, look at the second part of verse 20. All go to one place. All are of the dust. He's saying there's no difference physically between me and a beast, between myself and an animal. We're all of the dust. Now, in a limited way, that's true. The bones of an animal are very similar to the bones of a human being. The structure, the skeletal structure of an animal are in many ways very similar To the structural uh uh uh makeup of a human body. Um our bones, our muscles are very, very similar, the organs Most beasts have hearts, lungs, intestines, stomachs. They're very similar. And so he's looking at this. God is pushed out and he's saying, hey, I'm no different than an animal in our physical makeup. I'm the same. In fact, my father had open heart surgery here about five years ago. They replaced a valve, they repaired one valve, and they replaced another, and he had an option. He could go with a man-made mechanical valve and they would implant that in there and function in his heart. Or he could have chosen a valve from a pig. And that valve in the pig is uh is organic and it would work and function in there and and uh they said it would work very well. There's a few other factors involved in maintaining it. He opted to go with the mechanical, so I have a bionic father now. And so Solomon's conclusion here, God out of the picture, is to some extent true. We're not we're very similar. However, in actuality, human beings are the only thing that's created in the image of God And for sake of time, we're not going to turn there. I wanted to, but Genesis chapter 1, verse 26, 27, 28. Then again in chapter 9 and verse 6, God says very clearly, let's make man in our image. And so there may be some similarities between the physical makeup of a man and an animal, but man is unique and distinct from all other living things. And that we are the only living thing that is created in the image of Almighty God. And so Solomon has pushed God out of the equation. And he comes to the conclusion, I'm really no different than a human being, when in reality man is very much I'm really no different than a beast. In reality, human beings are very, very different than beasts We're not enclosed. And by the way, we did not evolve from lower life forms. We are a direct supernatural creation of God made in his image. So the question comes up, and without trying to elaborate on it, but the question comes up, how do you account for the similarities? Between the physical structure of a man and the physical structure of a beast. And the worldview, the unbelieving worldview, the evolutionary worldview says, well, that's obvious evidence that we evolved. We're all related. And I would say that's no more true than uh uh the fact that uh uh buildings are built completely different by completely different architectures, completely different uh builders, but they have very similar functions, very similar structures. And so God created the animals, he created human beings, and he gave them hearts just like he gave humans' hearts and he gave them livers just like he gave human livers. He gave them lungs just like he gave human lungs. Similarity in in structure does not mean this that we're we're related. It simply means we have the same designer. God had a pattern that works, and so he used it, but we are unique in the fact that we are created by the hand of God in the image of God. By the way, Genesis also says that God has given to man dominion over the animals. And so I'm trying to dominate the squirrels in my backyard and exercise dominion over them and eradicate them completely. So he know he comes to the conclusion. He says in his heart, he's calculating, God is not part of the pit picture. He's leaning on his owner's key and he comes to this conclusion, I'm no different than an animal. Then he points out in verse 19 that not only is our physical makeup no different than beasts, Solomon suggests that our faith in life Is no different than beast. Look at verse 19. For that which befalleth the sons of men, befalleth beast Even one thing befalleth them. As one dieth, so dieth the other. Yea, they have all one breath, so that man hath no preeminence above a beast for all his vanity. What's he saying? He's saying under the sun, not factoring God in, our fate of a possum is no different than the fate of a human being. That possum gets hit by a car, a human being gets hit by a car. A possum is in a tree, gets struck by lightning, a man is somewhere and he gets struck by lightning. Possum slips and falls in the river and drowns? A man slips and falls in the river and drowns. He says, I don't see any difference. I don't see any difference between a beast and a man. What he's saying is life is fatalistic. There's no plan or purpose. The events of life have no meaning. We're just helpless victims of chance and circumstance. Well, in reality, he's wrong. He's looking at the life from the bottom side. He's looking under the sun as if there is no plan and purpose The Bible is very, very clear. God does have a plan, and God does have a purpose for each and every life. Jeremiah 29. 11. Again, if we had time we'd turn there, but Jeremiah 29-11. He says, I know the thoughts that I think towards you and the plans that I have for you. And I'm here to tell you tonight, God's word is very, very clear from the youngest person through the oldest. God does have plan and purpose for every one of our lives. It's not just chance and happenstance. Romans 8. 28 we reference, all things work together for good. And that which to the unbelieving world looks like just chance and fatalistic events that I have no control over, to the believer who understands that there is a God in heaven, that was not just chance, that was not just an accident But God and His wisdom and His sovereignty and His love allow that. And if I trust Him and let Him lead me, He'll work some good out of that. Romans chapter 12. I reference this passage a lot. It means so much to me personally. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your body. A living sacrifice wholly acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service, that ye may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect. What's the next statement? Will of God And he's saying, if you will trust me and yield yourself to me, you will find that life does not just consist of chance and fatalistic circumstances, but God has a very specific plan. God has a very specific will for our lives. I wonder how many of us here have been saved any length of time. You can look back over your life, and at the time it made no sense. At the time it made no sense, but now after the passage of years you look back and you say, I see God was doing something in that. Can anybody testify to that? Sure we can. I look back at so many events at the time. I thought, what in the world are you doing, God? What in the world is happening? This doesn't make sense And now years later, after walking with God and trusting him, I can look back and say, Praise the Lord, I see that there was a God in heaven in control that was not just chance, but he had a purpose and a plan. He was working things out for his glory. So Solomon's missing the point. His cynicism, his negativity, his unbelief has clouded him And he says, Oh, our fate is no different than beasts. Then verse 20 and 21 he makes this statement: our future destiny is no different than beasts. Verse 20 he says, and all go to one place Man and beast, all are of the dust, and all turn to dust again. And then he makes this statement. He asks a question: Who knoweth the spirit of man that goeth upward? And the spirit of beast that goeth downward to the earth. He's saying, is there anything beyond the grave? The the the possum dies, the man dies, and they go to the earth, they're they turn to dust and Who knows? Is there anything beyond the grave? Well, if he'd have read his own writing, he'd have known, yes, there is something beyond the grave for the human, the one created the image of God. And so he comes to this conclusion that under the sun, existence ends with physical death. There's nothing beyond the grave, there's no afterlife. I was thinking of a fellow I witnessed to a number of years ago, and um we knocked him in the story of Ayasan, we were going back and forth, he claimed to be an atheist. I said, well, uh I said, when you die, do you know for sure you're going to heaven? He says, that doesn't bother me at all. I don't I don't worry about that at all. We talked, I said, well, what do you believe? What do you think is going to happen to you when you die? He said, that's it. Over. Done. And we talked a little bit and I asked him, what do you think your life is made up of? He goes, well, you know, it's just flesh and blood and bones and organs and whatever percent waters is just a physical body. And we talked, and he was very open, it was very cordial. I felt we could just speak our minds honestly, and I felt like he was being honest, and finally I said to him, I said, Sir, I don't believe for one minute That you think that all you are is flesh and bones. Somewhere down inside your heart and soul, you know there's more to you than just a physical body. You have a mind, you have a consciousness, and you are a spiritual being. And after we talked a little bit, he says, well, I'll allow for the fact that we are spiritual beings And I'm convinced, and I believe the Bible teaches, every single human being knows there is something more than just the physical body that we are made up of. And Solomon is looking at life, pushing God out, and he comes so far from God that he actually believes that we're no different than bees. That just like an animal dies ceases to exist, I die and cease to exist. Fact of the matter is, Solomon was wrong. If he had to go into the Word of God, he'd listen to what his Creator said, he would understand that life extends beyond the grave. Luke chapter 23, we tried to portray the crucifixion of the Lord Jesus this morning and the miracle that God's Son would die for us. And in Luke chapter 23, it gives the account of the two thieves on the cross, and the one thief comes under tremendous conviction, and he actually believes that Jesus is who he claimed to be, the Son of God, and in faith He rebukes the other thing. He says, We deserve to be up here. We're sinners. And he turns to Jesus Christ. He says, Remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom. Now he's about to die. They are on the within moments of death, physical death. What was Jesus' response to that believing thief? What did Jesus say? Today thou shalt be with me in paradise. The fact of the matter is death is not the end. Death is simply a doorway into eternity. And of course, if we know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, that doorway leads to heaven Eternal life with God in the presence of God. But if I am in my sins, if I am unsaved, if I'm not trusting God's method of salvation, God's instrument of salvation, Jesus Christ. And I go through into death and in my sins, I'm separated from God for all eternity in a horrific place called hell. There is no such thing as annihilation. We do not cease to exist when physical body dies. We are spiritual beings. We are in very real way eternal beings. Our eternal destiny is very much determined upon, is exclusively determined upon whether we trust Jesus Christ as our Savior or not. So Solomon is wrong. He's allowed his cynicism and his unbelief to cloud reality. And he's looking at a world from under the sun. He's looking at the world as if there is no God. And he comes to the conclusion we're no different than beasts. And he could not be more wrong. He could not be more wrong. So his conclusion is verse 22. He says, Wherefore I perceive, if I'm nothing better than a beast, I end up the same as a beast. I perceive that there's nothing better than that a man should rejoice in his works, for that is his portion. Who shall bring him to see what shall be after him? Is he there's nothing after that? Who's gonna show him? Who knows And he basically says this, as I said before, let's just, if I'm no better than the beast, I'm just going to eat, I'm going to drink, and I'm going to live it up and die, and it's over. I thought of this. That is the mentality of much of our world. And what a horrible, horrible mistake. People make when they think that this is it, and they die and find out too late that they were wrong. Dead wrong, eternally wrong. There's two worldviews, basically. There's the materialistic worldview, Solomon had it Under the sun, under the sun. The only conclusion of that is all is vain, all is vanity, it's vexation of spirit. This is the only thing there is. Go for the gusto. Just live it up, die, and it's over That view is completely wrong. Tragically wrong. The other worldview is a biblical worldview. That I, as a human being, am created in the image of God. God is in control and he has a plan and a purpose for my life. And as a child of God, he controls what is allowed into my life and what is not. And if I will trust him, if I will follow his leadership, have faith in him, he can use these circumstances that he allows into my life to give my life purpose and meaning and fulfillment. And when I die, I enter into his presence and give him glory for all eternity. Isn't that an amazing thing? Solomon is wrong. I wonder how in the world can a man so wise be so wrong? Be so wrong. Joseph understood that he was not a beast. Life was not just chaos and circumstance and fatalistic Joseph been through it. Betrayed by his brothers, hated, falsely accused, unjustly condemned to prison, forgotten. But he kept his faith in God. And through all of that, he saw that God was in control. No doubt he had his times of doubt and struggle. But in Genesis chapter 50, and I think it's verse 20, his brothers approach him and said, Listen, we're sorry, we're sorry. And he makes a profound statement. He says, You meant this for evil, but God meant it for good. You know what Joseph had? He had something Solomon lost. He had a biblical worldview. He saw his life from heaven's perspective. And even in the most difficult circumstances, the most horrific circumstances, there was hope, there was purpose, there was peace. Solomon never went to prison. Solomon was never betrayed by his family. Solomon had a life of wealth, ease, prosperity, and peace. And he lost vision of the fact that God had a plan for him. Now here's where it got me. You and I are living lives for the most part of wealth. prosperity and peace. And I'm suggesting you, if we're not careful, we can adopt the same cynicism and the same Worldview that Solomon had. Now don't think for one minute that you and I are not in the same danger Solomon was. There's no man wiser than him. No man had greater wisdom than he. And yet he got a wrong worldview. You and I need to stay close to God. We need to keep our nose in that book. We need to trust God and let Him lead us and direct us and keep our thinking straight. Does that make sense? Let's ask the Lord to help us. We finish up this Easter day. We go into Lord's Supper. Let's ask the Lord to keep us close to Him. Keep our mind clear. Keep our hope and faith. And what he has promised us and see our life and circumstances from a biblical perspective. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless us now and help us now, we pray, to stay close to you and to think clearly and think correctly. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I need God to help me stay in his word and get my heart and mind saturated, be able to see life and circumstances from God's perspective And see these things clearly. Is there any like that, preacher? I need God to help me. Maybe some of us have a situation we're struggling with. You say, I don't understand, I don't understand. And you say, I need to I need God to help me to see this from his perspective, like Joseph did And understand that he's in control. Any others? A lot of hands raised. God bless you. Now God will help us. He's for us. He's on our side. He wants us to see clearly. And he'll help us if we will but trust him. And maybe we want to finish out this Lord's day at an old altar before we go to Lord's Supper. And just ask God to make that real in our lives. Father, bless our invitation time now, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen.