Elizabeth goes back to school in two weeks. And so next Sunday will be our last Sunday here. She goes back out to Heartland. And uh appreciated having her on Sunday. staff this summer she did a good job. If you would take your Bibles, turn back to Mark chapter number eight. We were able to go up yesterday to uh some of us, a handful of us went up to uh outside of um new uh outside of uh Bedford and helped uh young church. Brother Kenton Moyers got the Cumberland Valley Baptist Church going on up there And just uh about a year old is a church and they're out in the rural area trying to get things going. He's got a good little group of folks and uh we had a real blessing up there. We helped them canvas for about two hours yesterday m y morning and he had a little cook out there and what a blessing that was. You pray for Cum Cumberland Valley Baptist Church that God will bless their efforts. And uh I was telling folks Wednesday night, uh we uh many of us, if not all of us And so we need to pray and support these guys. And um so appreciate that. Mark chapter eight. This is, to be very honest with you, this is a strange event in uh the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ. At least I see it kind of Strange. Brother Grant read down through there. I want to look at verse number 23. And uh it says, And he took the blind man, this is Jesus, took the blind man by the hand and led him out of the town. Now look at this. And when he had spit on his eyes and put his hands upon him, he asked him if he saw aught. And he looked up and said, I see men as trees walking. And he put his hands again upon his eyes, and he made them look up, and he was restored and saw every man clearly. Isn't that strange? God spits on his His eyes, Jesus spits on his eyes, and then he sees men as trees walking, he doesn't see clearly. Uh anybody here remember Remember the first time you got glasses? Remember that? I was in sixth grade. And I thought I could see fine. And then I put those glasses on and it's like, good night. I've been is amaz anybody I remember seeing the trees, the leaves on the trees so crystal clear where before they were blurry. Well isn't that a strange thing here? So Men as trees. Let's pray and see if we can glean something out of this and the Lord can apply it to our lives. Father in heaven, thank you for this passage of scripture. And Lord, we're just so grateful for your goodness to us. Us. And Lord, we want to live for you. We want to please you with our lives. We want to trust you and obey you. And we need you to help us, Father. We have a lot of needs. We need wisdom. God, we need your help and strength. So I pray that you could maybe take this one event with this one man here and what you did for him. Lord, I ask that you would take Teach us something, and that our faith in you would grow. Lord, I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and that you would speak through me in this hour. I present my body anew to you Preacher uh slipped out of the adult Sunday school class, had someone else teach it, and he wanted to go down and see the children's Sunday school classes, and he said Stepped into the sixth grade boys Sunday school classroom. The week before, the teacher had taught, and the preacher knew this, the teacher had taught on Joshua in the walls of Jericho. And so he stepped in, he watched a little bit, and the teacher recognized him, and he stepped up, and the preacher thought, well, I'll test these boys a little bit. And he said to the boys' Sunday school class, sixth grade, he said, Who tore down the walls of Jericho? Well the boys kind of looked at each other and um finally they assured the pastor that though they did not know who tore the walls of Jericho down, it wasn't them And the preacher was a little concerned about their response, so he turned to the teacher and asked her about their response, and she said I've taught these boys a long time, Pastor, and if they say they didn't do it, they didn't do it So he goes out in the hallway and he goes down the hallway and the Sunday school superintendent steps out and the preacher tells the Sunday Sunday school intendant, what happened? The boys' response and the teacher's response. And he said, I'm pretty concerned about this. And the Sunday school Sunday school superintendent says, Preacher, don't blow this thing out of proportion. If we need to rebuild those walls, we'll get the money and do it one way or another. They really didn't see clearly what the preacher was talking about I like the Gospel of Mark. It is a it's an action-packed book. You come through the gospel, Mark, and I encourage folks I say this so often, but I do encourage folks to read their Bibles through. It was a blessing to me. Last evening Dad and I were sitting out on the deck in the back end uh talking and Uh he was telling me his Bible reading plan and uh and how he's done it over the years and how he has it laid out now. He's kind of customized his own. And uh I just want to testify this morning, it is an amazing blessing. To me to have a daddy that reads his Bible. And uh I recommend to all fathers that you have that testimony with your children. Don't put on a show, but kids ought to know that their daddy reads the Bible. Amen So I encourage folks to read through the Bible. If you're saved any length of time, you ought to start reading from Genesis to Revelation. If you read through the Gospels, You find that Matthew and Luke are a little bit biographical in their layout. In other words, they'll reference the birth of Jesus Christ. They'll reference key points of his childhood. And of course in his ministry at about age thirty, and then they go into great detail to his death, resurrection is essential. But Mark's not that way. Mark isn't really a biographical record of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's a concise record of Jesus' actions. You just have miracle after miracle after miracle through the book of Mark. In fact, I'm told, and I couldn't document this myself, but in my readings, It's been suggested that a larger percentage of the book of Mark is dedicated to the miracles of Lord Jesus Christ than any of the other gospels. It's the shortest gospel, but it's the most action-packed. The Gospel of Mark I think Mark, I think two good books of the Bible for a new believer to read, and we encourage new believers to get in the book, start reading it, it would be the Gospel of John and the Gospel of Mark. Those are two good books for a new believer to get in and read. Mark is the only gospel to record this miracle here. And I believe this is a strange miracle. This is not typical of the Lord's actions. This is unusual. The miracle, the product of the miracle, seeing men as trees. being in two stages till he finally sees clearly. That is unusual. You don't find that in other miracles. That Jesus does other miracles, Jesus touched their eyes or whatever, and they were made well. I mean, it was instantaneous and it was complete. But this miracle, for whatever reason, that's not the case. The process of being healed comes in two stages. Partial sight, then complete, clear sight. So it's unusual in how it plays out, and it's unusual in its process in that this is the only time. That we find Jesus spitting to on his eyes to make a man well. That's an unusual thing. And so, as I said at the beginning, there's a very strange miracle here. I was reading through my devotions uh a week or so ago, uh I came across this and I came back and I read it again, I looked at it, and I thought, you know, I think I want to study that out and just see if there is Isn't something here for us? So I've got three thoughts from this passage this morning. Number one, I want to now you're gonna have to, if you write notes down, you're gonna have to pay attention to this outline. Number one, I notice the vicarious faith of some folks, the vicarious faith of some folks. Now I use that word vicarious for two reasons. One, to impress you with big words. And I try to do that periodically, and uh that's very important to me that I impress you with big words. But the second reason And the primary reason I use that word vicarious is it explains very well what's taking place here. Now look at verse 22 with me, if you would. Verse 22, and he cometh to Bethsaida, and what's that next word? They bring a blind man unto me. him and you could say they besought him to touch him. The blind man is not coming to Jesus on his oath. Somebody's bringing him. They are bringing him. Now, we don't know who the they are. We don't know how many of them there are. We don't know what relation they are to the blind man, if any. Are they neighbors? Are they friends? Are they family members? Are they total strangers in Solim? Were these They these folks, men, women, were they going out from Jesus looking for people that had needed healing and finding them and bringing them to Jesus? Were they total strangers to this person? We don't know. But we do know this. Their actions were vicarious. That word vicarious means this: to act on the behalf of another. To take the place of another. In other words, these folks, they um they believed that Jesus. Could and would heal this blind man if they would just if they could just get him to them You follow what I'm saying? Um they were acting on his behalf. Either he was ignorant of what Jesus uh could do or who Jesus Jesus was and wasn't aware of it and they came and got him and told him about it and took him or maybe he was unwilling to, maybe he thought, you know, oh I could never do that. He would never no no no. And uh maybe they should have said, No, no, he'll heal you. Just come with us. Just let us take you. We don't know the details of that, but what we do know is the blind man did not bring himself to the Lord, he was brought by somebody. We don't know who they were. Obviously, they believed that God would care for this blind man. Whether he believed it or not, whether he was aware of it or not, these folks were convinced that Jesus Christ really cared about this blind man. They believed that Jesus was able to heal this blind man. Now, whether he believed that or not, whether he was aware of that, we're not told. But that just captivates my thinking and it challenges my Christianity that here are some folks That care enough to put in the effort and take the time and work their schedule out to go get this blind man and on his behalf Bring him to Jesus Christ so that Jesus could heal him and make him well. They cared about this guy. Somebody said that Christian friends tell their friends about Jesus. I like that statement. Friends Tell their friends what Jesus can do for them. Concerned believers tell the lost folk that Jesus can save them. It's called being vicarious. Now, as I looked at this and tried to imagine what was the scenario, what was the setting Where they found this blind man and brought him in. And I can very easily see that here was a group of people. They had heard Jesus' words. They believed that he was God in the flesh, the coming Messiah. They saw him perform miracles, and they became convinced in their mind that Jesus could and would heal those that they would bring to him. And maybe they began a ministry of sorts of their own. I can see this happening. I can see this playing out and saying, hey, you know what? Let's go find people. Let's go get them and bring them to Jesus Christ so that He can meet their needs and make them well and change their life. Hey, that's a great idea. And maybe it wasn't anything organized, maybe it wasn't anything that's just spontaneous And they started going out into the highways and hedges, they started going out to the houses in the cities and the villages, and says, Hey folks Hey, you got any needs? Come with us. We'll introduce you to the Son of God, and he can make you well. Boy, what a great ministry. You know what that sounds like to me? That sounds like the bus ministry. Amen, or not? Go out and find kids and find teenagers and find moms that find anybody willing to get on a bus. And hey, uh you come with us. We'll take you to church. And at church you can hear the Bible and hear the Word of God and you can find out how Jesus can forgive you for all your sins. And you can find out how Jesus Can save you from hell. And you can find out how Jesus can say can give you a whole new life, eternal life, and find the joy and presence and peace of mind that only God can give It's exactly what they're doing. Now, maybe it was that sounds like Thursday night visitation to me Get out and we go out in the neighborhood, go door to door, and just tell people about Lord Jesus Christ, acting on their behalf. Sounds like world missions to me Where we get missionaries and we give and pray and we give as much as we can and trust God to to meet our needs and look to the Lord and we send these missionaries out into all the countries And they go and tell people that Jesus Christ can meet their needs, that He can save their souls, that He can change their lives, He can give them eternal life I don't know if these guys were just said, hey, let's go find folks and bring them in. Wouldn't that be a neat thing? Maybe this blind man was kin member. Maybe this blind man was a family member. Maybe this was their uncle or their brother or nephew. Maybe uh we don't know what it was. Uh but his family. You know where I think the good you know where Christianity needs to begin? Needs to begin in the family. Amen? Amen. I I I I I'm gonna put my dad on the spot here a little bit today, but he's here, so I'm thinking about him. But uh I thank God for a daddy that prayed for his son to get saved Amen? I cared enough. But Daddy that knew what Jesus Christ could do for his son. Daddy that knew that Jesus Christ could get him off of the garbage and take him out of the city he was living in. And give him a whole new life and give him a plan and a per plan and a purpose for his life. I don't know what this guy was, whether he was kin to this group of folks or what he was, maybe he's total stranger. Maybe they're just out. Maybe he was a neighbor. Maybe he was uh some somehow a co-worker in one way or another. Whatever the case was, here you have some folks. Found a bronze. Look what it says. It says, They bring a blind man unto him and besought him to touch him. You know what the implication here is? This guy would have died blind had they never brought him. Right? That's what's implied here. Had these folks never brought this man to Jesus Christ, he'd have died blind. There's folks all around us. Listen, I know we we're in the United States of America. I know we live in a conservative area. There's a lot of religion around here. But I'm telling you this, I've been here 21 years now. I know one thing for a fact. There's folks in our community and our area. That if somebody doesn't tell them how to be saved, they're going to die in their sins. They're going to die lost. This guy didn't just come up to Jesus on his own. Jesus, he just didn't come wandering up to Jesus on his own. Now there's other incidents Since where that happened, but not in this case. Somebody found him and brought him. I've noticed over the years, on occasion, on occasion, folks will wander in the church. Folks have never been saved under conviction of sin, lost, concerned about their salvation, concerned about their e eternity, whether going to heaven or hell. And sometimes they'll wander in the church and thank God sometimes you'll see them trust Christ and get saved. Amen? You know what I found? Most of the time, you gotta go find someone and bring them They did a survey, and I don't have this documented, but I've read it a number of times, where most folks who come to know Christ as Savior come because someone else brought them. Because someone else invested some time, invested some effort, invested some concern, and got them to the point where they understood that Jesus Christ is the Savior of the world. Ah, that's a blessing to me. They, I circled the word they in my Bible. They bring a blind man. I want to be one of they It's not good English, but it's a good truth, huh? That's what I want to be that. I want to challenge those of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior. I want to challenge us this morning Morning, in the next week, in the next two, three weeks, let's try and be a they. Let's try. Say, well, you know, I wonder if I couldn't invest a little time or effort into someone that needs Jesus Christ, that needs And maybe I could be a part of them getting them in touch with Jesus. You say, oh, I could never save anyone. That is the truest statement you've ever said. No, we can't save anyone. All we gotta do is get them in touch with Jesus. He does the saving. Amen? We have folks in our church that work on uh uh on the EMTs and the rescue squads and my dad drove uh uh ambulance for a while didn't you Dan years ago? What's that? Short time he drove ambulance for a while. Don't say that, it doesn't not as impressive. I gotta teach them how to do this. Uh and uh they show up oh man lie this guy needs This guy needs surgery. If he doesn't have emergency surgery, he's not gonna live. And EMT says, I don't know how to do surgery, I could never do that. The driver of the emergency squad, the driver of the um Uh ambulance says, uh, good heavens, I could never they don't have to do the surgery. All they gotta do is get him, get that patient to the one that can do the surgery Hey, you and I can't change anybody's life. You and I can't give eternal life to anybody. You and I can't save anyone from hell. Good night, we couldn't save ourselves. But one thing we can do, we can get them to the one that can save them from sin and hell. We can get them to that. And that's what these guys are doing. They're acting on behalf of this poor blind person. And so the first thing I see here this morning is the vicarious faith of some folks. If you're here this morning and you're saved and you know it, God can use you to bring other people to Jesus Christ. May not be anything more than handing out a gospel tract to somebody and saying, hey, this this little tract here, tell you how you can go to heaven, not to hell, straight from the Bible, tell you how to have your Sins forgiven, have eternal life, have a whole brand new life. Let's little track tell you how to do it. That's every one of us can do that. Amen. We can invite people to church We can get in and learn a soul-winning training. Hey, here's something you can do. Just tell other people how you got saved. That's what the woman at the well did. She didn't have any training. She didn't have any tracks. She went and told them how what the Lord Jesus did for her, and lo and behold, the whole gang got saved. And so I see the vicarious faith of some. Number two, my second notice from this strange miracle. I mean, this is unusual. I see not just the vicarious faith of some fruits, but I see a variety of factors involved in this man's cure. People came to Jesus Christ. If you read through the Gospels carefully and pay attention to his miracles, people came to Jesus Christ in a variety of ways. Some people sought him out themselves. Some people they had a need in their life and they went by, I'm thinking of blind Bartimaeus. He's sitting along the roadside, and Jesus comes by and he cries out, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me. Nobody brought him. In fact, you know what the crowd started doing? They said, uh, they said, Barnamaeus, hush, you be quiet. Would you just shut up? It's basically what they're saying. I don't think you ought to say that, but that's what they were saying And you know what Bartimaeus did? He said, Oh, okay, I'm sorry. No, he didn't. He cried out the more. The Bible says, Jesus, he's a blind man. Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me! And Jesus stops and says, come over here. And blind Barnabas believed with all his heart that Jesus Christ could do for him what he needed done. And he was determined to get to Jesus Christ. And the whole crowd can tell him to sit out and shut up. He wasn't going to do it. Because he believed Jesus cared and Jesus could help him. You know what I found sometimes? You want to get right with God, you want to get your salvation settled. You know what you're going to find sometimes? People will try and stop you I know this, the devil will try and keep a person from getting saved. But thank God for people who care enough about their spiritual condition they care enough about their relation with the Lord Jesus Christ, it doesn't matter what anybody else is doing, I'm going to get right with God Doesn't matter what everybody else is doing. I need to get saved. I'm not letting anybody keep me from salvation. Nobody is worth going to hell for. I'm getting saved. That was the mentality there. So some people came to the Lord Jesus Christ of their own volition, of their own, they were determined. You read through the miracles here, and some people came to him, sought him out a little privately Now, Nicodemus wasn't blind and he didn't have palsy and uh he walked fine and he was healthy, but Nicodemus was spiritually lost. He was on his way to hell He was a good man, a religious man, a wealthy man. But he'd never been born again. He'd never been saved. And so he comes to Jesus, we're told in John chapter 3, late of the night. By himself, and the crowds are gone, just Jesus and he. And he seeks out the Lord privately. He seeks out the Lord individually and privately. Some people, Jesus came to them. I'm thinking about the man by the pool of Bethesda, and he's waiting for the waters to move, and he's not even paying any attention, Jesus. And at that time there was a miraculous event going on that when an angel would come down and stir the waters, the first person that got good in that pool, they were made well And here you have this poor guy, is uh is lame and and every time he tries to get in that water, somebody else gets in ahead of him and he's not paying any attention to Jesus He's not paying attention to the Messiah. He's not paying attention to the crowds going on around the Lord Jesus Christ. He's focused on one thing and one thing alone. I've got to get in that pool And Jesus comes over to him. Nobody brought him to Jesus. He didn't go to Jesus. He's focused on this. Jesus comes to him and makes him well. How about that? I've seen over the years folks who are lost in their sin, never been saved, never accepted Jesus their Savior And they're just living their life and they're focused on making money and they're focused on getting by. They're focused on making the best of what they got. And out of the blue, Jesus Christ starts convicting their sins. Somebody shows up on the door, something happens, and suddenly Jesus Christ is turning their life around. So the Lord, what I'm saying is this. People were brought to Jesus. Jesus encountered people in various ways. Some of their own selves. Some were brought by others. Hey, we have a record in the Bible of folks being brought to Jesus Christ. They're tearing the roof out of the building and dropping them down. There was not one specific method of bringing people to Jesus Christ. There were various ways. And I believe, let's make it application here, I believe a sign of a healthy church is having various ministries out there trying to bring people to Jesus Christ. I enjoy fishing and I try to fish every chance I can. I just love it, love it, love it. When I go fishing, I like to take about four or five fishing poles with me. I got a different lure on each one And uh, you know what? I'm trying this one and I'm trying that one and this one and that one and uh sometimes I'll have two or three out at one time, get two or three fish on at one time, and the canoe flips over and you half drown. It's great But not it's not really ever happened. But um But if you're bank fishing, well you throw some line out here, a line out there, a line out there. I was fishing out here on Yaquagini River years ago And uh I was up there at there's an old dam up there and I had a couple lines out. I was trying to catch carp. I had threw them corn out and I had those lines out and I had another line. I was fishing, I was trying to see if I can catch some smallmouth I was using lure and uh I thought I heard something move. I looked down about that time my poles going Zing straight out in the river. It's gone gone forever Try to think why I'm telling this about fishing. People come to the Lord various ways. And I think a good sign of a Christian, a good, healthy Christian, a good healthy church, they've got a radio station. They've got buses running around. They got people out knocking on doors They do a Bible time, they set up a booth at a fair, they have a wild game dinner, and uh that sounds familiar. But you see what I'm saying? We want to reach people. We want people to come to Christ. And we found, and it's true in Scripture, people come various ways. Different ways. And uh if you're witnessing to somebody and you're trying to get someone saved and the approach you're using isn't working, maybe try a different approach Maybe take them out to lunch. Hey, uh I'd like for you to come to church. Now I ain't going to church. Uh hey uh we got uh we've got Oh American Sunday. Uh we I'd like for you to come to church with me, now I ain't going to church Say, uh, I'll take you out, I'll take you out to dinner afterward. All right, I'll come to church. You see what I'm saying? And so there was various ways. Here's another People came to Jesus various ways, but Jesus healed people in various ways. Sometimes Jesus would touch them. And they'd be made well. I I love that picture. Jesus just I like the song He Touched Me. Sometimes Jesus would touch them and they'd be made well. Sometimes people would come and they would touch Jesus. And they were made well. Remember the woman with the issue of blood? She came and touched them, and Jesus said, Who touched me? Now he knew who touched them. And the disciple said, this is in the great disciples said, what are you nuts? There's thousands of people touching you. What do you mean who touched you? Sometimes people came and touched Jesus and were made well. Sometimes he touched them. Sometimes he just spoke to them. Sometimes they weren't even in his presence. He would just tell the centurion, your servant's well, you go on back home, everything's well. He had a variety of ways. Sometimes he'd just speak to them. Sometimes he'd have them go wash in water. Uh one time he made mud and smeared mud. Sometimes a couple times he stuck his fingers in their ears. They could hear. Now look at this here. Isn't this interesting? He spits on his eyes. God spit. That's amazing. I don't see this anywhere else. He spits on his eye. He didn't do everything that way. He didn't go around spitting in people's ears. Right? Let me see her arm. Oh, that's well. Um, I'm glad we don't sing songs there's power in the spit. Washed in the spit? Holy Spirit spit on me I'm not trying to be irreverent, but I'm saying this is strange, isn't it? I mean, I'm just I'm looking and here, we know who Jesus is. He's God in the flesh, and he's spitting on this guy's eyes. What I'm trying to say is this. God can use various ways to bring people to himself. Now, don't misunderstand. There's only one way to be saved. Accepting Jesus Christ as Savior. There's only one door to go through to get to eternal life. That's Jesus Christ. He says, I am the way, the truth, and life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. But people get to that door through various ways. I'd venture to say, and we're not going to take the time to take a survey, but I'd venture to say there's some people here this morning, you came to Jesus Christ because a Sunday school teacher sat down with you and showed you the gospel I venture to say there's some other folks here. You came to Jesus Christ. Maybe you were in a revival meeting. And that preacher, like my wife, that preacher was preaching on hell, and you got under conviction? And you thought, man, I don't want to go to hell and you accepted Christ. My wife got saved as a young teen. They had a message on hell And the invitation was given, and she didn't go forward, and she didn't go forward, and as they pressed that invitation, she refused to respond. She got home, laid in bed, could not sleep. Under conviction, lost on her way to hell, the reality of that burning in her heart and soul, till she slipped out on her knees and called out Jesus Christ to be her Savior. Not everybody got sick. Not everybody came to the gospel that through that way. Some people maybe come to Christ like me in a bedroom by yourself just reading scripture. Maybe it's at a camp counselor. Took some time to sit down with you and went through the gospel. After you've heard it all week, it can't. Maybe it was a Sunday school teacher. Maybe a soul winner came by your door Maybe it was just a regular church service with no special emphasis, but the gospel was given and your heart was open and you believed and trusted Christ and got saved. The point is this. Jesus didn't spit on everybody to make them well. He had different methods to get them to that point. And that's true with the gospel. Now, there I said this is a strange miracle, and there's something else that's strange here, and it's kind of unrelated to this exactly, but I want to point it out. Look at verse 23. And he, Jesus, took the blind man by the hand. Now remember, these other fellows brought him to Jesus. Jesus sees him. He takes the blind man by the hand. And what's the first thing he does with him? Look what it says there. He did what? He led him where? He led him out of the town. Come down to verse 26. And he, Jesus, this is after he's made well, he spent on him, made him well, he goes through this process, and he sent him away to his house, saying, Neither go into the town, nor tell it to any in the town. I thought that seems awfully strange. I don't see him doing this any other place. Here Jesus is, and he's in Beth Sai but Beth Seda. And uh these guys bring up Jesus, Jesus, here's this man blind, he's blind. Before Jesus says a word to him, he takes him by the hand, he takes him out of the town. He spits on his eyes, he says, How do you look? I see men as trees walking. And then in verse number uh verse 25, after he put his hands again upon his eyes, made him look up, he was restored, saw every man clearly. And then Jesus says to him, Now, don't go back in that town. And he says to him, don't even tell anybody in that town what I just stood for you. I got thinking, what is it about this town? He wouldn't do the miracle in the town. He took him out and doesn't do that any other any other miracles. After he makes the heals this man, makes him well, he says, Don't go back in that town. Don't tell anyone in the town what I did for you What is it about Bethsaida? My answer is I don't know, but I wonder if Matthew chapter 11, verse 20. Doesn't give us a little insight. Turn over there with me if with me if you would. It's not far. Come back to Matthew chapter eleven and verse twenty. Here Jesus is naming specific cities Verse 20 says, Then began he to upbraid the cities wherein most of his mighty works were done, because they repented not. So there's some cities where he did a lot of miracles. He displayed his power in unusual ways. And those cities. Would not receive him. They would not repent at what they had done. And he goes down and he lifts some. Look what he says: Woe unto thee, Khorazin, and woe unto thee, Bethsida. That's where this miracle's taken place. He says, Woe unto thee. For if the mighty works which were done in you Had been done entire in Sidon. Now those were two Old Testament cities that were ungodly as can be and faced God's judgment If the mighty works which were done in you, but Sidah had been done entirely in Sidon, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes. I mean they would have thoroughly, sincerely repented. And they didn't see the mighty works that you've seen. They didn't have the opportunity that you had. And you've rejected it. And he goes down then and he talks about, um, uh, but I say to you shall be more tolerable in Tyre and Sidon. And then he comes down verse 3 and thou Capernaum. Now I don't know, I cannot stand here this morning and say to you dogmatically, this is why Jesus took the man out of the city did the miracle out city and told him not to go back, not even tell the people in the city about this miracle. I don't I can't tell you dogmatically why, but I wonder Having seen and understanding what Jesus is saying here in Matthew, if God wasn't finished with that city. If they had not come to the point where God said, No more There are other cities that, if they had the opportunities that you had, would have turned from their sin and would have trusted me long ago. And you've seen my power, and you've heard my message, and you've heard my voice, and you know who I am, and you still refuse to turn from your sin. No more. No more That is the impression I get. You say, oh, preacher, God would never give a. You know, the Bible is pretty clear. The Spirit of God will not always strive with a man. The Bible is pretty clear. There comes a point. You read Romans chapter 1, and there comes a point where God says, listen, you want your sin, you want to reject the gospel, you want to say no to the Word of God And say no to the word of God and say no to the word of God. All right. You have your way, I'll leave you alone. And the Bible says he gives them over to their wicked sins. And I just have a sneaking suspicion in the back of my mind that this city, Bethida, had gotten to the point. They had seen so many miracles. They had heard so many sermons. They had seen God's power. They had no reason to reject him. They had no reason to say no to the gospel. And Jesus says, I'm not doing any more here. I'm not doing any more here. You know it scares me sometimes When you have folks that grow up in a church or are very familiar with the Word of God and they know the truth of God's word and they say no and And they put on a show and they play with it, and they've seen the power of God, and they know what God expects from us, and they say no, and they say no, and they say no That's a scary place to be in. Listen to me. What I want to say right now, I want you to take very, very seriously. If you're here this morning and you know you need to be saved, and you know how to be saved. I'm telling you, today's the day you need to get saved. You're not promised tomorrow Today is the day of salvation. Now is the accepted time. Boast not thyself tomorrow. Thou knowest not what a day may bring forth Now I'm not trying to scare anybody, I'm not trying to uh sensationalize anything, but I am saying this. There is a biblical truth that the only time I have guaranteed to get right with God is right now. Because I'm not guaranteed tomorrow. And so when the Bible says that he took him by the hand out of the city And he goes through this process of this miracle. And when he's done, he says, don't go to your house, but don't go through that city, and don't tell anybody in that city. That to me is a fearful, fearful warning. So this is a strange, strange miracle You have these people who have a vicarious faith on behalf of the spline man. They find them, they bring them to Jesus Then you have this variety of ways that Jesus accomplishes his will, people coming to him various ways, people being healed in various ways. I was student down at Tennessee Temple University years ago, and they had a radio station then, and it was W D Y N. And I remember listening one day, and um we listened to it all the time, and and uh and I guess it was in a church service where this event was conveyed to us. There was a truck driver was driving, I think it's Route 24 that comes down through Chattanooga there, if I remember correctly And a truck driver of a Sunday morning was driving through the city. And he was fiddling around with his radio dial, and he tuned in to WDYN. The church service was going on, the preacher was preaching. And as he drove through that city, the gospel was presented over the air, and that old boy got under conviction. And rather than saying no to the gospel, and rather than postponing his decision to trust Christ He slowed the truck down, pulled it off the side of the road, got out of the truck, got on his knees, and accepted Jesus Christ as his personal Savior. Isn't that an amazing thing? He later called into the radio station and told them what had happened and all this and gave them his information and they found out where he was from and told the church of a church there and I want to say he was from Michigan, I don't remember, but uh somewhere he was at and they desired they defiled. You know, God uses various ways To bring people to Jesus Christ. I'm glad you don't have to be riding in a truck through Chattanooga to get saved. Amen Last thought real quickly, number three, had the vicarious faith of some folks. We had the various uh ways of the Lord working. Number three, now here's another big one. I'm telling you, I am impressive this morning. The virtuous deferment to the Savior. Wow. I'm not even sure what that means. But this is what I'm trying to say. I see here as I look at this miracle, I see no resistance on the part of the blind man. Um how many people would be a little resistant to someone spitting on you? I mean I that's a whoa. This guy doesn't resist that at all. Whatever Jesus feels is best for him, he accepts it. He's submissive to the Lord. I see none of the onlookers stepping in and saying, whoa, don't do that to that man. What are you doing? None of that at all. It's total submission. What Jesus Christ says is best, they accept it as best. And maybe to to us we look at something we say, you know, that doesn't make a lot of sense. Why would God do that that way? But can I suggest to you what the best attitude is for Christian growth? Can I tell you what the best attitude is for spiritual maturity? Is total submission to Jesus Christ. Just saying, Lord, you are good, you are all wise, I am not wise And if this is the best thing in the world for me, if this is good for me, if this will help me, then I'll submit to it. And Lord, you can have your way. The best attitude For Christian growth is total surrender to the will of God. Now think with me. If this blind man would have bristled At the Lord's chosen method of healing him, he would have died blind. He would have died blind. Lord, in my case, in your wisdom, to spittle my eyes is what will make me see, then Lord, spit away. You do whatever you think is best. Some Christians never see clearly Because they never totally submit to God. And everything has to be fully their way, or it's not doing it. And I need to be able to comprehend this, and I've got to see how this all plays out, Lord, before I'm going to trust you. And they never grow. They never grow in faith. And they never see God do great things in their life. Not until we come to the point and say, Lord, here I am. You know me better than I do. You're my creator. You're all wise God. God, you take me. And you use me and you do to me and you change me and you mold me however you see fit. And Lord, it might be embarrassing in some of my friends' eyes or whatever, but God, more than anything else, I want your will to be done in my life. What an attitude. It's called total surrender. And I'll tell you this: God does not humiliate his children. He humbles us sometimes, but it's always for our good for us to grow. Are you with me? I read about a lady, Rose Crawford. She was from Ontario. She was blind for 50 years. At the age of 50, her doctor told her about a surgery that they could do that would restore her sight. She agreed to it, went into surgery. The surgery was over. They took the band-aides off, and lo and behold, Rose Crawford could see Clearly. Her sty her sight had been restored through this surgery. True story. After she is in the process of recovering and getting about her new life as a being able to see. Word came to her that that surgery had been available when she was thirty years old. But nobody told her. Nobody told her. And for twenty years, she lived in unnecessary darkness. She could have seen her children, grandchildren, her service could have seen her children bring her grandchildren into the world. She did, because nobody told her of a procedure that was available. And for 20 years she lived in darkness. How many people say that's kind of sad? You agree with me? Twenty years she could have seen all that she missed. And I tell you what's even Even more sad? There's a lot of people lost in sin. If they die in their sins, they go to hell forever. And nobody I mentioned this in a message recently. I believe with all my heart. I'm convinced there are people around us. If somebody would just come by with an open Bible and show them what the gospel of Jesus Christ says, they would believe it and accept Christ and find eternity. Eternal life. Not everybody will, but I'm convinced there's some. I'm convinced there's people in Kazakhstan and other countries just like it that if somebody would show up at their door And sit down with them with the Word of God in their language and show them how to be saved. They would believe and be saved. But they're going to die. In their sins. Because nobody told them. I tell you what else is sad. It's sad that there's many Christians like you and I that have accepted Christ. We've heard the message, we've accepted it. But because we will not submit to the Lord and we will not trust him and obey him, We don't grow. We never really see clearly because we bristle at what God is leading and what God instructs us. And we walk away seeing men as trees. Oh, we've got, we're saved. Well, brother, we don't see things clearly. And they're stumbling through their Christian life when if they would just submit to the Lord and say, Lord, whatever you need to do, God, whatever the next step is for me and my Christian Christian life, I'm willing to do it, and then they can see. That's why we emphasize so much that after a person gets saved, they ought to get baptized. I do not believe, I'm sharing my heart with you. I do not believe a Christian can grow in their Christian life as they should until they trust and obey the Lord in the matter of baptism. It is the first step. Not just baptism, but faithful church membership, reading my Bible daily, separating to the Lord from the world. All these things are part of this process of Christian growth. And the more I trust the Lord, the more I obey Him and let Him lead me, the more clearly things come and I can see Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, that you would help us. Lord, this is a strange miracle, and Lord, I don't understand a lot of it. But I do know this, Lord, you want lost people to be saved. And God, I believe with all my heart that you want anyone in this service, anyone under the sound of my voice, that is unsaved, you want them to be saved today. I believe that with all my heart. Lord, I know you want us as Christians to trust you and obey you. I know that's your will. So, God, help us. Soften our hearts. Open our minds and our will to your will and have your way. With our heads