And I'll be honest with you, these are passages uh that uh did you ever did you ever read through your Bible? And there's certain passages you just read through And sometimes you don't pay a whole lot of attention to what's happening. It's just kind of, you're just, it's just, you just read through. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I think I've done this, you know, s dozens of times. I've read through this and never really stopped and examined what's taken place. And uh so that's what we've been doing here. David is making his way back to the palace and the all the Tribes have called him back and he's coming back to take his reclaim the throne. And as he's returning, there's these people meeting him. And so tonight we're going to look at one of these fellows who meets David as he's returning to the palace there to take the throne. Verse 24. And here he is. And Mephibosheth The son of Saul came down to meet the king, and had neither dressed his feet, nor trimmed his beard, nor washed his clothes. From the day the king departed unto the day he came again in peace. And it came to pass, when he was come to Jerusalem, to meet the king, that the king said unto him, Wherefore wentest thou not with me, Mephibosheth? And he answered, My Lord, O king, my servant deceived me. For thy servant said, I will saddle me an ass that I might may ride thereon and go to the king, because thy servant Israel. And he has slandered thy servant unto my lord the king. But my lord the king is as an angel of God. Do therefore what is good in thine eyes. For all of my father's house were but dead men before my Lord the King, yet didst thou set thy servant among them that did eat at thine own table. What right therefore have I yet to cry any more unto the king? And the king said unto him, Why speakest thou any more of thy matters? I have said, Thou and Ziba, divide the land. And Mephibosheth said unto the king, Yea, let him take all, forasmuch as my lord the king has come again in peace unto his own house. So Mephibosheth comes and meets the king. Let's pray again and let's ask the Lord to bless our study. Father in heaven, you've told us very clearly in your word that All of Scripture is given by inspiration and that it's profitable for us. And so we believe that there is lessons in this event here that's recorded in your word. I pray, Lord, that you would, your Holy Spirit would open our eyes and open our hearts to what you have for us personally and how this applies to our individual lives. And with that in mind, Lord, I yield my will to you, and I present my body anew at this time for you to fill me with your spirit, and Father, for you to speak through me And as I said, apply to each of our hearts and lives individually as you know we have need, the truths given here. So again, fill me with your Spirit. Have your way now, in Jesus' name. Amen. So David's making his way back to the throne, as I said, and there's these there's these series of men That approach him as he's making his way to the throne. He's not seeking out these men. They are coming to him They are en route and they're approaching them. We looked last week at um Shemiah and his approach to the king and of course The previous introduction, our introduction to Shimei was not a very pleasant picture. He's cussing David out and lying about him and throwing rocks at him. Well Shimei comes back, we saw that last week, and he tries to make amends. Now we have noticed there, well actually before Shimei, if you notice in verse 17, there was another fellow with Shemmi that came and approached David along with Shemiah. Who was that in verse 17? Ziba. And we met Ziba previously as Mephibosheth's servant And he was given the responsibility to take care of Mephibosheth, who we'll look at here in a moment. So you've got Shimei meets the king and tries to make amends. Ziba's in on that. And we'll see why here in a little bit. And then he goes a little ways, no doubt. He travels, and then Mephibosheth shows up. Verse 24. And he approaches the king. And he interacts with the king. Then if you come down to verse 31, there's a fourth fellow that we'll look at in another message, Lord will, in next week. Barzillii. We noted him earlier, just briefly, we ran across him, and we'll talk a little bit more about him. So you have these four fellas approach David as he's making his way back to the throne and re-establish his kingdom. Now, here we're looking at Mephiboshed, and I want to just give a few reminders A little review about who Mephibosheth is, what his relationship with David is, and why this is significant, this encounter here with David, his approaching David. Of course, look there in verse number 24. It says that Mephibosheth, the son of Saul. Now, question, was Mephibosheth the direct son of Saul? No. He was the son of Saul's son. Jonathan. He was Jonathan's son. And you'll see that sometimes in Scripture, the Bible will refer to somebody, a notable person, they'll refer to their ancestors as their son And so it's it's not an incorrect, it's not a mistake. It was just how they referred to people, it was kind of the custom And so Mephibosheth is the son of Jonathan, the grandson, Mephibosheth is the grandson of King Saul. Now who was Jonathan and what was his relationship with David? It's Bible quiz time tonight Alright, he was son of King Saul. But what was Jonathan's relationship with King David? They were they were BDFs. Is that right? Big buck down. No, uh BFF. Best friends forever. And so they're very, very close, and Mephibosheth is Jonathan's son. Saul is killed in battles. We studied that. Jonathan, in the same battle, at the same time, is killed by the Philistines. Jonathan is killed. That leaves Mephibosheth without a father. Mephibosheth was just a small child. He had a nurse caring for him, and that was very common. And as they're fleeing, they're assuming that the Philistines are going to overthrow Jerusal- uh overthrow the the city there where they're at and uh and overthrow their home. And so the nurse has Mephiboshef as a small child is fleeing and in her haste she stumbles and she drops the baby And the baby is wounded. Mephibosheth as a small child is wounded in both of his legs and he never walks again. He's wounded. Of course, David becomes king, and the house of Saul, his family and his offspring kind of are dispersed. And David, because of his love for Jonathan, and the Bible says, because of the kindness of his heart, he asked the question, is there anybody left of the house of Saul? They had become so insignificant The king didn't even know the previous king's family if any existed still. So they find Mephibosheth down in Lodibar. You stand with a very nice, wealthy man, and David brings him into his household and takes care of him. All right, so that's Mephiboshet. He had a servant, Ziba, that David assigned the responsibility of taking care of the Mephibosheth. Ziba's sole responsibility was to take care of Mephibosheth in the king's household. He sat at the king's table, he had all the provisions as if he was the king's son. And he did all that for Jonathan's sake. Ziva himself was a fairly wealthy man, or very well to do. He was a servant, but he was very well to do. He had his own servants He had his own household as he cared for Ziva, as for Mephibosheth. And so Mephibosheth is here And we noted, and I suggested, as we looked at Zyba before, that Zyba betrayed and abandon the Phibosheth. When David fled, and Absalom took the throne very briefly Ziba abandoned Mephibosheth and betrayed him. Now I'm going to show you why I'm even more convinced that Ziba was dishonest to David about Mephibosheth. And so here's Mephibosheth. Think about this guy. He's dropped as a child. He never walked, maybe toddled around a little bit as a toddler. You know, that's what toddlers do. They toddle. He toddled around a little bit, but from the point of the accident, when the nurse dropped him on, he never walks again. He's totally dependent on somebody else moving him around. How many people agree with me? That's kind of sad to be in that kind of condition Then his own servant, as we're going to see, betrays him. And he's left back at the house, again, I'm going to show you this, why I believe this to be true, he's left back at the house to care for himself in a very limited condition. So he's injured severely, permanently as a child. He's forgotten about down in Lodibar for a long time until he's an adult. For a brief time he's treated like a king's son and then he's abandoned again. Would you agree with me? Mephibosheth has had a rough life. Things haven't gone real well for Mephibosheth. But here's the thing. As I study Mathibishad, I don't find one hint of bitterness Or anger, or even ingratitude on the part of this guy. And I find that very, very interesting. And here's my experience, and I hate to say this, but I have to include myself to this in this a little bit to some degree, is those of us that have had it really pretty good We tend to be the ones that are ungrateful and get attitudes. Am I right or wrong? And I've seen it so many times over the years that the people have had it rough And the people who maybe, at least humanly speaking, in our reasoning would we would say, you know, they have a reason to be bitter. They have a reason to be Miserable, they have a reason to be angry. A lot of times it's those people are the most contented or the happiest, most positive attitude people There's something to that. And so here we have Mephiboshet. Difficult life. Very few people showed him kindness. David did, and the owner of the house where he stayed down in Lodibar did. And yet he's gracious. He's very grateful, no hint of bitterness. And as I just said, sometimes the sweetest, most grateful people I've ever met are often the ones that had most difficult time. So David's coming back to the kingdom, to the throne, back to the palace. Shimei shows up and they interact. Ziba's right there in the mix. They interact. Now here comes Mephibosheth. I want us to notice three things in Mephibosheth's interaction with David. Number one, I want us to notice his appearance before David And it's interesting, the Bible takes a little section of the scriptures here and gives us somewhat detail what he looked like. gives us a little bit of his his appearance as he approaches David. Now, I don't think anything is in the Bible just to fill space I think there's a lesson. I think there's something there for us. And so sometimes it's very obvious, sometimes it's not But notice his appearance here. The first thing I notice about his appearance, first of all, he's unkept. Look at verse 24. And Mephibosheth, the son of Saul, came down to meet the king. Now notice it describes his appearance. And had neither dressed his feet. Now what do you think it means he dressed his feet? Yeah, he didn't take care of them He didn't wash his feet, he didn't trim his nails, he didn't he didn't do anything with his feet. And so I I think feet are kind of ugly to begin with, unless they're preaching the gospel in the mountains, then they're beautiful, but And so he just left it go. They're unkept. He says he neither dressed his feet nor trimmed his beard. And so he's uh can you picture your mind? I would say the word I would use is he's straggly looking. Beard is unkept, and no doubt his hair is everywhere. His feet are stinky, unkept, unwashed. And so he's unkept. And then look what it goes on and says, nor washed his clothes. Then it tells us how long he went that he didn't wash his clothes. From the day the king departed unto the day he came again in peace. Now, how long was that? We're not told exactly, but we can kind of look at it there a little bit. I would guess it's probably at least a month Maybe a little bit longer, but I would give it at least a month. David's been gone, been dealing with all of this. You think from David left and Absalom came in? Then he had to round up the army from all of Israel, get them organized. That took, I'm sure, a week at least or more. And then they go the battle. Now David's come back. So let's say a month Now you understand, even though someone in Mephibosheth as being in the household of a king, a family of a king, they didn't have a lot of clothes. And they didn't have washing machines that you throw it in the washing machine, you know. If they were going to get washed, one of the servants would go down the river or whatever, they'd wash it. So He's been a month, probably, now this is guessing on my part, he's been at least a month, my estimation, probably wearing the same clothes without washing them for a month Now what do you think that would be like? Stinky. He hasn't washed himself. He hasn't washed his clothes. He hasn't kept himself up. He hasn't trimmed, brushed his teeth. I guess they brushed their teeth. Hasn't combed his hair. He hasn't done anything with his feet. His clothes are been wearing them for a month. He is unkept and he's unclean. Now what's the significance of that? I think the significance comes in when we go back to chapter 16, if you would. And look with me at verse number three. Here, David, we're going back in time. David is fleeing the city. Absalom's taken over. David's fleeing the city. And Ziba, verse 1, that was a little past the top of the hill, and behold, Ziba, the servant of Mephibosheth, met him. And we looked at this briefly before, but look at verse 3. This is what The Ziba tells King David. Verse 3, and the king said to Ziba, And where is thy master's son? That's Mephibosheth. Now look what Ziba says. Ziba said unto the king, Behold! He abideth at Jerusalem. For he said, Today shall the house of Israel restore me the kingdom of my father. So, what is Ziba telling King David that Mashfibesheth is doing? He's not on your side, and he is anticipating what? He's anticipating getting the throne. According to Zyba, Mephibosheth is back home Anticipating Israel saying, Nope, we're restoring the throne back to the family, King Saul's family. And Mephibosheth, he's here in the palace. We're going to put him as the next king. That's Ziba's story to David that Mephibosheth is doing. Question. The description we get of Mephibosheth in chapter 9, verse 25 Does that look, or 24, does that look like somebody that is expecting to be a king? No. If what Zida said was true, I would imagine Mephibosheth would have been fiffied up. He'd been clean, he'd have good clothes, he'd have royal apparel. If what Ziba said was true, he would be ready to sit on the throne. But instead, the Bible doesn't say Mephibasheth said that he didn't wash his clothes, he didn't keep himself. It says he did not do it. And so this we know in chapter nineteen, this is a fact. This is the way he looked, not what he says he looks like, but this is what he did. And so I think it's significant that the Bible gives us this information, gives us this description of Mephiboshet as he approaches David. He's a mess. And what I'm saying is this, for whatever it's worth, it strongly implies to me that Ziba was lying to David's face. And he had motives for that, we'll see here. That tells me that Ziba had no respect for David. I'm telling you, if you lie to somebody, don't tell me you respect that person you're lying to. Because when you lie to somebody, it is one of the most disrespectful things you can do to a person when you lie to them. And my respect for Zyba has just fallen off the shelf. Lying. Somebody said this things fall apart very easily when they're held together by lies. And Ziba's lie. Absalom's overthrown. He's not on the throne. David's back on the throne. And all of a sudden, Ziba's lies become obvious. If David had been killed and Absalom would be on the throne, then he would have had all of Mephibosheth's possession. That's what David told him when they interacted earlier. But he lied. And I think that's why Ziba was in with Shinei kind of in his shadow trying to deal with what was going on and see what was happening. Lies are awful things. If you would, keep your place here in 2 Samuel 19. Come with me, if you would, to Proverbs. We end up in Proverbs so much. And a couple passages in Proverbs I want us to look at as we consider Ziba's lies. Proverbs chapter 6. And verse number 16. I highly recommend read a chapter of Proverbs every day. I'm telling you, Proverbs is blunt and to the point. Very seldom do you have to ask yourself, what's he talking about? It's usually pretty clear. Proverbs chapter 6, verse 16. Notice what it says: these six things doth the Lord hate. How many people agree with me? It's pretty strong when the Bible says God hates something. I mean, think about it. He spoke this universe into existence. If he hates something, that's pretty serious. And here's six things, yea, seven are an abomination unto the Lord. Look at this God's eight list. A proud look. What's the second one? A lying tongue. God hates it. Hands that shed innocent blood. A heart that deviseth wicked imaginations. Feet that be swift in running the mischief, look at this. A wit a false witness that speaketh what Lies. And he that soweth discord among the brethren. Did you notice there's one thing God hates is mentioned twice? It's dishonesty. It's lying, a false witness. What Ziba did about Mephibosheth is an abomination to God. We say lies about other people. We say lies to people. We are showing such disrespect And we're displeasing God intensely when we lie. Come if you would, if you would, come over to chapter 12 and verse number 19. Now this kind of pulls the covers off a lie, and um Kind of gives us reveals some things about life. Verse 19 of chapter 12, Proverbs, the lip of truth shall be established how long? Forever. You tell the truth, it's settled forever, right? Unchanged. It's the truth. But a lying tongue is what? For a moment. Here's what he's saying. He's saying, listen, you can lie and you might get away with it for a little while, but sooner or later it's going to come out. A lying tongue is but for a moment. Whew, I got out of that. Just hang around. It'll catch up here for long. Come over to chapter 26, Proverbs. And verse 28. You'd be amazed how much the Bible talks about lying and how strong the Bible condemns it. Chapter twenty-six, and look with me if you would at verse twenty-eight. Um A lying tongue, look at this statement. A lying tongue hateth those that are afflicted by it, and a flattering mouth, when a flattering is a lie dressed up. A flattering mouth worketh through him. But look at it, a lying tongue hateth those that are afflicted by it. What does that tell us about Ziba's attitude about David? He hated them. What does that tell us about Ziva's attitude towards Mephibosheth? He hated them. He hated these people. If I'm lying to somebody, you can listen, you can try and convince folks all the day long that you love that person you lied to, but my Bible says that if you lie to somebody, you hate them You disrespect them. They don't have a uh they're not of any they're not a w they're not worth telling the truth to And so Ziba lies to David, and it's found out as Mephibosheth approaches David and he's in this condition, it's obvious that what Ziba said is not true. It's not true. So the first thing I notice, come on back here to 2 Samuel 19. The first thing I notice is I is Mephibosheth's appearance. I may be getting these names mixed up, but you know who I'm talking about, right? I think. Notice verse 25. First of all, we see his appearance as he approaches David. Next thing I notice is his answer to David's question. Now David asks the question here in verse 25. And it came to pass when he was come to Jerusalem to meet the king, that the king said unto him, the king sees him, and it's like he looks past that It seems almost like there's something else on David's mind when he asks this question. Wherefore wentest thou not with me, Mephibosheth? Now, I think the basis of that question is Zyba's lie. If Ziba hadn't put in the ear of David the idea that Mephibosheth is maybe trying to have his own insurrection Mephiboshet has his own coup d'etat going on. I don't think David would have asked that question. If Zaiba wouldn't have put it that thought in his head I don't think he would have asked that question. Why would he have not asked that question? Because Mephibosheth is lame in both his feet. How would he have gone with David? That would be a natural thing to assume he couldn't make it out there in the wilderness on the spur of the moment like that. David's not stupid. But somebody has put a thought in his head and it affected David's thinking about Mephibosheth. Now, coming back to this matter of lies. And it affected David. Zyba's lie affected David's thinking. I put five things down about lies. Say you're hung up on lies tonight. Well, this guy's a liar and it's an abomination to God. Number one, a lie. See if you'll agree with me on this. A lie destroys trust. Anybody here have a hard time trusting somebody that lied to you? How do you know if they're telling the truth now How do you know? If somebody has a record of being honest, somebody has a record of telling the truth, then you can kind of assume that what they're saying is the truth. I have no reason to not think that. But brother, they lie to you. Now all of a sudden it's like, huh. I tell you a lie will destroy trust. Number two, I put this down, and we kind of touched on this, but I lie, number two, disrespects the one they're lying to. You are not worth me telling the truth to. Number three, I put this down, a lie displays selfishness. Ziba wanted something. That's why he lied. Now you might can maybe come up with some exceptions, but I want to suggest to you the overwhelming majority of lies. have something to do with the liar getting something or getting out of something. It has something to do with themselves. And their well-being. And so, number one, it destroys trust. Number two, it shows disrespect. Number three, it displays selfishness. Number four, I put this down: self-destructive. Liars destroy themselves. And number five, it damages their testimony. Tell you, one of the worst things a Christian can do is lie. I mean Jesus says I am the way, the truth, and the life, and I'm to be Christ-like, and I'm a Christian, Christ, little Christ. I tell you, you can spend 25 years having building up an impeccable testimony and you tell a lie and that's gone. Not only does it destroy the liar's testimony, but a lie can hurt someone else's reputation. That's what politicians do all the time. They'll lie about their opponents so that people will think ill of them and not trust them. So lying can damage your testimony, can destroy the reputation of myself and others. So David comes and he approaches, uh Mephibosheth approaches David and this he's a mess, unkept and unclean, and Then David's first question is, Mephibosheth, why don't you go with me? And David's thinking, Saibo, you were trying to take over the throne, Mephibosheth, that's what's in David's head. So here's his answer. Mephibosheth answers this question of David. The first thing he explains is that he was scammed. Anybody here ever get a scam call on your phone? Scams? I got a little thing on my phone. Comes up. Potential scam. Anybody get that? Well Mephiboshef got scammed He says verse 26, and he answered, My Lord, O King, my servant, what? Deceive me. He lied to David. Maphu says he lied to me too. He deceived me. For thy servant said, I will saddle me an ass, and I may ride thereon and go to the king, because thy servant is lame. What is a scam? I looked up the word scam. It means this. A fraudulent or deceptive act or scheme. So I got looking at this, and I'll just tell you, this is what Mephibosheth says happened. Ziba went and got an a donkey prepared, and I guess he uh it uh implies here he told Mephibosheth that I'll go get a donkey ready, I'll get some supplies ready, I'm going to take you and we're going to go out with David. But while Mephibosheth was inside, and I know I'm embellishing this a little bit, Mephibosheth is in the house. Ibas out there He gets all these supplies that we noted earlier that he brought to David, and he just took off and abandoned Mephibosheth there. He lied to him. He deceived me. And Mithus says he's in there waiting to get taken out and put on the donkey and taken out to David, and he never comes back in. He's gone. My servant deceived me. Thy servant said, I will saddle me an ass that I may ride thereon and go to the king, because thy servant is lame. And not only did he scam him, he says, Not only was I scammed, but he says, I was slandered. Look at first part of verse 27. And he hath slandered thy servant unto my Lord the King. What does it mean to slander somebody? Help me out. You lie about them. What's that? You cut them down? Here's the definition of slander: an untruth that harms another's reputation. Say something about another person for the sole purpose of making others think ill about them. For the sole purpose of others to look down on them, to think bad about them. That's what a slander is. The devil is an expert at slander. That's his thing. He slanders God's people. And slanders can be very subtle. Do you ever notice we and people, you can say something about someone, and it's not direct. But it sure makes them look bad. I was reading about a captain of a ship and it was owned by uh the owner of this great ship was a very hard man. He demanded Discipline. He demanded things be done right. And the captain of the ship, uh, they were on a voyage uh taking cargo somewhere, and uh lo and behold, one day He found the mate, his assistant, the mate, and the mate had gotten some liquor into some liquor, and the mate was drunk. The captain was very upset, and he kept the log every day, and in the log he wrote, he gave the summary of the day, and then he made this note. The mate was drunk today. Well later on, the mate is working, doing stuff, and he has to reference the log, and he sees that in the log And he comes and approaches the captain and he says, listen, don't take that out of there. Don't leave that in there. If the owner of the ship sees that, he's going to fire me. And uh I I I I can't afford it. And and he says, listen, facts are facts, that's the truth, it stay in there. So a couple days went by and this time the mate was behind, it it was in the Um what's it called where the headquarters are the the ship where the the what The cabin, where the all the controls are. The bridge. The mate is in the bridge. And his responsibility is to record in the log what's taken place there. And the captain walked in, he looked, and he wrote down, the captain was sober today. The captain said, take that out of there. He said, Facts are facts. It's true. What did that little statement imply? That he wasn't sober every day. You know what that is? That's a very subtle s uh very s subtle slander And we have to be careful. Sometimes we can get an attitude in our heart towards somebody, we can get that bitterness creep in there, and we look for every opportunity we have to make that person look bad. And we can even manipulate the truth in such a way to make them look bad. Ziba slandered Mephibosheth with an outright lie. We have to be careful about slander. It's interesting. I was looking up that word, how it's used in the Bible, in Numbers 14, verse 36. That's where uh Moses sent the twelve spies to go into the land of Canaan before they entered Cades Barnea. And ten were bad and two were good. And the ten that came back, they gave this report, oh yeah, there's a lot of grapes. They're huge. They had the grapes of Eskel and oh it's wonderful milk and honey But there's giants here, and the Bible says in Numbers 14, what did I say? Numbers 14, verse 36, the Bible uses this term. It says the spies slandered the land. They convinced everybody that this is bad. We shouldn't go there. Don't do this. That's what Ziba did. He slandered Mephibosheth. So Mephibosheth got scammed He got slandered. By the way, the term slander is very similar in meaning to the New Testament word term evil speaking. Speak evil of somebody. And another thing is interesting, it's very closely associated with the word blasphemy. To slander someone is, in a very real sense, to blaspheme that person. When we blaspheme God, we speak lowly of God. We use his name in a vain way. We refer to him in a vain way. The whole purpose of blasphemy from the devil's perspective is to lower God in the eyes of man. And so slander is a serious thing. We need to be careful what we how let me put it this way: we need to be careful how we talk about other people. Be very, very careful. So Mephibosheth answers David's question. He says, first of all, I was scammed. He took off, left me, he slandered me. But notice in the last part of verse 27, not only was he scammed, slandered, but he was very submissive. Look at verse 27, the last part. He said, Well, first part, he slandered thy servant, my lord the king. But my lord the king is as an angel of God. Now look at this statement. Do therefore what is good in thine eyes. You know what he's doing? He's submitting himself to David's judgment. David, listen, if you believe Ziba, if you think that I was trying to overthrow the kingdom and take it for myself, if that's what you think happened, then you do what you need to do. I trust your judgment. You make a decision, whatever you decide. You're like an angel. I'm putting you in authority. I'm submitting to that authority. Whatever you say. That's what it's going to be. I'm not going to argue with you. I'm not going to resist you. I'm not going to fight you. Whatever you say, that's fine. Boy, that's submission, huh? And then verse 28, he builds on that. He says, Do therefore what is good in thine eyes, for verse 28, for all of my father's house were but dead men before my Lord the King. You could have killed us all. That's what following up that's what kings do to the previous family. But you didn't. Yet thou didst set thy servant among them that did eat at thine own table. Not only didn't you kill me, you gave me a seat of honor. What right therefore have I yet to cry any more to the king? I tell you, my respect for Mephibosheth has gone up a few notches. He says, Zibo, scammed me. He slandered me. But David, whatever you decide, you've been so good to me. You've been so good to me. The only thing I can do is submit to you. Whatever you decide. To your call. I'm good. Whatever. If you never do another thing for me again, you've been better to me than I deserve. What does that sound like? Sounds like our standing before God. Would you agree with me? God's been good to us. Would you agree with me? If God never did a good thing for us again, He's done so much good for us in the past, we have no right to complain. That's where Mephibosheth is. He's grateful for David's treatment. Here's a guy who's dropped as a child his whole life. He's been lame in his feet. He's been scammed and slandered, he's been forgotten, and yet he's grateful for what he has. And he accepts his predicament. He says there, verse 28, what right therefore have I yet to cry any more to the king? He says, I accept my condition. Whatever it is, I accept it. And then notice verse number 29 and 30. He announces his contentment He announces his contentment. Look at verse 29. Now David responds to what Mephibosheth just said. And the king said to them, Why speakest thou any more of thy matters? I have said that thou and Saiba divide the land. Now I don't know about you. But I sense some frustration on David's part here. Don't you? Just in what he says. Scam, slandered. David, whatever you choose. You've been so good. It's fine, whatever. David says, I don't want to hear any more about this. I don't want to hear anymore. You two guys go divide your possessions. I sense frustration on David's part here. He's tired of this. You know what this is? This is one of those, and I think we've probably all been in it as a pastor, you get in this pretty regularly. This is one of those what we call he said, she said situations. Anybody know what I'm talking about this? If you've got children, if you've got more than one child, you've probably been in this situation. This person says, Oh, they did that, and this person says, Oh, they did that, and you weren't there, you didn't see it And you've got to make some sort of judgment. All you're going by is what he said, she said. In this case, Zyda said, Mephibosheth said. And David has got 10,000 other things on his mind. This, I'm no doubt in his mind, is a very trivial thing. And he's frustrated. He says, I don't want to hear any more about this. I've heard some zyda. I don't want to hear anymore. You guys go take care of this. You guys settle this between yourselves. Divide it up. It reminded me a little bit in the Gospels, and I don't have the reference, where two brothers came to Jesus and they were fighting over the inheritance. And Jesus was a little short with them. He says, What have I to do with thee? This is nothing. You guys settle it. I tell you, when God says you settle it yourself, you better settle it yourself. And so I see this little frustration on David's part here. You two guys sort it out. But then Mephibosheth comes back, and I see, I sense David's frustration, but I see again Mephibosheth's contentment. Look what he says in verse 30. And Mephibosheth said unto the king, now David's done hearing this, and Mephibosheth makes his final statement. He says, Yea, let him take all. For as much as my Lord the King has come again in peace unto his own house. You know what Fabi Bashaf is saying? He's saying, David, just you coming back, is all unsatisfied with that. Look at this. I'm content with the king being on the throne where he's supposed to be. Contentment. What is contentment? Definition: Contentment means to be satisfied with present conditions. If I says, I I don't I don't need all this all this inheritance, all that stuff, I don't need any of that. He might be thinking I can't walk anyway, what good does it do me? Let Ziba have it, let the liar have it. David, you're back here. I'm satisfied with that. Content with present conditions. It also has the idea, I like this definition I looked up, a quiet, uncomplaining, satisfied mind. Not complaining, just quiet. Alright. I'm satisfied with that. My mind is at peace with conditions. Contentment, I put three things about contentment down, and I'll be about done. First thing is this: contentment requires submission to the will of God. I'm afraid sometimes the things we get so upset about and we're so unhappy with, we're so dissatisfied with, is really the will of God for our lives. And if I'm not satisfied, if I'm not content with God's will for my life, that means I'm not content with what? Not content with God. I'm unhappy with his decisions. I'm not doing what's best for me. Remember I said that Satan is an expert at slander? Go back to Genesis 3, don't turn there, but if we go back to Genesis 3, that's exactly what Satan was doing about God To Eve. God knows if you eat of that, you'll know good and evil. You'll be like God. His implication is God's not treating you right. How can you be content with a God that forbids you to eat of this fruit? He knows you'll be better off. Liar, liar, pantomyar. So contentment is saying, you know, I submit myself to God. If this is God's will for my life, then praise the Lord. So it requires submission to the will of God. And then contentment also includes patiently waiting on God. Here's the thing, my condition right now might not always be my condition. God may change it in the future. God may have other plans. He may bring me out of this situation. And so rather than ranting and raving and railing and carrying on and complaining and griping and all of that, just say, hey, you know, this is God's will, all right, I accept it, and I'm going to wait on God one of these days. One of these days, God will maybe bring me out of this. And then contentment means I'm grateful for the goodness of God. And it brings me back to the statement I made earlier. God has already been awfully good to us that I can't find any justification for complaining of anything I find myself in now. We say this often, and I think we say it flippantly, if we stop and think about it, it's pretty profound. Every moment I'm not in hell, I'm getting more than I deserve. Any moment I'm not under the wrath and judgment of God, I'm getting more than I deserve. And so contentment is saying, hey, you know, God's been awfully good to me. Contentment. Benjamin Franklin said this. Contentment makes a poor man rich. Discontentment makes a rich man poor. Isn't that true? Somebody else said, I don't know where I came across this. Somebody said, be content with what you have. But never with what you are. Do you catch that? I need to be careful in my contentment that I'm not just content with my level of Christianity. I always want to grow. Right? I can't I can't be content. I I have to be careful. I'm not uh content to the point where I'm neglecting my spiritual growth. Well, I'm a baby in Christ, but I'm just okay with that. I'm content with that. I never want to be content where I'm at. I'll tell you one thing: I've never been content with my prayer life. I never got to the point say, boy, I'm praying like I should. I'm praying as much as I should. I've never been content with that. Can I get a witness, anybody? I've never been content with my soul witty. At the end of the week, I always look back and see all these opportunities I blew. So I don't want to be content with what I am and where I'm at spiritually. I want to grow. I want to increase. But I do want to be content with what I have. What God provides for me. Just content with that. And so Mephibosheth, what an amazing man. President Eisenhower was speaking to the National Press Club, and he acknowledged them, he admitted to them, I'm not a very good speaker And he said, it reminds me of my boyhood days on a Kansas farm. An old farmer had a cow that we wanted to buy, him and his daddy. We wanted to buy. We went over to visit the farmer and we asked him about the cow's pedigree. Well, the old farmer didn't know what a pedigree meant. So he says, well, what about the cow's butter fat production? The old farmer said, I have no idea. Finally says, Do you know how many pounds of milk the cow produces every year? The farmer said, I don't know. He said, but She's an honest cow, and she'll give you all the milk she has. Eisenhower said, I'm like that cow. I'll give you everything I got. You know what God's looking for? He's looking for Christians. We may not have great pedigrees. Some of us might have more butter fat than others. But uh I'm trying not to log it. I'm looking at myself. But I'll tell you, if we just give the Lord all we got Lord, what I am is yours. And whatever He chooses, people might slander us, people might lie about us, people treat us wrong, we may be lame. We may have setbacks, we may have handicaps that people don't know about. But if we just give the Lord all we have, and just say like Mephibosheth said, look, you're like an angel. What you say is good with me, just the fact that you're on the throat is good enough for me. What a great guy. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless us and help us to be content To just rejoice that you are Lord and you're on the throne and be grateful for all you do for us. I wonder, with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder. If there's some say, preacher, you know, in America we just have so much, it's so easy, ironically, to be so discontented. Maybe some of us would say, you know, I need the Lord to help me to be more grateful. Is there any uplifting hand? I know it's between you and the Lord. We pray together. We're in this together. I really need to be more grateful. What a grateful man Mephibosheth was. Now I don't know. I don't want to do this outwardly, but in your heart, maybe some This issue of dishonesty and this issue of slander, maybe that needs to be addressed in some of our hearts and our minds. That needs to be dealt with and forsaken, confessed as sin and forsaken. I don't want to be like Ziba But whatever the Lord may have spoken to your heart this Wednesday night in an old altar's good place, just come and say, Lord, this is what I need. This is what you dealt my heart about. Lord, help me to make adjustments. Father, bless our invitation now. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.