And chapter three, God is giving us some very serious warnings about uh particularly false doctrine and false teachers coming in. Now I know I'm sounding like a broken record If you're in the adult Sunday school class, we're studying the book of Jude. And the little book of Jude is all about false doctrine of false teachers and warning. 2 Peter chapter 2 is follows Jude, it's almost like they use the same outline And so it's a little repetitious. They didn't design it this way. We're just working our way through these books. So um uh and so but I feel a little bit like a broken record. But let's look at Verse number one of Second Peter chapter two. I'm going to read down through verse three. But there were false prophets also among the people, referring back in the Old Testament, the people of Israel Even as there shall be false teachers among you, who privily or secretly shall bring in damnable heresies, even denying the Lord that bought them. And bring upon themselves swift destruction. Now look at this. And many shall follow their pernicious ways. They're going to have an influence. They're going to affect people. Many people By reason of whom the way of truth shall be evil spoken of. Now, verse three is what I want to touch on tonight. And through covetousness shall they with feigned words make merchandise of you. Whose judgment now of a long time and lingereth not, and their damnation slumbereth not. I want to talk about the methods of false teachers. Methods of false teachers. Let's pray. Father, I ask you, bless now. our study of this portion of scripture. We pray that you would uh I guess tonight, Lord, would be a kind of an instruction type message. We learned uh instruction from you on on these false teachers. So I pray that your Holy Spirit would teach us. I yield my will to you, Lord, my mind, my reasoning, and my thoughts, and I just yield them to you. I want your thoughts to control my thinking as I preach. I present my body anew to you, Lord, and with all my heart, again this hour I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, and that you would again speak through me. Help us to have understanding minds and receptive hearts. For what you give us tonight. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. The Bible is a wonderful book. It is a miraculous book. And the Bible is a unique book. There is no other book like the Bible. 2024 is our theme for the year: Standing on the Promises, and we're calling people back to the Bible. And get back to the Word of God, getting the Bible back in our personal walk, in our homes, and of course uh getting and keeping it in our churches. I believe the Bible is the greatest book ever penned by man because it's given to us by God. It's given by inspiration. God breathed directly from the mind of God. Breathe into the Word of God. It's perfect in every respect. There are no mistakes in the Bible. There are no errors. There are no mistakes. The Bible is perfect in every respect. The Bible is preserved for every generation We do not have to worry if the unbelievers and the atheists and the Bible deniers, we do not ever have to worry that they are going to someday eradicate the Bible from existence that will never happen. Heaven and earth shall pass away, but God's word shall never pass away. The Bible What a book, what a book. In the Bible, we're given information about spiritual realities About the spiritual realm, by the way, the spiritual realm is just as real as the physical realm Just because we can't see it, just because we can't feel it, does not mean there is not a spiritual realm. And I'm telling you right now, you and I sitting in this room right now, there are also spiritual entities, spiritual realities right here, just as real as us sitting here. There's no doubt in my mind. Angels, devils, they're very real, the spiritual realm. And the Bible gives us information that we wouldn't have any other way about the spiritual realities The Bible gives us instruction on how to be saved and how to please God with my life. The Bible tells me what pleases God, what displeases him, how I can live my life in a way to please him, how I can know I'm saved. Gives us that instruction. The Bible gives us promises that we can live by faith. And when we face trials and we go through valleys and we have to deal with storms and disappointment and heartache. We have promises in the Word of God to help us and see us through those difficulties. The Bible gives us examples, all particularly the Old Testament, but all through the Bible, examples. On what to do, what not to do. What happens if I do this? Here's an example in this person's life. What happens? If I don't do that, what happens? The Bible gives us examples. And the Bible gives us warnings. Warnings of unbelief. Warnings of neglect. Warnings of folks who would want to twist the scriptures and teach things about spiritual realities, about heaven and hell, about God, that are not so, that are not true. And he warns us. And that's what we're given here. Major theme, a major theme of both the Old and New Testament is warnings. Warnings, of unbelief, of rejection, of neglect. In fact, the Bible, if you look at it as a whole, the Bible presents life as a great struggle. A very real, intense spiritual conflict is what life is made up of. You see it in the Old Testament and just as much in the New Testament. Life in this world is a mighty, mighty spiritual conflict. How many people know what I'm talking about? How many people can witness to that fact? I've felt that conflict. I know it's real. It is. We are in a conflict between the forces of God in heaven. on one hand and the forces of the devil and uh uh Satan and the devils of hell on the other hand. And it is real as the real going on as it is as real of a warfare and a conflict As the warfare going on over in Ukraine or any other place around the world. And you and I are in it. We're part of it. The world is a spiritually dangerous place. The world is a spiritual battleground, a war zone, again, between God and the forces of heaven and Satan and the devils of hell. And you and I are in that, like it or not. Whether we want it or not, we are born into a world of spiritual warfare. That means that that requires we must be alert. Would you agree with me? If this is a spiritually dangerous place, we've got to be alert. We've got to be aware. We've got to pay attention. If you would, keep your place here. We'll come back. Just turn a page or two back to 1 Peter And the last chapter, chapter number 5, 1 Peter chapter 5, come down to verse number 8. This is a good verse to underscore in your Bible and really commit to memory. 1 Peter 5. 8, it says, be sober. He's not talking about drinking. He's being, you be serious about this. You better take this seriously. Be sober, be vigilant, alert, awake, aware. Because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. And he goes on and says, resist steadfast in the faith. Peter's telling us we better take this warfare, spirit, this spiritual warfare seriously. We cannot play. We cannot ignore this reality. If we do, it's going to affect our own spiritual well-being. We cannot ignore God's word. We cannot neglect God's word. If I neglect the word of God and I ignore the spiritual warfare going on around me, I am endangering my own spiritual welfare, but I am also endangering the welfare of others around me. A mother and father who neglect their walk with God, listen to me A mother and father that neglect their walk with God, that ignore this warfare going on, that neglect the Bible, you are doing harm to your children. Every child needs a mom and dad who are serious about their walk with God. There are certain passages that stand out in dealing with this spiritual warfare. Jude, as I mentioned earlier, is one of those. The entire book of Jude, he takes it very, very seriously. 2 Peter here, chapter 2 and chapter 3, takes it very, very seriously. There's other passages in Scripture. In this spiritual warfare, Satan has what I'm calling a ministry of accusation. He is a ministry of accusation. If you would, now we're going to get back to Peter here in a minute. Come with me to the book of Revelation, all the way at the end, not too far away. And go with me to chapter 12 of the last book of the Bible, Revelation chapter 12. And look with me, if you would, at verse number 9. Revelation chapter 12 and verse 9. And this conflict that we are in, this spiritual warfare, is referenced all through Scripture, Genesis to Revelation. Notice what he says here in verse 9 of chapter 12. And the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent called the devil and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world. He was cast unto the earth, and his angels were cast out with him, and I heard a loud voice saying in heaven, Now is come salvation and strength. And the kingdom of our God and the power of His Christ. Look at this. Look at this statement here. For the accuser of our brethren Is cast down, which accused them before God day and night. I put in the margin of my Bible, Satan's ministry, the ministry of accusation I'm telling you, this reference here to him falling is a future event. And I'm telling you right now, before God, the devil himself, I believe, stands before God and makes accusation against God against every one of of God's people. He'll point out everything we've done wrong, every thought we've had, every statement we've made. He will dwell on that and he will rehearse it over and over and over before God and in our own hearts, and we need to understand that the devil is defeated. Look at that next verse. He says, and they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb. By the word of their testimony, they love not their lives unto death. I'm telling you, the devil is an expert at accusing us of our failures. And here's the tragic thing, he's right. He doesn't have to make stuff up. Yes, we have failed. But thank God we have a Savior that stands before God that shed his blood for our sins. And covers us. The ministry of accusation. Now to get back to the subject of 1 Peter chapter 2, he also has what I'm calling a ministry of disinformation. A ministry of disinformation. In other words, he propagates false teaching. He propagates false doctrine And that's what 2 Peter 2 is addressing. The agents of Satan, these false prophets, these false teachers, propagating spiritual disinformation. False teachers promoting spiritual lies. And he warns us earnestly about this reality Come over if you would. I know we're jumping around here a little bit. Come to 1 Peter chapter number 4. I want you to see a verse there in 1 Peter chapter 4. Or not 1 Peter, I'm sorry, 1 Timothy. 1 Timothy chapter 4 and verse number 1. He says, now the Spirit speaketh expressly that in the latter time some shall depart from the faith. Giving heed to seducing spirits. Deceptive, tricky, drawing us in. Now look at how they're described in the last part of verse 1. Seducing spirits and doctrines of what? Devils. The word doctrine means teachings. We have doctrines in our church that we believe the Bible teaches. We hold strongly to those doctrines. And Satan has doctrines, false doctrines. They're doctrines of devils. And I am absolutely convinced every false teacher Every false doctrine that is promoted on YouTube, on television, on radio, in print, door to door, they come to your doors. I'm convinced that every false doctrine has behind it a devil himself. It's doctrines of devils. Doctrines of devils. And so Satan has this ministry of accusation. He wants to tear us down, discourage us, just accuse us over and over and over. This ministry of disinformation and get us to believe things that aren't so. Get our minds obsessed with some twisted idea about God. And just distort realities, spiritual realities. In 2 Peter 2, verse 1 He touches on the reality of false teachers. He said there was false prophets among the Old Testament believers, the people of God. Hey, they're going to be in your day also. Even as there shall be false teachers among you. They're real. They're real. Chapter verse number two, we notice the effects of the false teachers. It says, many follow their way. They have an influence. And tonight I want to real quickly, in just a couple minutes I have, want us to consider the methods of these false teachers, these agents of Satan. To bring in false teaching about God. Get us think wrong things about God and about spiritual realities. Notice there in verse number three, and this is what I want us to see. It says, And through covetousness shall they These false teachers with feigned words make merchandise of you. With feigned words Now what does it mean? What is if if something is a feigned word, what does that mean? Somebody help me out. It's a false or what? Phony, not true, it looks like one thing, it's something else, not genuine. I got to study in, as I always do, on that word, fiend. And I found it comes from a word, now hear me out here on this. It means this, with wax. Wax, like candle wax. The word feigned comes from a word, an ancient word, that means with wax. You say, what in the world does that have to do with anything? Feigned words, words with wax. What it comes from is the market, ancient Greek marketplaces. Where the potters would take their clay and they would form it into some sort of vase or some sort of pottery, and they would get the kiln. How many people know what I'm talking about? The kiln that you put the pottery in, the clay And it heats it up and it cooks it, it hardens it. When they would take that vase or that pottery, whatever it is that they had formed out of that clay, they would put it into that kiln, they'd heat it up and they would uh bake that pottery. Now if for some reason they had the heat was not a correct temperature, or if the the structure of the of the pottery was not correct Sometimes in that intense heat, the pot or the vase, sometimes they just shatter and fall apart. It wasn't done right Sometimes it would appear just fine, except a crack would appear in the vase. A crack would appear in the jar that they're firing. An honest potter would take that flogged pottery, that flogged vase, that flogged jar, they would take it, they would destroy it. It was useless, it's flawed, it's cracked. A dishonest potter, a feigned potter Would take wax and they would fill in that crack on that vase. They would fill in that crack on that pottery. And they would brush it down, and they'd paint it over. And they would put it out and they'd sell it and make merchandise off of a pottery that was flawed, that was not reliable, was not what it appeared to be. And Peter says here that these false prophets, these false teachers will come in and with feigned words Words that sound good, teaching that looks appealing on the surface, but when you come down and you compare it to Scripture, it is absolutely flawed. It is absolutely flawed. That is how false teachers were. It is a phony show. It is a phony presentation. It looks like one thing and it's really something else. I said this in Sunday school this morning. I want to repeat it tonight. I want our church to be very, very careful about who you allow to influence you spiritually. That we live in a day of spiritual danger on that stinking internet that YouTube has ungodly false teachers all over it. Television across the board. And they use feigned words. Words that are not true, that do not line up with scripture, that are flawed scripturally. And yet they present it out there and they make merchandise. Feigned words, feigned words. There's nothing more wicked in my mind. Than for a man to stand up and claim to speak for God and claim to speak of salvation when in reality he's speaking for the devil and leading to damnation. I can't think of anything more wicked. For a man to stand in a position as a Bible teacher, as a Bible authority, and reality be speaking for the devil and teaching things that are against God. Against the holiness and goodness and purity and power of our God. I can't think of anything more wicked. Let me give you three thoughts and I'll end. Number one, these false prophets, these men with feigned words, they target the spiritually immature. They target the spiritually immature. Come with me, if you would, over to Ephesians chapter 4, real quick. And I'm winding down here. I'm just about done, but I want you to see a couple of these verses. Ephesians chapter 4. And notice with me, if you would, verse number 12. They are going to target Spiritually immature, new believers, folks that are not grounded strong in the Word of God, they'll sniff them out, and they'll target them every single time. Look at Ephesians 4. Come down to verse number 12 He's talking about the ministry of the church and the people he puts in position, verse 11, prophets, teachers, evangelists. And he says in verse 12, this is the purpose for the leadership in the church, for the teachers, evangelists, preachers that come through. For the perfecting of the saints. That word perfecting has the idea of the maturing, to grow and be strong. For the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying, the building up of the body of Christ Till we all come in the unity of the faith and in the knowledge of the Son of God, strong in our faith, strong in our understanding of the Son of God, unto a perfect man, that means mature, strong, grown up. Unto the measure of the statue of the fullness of Christ, look at verse 14, that we henceforth be no more children tossed to and fro. and carried about with every wind of doctrine by the slight of man men, and cutting cunning craftiness, whereby they lie in wait to what? See what he says? He says these false teachers they'll come in and they're not uh they're going to avoid the strong person that knows the word of God, walks with God. It's very mature in their faith. They're going to avoid them like the plague. They're going to avoid them like they got COVID. But I'll tell you what, they'll sniff out that new believer They'll sniff out that young young person that's growing, wanting to live for God. They'll snip out that uh that uh one that maybe doesn't get a lot of stro good Bible teaching, and brother, they'll target in, and they will target every single time. The babes in Christ, the young ones in Christ. They are vicious, they are dishonest, they're merciless. I don't know how many times I've seen it over the years, a young person gets saved, a person trusts Christ, and some other false cult will zing in there and grab them and drag them off. When I got saved, I worked at the meat packing plant. Rough, rough environment. And uh there was a couple fellows there worked on the other end of the line where we worked, we're cutting meat. I got saved. It spread like wildfire through the place. There's about 35, 40 people on the floor. And I I I mean within the day, the day the day month on Monday night I got saved Tuesday. It spread like wildfire. Leatherman got religion. Leatherman got religion. And it didn't take but a day or two. And these two fellas who were seminary students, and I believe their doctrine was Wrong. They made a beeline to me and they started asking me stuff like this. Does God they said, is God in control of everything? I said, Yeah, I guess, sure. I mean I'm like three days old in the Lord They said, well, if God's in control of everything, why should we bother praying? What difference does it make? God's going to do, He's sovereign, He's going to do what He wants to do. Now that's a pretty heavy theological question. And there is an answer to it. We pray because God told us to. And we pray, and God says, our prayers can and will affect God. God will respond to our prayers. It doesn't contradict his sovereignty, but here's the point I want to make. They came and approached me. They wanted to draw me into this distorted teaching of the sovereignty of God. And not one time, I worked there four years, not one time did those fellows come and talk to me about being saved. Not one time did they come and talk to me about Jesus dying for my sins that I can have a new life. Not one time. But as soon as I got saved, boy, they wanted to teach me their false doctrine That is typical of false teachers. They'll zero in, they'll get someone after a service, they'll get here, they'll go there, they'll pull on them, and boy, they'll pour their stuff on them. They target immature, vulnerable believers. They avoid the strong and mature believers like the plague. But they'll get after. Number two, they target spiritually mature. Number two, they twist the scriptures. Twist the scriptures. Back in 2 Peter chapter 3 and verse 16, Peter touches on that. He says this. He says, as also in all his epistles, speaking of Paul, speaking of in them of these things, which some things are hard to be understood, which they that are unlearned and unstable rest As they do other scriptures to their own destruction. That word rest means to twist or pervert. They'll take some teaching of Scripture and they will pervert it, they'll twist it around and they'll make it Sound exact opposite of what that verse is teaching. We have to always take Scripture in context And brother, these false teachers can take a teaching, a scriptural teaching about God, and twist it around and make God sound like the devil and make the devil sound like a victim. And I'm telling you, it is unscriptural, it is ungodly. And that's what they do. That's what they do. They'll come in and twist the teaching of Scripture. And he says they're unlearned and they're unstable. That's the description of these false teachers. And then, last of all, number three, they're tainted by selfishness. They're tainted by selfishness. Romans chapter 16 and verse number 18. Let me just read it to you real quick here. We'll be finished. Romans 16, verse 18, the Bible says For they that are such serve not our Lord Jesus Christ, but their own belly, and by good words and fair speeches deceive the hearts of the simple. He says they feed their own belly. It's all about them. Everything it's all about them, about how great they are Or how terrible they have it, or how this and all that, and it's all about them, it's all about them, it's all about them. It's never about the wonder of our Savior It's never about the goodness of our God. It's never about the righteousness of our God. It's always about themselves, always about themselves. Peter, Jude, all through scripture, paints a terrible picture, an awful picture of these false teachers. And he says we need to be warned. Jesus is minimized and self is maximized. Everything revolves around themselves. Everything is about them. Just because something's new does not make it right. Oh, this is a new teaching, here's a new book out, here's a new idea, here's a new doctrine. Listen Uh our bump uh we're old fashioned. Uh we stand by the faith once delivered. And and just because it's new doesn't make it right. I put this down, just because it's popular doesn't make it right. Oh, everybody's believing this. That doesn't make it right. This old book, there's been times this old book has not been very popular. We live in a day and age this old book isn't real popular in the world today, but I'm telling you it's still right Whether it's popular or not does not determine whether it's right or wrong. And then uh you say, Well, I know a preacher that's preaching that, just because a preacher is preaching it doesn't make it right. A lot of preachers preach stuff that ain't in this book. I've said this from day one. When I came pastor here 31, almost 31 years ago, I said if I ever teach or say something contrary to this book, you stick with the book. Or anybody else, as far as that goes, stick with the book. So, say, all right, preacher, so what do we do? Number one, let's make sure we have a daily time in God's Word personally. Just make it a habit, spend a little bit of time every day in the Word of God. I know you've never heard me say that before. But I hound it and hound it and hound it. We ought to spend some time every day in the Word of God. Morning, noon, night, sometime. Morning and nights good. Number two, let's get this book back in our homes. Let's gather the kids around, husband and wife, get the family around, read the old book. You know what they used to call it years ago? The family altar. The family get together, read the Bible, pray, maybe sing a song, and get that Bible in the home, in the family, and then let's get and keep the Bible back in our churches. Back in our pulpits. I thank God for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. When Dr. Don Williams called me, it's about a year About 31 years ago now, I think it was actually August, he called me about coming in and candidating. We had had contact through other preachers. We were in Colorado He said, we're looking for a pastor. We understand you're looking to come back east. Would you consider coming and uh candidating here? You know what the first thing I wanted to know? I said, well, send me your doctrinal statement. So I'd like to see your doctrinal statement. He said, well, send us your doctrinal statement. I said, okay. I got it. And one of the very first questions he asked me, and one of the very easiest questions I ever had to ask, he said, what's your doctrine on the Bible? I said, my doctrine on the Bible is it's God's preserved, inspired, inerrant Word of God, and I believe He's preserved it in the old King James Bible. And he said, that's where we're at. So let's get back to the Bible. Amen? Let's pray. Father, I ask you to take these thoughts tonight, not pleasant, but so real. The spiritual warfare is so real. I pray you'd protect Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church and all other churches that believe and preach the Bible. Help us stay true. Help us stay right. Point people to Christ. Point people to salvation. Point people to godly living. Love the Lord. Heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I need to be more careful about making sure I spend some time reading and studying my Bible. Personally, is there any like that, preacher? I need to keep that before me. God bless you, hands all around. I mean it's a constant effort. We got to get in that book every day ourselves I wonder if there's some say, preacher, we need family altar in my home. We need to get that where we're reading together as family. Maybe it's just husband-wife in the home. I don't know what your home consists of. But whoever lives under that roof, let's get them together and have the Bible. Any like that, preach or pray, we need to have that in our home. God bless you, hands around. And then how many will stand in support for our church sticking with the Word of God? How many people support that? Sure. God bless you. We want that. We need it from every every member needs to support that. Father bless now we ask in Jesus name A