And I'd like for us to read together, if you would, in unison, verse six and seven. Philippians chapter four, verse six and seven. I know Pastor Matt just read it, but I'd like for us to read this together Philippians 4, let's begin together in verse number 6. Ready? Be careful for nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving Let your requests be made known unto God. And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Now I want you to notice in verse 6 he says, be careful for nothing. We'll talk about that here in just a moment, but that word careful there has the idea of being anxious, upset, fretty. worrying about something. And then in verse number seven, notice he says, uh he says, and the and uh he says, um uh and the peace of God shall keep your hearts and what Minds through Christ Jesus. Fretting, worrying, anxiety, anxious, all that takes place in the mind. Takes place in the mind. And so what he's telling us here is how to get our mind altered from a state of worry and upset and anxiety to a state of pure Have peace in our mind. And so I've entitled the message this, with those thoughts in mind, I entitled the message this, Mind-Altering Prayer. Mind-altering prayer. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now our time in your word. I pray that you would teach us how to trust you, Lord, and how to pray I pray you teach us to pray, Lord, as we ought to. And so we need your help, Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you And I present my body anew at this hour, and with all my heart I ask you, Lord, that you would please fill me with your Spirit and that you would speak through me. And I pray there would be peace with God made today, and peace of God would be found in our hearts, in our homes, our lives. And so please, Lord, help us. Open our hearts and minds. Help us be willing to respond to what you say. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Paul's writing to the church at Philippi. I'm not sure what all background Brother Matt uh maybe shared last month as he was preaching in Philippians But uh the the church at Philippi, God used Apostle Paul to establish this church there on his second missionary journey. We have a record of three missionary journeys Paul took. This was his second one And here's the interesting thing about this church that Paul is writing to under the inspiration of God. This church here in Philippi, it was the first church established on European soil. This is a missionary endeavor by the part of Paul, where he is going out from Antioch in this case. He's going out into the southern ends of Europe and he is establishing a church. He's winning people to Christ. He's discipling them. He's establishing a body of believers, putting things in order, getting it organized, and then he moves on and does it again. Now he's writing back to this church here, and um uh a good church by uh uh by uh uh anybody's standard really. Uh Paul, here's another interesting thing about the background of the book of Philippians is Paul is writing to them, again, under the inspiration of God, but he's writing to them from prison. Now that's interesting when you consider the one of the major themes of the book of Philippians is how to rejoice and how to have the joy of the Lord in your life. And Paul is writing from prison. And addressing that subject. If you would, look with me at chapter 1 and verse number 7. You say, well, how do you know he was writing from prison? Chapter 1, verse 7. Notice what the Bible says. Paul again writing here, he says, even as is meat for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart, inasmuch as both in my what? Bonds and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel. He references the fact that he is in bonds. He's bound. He's in prison. Come over, if you would, to verse number 13, chapter 1, verse 13. So that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace and all other places. Again He's referencing the fact that he's in bonds. Uh verse seventeen, if you would. But the other of love, knowing that I am set for the defense of the gospel. And uh uh he is uh referencing the fact um that uh he is uh uh i i in this matter of the gospel. You say what kind of guy was this fellow Paul that he's in jail all the time. We find he's in prison. What kind of ruffian is he? What kind of rascal is this guy? You know why he was in prison? Because he was preaching the gospel. He was preaching the gospel in a hostile environment. And uh he would come in and they'd find every reason in the world to throw him in prison. So Paul is writing the book of Philippians from a prison setting. And if you understand what the prisons were like in this day and age, it was a far cry from what they are today. Uh they had no weight rooms to work out, no television to watch, no uh uh no uh no um uh no mattresses To lay on. And just a hole in the ground, basically, was all it was. And Paul's writing from prison, he says, you know what? Even in prison, you can have the peace of God. Even in adverse circumstances, you can have the joy of the Lord. It's a powerful book. It's a powerful book. He mentions several things. The book of Philippians is Somewhat of a missionary letter. He's kind of writing back to the Philippian believers. He's moved on. He's starting other churches And he's kind of giving a little bit of report. We have in Sunday school. We always read a missionary letter. Missionary writes back, tells us what's going on, gives us prayer requests, and Wednesday nights we have missionaries We mentioned uh requests from their letters. And that's kind of a little bit what he's doing. He's giving a report. In chapter one, verse twelve through twenty-six there, he kinda is telling them getting them up to speed what's going on. In uh chapter two, he's addressing some discord in the church. It's a good church. Good church. They're rejoicing in the Lord. But there's a couple people, some folks in the church were fussing and going on. Chapter 2. Look at chapter 4. Come over there. And um uh I feel bad for these two These two dear ladies. Chapter four, and look at verse number two. Paul's writing. He says, I beseech Eudis And beseech Sintiki, I don't know how you say that name, so it's as good as any what else the way they say it. I beseech Syntachi that they be what Of the same mind in the Lord. He's writing to these dear ladies, and he says, Ladies, hey, you two ladies, you've got to be in the same mind in the Lord. What does that imply? That implies they were uh that implies they weren't getting along. They were at ends, they were fussing with each other, and he publicly, and think about this In the Word of God for all of eternity, these two these two ladies' names are in here. Paul correcting them, addressing them, telling them you ladies need to get along. How many people would be a little bit embarrassed Have your name associated with that. Good night. You know what? Let me just throw this out there. We ought to get along. Let me say that again. God's people ought to get along. I'm gonna try that one more time. I was told in college if you're preaching on something and people don't respond, you just park it there for a while. God's people ought to get along. There we go. Now we can move on. But that is true. I'll tell you, I'll tell you, nothing will hinder God's blessing, God's revival on a home. Or a church or ministry when God's people fussing. Nothing will do it. Nothing will do it. That'll hinder revival as much as any. You say, well, what are we supposed to do? I'll tell you what we're supposed to do. We're supposed to die to self And live for God and be a blessing and respect people, be kind. Well, but they're doing this to me. So what? You be kind. Bless them that curse you. Do good to them that despitefully use you. Pray for them that revile you. And uh we don't act like the world does. Come on now, you gotta say amen, or I won't move on here. So I want I don't know about you, I don't know about you, I want revival in our church. Next week, Brother Somerdorf's coming in. I'm absolute confidence, Brother Sommerdorf, he's going to preach the Bible to us. And he can preach all he wants. And uh and he can preach as hard as he wants. If if we're not willing to humble ourselves before God, we're not going to see revival. It's not going to happen. And we can stiffen our neck and we can huff up and say all we want. Until we humble ourselves and do right, we're not going to see revival. It's not going to happen. And so maybe today, maybe this morning, we just need to say, God, help me. Help me to be the Christian I'm supposed to be. Help me to humble myself and do what I need to do so that you can fill me and use me. And so very, very important. That wasn't my message, but maybe it was God's message But um anyway, he's uh he addresses these uh folks that are not getting along there. He says, hey, you guys uh uh have the same mind in the Lord. Uh you guys get that straightened out. He warns about false teaching How many people have noticed a lot of these New Testament letters that are preserved for us in God's Word, a lot of these address the subject of false teaching? Anybody notice that? In fact, just about every one of them, at some point it'll come up, beware of false teaching, beware of false teaching. You know what that tells me? I say it all the time. We've got to watch out for false teaching coming into the church. We've got to stick to that book. Sunday school, Bible Institute, Preach in the Pulpit, across the board. We've got to stick with the Word of God. This is one of the things I like about Baptists, being Baptist. Our number one Baptist distinctive, the Bible is our sole authority. This is it, right here. Not some denomination. Preacher ain't the sole authority. The word of God is The word of God is. And so he's addressing that. He says, listen, you've got to watch out for a false teaching coming in. And then throughout the book, he gives instructions on the Christian life, living the Christian life. And one of the things he emphasizes in the Christian life is this matter of joy and rejoicing. Joy and rejoicing. Listen, if I understand that Bible correctly, I think I do, one of the characteristics of a Christian ought to be joy. Jesus says, My joy I give unto you. Over and over. Rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say rejoice. And so one of the characteristics of a Christian who's walking with God, humble before the Lord, living for the Lord, is the fact that there's going to be joy and rejoicing there. Paul brings that out, and one of the things he points out, and this is getting to uh uh the subject at hand here, one of the things he points out is that this matter of joy and rejoicing is very much determined by the condition of my mind. Having joy in my heart and life and rejoicing in the Lord is more dependent upon how I think than it is upon what my circumstances are. Some people base their joy, their rejoicing, on if if everything's going my way, if everybody's treating me nice. Oh, if they're nice to me, then I'm happy. If they're not nice, then I'm not happy Oh, I'm rejoicing in the Lord when the bills are paid, but when the bills aren't paid, I ain't rejoicing in the Lord. Oh, I'm happy in Jesus when my health is good, the health goes bad. Oh, great complain. Now, what I'm saying is this, and we're going to see this here in a bit, the joy of the Lord is not so much dependent upon my circumstances as it is upon my frame of mind. Paul in Philippians, if you'll study Acts chapter 16, this is where the church was established. We have the record of the church in Philippi being established. He's thrown in prison, we mentioned he's in prison a lot He's thrown in prison, they're beaten, I mean beaten, uh bloody, un un un untreated wounds Untreated wounds from the beating, sitting in a prison, wet, damp, rats, nasty. No septic system. I mean just as nasty as you can think And the Bible says in Acts 16, at midnight, Paul and Silas prayed and praised God. You say, how in the world do they do that? Was it their circumstances? No. It was their frame of mind. It was the way they saw the perspective they had on things. And they saw what God was doing. And so we're going to see this in the book of Philippians. that the Christian life, rejoicing in the Christian life is very much determined by our frame of mind. He addresses that all through the book here Let me make this statement. It is possible for a Christian to have genuine peace of mind and joy regardless of the circumstances we find ourselves in. That is absolutely possible. And by the way, it's not some uh uh some mind games we play or some little psychological trick. tricks that we have. Well if you uh just do this, uh what there was a stupid song years ago and I never bought it. I didn't even listen to it on purpose, but I'd hear it around different places Did you ever, the other day I was at Walmart, stupidest song in the world, or playing over the thing. I get out, I'm driving down the road, and I'm singing that stupid song I heard a moment. I don't even know the song, but the words are in my head. It's like, what in the world? There was a stupid song years ago. It was uh I don't remember how it went, but I remember one phrase from it. It went like this, don't worry, be happy. Anybody ever hear that? Maybe that'll be our handshaking song next month. I'm telling you, that's the stupidest thing in the world. Well, just think happy thoughts Brother, that ain't going to cut it. God tells us that I can have peace of mind and I can have the joy of the Lord in the most terrific circumstances, not by playing these little mind games or singing some stupid songs. By the way, it's not by taking psychological medications. I'm not saying anything. I'm just saying that's not what he's talking about. What he's talking about here is the supernatural peace of God that comes from only through the presence and power of the Holy Spirit. This is not something we work up. It's not something the world can manipulate us into being this superficial facade of happiness, but a genuine soul uh a heartfelt joy of the Lord given to me supernaturally by God. I don't know about you, but I want that. I want the peace that only God can give. I want this joy of the Lord. It's a supernatural product of God. God, here's an amazing thing. God, I don't know if you notice this. God has given us the ability to think. Now some folks are not aware of that. God has given us the ability to think things through. God has given us the ability to reason. And things things out. God has given us the gift of forethought to be able to think ahead, anticipate things. Um right when I said that, I don't know, I'll bet there's folks here. As soon as I said that, you thought of some stuff coming up this week. I did right when I said that God has given us the ability of forethought to think things through, to reason, to come to conclusions before the events even happen. Now, that's a good thing. That's a good thing to be able to think. Hey, I suggest, folks, we think. It's a good thing We reason things through. We anticipate. Think ahead. Use some forethought. That's a good thing. But here's the thing. It can be abused. And our sinful nature will abuse that, and we will start thinking ahead, not in a rational way, but all of a sudden, oh no, what about this? Oh, this is going to be terrible. Oh no, this is horrible And we use our thinking not to find joy and focus on the Lord and and uh have the have the presence and and peace of God in our heart life, but we it you we use it Uh abuse it and gets us all worked up and fret and worried. Anybody here sit there, sitting somewhere just thinking about something? Next thing you know, you're all worked up and worried and sick. Anyone here know what I'm talking about We say it all the time. Wake up in the middle of the night, that mind starts working, next thing you know, oh, the world's coming to an end. We're all going to die of coronavirus and uh uh global warming. We're doomed. I won't make it till noon tomorrow And uh and uh God says, wait a minute, wait a minute. He says, that's not why I gave you that ability to think, that's not why I gave you that ability to reason and forethought He goes, here is how, here is how you alter your mind so that that doesn't take place. He gives us how to alter our mind. God has given us the ability to think. Notice our text here with me, if you would. Look what he says, verse 6. He says, be careful for nothing. Be careful. Be careful. Now here's the question. What does that word careful mean? What? I'm not supposed to care about anything I'm not supposed to be careful about stuff. Um, well, the word careful there does not mean care less. It doesn't mean be careless. It doesn't mean not to be cautious. Don't be cautious. I cut my teeth preaching, I cut my teeth in the ministry, working in the bus ministry. And working with his little kids. You know what I found out? Little inner city project kids aren't much different than adults in Garrett County in some ways. And uh the only different things I could discipline them. I can't you guys. But anyway, uh I was joking But I learned in uh in in the bus ministry working with the kids, that's where I learned ministry, and that's how God got me started. We used to sing a little song on the buses And it's a good song. We probably ought to sing it in church more. It goes like this, oh be careful, little eyes, what you see. How do people ever heard that song? Oh, be careful, little eyes, what you see, for the father up above is looking down in love. So be careful, little eyes, what you see. Oh, be careful, little ears, what you hear. Oh, be careful, little ears, what you hear. For the Father up above is looking down in love. So be careful. Little ears, what you hear. Oh, be careful, little tongue, what you say. Oh, be careful, little tongue, what you say. For the father up above is looking down in love. So be careful Little tongue what you say. Oh, be careful, little hands, what you do. Oh, be careful, little hands, what you do. For the father up above is looking down. So be careful, little hands. Oh, be careful little feet where you go. Oh, be careful, little feet, where you go, father up above. Is looking down in love. So be careful, little feet, where you oh, be careful, little heart, what you love. Oh, be careful, little heart, what you love. For the Father up above is looking down in love. So be careful, little heart, what you fall in love with. So when he says, be careful for nothing, he's not telling us that that song is unscriptural. We ought to be careful. How many people agree with me? Ought to be careful what we look at with our eyes. How many people agree with me? Ought to be careful what websites we go to. Come on now, that's a good place to say amen. We ought to be careful what shows we watch on that old television I want to suggest to you that old television does more harm to our society than probably anything else man has ever invented. Television, Internet. How many people agree with me? We ought to be careful of what we listen to. You know how to stop gossip? Stop listening to it. Say nope, talk to the hand, not me Mm-mm. Mm-mm. Uh careful. We ought to be careful. We ought to be careful what music we listen to. Amen. You want me to start naming it? I will. You ought to be careful what music we listen to. I'm telling you, there is ungodly music out there. And not just our kids. Yeah, those teenagers. Hey, you moms and dads, you still listen to garbage from the 70s. I'm telling the truth. We ought to be careful what we do with our hands. We ought to be careful of the things we say. I'm telling we were joking back there, but there's more truth to it. The preacher walks up and everything gets quiet Tell you that took a while for me to get used to, to be honest with you. People talking, you know, Walmart as a group of church folk. Hey guys! Or you walk up and somebody sees you and they say, The preacher You know, they say to each other, Are the preachers here? I tell you what, I I you don't gotta worry about the preacher so much. You gotta worry about the Holy Spirit of God right there all the time. Huh? So he's not saying don't be careful what you do with your hands or the places you go. Bible says love not the world, neither the things in the world. We ought to be careful what we allow our heart to fall in love with. And so when he says, be careful for nothing, he's not suggesting that we aren't careful in our Christian life and be cautious and And uh make sure we're doing right. That's not what he's talking about. When he says, be careful for nothing. That word careful has this idea to be filled with care and anxiety To be stressed out, to use an Old Testament term, to fret. Fret not thyself because of evildoers. Don't get all worked up and don't get all worried and sick. It says, don't be be careful for nothing. Be careful. That verse there, along with many, many others, tells me this. God is just as concerned about my mental well-being as he is about other areas of my life. God doesn't want his people to be all worked up and worried and sick and fret and angry and bitter and all out of whack Because don't let that happen. Be careful for nothing. God's concerned about our mental well-being. In fact, let me give you some verses on that. Look at chapter 2 of Philippians. Come over to verse 3 of chapter 2. Talking about our frame of mind, our mental well-being. Look at verse 3. Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory. But look at this. But in lowliness of what? Mind. Let each esteem other better than themselves. He says, listen, it's in the mind. I'm concerned about how you're thinking Concerned about your frame of mind. It's going to affect your spiritual life. It's going to affect your interaction with others. Look with me if you would at verse 5 of chapter 2. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. Have the same frame of mind, have the same perspective, have the same attitude. Think the way Christ ought And see people the way God sees people, and see the way Christ sees people. See circumstances the way Christ sees circumstances. Look with me at chapter 4. Well, right here, chapter 4, verse 7, our text. And the peace of God which passeth all understanding, so keep your hearts and minds. The peace of God. So keep your hearts and minds. Now let me say this. Let me say this. It's impossible to have the peace of God in my heart and mind until I have peace with God. Now you've got to think that through. I can't have the peace of God, that peace that God gives me, until I've got peace with God. You say, what do you mean by that? This is what I mean. You and I are naturally born sinful enemies of God. Romans says that we were at enmity with Christ. Our sin. How many people here raise children? Anybody here? Either you are or you have raised children How many people found out when those kids are born a little bit selfish? Anybody notice that? A little bit so Now I'm sure your kids weren't, but most other people's kids were. What's one of the first words a a a little baby learns? Mine Well, we were in we were in Colorado, our boys were real small. They were born in Indiana, they're Hoosiers, both our boys are Hoosiers, but we moved to Colorado shortly after the last was born Daniel. And we're out there. And so we were gonna we got this apartment. We were gonna have some folks. We were helping start a church. We were gonna have church folk over. And we were worried about the kids because they were selfish. And so we took some time and I sat down with them. We got a bunch of toys I was going to teach them to share And so we set them there and say, here's a toy. And I said, uh, all right, I have the toy and I'm going to share it with you. Oh, would you like to play with the toy? And they said, yeah, thank you. And they took the toy. And so I said, all right, you play with it. I'm going to be a little child, come in, and you share with me. And I walked in and sat down and uh they said, Daddy, would you like the toy? And I said, yes, here you go. And they shared with me and they were just little angels. And so we invited everybody over. I looked in the rope, it's mine, and they're fighting and going on We're born with we we are born with ourselves on the throne of our lives. It's all about me. That's our natural state, sinful. And so until we come and we recognize the fact that we're sinners, we recognize that our sin has separated from God and actually made us enmity with God. God is the God. of of us, but we want to be the God. That's what Ad that's what Satan attrusts Adam and Eve about. And until we humble ourselves and turn from our sin and trust Christ And have our sins forgiven and cleansed and made, given the righteousness of Christ is given to us. And then I have peace with God. That sin, that enmity is removed, and I'm at peace with God. And then God can give me the peace. peace of God. Am I making sense? Everybody following with me? And so he said God's concerned about our mental well-being, about us being at peace. But ourselves and in our circumstances, but first I have to have peace with God. In other words, salvation is priority. Salvation is priority. If you're here this morning and uh you've never trusted Jesus Christ, your personal Savior, the most important thing in your life, I say this so often, the most important thing in your life, the greatest issue in your life, is trusting Jesus Christ as Savior. And don't neglect that and don't push that off and don't ignore it. Don't downplay that. That is so important that we know that Christ has forgiven me and cleansed my sin. And he's given me eternal life. And once that's in place, then I can learn to have the peace of God in my life. And so he's addressing that here. And he's telling us how We can have the peace of God in our hearts and minds. How I can get my mind altered from anxious and upset and worried. To getting where it's just peace of mind, peace of mind, calm. And he says it's very simply, it's through prayer. Through prayer. He says, be careful for nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication. With thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God. Now let me give you a few thoughts here, real quick. Number one, mind-altering prayer begins with number one, actually praying Actually praying. We talk about prayer. We preach about prayer. We sing about prayer. We read about prayer. But we're still stressed out. Uh folks go to Wednesday prayer meeting and they go home and they're all worked up and they're laying there and they're upset about this and worried about that and sick about this and mad about that and frustrated with this And I wonder, and I ask myself, I wonder if we really prayed. I wonder how much. You know what I think? We have a tendency to think we're better Christians than what we really are. Right or wrong. And we have a tendency to think we pray a lot more than we do And I wonder if we would stop and and uh and prayer isn't a matter of checking off so many minutes But I just wonder if we would stop and keep record of how much we actually pray, I'll bet you we would be shocked at how little we really do. The amount of time we spend worrying, the amount of time we spend focused on so many other things, and the amount of time we come to God in prayer. What we need to do is actually pray. Actually pray. Christians, we we we talk about prayer, we sing about prayer, but we're still worried about everything in the world. We lay awake at night. fret, we're unhappy, we're angry, we're bitter. I found this, that when I I found that what I'm worrying the most is always when I'm praying the least. And when I learn to pray and put things in God's hand and trust God, I find that the worry goes down. David learned this truth in Psalms 55, verse 27. He said this. Cast thy burden upon the Lord, and he shall sustain thee. David, learn, I can take these things that upset me, these things that worry me, these people that are That got me all worked up. I can take all that and I can put that in God's hands, cast it upon him, and he'll take care of me. I don't have to worry about it Here's what prayer does. When we actually pray, I take my problems, my worries, my issues, I take them out of my hands, and I put them in God's hands, and I don't have to worry about it. Last week I preached from Proverbs 3, 5 and 6. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart. Lean not on your own understanding, he'll direct your ways. Just put it in his hands. Just like God. So if we're going to have uh mind-altering prayer, first of all, we've got to actually pray. Prayer is the lifeblood of the Christian life. Prayer, I like this statement. I came up with this. Um if I come up with original statements, I'll highlight them, I'll tell you that. I like this when I came up. Prayer is the antibiotic for the infection of anxiety. How many people agree? That's a pretty good quote right there, yeah. That's a good one. Write that one in your Bible there. That's a good one right there. The antibiotic for the infection of anxiety. Prayer Prayer. So you say, preacher, how do I get peace of mind? I'm saved. God saved me, but I just so upset and I'm worried. I'm sick. And uh I say, number one, start praying I mean, really pray. I mean, you say preacher, you mean pray? Yeah, I mean get on your knees. Beside your bed, beside the sofa, at the recliner, somewhere. Get on your knees beside it on a chair and bow your head before God and pour it out to God and say, God! I need you to help me. God, I need you to take this and help me be the Christian you want me to be. I'm at the point now I'm reluctant to try and help people that have fussing, can't get along. I'm reluctant to try and help them until they get serious about praying about it. Don't tell me, hey, don't tell me you want your marriage to be right if you're not on your knees praying about it. Amen or not. Don't tell me you want your kids to get right with God if you're not on your knees begging God to turn that thing around Tell me you're that uh uh that uh you want somebody to be saved. Oh, I want that person to don't don't tell don't tell me how burdened you are for them to get saved unless you're on your knees begging God, pleading God to save their soul. That's the starting point. I don't mean to be unkind, but I'm telling you, if we don't pray, we're not going to have the peace of God. We don't pray. Nothing's going to change. You and I can't fix it. I can't solve my problems. I can't change other people's lives. But one thing I can do, I can pray to a God that is able to. We said I forget where, I said just recently, listen, God is the God of the impossible. And we have a God that has said, nothing is impossible with me. So why don't we come to Him, instead of worrying sick and being all mad and all upset and worried, why don't we come to Him and say, God, this is what I need. Can I give a word of suggestion as your pastor? And I know I'm trying to shoot a little straight this morning. Well, I'm looking for revival. I'm wanting God to send revival in our meeting. And can I make a suggestion as your pastor? I want to suggest every husband and wife here this morning, regardless of the quality of your marriage. It may be wonderful, it may be a nightmare. I want to suggest to you that beginning today, you and your spouse spend a time in prayer beside each other on your knees, holding hands, asking God to make this thing what it ought to be. God can do for you what no one else can do. God can do for you what you can't do for yourself. And prayer. We got young people come in on the buses, come into church, and their parents are unsafe. I want to, as a pastor, I want to suggest to our young people, you get on your knees every single day and you beg God to save your daddy, beg God to save your mommy Brother, sister, your kids. We're not going to have the peace of God. We're not going to have the presence and power of God in our lives until we learn to pray. Jesus displayed that all through the gospels. He prayed and prayed. Jesus prayed. He says, pray and faint not. Thessalonians, Paul writes to the church at Thessalonians, he says, men ought always, he says, pray without ceasing. Prayer. I'm telling you, we're missing it. We're missing it. So, number one, if we're going to have mind-altering prayer, we've got to actually pray. Number two, put this down, we've got to fervently pray. Now this is where it starts really striking home. Look at verse 6. Be careful for nothing, but at everything by prayer. And then he adds two words, by prayer and supplication. How many people say, what in the world supplication mean? Anybody say that? Nobody. Ah, thank you. Derek's the only honest one in here. But uh there uh what in the world does supplic prayer and supplication. Um I looked at it and said, what in the world does supplication mean? So I haven't got looking it up. You know I found out that word's used sixty times in the Bible. Almost without exception, it's in connection with prayer. Prayer and supplication. Prayer with supplication. I thought, well goodness, what in the world? It must be something other than just praying. That always says prayer and prayer with supplication. So I got looking it up, and you know what I found out? This is from seeing how it's used and definitions and words it comes from It has this idea, I believe, to plead or pray pleadingly with humility. To pray earnestly When God says prayer and supplication, it's kind of like he's saying, All right, pray, and this is how you're supposed to pray. Pray. And supplication with supplication. This is how. So prayer with supplication is much more than just asking God for something or saying, God, this is what I need, this is what I like It's more than just making a request. It has this idea. Now, this is where it strikes home. It means this: to humble myself before God in that prayer. One of the definitions had this idea to submit myself to God in prayer. So think with me. When God says pray with supplication, pray and wait in your prayer, part of your prayer is submitting yourself to God humbly Submitting yourself to God, what's he telling us? I think this is what he's saying. I think he's saying this: you ought to pray And in your prayer, be willing to let God do whatever he needs to do in your life to make that prayer a reality. I've found that genuine prayer will often change the one praying as much as it does change the circumstance or situation. And he's saying, Listen, you bring your request to me. What that's got you upset, got you so worried, you come and you pray, but that you pray with a humble, submissive spirit willing to let me do what I need to do in your heart and life so that your prayer can be accomplished. The greatest hindrance, hey, the greatest hindrance to answered prayer is not the others around me or my circumstance. The greatest hindrance to my prayer is my own heart and mind. Myself. To humble myself and submit myself. Make whatever changes are necessary in my life. So that God can answer that prayer. It's praying with an attitude of submission. Often our distress Our stress, our anxiety is often a result of our frame of mind, more so than our circumstances Is everybody with me? I I can't tell if you guys are with me or not on this. You follow what I'm trying to say? I think what he's telling us here is say listen, don't be worked up, don't be anxious, don't be all fretting. Over situations or people and stuff like that. Don't do that. Listen, you come to me and pray. And pray And with supplication, with a humble, submissive attitude, willing that I can do in your heart and life what needs to be done, so that you can have that peace of mind You can have that peace in your heart of God, the peace of God. God changes me, then comes the peace. Oh, if my boss was nicer to me, then I'd have peace of mind. You know what God says? God says, I can give you peace of mind whether your boss is nice to you or not. Oh, if I had a nicer house, I'd be so happy. Uh you know what? You can be happy if you live in a car paper shack. If I'm humbly submitted to the Lord and let Him affect my mind, let Him change my frame of mind, let Him alter my mind, my thinking, my values. I found that often it's my own decisions and my own behavior that brings more stress upon me than it is the circumstances I find myself in. My own attitude about it is what stresses me out more than the situation itself. God wants to change us. Often God has to change me Before there's ever peace of mind. What we want to do, this is what we want to do. We want God to change these other people. Oh, if God would change those girls in that front row there, I'd have more peace preaching. I'll tell you that right now Look at 'em sitting there making such a racket. You know what? I can have peace of mind preaching whether they're sitting here quiet or not. It's money. It's my frame of mind. It's my attitude. It's my submission to the Lord. It's my humility Oh boy, if I had a if I had just one more zero on the back of my annual salary, boy, then I wouldn't worry so much You know what? You can have the peace of God and peace of mind even if your whole salary is just a zero. We can. Oh, if there's arthritis in my knees, God take that away. I wouldn't be so grouchy. You know what? You don't know I know people don't have arthritis and are grouchy You know what I can be happy and rejoice and sing uh hallelujah even if my knees are killing me in arthritis So God is saying prayer and supplication. He says, listen, you need to start praying. You need to take this prayer. You need to take prayer seriously. You need to start doing it. And number two, prayer and supplication. You need to pray with a humble, submissive attitude, praying and say, Lord, this is what my situation is, this is what's got me upset. I submit myself to you and whatever changes you need to make in my heart and life, whatever dis whatever changes in my behavior and my attitude and actions and and decisions I make, God, I want you to make the changes in my life that need to be made. And then he gives a third one. Mind-altering prayer. Number one, actually praise. Number two, uh praise um um Fervently pray. And then the third one is this, thankfully pray. And boy, I tell you, this one strikes home. This one straights home. You know, we hate to admit it, but we sure drape a lot, don't we? Boy, that's a beautiful day out there. Yeah, we're gonna pay for it later in the week, though How you feel today? Pretty good, but yesterday was terrible. He says, let your requests be made. He says, be careful nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication. And he adds two very important words. With what? Thanksgiving. Thanksgiving. That word with is interesting. For some reason, when I was studying this, that word with stuck out in my mind. I thought, huh, I wonder what with means. So I looked it up. It has this idea to be attached to. Alright, I'm going to pray. God, I'm so I'm just so upset. All right, pray, Lord, Lord, this is what I'm set about, this situation, this circumstance, with supplication. All right, Lord, whatever you need to do in my life, whatever changes. behavior, attitude, God, I pray you change that. With thanksgiving. And the word with means attach on to that. One of the definitions for the word with, I thought this was interesting, to place smack dab in the middle of. Now I added the smack dab part But to put it right in the middle of all my prayer, my humble, my submission to the Lord, right in the middle of all of it, is thanksgiving. Thanksgiving. Thanksgiving. Thanksgiving simply means to express gratitude. It's used throughout the Bible. Another word for thanksgiving used throughout the Bible. Now, this word has some other connotations, but The very heart of it of it is Thanksgiving. That word is this. Praise. Praise. I did a study years ago on praise. You know what I found out? We are commanded in the Bible to praise God more than any other command. I mean number wise. Over. Read Psalms and highlight every time it says, praise the Lord, praise the Lord, praise the Lord, praise ye the Lord, praise the Lord, praise the Lord. O Over and over and over, Todd tells us we're supposed to praise him. The word praise at the very heart of it is to express gratitude. We had a song. I was talking about the bus ministry. And uh we sang that, oh be careful little eyes. Another song we used to sing, Tom Sexton taught it to me. I loved it, sang it all these years. I don't know if it's in her hymn book or not. It'd be a great song to sing here Goes like this. It's amazing what praising can do. Alleluia. Alleluia. It's a ma does anybody know that song? Anybody ever hear that song? Sing it with me. Would you? Make it more pleasant for others. Ready? It's amazing what praising can do. Alleluia Aleluia, it's amazing what praising can do. Alléluia Now listen to this next verse. Listen to this next verse. I don't worry when things go wrong Jesus fills my heart with a song. It's amazing what praising can do. Hallelujah You know I found out it's awfully hard to it's awfully hard to be grateful and worry at the same time It's awfully har it's awfully hard. It's awfully difficult to have a heart filled with praise and gratitude and thanksgiving to God for all he's done for me and saving my soul from hell and giving me a new life and all he's done for me And simultaneously have worry and fret and anxiety fill my heart. Can't happen. Can't happen. He says, you want the peace of mind, you want the peace of God in your heart and soul when you pray. I mean, start praying. Seriously, pray. Number two, do it with a humble, submissive attitude, supplication, Lord, whatever changes need to be made, Lord, I just submit myself to you. And number three, pray with gratitude. Pray with gratitude. I'm telling you, if we would learn to be grateful, I think we'd worry a whole lot less. I think we'd worry a whole lot. It's hard to worry and fret when my heart and soul are filled with thanksgiving and praise to God. It's hard to gripe and criticize others. when my heart is filled with thanksgiving and praise to God. You know what the problem can I tell you what I think the major problem with America is We've learned to be grateful. I mean we've we've we've failed to be grateful. Failed to be grateful. I've been on mission fields I've been in places where people down in the Caribbean, some of these islands, down in St. Lucia this last year, where Brother Bartley, and we were I was in homes that were literally Pin leaning up against the cement wall, people living in that. And coming out the church and singing. I don't know if any of you remember there was a fellow played that steel pan I wish I could take every one of us down there and see the home he lives in. And he'll play those hymns on that thing and just smile and be happy as can be. Why? Because he's grateful for what God has done for him. And here we live in $500,000 homes and we drive $60,000 pickup trucks. We wear clothes and we eat ourselves. Most of us uh don't aren't worried about having enough to eat. We're trying not to eat so much We're all sick and we're mad and we're unhappy. I'm telling you, God have mercy on that. God have mercy on an ungrateful Christian. We need revival. We need revival. Now God's blessing our church. And man, we had a time yesterday. We're seeing kids make decisions. We're seeing God doing things. But I'm telling you, until we get to the point where we're careful for nothing, and we learn to rejoice in the Lord always, until that happens, we need revival. We're all mad at somebody and we're not talking to that person. I'm worried about this and oh they're fretting about. I'm telling you, God has given us mind-altering prayer And we need to number one really pray. Number two, we need to pray fervently, with humble submission. Number two, number three, we need to pray thankfully. Now listen, I want to say this. I'm not downplaying legitimate issues. There are things that are very serious and we and affect us. But I'm saying God is able to supernaturally give us peace in our hearts and minds, even in legitimate situations. Follow what I'm saying? So let's ask God, let's say today, and going in the route, let's ask God, number one, teach us to pray I want to challenge families. Start praying together. Family altar. Listen, the absence of the family altar is killing our homes. Family altar. Number two, humble humble submission. God, do what you need to do in me. I'm so worried about God changing Tom. I need to quit worrying about that. I need to worry about God changing Dennis Leatherman. Right or wrong? And then be grateful. Father in heaven, I pray you'd help help us, Lord. I believe you've challenged us, you've confronted us, Lord, in some issues that we really need to be confronted in. We want the peace of God. We want the joy of the Lord. We want the presence of the Holy Spirit in our lives, in our homes. And you've told us how to get that. I ask you to help us. I wonder how many would say, Preacher, God spoke to my heart about my prayer life. And with his grace, by his grace and with his help, I'm going to change my prayer life and I'm going to determine to actually pray. Pray. Is there any like that? Uplifted hand. God's challenged me up prayer life. God bless you. Just one or two would change everything. If just one or two of us get a hold of that I wonder how many would say, preacher, I need to pray humbly. I need to get the attitude and my frame of mind where I'm willing to let God do in my life what needs to be done. And you'd say, preacher, I really want that frame of mind. I want to be that way. I want to be willing to let God do whatever he needs to do, make whatever changes in my life. To have the peace of God. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Yes, I'm willing to do that. Until we're willing to do that, nothing's going to change, I'm telling you. Maybe we're satisfied with Be in that way. Is there some say, Preacher, I need to learn to be grateful. I catch myself griping. I catch myself seeing what I don't have and quit not rejoicing what I do have. Any like that I need to I need God to help me be grateful, sure. Probably probably a lot of us. Father, I pray you bless our invitation. Help us, Lord, I pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. James