2 Corinthians chapter 10, look at a very very familiar passage, verse number 3, and then we're going to read verses 3, 4, and 5. What I'd invite you to do if you've got a Bible, look down Please, please peer off maybe your neighbor, something like that. Maybe you know the verse. But still I'm going to encourage you. We're going to say verse number five together. Second Corinthians chapter ten, look at verse number three, Paul writes to the church at Corinth, For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war after the flesh. For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God. to the pulling down of strongholds. Verse 5, let's read it together. Casting down imaginations and every high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God. and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. Notice that it says every thought bringing into captivity, all thoughts, all these things We're talking about a spiritual warfare that's going on. Peter seemed to uh almost make a commentary on this person he says Wherefore Christians, I'm talking predominantly to Christians here in this, that wherefore gird up the loins of your mind, be still for hope to the end of the grace that is brought to you through the revelation of the at Jesus the revelation of Jesus Christ, as obedient children, not fashioning yourselves after the former lusts in your ignorance, but as he which hath called you is holy, so be Ye holy in all manner of conversation, which can I say includes your thoughts. Did you notice verse number five that we read together? It's talking about your thoughts. I'd like to challenge you with this to just Become aware in a new and a fresh way of the war for your mind. You realize there's a war for your mind. Alright, let's pray. God, we thank you for the beautiful weather. We thank you as has been mentioned already. Many freedoms we get to enjoy. I thank you for Mountain Lake and all that it means to us, the pastor. We pray that as we delve into your word tonight and get a fresh look and maybe even a soberness about this war for our minds that you would cause us to gird up the loins of our minds. Lord, we pray that we are not just here, but that we would also. Heed, we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Exactly fifteen years ago, nine months and twenty-one days to the day America was plunged into war. You're familiar with the date, September 11, 2000. Why? I remember exactly where I was at, where I was standing. I was in a classroom in my seventh grade class and we had the television in our screen, and next thing I knew everybody it seemed like in the school was piling into that room as we flipped on that television and watched the horrific scene of the twin tower one of the twin towers burning and Rescuers coming on scene immediately. You remember undoubtedly if you were alive, you remember exactly where you were at. You were old enough, and you uh you remember that I remember as we were just aghast at what was going on, taking in the whole scene What does this mean? I remember the alerts going out to the president, and we were on lockdown, all flights canceled, all these things going across the news line. And to be honest, as a seventh grader, that kind of freaked me out. I was a little scared about that And then the unthinkable happened. You know, the second plane jet flew into the other tower. It wasn't that long before the heated intensity of that came crumbling down. But the point is, America was plunged into war by a horrific terrorist. A tank, and that's exactly what it was. But you know something? After that the regions are out around Afghanistan and Iraq and Iran became extremely hostile. You don't believe me? Ask some American folks. I had a cousin who served there front lines and he says it was scary. You never knew one day if you'd be there and the next day if some suicide bomber was going to blow themselves up just to take you out as well. It was absolutely scary. And it was dangerous, not just for the soldiers, but for those poor civilians, Iraqis, Irans, Afghanistan, all of them alike, Americans, anybody over there. It was an extremely dangerous battlefront over there in the Middle East. But can I say this? That is dangerous and hostile The battlefront of the Middle East is, and how different America is that we can't even understand that. There's an even more dangerous war. Going on according to our text. It's the war for your mind. Let me ask you just a simple question. When was the last time you thought about your thoughts? Kind of an interesting thing. Although nobody can see your thoughts except ladies, and I'm just teasing. Ladies seem to my wife only seems to read my thoughts, but um all joking aside that we we can't see your thoughts, but there's a God in heaven who can Here Paul says you've got to give some careful attention, Christian, to your thoughts. So we got a very simple um outline. I do this a lot with teams. I use kind of an acronym, I think is what it is or something like that, um where each letter will stand for something. So it actually spells out mind. Okay, maybe you're taking mental notes, maybe you've gotten it down, that's fine. But here's where we're going, okay, so we're talking about taking careful Consideration of this war for your mind. We're talking about all this spiritual warfare. The weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but they're mighty through God. What's going on here What what is the big deal? Maybe that's what you're scratching or thinking right now. Well, uh mind is the meaning of your thoughts. I and mind is the importance the Bible subscribes to your thoughts and then uh N is the need to cast down bad ones. D is disciplining your thoughts. Okay? So that's all straight from our text. Meaning of thoughts. If we're going to talk about This careful examination of our thought life. Think about your thought life. Think about the things that course through your mind. Think about if we were able to view them. Think uh just your thoughts, what goes through your mind on a regular basis, the meaning of your thoughts. uh thoughts. So let me ask you a question. What is a thought? What is a thought? Okay? We're we're of course taking into our English language and also what the Bible means by but if you happen to be awake tonight then you just had A thought, okay. Uh but is it just the excitable cells called neurons in your nervous system that transmit information by electrochemical signaling? That's I think a cool scientific definition, but even Noah Webster said this. He recognized that thoughts are quotes, ideas or opinions produced by thinking that if this in turn impact one's actions. Why did he say that last part? Because he knew you cannot have a thought except that it affects the way that you act and behave. Young people, you can't have thought thoughts coursing through your mind without it affecting you positively toward Christ-likeness or negatively toward um ungodliness. And same thing right on up that we cannot have thoughts without it affecting us. There are two different Greek words not going too technical in this verse to help us to define what is a thought biblically Why is this such a big deal? Why are we even talking about this? Well, one of these, if you look at verse number five, if you got your Bible open, casting down imaginations We normally think of imagination as just a gift for young people, but that is absolutely not true. You all have imagination. Sometimes it becomes more and more vivid the older we get. Can I say this? Sometimes it becomes more and more wicked the older we get. Sometimes it's the opposite. Praise the Lord. It becomes more and more the mind of Christ. But our thoughts are a big deal. So imaginations, um, this one word is almost seems to indicate the thoughts at the top of your mind Okay, so random kind of thoughts. Maybe you're thinking right now the person sitting next to me has bad breath. I don't know. Random thoughts that may pop up into your mind. I get them all the time. Okay. It it just just happens, okay? So those things happen, not necessarily um sinful or or godly either way, but um that's what this word means But the other one is kind of interesting. It seems to go past our the random popping-up thoughts that occur, and it's how we deal with our thoughts. It's our thought process. It's kind of what you're doing right now, maybe musing, thinking it over. Boy, what what exactly does this work? I thought I had a grip on this, but there's two ideas, things that come up into your mind, and then how we handle these things. But just to make it clear God either way holds you extremely accountable for the thoughts that you have coursing through your mind. When the Bible says when Jesus said it's not just sin for a man to asleep with a woman, it's also sin for a man to even think on a woman. What is he saying? To meditate and to think that all happens right here. I've got news for you folks. Okay? Even our heart, we'll talk about this in just a second, but our heart is even affected by our thoughts. So this is a very, very big deal. And come judgment day, God will hold you and me accountable for what this organ is constantly doing on a regular basis. So um imagine looking at actually grab this Um on my way out. Um young people, do you know what this is? Can anybody see? All right, very good. Flash drive. This is a flash drive. Let's just say, by way of illustration, imagine if I could walk off of this platform and go ahead and stick this right up into your head and then we can download everything that you thought for the past week. And then watch it on a screen projector. It's kind of scary, isn't it, to think about that? Almost haunting. I agree. But you know something? We've got a God in heaven. Who sees it all. Sometimes, can I say this too, young people, especially, it's it's very easy to know some of the things that you're thinking just because of the way that you act And sometimes we think we're hiding things and we're able to get away with things. And even as adults, we get more and more professionals, actors and actresses, that we hide these things, but the art thoughts are extremely, extremely important. And sometimes they betray you even though you think that you kind of got them well concealed, okay? So we're talking about the meaning of our thoughts as you see, Paul's not messing around though He's trying to highlight the great importance, not that I put on thoughts, not that another preacher, but that God puts on thoughts. So importance, importance of thoughts. Point number two I'll say this, but two thoughts came to my mind when talking about the importance of thoughts. One is your thoughts are linked to your character or your heart. Also, they're linked to change. Those two things, okay? They're linked to character and they're linked to change in your life, even if you don't realize it yet. So link to your heart. Or character. That's kind of the inner you, the inner being, the part that we don't necessarily get to see all the time. Link to the character. David Brayden's Psalm nineteen fourteen, let the words of my mouth in the meditation or musings or thoughts of my heart, not my brain, not my mind. But the meditations of my heart. During Noah's time, God saw the wickedness of man was straight upon the earth, and every imagination of the thoughts of his Heart was only evil continually. Proverbs says, For as a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. The disciples were fickering among themselves who is going to be the greatest in the kingdom. And the Bible says in Luke 9 44 that Jesus perceived the thoughts of their heart. Simon the sorcerer was coveting the gift of um the the spiritual gifts rather than salvation. And in Acts 8. 3, Peter rebukes it. He says, Repent therefore of this thy wickedness and break out of perhaps the thought of thy heart shall be forgiven me. Do you see how not I, but God, says there is a link between your heart and your mind. Young people guard your heart with all the diligence. It means you've got to watch what goes in this mind. This is extremely extremely important. It could be just a simple rebellious attitude. It could be simply the way you're thinking about an individual. It could be uh something that's festered for years And you've allowed it to keep going. Maybe it's just wicked imagination things you do in your alone time, your form of entertainment, your standards that you know need to be here and they're way down here. I don't know what it is, but the point is Paul was saying, I see a huge problem here at the church at Corinth, and you're living in debauched living right now. You're really messing it up, even if I'm safe don't act the way that you do. And uh the reason being is you're not learning to get grips of this thought life. I meant to mention this earlier, but the church at Corinth, the city of Corinth It actually became a synonymous with the Greek word Corinthos. When someone mentioned Corinthos in Greek, what they often thought of was not only a city, but it was synonymous with debauched. Ungodly debauched. Living. Any immoral act of wicked. That was the word Corinthus. They were surrounded by these Christians trying to live for God and be different, but they couldn't. Does that sound kind of familiar? Here we're having issues about gender and different things that I never even uh e some of the issues that I looked at I never thought some of these would come about were surrounded and inundated by ungodliness and and uh the church at Corinth was no no different. And uh you say maybe I'm not that quite that bad, but Paul still says, listen You have made some changes, you've done quite well, but there's still this issue. You've still got strongholds that need to be taken care of. So your the importance of your thoughts that the Bible is is that it's linked, your your heart, it's linked to your very character. But also I think it's linked to change. Why do I say that? Psalm 119, 59 David wrote this, he said, I thought on my ways, and then I turned my feet unto thy testimony. David got it. He realized I gotta have a thought change before I have an action change. You may be struggling with the same You can call it a pet sin, you can call it a king sin, you can call it dominating sin, you can call it your stronghold, whatever you want to call it. The Bible says your stronghold that you may be struggling with that for years and you don't know quite how to get rid of it. Maybe you're losing the battle. Maybe you've got victorious for a little while and it's great and fantastic and then all of a sudden Fight seems to creep in and man, all of a sudden you fail and flop and even bigger batter than you did before. And he said, What in the world is going on? There's got to be something Some key that I missed it. I'll tell you the key according to this verse. It's the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but they're spiritual. If you get a hold of passing down bad thoughts It's amazing how that'll revolutionize your life, how your actions are impacted by your very thoughts. So change. I know it's kind of uh um an old adage, but um I remember uh the commercial, I think it was Nike or something that would constantly say, Hey, get someone on there and they're about ready to gear up for a race and of course they got the emblem, the Nike gear everything. And they said, I think I can, I think I can, I think I can. You guys remember that? Okay. So they would kind of do that. Well, they were with with the it was kind of silly, like their own cheerleading squad or something, but um the thought was they they were kind of getting onto something right. I think I can, and that therefore I'm going to do it. Your thoughts, interestingly enough, have great impact on your life And that could be for a good thing, that could be casting down wicked things that don't belong in your mind, like this passage says. But um perhaps it's thinking of a life situation the wrong way. Maybe God has really sent something down the pipe in your life that you You just do not think, let's just be honest. Throw off the disguise you don't think is fair. You just think that God messed up on it. Maybe somebody like that here tonight team uh uh Senior senior. It doesn't matter who, but it could be that somebody here is struggling with that. You've been thinking of life the wrong way. You've been going against God. Sort of reminds me of when I was handing my aunt's back And I was in a great hurry, I think I mentioned this to the teens already, but I was in a great current because I saw the storm clouds coming and I knew I had a little bit of time and I wanted to get the standing done. It was kind of a long, it took me way longer than I thought. So I was going to town and I wasn't really looking at what I was doing while I was standing against the green and boom, a splinter lodged, a huge splinter lodge right underneath my nail. It completely disheveled my nail, went completely under. When my aunt finally got it out later that night because I was getting headaches, it was It was throbbing, it was swelling. She pulled that out, and I'm not joking, blood literally gushed out of my fingers that had built up that much pressure. My nails cracked still to this day, so I remember the lesson well. You gotta learn to maybe not stand against the grain, so to speak, or at least watch what you're doing. But maybe if you're going against the grain and you're kind of just uh bucking at what God has for you or young people, maybe your parents are encouraging you to do something and they see something that you need to change and you can You've got to keep going against it. Guess what? That's really hard. That's a bad way to live. And you've got to learn to change your mind, change your thoughts, and say, you know what? God has given me this And I need to just accept it. So thoughts are important because they're linked to change. We all have thoughts. We all need to take care of it. Realizing the great importance though the Bible places on thoughts, it becomes exceptional Exceedingly necessary to cast down the bad ones. Quickly, I'd like for you to turn over to James chapter one. James chapter one, Pastor hit on this a few Sundays ago, talking about temptation. James chapter one. James seems to afford us in James chapter one a microscopic view of temptation, where it starts, where it ends. what the results are, where we would maybe not quite understand what is going on, why I keep getting shredded up. Maybe you're like that. Maybe you have some strongholds in your life. Maybe you're even ashamed to admit those to anybody You would couldn't imagine being accountable to somebody for that because you're just let out embarrassed by I don't know what it may be, but um that there's a necessity to cast down these bad ones according to our text. James chapter 1 Seems to give us a little insight of what's going on. Look at verse number 13. Let no man say when he's tempted, I am tempted of God, for God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempth he any man But every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust or bad thoughts. And entipes. Then, of course, lust hath conceived and bringeth forth sin. Sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death. But you see a little bit of progression Whun da da da du. But where does it all start? It all starts with a lust or a thought in your mind. Lust has nothing to do with actions. We don't see anything taking place on the outside everything looks good. Maybe that's kind of familiar to you and that's been played over and over again and and boy you just kind of you know how to walk the walk the talk the talk that sort of thing. But you know things are kind of uh Rotten inside, you know something's not quite right. And here James says, because you are when you the moment you give into your lust, those bad thoughts, is the moment you enter into sin Let me say that again. That the process of sin starts with your thought. That's why it's so important. That we cast down these bad ones. That's why we've got to be careful. Casting down is the idea of dethroning. Okay? Several people want to dethrone Donald Trump, so to speak. Okay, so we You get that idea. It's they want to get him out of office. They want to get rid of that king. You want to get rid of uh whoever it may be and and uh in a And in the same way, you've got a sin that's been ruling and reigning in your life and sitting all happy and it's it's been there for years and it's there to say maybe you've kind of given up on. Please, please, let me encourage you, do not give up For once, the weapons of your warfare don't are they're not up to you. Okay, it's not up to you to have the victory. Um that ought to come as a relief to you That sin that you've been struggling with and thoughts or temptations. However, that is not up to you. God's giving you some uh some spiritual weapons and warfare to wield in battle against this thing. And we need to learn to cast down these bad thoughts. Amum, I I mentioned it like this. When was the last time you backed the battlefront against sin in your life to your thoughts? We know in military, some of you guys have served in military, you know it's important to kind of back them up to a strategic location, depending on what kind of worker you have. That can be exceedingly important. But the same thing with sin, when have you backed that sin and your life up to your thoughts and treated your uh instead of just the symptoms, you're treating the actual sickness And grabbing that sin up by the root. I don't know what sin in particular you're dealing with. We all have it, but we just need to learn to say, you know what, God? Yeah, there are the wrong thoughts that I'm endorsing right now Are there things I need to cast down that I've been entertaining for years? Is there something in my life that does not belong and uh um also let me say this process of sin starts with the thought, the power over sin starts with the spirit Okay, you've got a yield to the spirit. Do you know the average person has seventy thousand thoughts a day? Seventy thousand Girls probably more than guys, but that's okay, guys. Okay. Of seventy thousand thoughts, that is a ton of thoughts. Can you imagine God knows each and every one of those, every human being To me that's absolutely amazing, but what's more incredible is God holds me accountable for 70,000 thoughts that I have during a day. That's just ridiculous Okay, that's three thousand per hour, that's fifty per minute. You're talking ridiculous, God. You cannot hold me accountable for all my thoughts. I met a lot of young people at King that said, you can't do it. My thoughts what goes through my mind is my business, and that's absolutely a lie because It's God's business, He knows all about it, and it does affect your life, but you say, Man, seventy thousand thoughts, I don't know what I'm gonna do. Um But uh either way, the Bible says look at first number 3, for though we walk in the flesh, we do not ward after the flesh Realizing the warfare that's going on. For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds. You've got strongholds in your life. It may be that you need to get a hold of some of the spiritual weapons, walking in the spirit, asking God to help, asking God to make you more mindful and sober about this area of your life Remember that this battle is a spiritual one. We need spiritual weapons. I'm going to say this lastly quickly, disciplining your thoughts. Okay? So we talked about the meaning of thoughts the importance the Bible says that they are and then the need to cancel the battle of them. But now we're looking at disciplining those thoughts. You've got to learn discipline I'm a big fan of discipline. Trust me, if you're going to graduate from Bible college, you need to be a big fan of discipline. It's kind of like boot camp. Maybe that's why I liked it personally, but you've got to discipline your thoughts. There's got to be this process Paul says casting down. That is in the present progressive, which means it's constantly ongoing. He says there's never not a time when Christians, you ought not be aware of your boss There's never a time when you could say, I'm gonna just take a break, I'm gonna bed, I'm gonna lay that night, I'm gonna flip it on and it's no big deal, no one else is around or whatever. No no no, there's never a downtime for g getting a handle on this you've got to discipline your thoughts. You don't necessarily have to turn there, but Philippians 4. 8, God absolutely used to liberate my thinking. And of course you're familiar with the pulse says finally, brother, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are Um I'm probably getting this out of adjust whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are of good report. If there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think on these things I've asked teams this to do this challenge before, but maybe I need to ask everybody here, why don't you take just one week, simply one week, and then at that conclusion of each day, perhaps write down or maybe even in the morning from the day before, write down some of the thoughts that you have, some of the things that are going through your mind. Maybe some struggles that you have, some things you know you would struggle with, and just jot them down and say, God, what What in this list here of thoughts does not line up with that Philippians 4 verse 1? I kind of call it the spiritual strainer, okay? So when you use a strainer, you go and put it in there and it strains out of things, maybe the water, whatever it may be. Well, maybe stick your thoughts in that spiritual screen and say, Is it pure? Is it lovely? Is it a good report? Is it even true? For I I know a lot of young people on and off that if if they could just get a hold of the fact that's not even true. We don't even know for sure if that's a uh true. We don't we have no idea that if we got a hold of that, that we just thought about things that um the way that we should, maybe you do need to get an accounta accountability partner. That doesn't mean you're weak. That just means you're serious. Okay? Proverbs 27, 17. Iron sharpeneth iron, so will man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend. There's nothing in the world wrong with that. In fact, God has ordained that we help one another. We build one another. We need Galatians 6:1 men and women. I mentioned that already where we would build each other, not tear each other on, you which are spiritual, restore such one. Maybe accountability is the very thing that you need, even though you've been bucking it and that sounds absolutely scary. But let me ask you the when was the last time you bet your the battle run of of uh sin in your life that you know about to your thought life. I'll conclude with this. Um and uh when we went on a senior trip, I've uh spent my whole life in a in public school, but my senior year I transferred to a Christian school and uh one of the things that they did there was they would go on a senior trip. So we went out to DC in that area. I had never been there and obviously live pretty close, but one of my favorite parts of the trip was Hershey Park, Pennsylvania. How many of you guys have ever been to Hershey Park? Okay. So yeah, you've seen it and it's much closer now, it's really easy to get there. But it's like It just smelled like chocolatey having ladies, if you've not been there, go there. It's really, really good, okay? But I uh I what I was really, really intrigued by 'cause I'm not a huge But what I was really intrigued by was I watched the we got to watch the process of this chocolate being made in this particular assembly line. They had Hershey kisses that were getting um poured in so you had the chocolate going in and they would of course keep it fresh and keep the proper temperature. They had all these this bells and whistles and things going on, but stamping eat all these Hershey kisses were coming through. It's a real fascinating process. And then uh we watched that this machinery would detect any imperfections whatsoever that were there. So if something was not fitting in the right time, it would go through all these monitors, weights, all these things that it would believe it or not, before that candy ever empt uh entered into your bag and got into your house. And one of the uh uh not only did they have the machines but then they had human inspectors are probably like really huge people, I don't know, but they got down out there at the end, you know, and they were they were able to test it out a little bit, make some talk. It's good for y'all, you know. Um so but I I was just all these um different things in place to make sure that everything that ended up in that bag and in your home and for you to enjoy was satisfactory. You know what's sad is Hershey Park, Hershey Company can take such care about what ends up in their candy. But as Christians, we can't be as careful about what ends up in our mind. And we just allow things to come right on through with no filters. That's Can I just be honest? That's shameful. And we all deal with it. But this this passage here is talking about the war for your body. How are you doing with this battle? And this war for your mind. God, we thank you so much for your word. We thank you that it challenges us in all areas. We thank you that you've given us all things that pertain to life and to godliness. even when it's this period where nobody else can see our thoughts. I pray that as your folks heard the Word of God tonight, that they would make the appropriate change in their lives, we ask in your name and for your glory. Amen.