Uh this thing's uh coming down and we're gonna be going up. It's good to have brother uh Williams uh brother uh good to have brother Williams with us. And uh actually by the way that is his daughter at the piano and So praise the Lord. Uh we're gonna go right over preaching. And so let's get Brother uh Mattingley up here. We got two Bible college presidents here, and uh we thank God for that. Wasn't that a message this morning? I thank God for Brother Mattingley, such a gracious man, and it's preaching time. Let me get out of the way. I don't know if you know this or not. You might have thought, well they look a little bit nervous. This is their first stop on the tour this summer, uh this fall, this w What is this? Spring. This spring. This and I'm a little bit nervous too right now. This is their first tour, the first stop on their spring tour And uh so I thought they did a phenomenal job. And all God's people said, Hey, I am for local church Bible colleges. I am for I and I'm not against the other guys. I've got a lot of friends with big schools, middle schools, small schools, but I'm telling you I believe that young people can get a better handle on the work of the ministry for local church ministry. if they are in a local church that's operating a college more so than they can in a quote college church. It's a bit there's a big difference in those two things. And I've got several friends who have large uh ministries and the huge hunk of their it like like here's the church. And here's the college ministry. And then here's the other ministries plugged in here and there. And uh I'm telling you, I I like what you're doing, Brother Williams. Praise the Lord for that. Hey, take your Bibles tonight and turn anywhere you like. It's all good. And uh uh it does really matter where you go because uh some of you are already looking at your watch and and thinking With all this extra singing, what are we gonna do? What time are we gonna get out of here? I'm hungry, you know, all that all that kind of thing. And but don't never uh never fear. I'll have us out here by ten, eleven Sharp. I I do want to say this. Uh uh I uh I had a wonderful uh afternoon. We were able to just relax a little bit and I was able to study and read and prepare and And uh uh I know the fellows went out and passed out uh thousands of tra uh hundreds of tracks, probably, maybe maybe thousands, I don't know what they did And uh I appreciate the great work that you're doing to reach your community. I think that's the main business of the church reaching the community. And by the way, if you brought someone tonight at your invitation who was not here, you contacted them before they got here, you invited them They're your guest, not your guest, it may be a regular member, but they just weren't here this morning. You just contacted them and said, Hey, I hope you're there tonight. And they came Then uh uh and maybe they would have come anyway. Doesn't matter if you contacted them at counts, you go by there, Nancy will be back there, I'll be back there, somebody will be back there And we want to give you one of those books, if you brought two, the DVDs, have two different DVDs that you can choose from, one on defeating the grip of debt, one on the some principles for the family. And then if you brought three, they have to be teens and adults that weren't here this morning, then you get the CD, the music CDs from Shawnee Baptist College or other places. you can get that. And uh that's just my gift to you for working hard and so forth. Now if you didn't do that tonight, you can do it tomorrow night. The only difference is if you brought one tonight and that one comes back tomorrow night and two more It it d the preacher's working something like that, that's okay. But for me it doesn't have has to be three new ones to get the C D, two new ones to get the the the DVDs, one new one to get the booklet and uh that kind of thing. Again, got some stuff back there. You can buy all of it you want, but I'd rather I would rather give it away. So don't buy anything tonight. Don't buy anything tonight. Try to get somebody here and uh and let's just see if we can't just give it to you. I'd far rather do that and uh that'll help me and it'll help you. See there's a principle involved here. When Jesus went to the w well, I don't have time to give you the whole story But I got a whole sermon on it. But when Jesus went to the well in Samaria, when out of his said he must needs go through Samaria, he went there and he said to that woman, he said He didn't say you're living a wicked life. You need to get saved. Let me tell you how you can go to heaven. Your religion's fake and fraud and whatever. He didn't do that. First thing Jesus said to her, listen to this. Listen. This can revolutionize your outreach. The first thing Jesus said to her was, Pardon me, ma'am. This is maddingly vernacular here. He said, Pardon me, ma'am. Could you get me a drink of that water? First thing Jesus said to that woman was a request for her to do him a favor That's the first thing. He didn't go there accusing. He didn't go there preaching. He went there asking her. The first thing he wanted to do was get an entrance into her life. where he could talk to her and give her the gospel. And man, when she got saved, she got a dose of it. She hadn't even been baptized yet. She hadn't even changed her clothes yet. She hadn't started going to Sunday school yet. But she went and brought the whole town to Jesus. The Bible says many of them believed on him because of her word. Think of that. She became an instant soul winner. And she hadn't even got her stuff out of the house where she was shacked up with the guy yet. Here she is, and she was a soul winner. I'm not condoning that kind of stuff, and I don't think Jesus did either, and I think she got it out shortly thereafter. But the first thing she did, she was just excited, she was wanting everybody to know the Savior. And there she was, and she's a soul winner. On the other hand, the Bible says after they After they came there and Jesus spent a couple days with them and they listened to him, it says, many more believed on him because of his own word. So he was a soul winner and she was a soul winner. I doubt very seriously if anybody's as far down as she had gone. I'm certain, without a shadow of a doubt, there's nobody as righteous and holy as he is. We all fall somewhere in between, but if she could be a soul winner and he could be a soul winner, we could be a soul winner, don't you think? See, we just let the devil tell us we can't do it. And the devil is a dirty, stinking liar And I want to challenge you. Let God do a work in your life. Let me tell you about this fellow. He came to town. I know you're thinking, man, how long is this going to be? And it's warm in here or cool in here. By the way, how many of you feel like it's a little bit warm? Anybody? Okay, how many how many feel like it's a little bit cool? How how many of you are cool? Okay. Man, would you change places with this guy over here? I think we can balance it out. All right, yeah. J just kidding. But uh Uh fella, he you know, he was a he was an evangelist and out of town. When you first get there, the evangelist always feels like that you said, Preacher, why do you do all this talking before you start preaching? I'm trying to get my platform legs, you know and uh just want to get get used to everybody and and and uh whatever. But anyway, this guy guy showed up and uh you know it's typical evangelist missionary They come, they think I may never get to speak here again, and I want them to know how great I am. So they back the semi-tractor trailer up, unload their whole ministry in the place, and get up there and preach for hours. And and boy, by the time they're gone, everybody says, man, I hope preacher never has that guy back again. This fellow came and he was a little bit like that. He got up, he opened his Bible, got out a set of notes, laid it on the pulpit, and began to preach. He preached for a solid hour. Now there's nothing wrong with that. A lot of preachers preach an hour And if they're interesting and keep it moving, there's that's not a problem. But he preached for an hour. And uh they thought the well, the plane's circling the field, he's getting ready to come in for a landing, he's gonna wrap it up right here. He turned the page, got out another set of notes, and continued to preach. He preached for a second solid hour. Two solid hours. Unbelievable. Look, you and I both know that your mind cannot absorb more than your seat can endure But he he just kept on going. And uh two solid hours and they said surely I mean you know necessity was setting in if you get my drift, you know. And uh uh some of the senior saints and the little kids were really having a problem now and and uh and he just kept on going and and and and and he turned the page again and they thought, surely he's done now He turned the page again, got out another set of notes, and stepped back, and suddenly he stopped. He stepped up to the microphone, he said, ladies and gentlemen, I have another full hour's worth of material that I fully intended to preach. But Jesus just spoke to my heart and told me to stop right here. Simultaneously the congregation stood to their feet and sang, What a friend we have in Jesus. Got him out of that thing. Alright. I want you to think about the miracle of the Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. The miracle. Not just the miracle, the miracles, plural. The miracles of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Hey, let's just think about it for a minute. I mean you think about how God has had his hand on this ministry All the different things God's allowing you to do. I mean even now, even as I'm speaking this message, I suppose if everything's up and operating properly, is literally going around the world. People are listening on the other side of the world the planet that is amazing. I mean, can you just think of the miracle of that? And then the radio uh ministry that you have going. And uh then the outreaches and the buses and the soul winning and and uh and the facilities that God has given you and the testimony and the pastor that God has sent your way and and the salvations the the the miracle of a young man today following the Lord in baptism and having trusted Christ as his Savior and And just on and on and on we could go, the miracles that God has allowed you to see. But tonight I want you to think of the spiritual miracles that God has granted to your church And not to yours only, but how about Brother Williams and how about Shawnee Baptist Church? God's granted some miraculous things for us to propagate, for us to brag about, not what we have done, but what God has done. Hey, did you know this Did you know that this county, that this state, that America, that the world doesn't need to see what this church can do for God? but needs really to see what God could do through this church if the people of this church were fully surrendered to God. And by the way, that's a little bit of what revival's about, isn't it? Revival is about God's people getting right with God. Yeah, it's about salvations and people getting born again into the family of God, but that is a that's a byproduct of God's people getting right with God and doing what they're supposed to do. It goes hand in hand with it. It's not one or the other. It's one that produces the other as we yield ourselves to God and as God works through us. And I'll talk about that tomorrow night. Tomorrow night. I'm going to be preaching about can we right now in this 21st century I mean I've heard preachers literally say it's too far, we've hit the point, we've gone past the point of no return, there's nothing else. Matter of fact, I've I've got in some of my material Uh guy handed me, I think on May the 22nd. He's already calculated it and that the Lord is returning on May the 22nd. So you might want to circle that on your calendar, plan, you know, get to Walmart early that day or whatever you're going to do. And get it over with. But but I'm telling you, the the return of the Lord is imminent. He is returning soon. Jesus is coming soon Just like the young men saying. And uh but tonight take your Bibles and turn to the book of Acts, chapter eight, verse number one. Acts chapter eight. Just turn there, if you would please, and we'll think about The miracle of the work of God and the miracle of the work are the miracles that God has provided for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. and for every one of us to take advantage of or to be aware of and how God wants to use us in his work. Now if you'll listen quickly tonight, I'll speak quickly. I won't belabor any of the points and spend a great deal of time on them because I do have a number of points here, but I'll go through them quickly. So you might want to just jot down some references and some hit and some uh headings and uh we'll just move right along. Acts chapter 8, let's stand together, please, for the reading of the Word of God Acts chapter 8, I'm going to begin reading in verse number 1. The Bible says, and Saul was consenting unto his death. And at that time there was a great persecution. By the way, that was the death of Stephen, the first Christian martyr. And uh he uh uh well the first Christian martyr after the resurrection of Christ I guess you'd say John the Baptist was somewhat he was kind of in the old dispensation or whatever, but uh but he was saved by grace, by the way. But uh he was uh But he wasn't after the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ, but Stephen was. And the Bible says Saul was consenting unto his death, the death of Stephen. And at that time there was a great persecution against the church, which was at Jerusalem, and they were all scattered abroad throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles. Hey, preacher boys, get this In Acts chapter 8, verse 1, the Bible says the persecution came and they were scattered abroad. In Acts chapter 1, verse 8, the Bible says that ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and the uttermost parts of the earth. That was in Acts chapter 1, verse 8. And in Acts chapter 8, verse 1, they were all still in Jerusalem. God had to allow persecution to come to get them to go do what he had already told them that they were supposed to do. Isn't that amazing? But they did do it, praise the Lord for that. And uh they uh all accept the apostles. They didn't go into verse number two And devout men carried Stephen to his burial, and made great lamentation over him. As for Saul, he made havoc of the church, entering into every house, and hailing men and women, and committing them to prison Therefore, they that were scattered abroad went everywhere preaching the word. Then Philip went down into the city of Samaria and preached Christ unto them. And the people with one accord gave heed, listen to this, gave heed to those things which Philip spake, hearing and seeing the miracles which he did. Ladies and gentlemen, miracles come with obedience. Miracles come in times of testing. Miracles come when we step out. By faith and believe God and attempt to do his work and please him and honor him and keep his word And here is the Bible talking about Philip. And the Bible says they s heard and saw. What what do you mean when they how do you hear a miracle? He was preaching the word of God. Ladies and gentlemen, that's a miracle in and of itself Here's a man who didn't know these people from Adam's house cat, and yet he was willing to go put his life on the line and preach the word of God to them. Man, that's a miracle God had changed his heart. He wasn't just living for Philip. He was living for Christ. It's a miracle when God changes a life like that and transforms someone. Well, let's pray together again and ask God to bless, and then you'll be seated. Heavenly Father, thank you for the miracles in the Word of God. Lord, not just the cataclysmic miracles in the elements and the healings and the parting of waters and all kinds of other things that we read about in the Bible. Thank you for the wonderful illustration and how they remind us of your power and effectiveness. But Lord, I thank you for just the everyday miracles we take for granted. Lord, sometimes we just need to stop and remember how good you are, how great you are, how gracious you are to us, and help us, Lord, in like manner to be yielded to thee. And available and and loving. And Father, we give you the praise. We thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. Well, what is it that we already have in the way of miracles? I mean, we're What are some of the miracles that are already right here at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church? Number one, we have, listen to this, we have a miraculous book The Word of God. Isn't that something? We have a miraculous book. The Bible says in 2 Timothy 3. 16, all scripture is given By inspiration of God. You know how I know this book is inspired? Because God inspired it. There's arguments going on today Do you think the King James translators were inspired like the holy men of old were inspired? I don't know. I don't read anywhere where anybody was inspired except God. It was given by inspiration of God. God's the one that inspired this book. God's the one that has preserved that inspiration Ladies and gentlemen, thank God for his word. And all scripture is, that's present tense, and they were by the way reading out of copies, but he said all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. We think of the song Holy Bible, Book Divine Precious treasure, thou art mine. And we sing the B-I-B-L-E and get the kids to thrust their Bibles up into the air and uh and rejoice in it. Then Second Peter chapter one, verses twenty and twenty-one. The Scripture says, as Peter was writing, inspired by the Holy Spirit of God, knowing this first that no prophecy of the Scripture is of any private interpretation. You know, I've dealt with that a little bit this morning. When people say, well I just don't see it that way, when the preacher gets up and preaches some a plain teaching right straight from the Word of God, cross-references it And compare scripture with scripture and says, Thus saith the Lord. And they say, Well, I just don't agree with that. I don't see it that way. Hold on. Where are you? You're getting off into private interpretation. You better just take God for what he says Man, I'm telling you, some people go get down too deep. I believe some folks, you know, again, I believe some folks, Brother Preacher, are educated beyond their intelligence. You know what I'm talking about? They they got so many degrees behind their name you'd think they were a thermometer and they're dumb as a block. And and they and they never have built a church and they've never won a soul to Christ and uh and they've never seen revival in their life or anybody else's for that matter And yet they're gonna instruct you what God really meant when he gave his word. You know what I think he meant? I think he meant exactly what he said I think we can trust God to give us what He wants us to have. But he said it's not given for a private interpretation. For prophecy came not in old time by the will of men, but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. Mark chapter thirteen, verse thirty-one. Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word shall not pass away. Ladies and gentlemen, thank God that we have an eternally preserved Bible. You say, well, where is that eternally preserved Bible? Well, what about we've lost the originals? You know what my take on that is? I don't know that we ever had the originals. Matter of fact I know that all of the what we call the originals were never all together in one place, in one book, and called a Bible. They were given at different times over different periods of time and whatever else. You say, well, what about the originals? I'll tell you where they are. I know where they are. I found out where they are. Well, where'd you find out? I read it in the book. I believe in circular reasoning. And I believe the Bible tells us what it wants us to know. And my Bible says, forever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven. Word of God's in heaven Forever settled in heaven. Chew on that for a little while. Meditate on that. That's from the Bible. That's not from some scholar. Say, boy, I read this commentary. And this guy threw a lot of light on the Word of God. Well, I read the Bible, and it threw a lot of light on that commentator too. And uh, you know, he was just a commentator. And and uh and the Bible will straighten out a lot of those commentators and they just get in the book. I'm not against listen. I'm not against academia. I'm really not. I'm all for it. I'm 100% for it. I think we ought to get all the knowledge we can But my friend, knowledge puffs up. We've got to be careful that we don't get to thinking that we're smarter than God. And I'm telling you, it's just an amazing thing. Well, the Bible talks about being born again, 1 Peter 1 23, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible by the word of God which liveth and abideth forever. I found this clipping one time. I thought it was pretty neat. This book contains the mind of God, the state of man, the way of salvation, the doom of sinners, the It is, its doctrines are holy, its precepts are binding, its histories are true, and its decisions are immutable. Read it to be wise, believe it to be safe, practice it to be holy, it contains light to direct you Food to support you and comfort to cheer you. It's the traveler's map, the pilgrim staff, the pilot's compass, the soldier's sword, the Christian's character. It's i here is paradise restored, heaven opened, and the gates of hell disclosed. Christ is its grand object, our good is its design, and the glory of God is its end. It should fill the memory, rule the heart, guide the feet. Read it slowly, frequently, and prayerfully. It is given you in life, it will be opened in judgment, and it will be remembered forever. It involves the highest responsibility We'll reward the greatest laborer. We'll condemn all who trifle with its sacred contents. The wonderful word of God. I'm so thankful, ladies and gentlemen. We have a miracle book right here This isn't just another book. This isn't just good literature. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the inspired, infallible, eternal word of God, truth without any mixture of error, the final word of authority in all matters of faith and practice for a God-fearing Christian. The Word of God. Boy, I thank the Lord for it. Somebody say amen. Amen. Boy, what a wonderful thing that we have the Word of God. Well, let's move on. That's number one. We have a miraculous book a God-inspired book, a God-preserved book, a God that's his truth for us, the book that tells us how we can know eternal life. Number two We have not only a miraculous book, but we have a miraculous institution, the church. I don't have time. This could be if if I had ten points tonight, and I could have, I don't have But I could have. But if I had ten points tonight, uh this could be ten separate sermons. But I want you to get this, the miraculous not only book, but the miraculous institution It's the church founded by Jesus Christ Himself. This is what Jesus said in Matthew 16, verse 18. He said, And I say also unto thee, thou art Peter And upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. First Timothy three fifteen The last part of that verse says the church of the living God, the pillar and ground of the truth. Ephesians two twenty through twenty-two and are built upon the foundation of the apostles And by the way, that what the foundation of the apostles is, what they gave us as the Holy Spirit worked in their lives and they pinned down the Word of God, the apostles and prophets, that's what he's talking about, the Bible. And Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone. in whom all the building fitly framed together groweth into a holy temple in the Lord, in whom ye also are builded together for an habitation of God through the Holy Spirit. Ephesians 5. 25, a little bit later on in that same book, goes on to say Christ also loved the church and gave himself for it Did you know the church is the body of Christ? The church is the bride of Christ, church is the building of Christ, all these things. And there are people, I've talked to people, they say, well. I tell you what, you know well I I'm saved. I believe in God. I I love the Lord, but I I just don't li I just don't like church. I I'm not it for church. Here's this Fine young married couple over here. He marries his wife, cuts her head off, sticks it on the bedpost, said, I love the head, that's Christ, but I don't want to have anything to do with the body, that's the church Hold on. You say, preacher, that would be that's kind of gory, you know. It's ridiculous. Nobody would do anything like that. And yet people do it every day to the Lord Jesus. You've been out knocking on doors. Oh yeah, I'm saved. Yeah, I'm saved. I love the Lord. I'm a Christian, but I just I just I'm fed up with church. I just don't want to go there Why? Because the church gave you a problem. That's why the divorce rate's so high in America. Nobody wants to be committed to anything that has and and God knew the church was going to have a human element in it And uh and th that's who we are. We we are people that we're saved, but we're not we're not totally sanctified yet. We are sanctified from the penalty of sin. We've been saved, we're being sanctified from the power of sin day by day in our life. And one day we'll be sanctified from the very presence of sin when the Lord takes us out of this place and we're transformed and translation That glorified body, but meanwhile back on earth, we've got to learn to love one another and get along together and follow God's plan And God's plan for this age is the local New Testament church. That's what God chooses to use to reach the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. The Bible says in Acts chapter 2, verses 41 and 42, then they that gladly received his word were baptized in the Lord And the same day there were added unto them about three thousand souls, and they were and they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship And in breaking of bread and prayers, Acts two, forty six and forty seven, they continued daily with one accord in the temple, and breaking bread from house to house, did eat their meat with gladness and singleness of heart Praising God, having favor with all the people, and the Lord added to the church daily, such as should be saved You think about that, ladies and gentlemen. I have people tell me, well, there's nowhere in the Bible it says you have to go to church three times a week. I say, okay then, if that's the way you're going to be about it, let's just look at the Bible model and let that be the rule They went to church daily in the temple and in every house. They ceased not to teach and preach Jesus. So let's cancel this Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night. Let's make it seven days a week Let us go to God's house and pray and go to church and have preaching and teaching and wait a minute. Let's rethink that. I'm a little bit more carnal. Let's just go to three. We'll just stick with them Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night and a revival every now and then And we'll do this week, tell you what let's do. Let's do Monday night and Tuesday night. We'll just squeeze them in there in between. Alright? And let's just honor the Lord and honor his church. You know there are no perfect churches Someone wrote, I think that I shall never see a church that's all it ought to be, a church who has no empty pews, whose pastor never has the blues, a church whose deacon's always deek, and none is proud, but all are meek Where gossips never peddle last or make complaints or criticize. We're all always sweet and kind, and all to others, faults or blind. Such perfect churches there may be, but none of them are known to me. But still we'll work and pray and plan to make our church the best we can That sounds like a plan to me. Sounds like a program to me. Let's let the Lord Jesus Christ be the head of the church. Let's be his servants. He's the shepherd. Pastors the Undershepherd, let's just do the work that God's called us to do. Let's just make ourselves available to the Lord Well, we have a miraculous book, the Bible. We have a miraculous institution, the church. We have a miraculous plan, the plan of salvation. Romans 10 verses 9 through 13, that if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and shalt believe in thine heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Listen to that Hey, ladies and gentlemen, there may be somebody in this room right now, and I've dealt with this this morning a little bit, but there may be someone in this room right now that's not 100% sure that you're saved. May I just tell you it's not God's fault. He wants you to be saved. He wants you to have assurance. He wants you to know that you're saved forever. He wants you to know that he has your name written down in heaven. He wants you to know that one day you're going to walk on those streets of gold. He wants you to know he loves you. He wants you to know that when Jesus died on that cross it was for your sins as well as for mine. And my friend, he said, if you would confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus, that is That Jesus is Lord, that you've uh that your confidence and trust is in him and shall believe in that heart that God hath raised him from the dead Thou shalt be saved, for with a heart man believeth unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation, for the scripture saith, Whosoever believeth on him shall not be ashamed, for there's no difference between the Jew and the Greek, for the same Lord overall is rich unto all that call upon him. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Over in Acts in 1 Corinthians chapter 15. And uh beginning in uh uh beginning in uh uh verse number one. Let's start there. They're now declaring to you the gospel. Here's the Apostle Paul writing to the Corinthian church. He said, Let me just remind you of what the gospel is Which I preached unto you. He says that message while I was there that I preached about going to heaven. That gospel is what I it's the good news that I preached unto you And which also ye have received, wherein ye stand, by which also ye are saved, if ye keep in memory what I preached unto you. Hold it, listen to this. Verse number two, last praise, unless Ye have believed in vain. He said, look, if you're just playing games with God, if you're not truly sorry for your sins. If you don't really believe that what Jesus did was enough payment for your sins, if you haven't given Him your life and received Him as your Savior, if you've only believed in vain, then what I'm talking about here isn't real for you. You know what that vein is? I heard a preacher say it one time like this. So it's like you get this big old soap bubble floating through the air, and the children looks at look at it, and they say, Oh, that's beautiful, and it's got all these shiny colors to it, and they reach out to grab it and poof it po And that's the way a lot of Christianity so-called is. I'm not talking about making a profession, I'm talking about having a possession of Jesus Christ. We got too many people who've gone through the motions and maybe even through the emotions, but they never really received Christ. They always reserved something else. They were holding on to something else. They were believing Jesus plus something or minus something. My friend, there must come that time in your life when you as a sincere person are genuinely sorry for your sins and you want to be saved and you turn to Christ and you receive him and believe him He said as many as received him to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. face and said before uh the the uh apostle before uh uh who do you say before for Paul and Silas he said uh he said Sirs what must I do to be saved He was about to take his life and they stopped him and he said, These guys are different. He knew they had something he needed. He said, How do I get it? Sirs, what must I do? to be saved, to have that salvation you have, that thing you've been singing about and testifying about at midnight. And and he said, Well how did I get this thing? They said, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved and thine house. By the way, did you ever notice that in the Bible everybody that got saved got their life turned around? My Bible says if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature, old things have passed away, behold, all things or become new. Things are different now. Something happened to me when I gave my heart, my life, my person, when I gave myself to Jesus. Jesus. Something took place. A miracle took place. The miraculous plan of salvation. If you're here tonight and you're not sure of heaven At the invitation time, if you'll come, the pastor will either talk to you or introduce you to somebody that can pray with you. And before you leave this place tonight, if you're sincere, really want to get this thing settled, before you walk out those doors tonight You can know beyond a shadow of a doubt you're on your way to heaven. You heard the testimonies. A couple of these guys talked about how they had made professions of faith, but really had questions and doubts. And I thank God, instead of playing a game the rest of their life and never getting it settled, whether they were saved before or not, beside the point, what's important is they got the thing settled in their life forever. Praise the Lord for that. Get it settled. Get it settled. Get it settled. You'll never count for God. Being having one foot in, one foot out, halfway hoping, wondering if it's real. The devil will beat you over the head with that the rest of your life Hey, what about our not only the miraculous plan of salvation, what about our miraculous Savior? Our miraculous Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. pre-existing. What a wonderful Savior. Virgin-born, sinless life. Paid the sin penalty for our sins, died, and rose again. What a wonderful Savior. Shed his precious blood that we might be saved. In just a few weeks we'll have Easter. What a great time. What a great opportunity. You know, there are hundreds, maybe even thousands of people in this general area who will decide, who will be thinking about, you know, we ought to go to church for Easter Sunday. And I'm telling you, if you just go to work on that thing right now and try, you say, Well, these people that only go once a year, well thank God they get to hear the gospel at least once a year And like the one fellow, he said, Well, he said, I like that church I over there, but every time I go, all they ever preach about is the resurrection. The only time they ever went was on Easter And you know, that kind of thing. Or or maybe uh maybe the only time we went they preached on the birth of Christ, you know, whatever. Or in our case, brother w uh it always seemed like they always came, Brother Williams during our stewardship campaign, all you ever preach about is money. You know, all that kind of thing. Whatever, whatever's going on. But the miraculous Savior, hallelujah, what a savior. I'll talk more about him later in the week. But my friend, he is a miraculous Miraculous Savior, born a miracle, born a miracle, born of a virgin, prophesied, fulfilled these hundreds of Old Testament prop prophecies about the anointed one, the coming Messiah, the Savior of the world. And there are hundreds of other prophecies about his return. And all the events seem to be shaping up. Hey, let me go on to the next one, number five, the miraculous work of soul-winning The miraculous work of soul winning, greatest work that ever moved an angel's wing in flight. This morning I quoted this verse, I think it was in Sunday school, where In Matthew 4. 19, and he saith unto them, follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. Hey, fellas, do you know this? Jesus didn't have a follow-up program. He had a follow-me program. He said, if you get out get on board, if you mean businesses, come on. I'm going somewhere. You want to go somewhere with me? Come on, let's go. Follow me. He said, Follow me and I will make you something. I I said something to this morning. I uh I said uh uh we hear so much about being self-made men. How about being Christ made men? Fellow came to me and said uh tonight One of the men, I guess he's in here. I can't see who where who who who said that to me. Right back there. He said, stand up and tell us what you said. I like audience participation. Okay, that's enough. No, I'm just kidding go ahead. No, I'm kidding. Go ahead. Say it. I want you to say it. Tell it. What did you say? Got that? Self-made men tend to worship you know their creator is self. They're self-made. Yeah, they worship themselves. They're the center of their own universe. And my friend, I'm so thankful that we have a miracle-working opportunity. See, all these other miracles are given. that we can be part of a miracle. God can use us. God, I I I stand a m the thing that tr that transformed my life I was saved as a nine-year-old boy. I was in a nominal church. I was never challenged to do anything. I just had cold, dead Bible studies that had no commitment required And no challenge to do anything with it, no application of it. And we went to a little church and and when we got there, this fellow got up and he began to preach and he began talking about our responsibility and our opportunity How God can use it. And my heart began to burn within me to say, Dear God, if you can use men, it's going to be used. And God transformed my life. We was going to that church one time to get this guy off our back because he was knocking on our door every week. And we'd make a promise and wouldn't do it. Finally I said to my wife, who wasn't even saved at the time, I was saved out of God's will. She wasn't saved. And I said, and we said, she said she's probably one that said it. She said, Why don't we go one time and that you know, just get him off our back. I said, okay, that's what we'll do. We went one time, and I don't think we've missed church since. Unless we was in the hospital or something like that. I mean, it transformed our life. That's been a That's been a long time ago. That's been 45 years ago. God did a miraculous thing. All of a sudden, Christianity Became not just a fire insurance policy against hell, but a calling and a purpose and a direction in my life. And we begin to serve the Lord. And that was a year before I actually surrendered to preach. I had no idea I was going to be a preacher, but I knew this. I loved God and I wanted him to use my life. He changed my life. I found out God wanted to use me to help keep people out of hell. God wanted to use me to help my my in-laws get saved. I've got one of the little books back there is can you Can We Win Our Loved Ones to Christ? Nancy's family was all a Catholic family. And uh and we've had over a dozen of them saved. Now three of them are in full-time Christian service, serving God. Ladies and gentlemen, we can't it's a miraculous work that God's given us. And I pray that somehow this week, if nothing else happens, if you get nothing else that I say, hey, listen, I pray that you'll you'll get a burning desire in your heart. To say I've got to tell somebody about Jesus. To say, like so many, hey, I can't let this week pass and take have these same tracks in my pocket at the end of the week that I had when the week began. And I I've I've got to tell somebody, I've got to share my faith in Christ. I've got to sharpen up my testimony and learn to give it in a concise manner. And then at the end of it say, has anything like that ever happened to you? And uh love to take the Bible and show you how it can, or I'd like to introduce you to the preacher, or would you go to church with me, or something. I mean, I don't know what level you are in your growth in your Christian experience and in your ability to communicate your faith, but you're somewhere in there. You can do something. Everybody can do something. Another night I'm planning, I don't know if I'll get to it or not, but I want to preach about why we must win souls, and I've got numerous illustrations of people that God miraculously used to win folks to faith in Christ. Psalm 126, 5 and 6, they that sow in tears shall reap with in joy. He that goeth forth and weepeth bearing precious seeds shall doubtless. Did you get that word? Doubtless. Come again with rejoicing, bringing the sheaves with him. Hey, if that's not happening, then you're missing out on a great joy of the Christian life. And I would also say that you're not being consistently faithfully attempting to do it, because God promised that if you would do that, doubtlessly you would have some fruit. Doubtless. That's a big word, isn't it? You think God ran out of things to say and said, I think I need a filler word here. I think, hey, doubtless, that's a big word. I'll put that in there. I don't think so. So I think it's without a doubt God will use you. You can go with full assurance that as you speak to their head and you have the word of God, And if you are a child of God, you're born of God, and the Spirit of God is living in you, and you're clean, you confessed your sins, and you're going with a burden as you go and speak to their head, the Holy Spirit's going to speak to their heart And regardless of how they react to you outwardly, inside, they're saying, I need what that person has. That's why miraculously you can go to a home, and in many cases, consistent soul winners have this happen occasionally. Someone they've never seen before in their life, don't even know them. And this it's a person that couldn't sell a uh couldn't sell shoes to to to But they go there and and within twenty minutes that person has invited them in, they're sitting down, they're going through the scripture, and before they leave that house, that person has bowed their head and asked Jesus to be their Savior. How do you explain that? My friend, it's a miracle. God works miracles in this mag Of soul winning. And it's a responsibility that we have. Don't let your loved ones and your friends and your neighbors die and go to hell on your watch. Just say it's just not going to happen. If they go to hell, they're going to have to do it over me. They'll go to hell knowing that somebody cared and somebody told them about Jesus. Daniel 12, 3 says, They that be wise shall shine as the brightness of the firmament, and they that turn men into righteousness as the stars. Forever and ever. My life verse, John fifteen eight, herein is my father glorified, that you bear much fruit. So shall you be my disciples That's that green book back there I wrote that just uh the with with the soul winning plan, how we do it, or how I try to train people to do it, and a f and two or three messages in there about soul winning, and the title of it's this, Reaching Your Fruit Bearing Potential. Getting reaching the God's giving you a potential. Are you living up to the potential? God, don't don't let what God has done for you go to waste. There's a miraculous birth, the second birth. I don't have time to to spend a great deal of time with this. But I'll say this, John chapter 3, verses 1 through 7, there was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. The same came to Jesus by night, said unto him, Rabbi, we know that thou or teacher come from God, for no man can do these miracles that thou doest except God be with him. Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily I say unto thee, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus saith to him, how can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter the second time into his mother's womb be born? Jesus answered, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, except a man be born of water, that's that womb birth The physical birth and of the spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. Say, how do you know that? Next verse. That which is born of flesh is flesh. The water birth, that which is born of the spirit is spirit Marvel not that I said unto thee, ye must be born again. My friend, if you've never experienced that second birth, then you're doomed to face the second birth You are already condemned in your trespasses and sins. But if you'll receive Jesus Christ, be born the second time. You will only die once. You see, the Bible says Hebrews 9, 27, and as it is appointed unto man once to die, and after that the judgment. The Bible talks about that second death over in Revelation. It says that death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. That's the second death. And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into that lake of fire. Second death. My friend, you don't want to face that second death. You don't want to die and go to hell. God doesn't want you to hell It's not the will of God that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. To say, God, I'm sorry for my sins. I can't save myself. I can't live up to the standard, but I can cast myself upon your mercy and believe that what your son did was enough payment for my sins, and I'm trusting him. And you can be saved right here tonight. You can settle that matter forever. Last one, not only the miraculous birth, but the miraculous Life is the abundant life. John 20, verse 231. But these are written that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, that believing you might have life through his name. John 10 10 says, The thief cometh not, but for to steal and to kill and to destroy. Jesus said, I am come that you might have life, and that you might have it, and that they might have it more abundantly. Eternal life, victorious life, spirit-filled life, overcoming life, rewarding life, fulfilling life, a useful life, a fruitful life. God wants you to have an abundant life Abounding in the things of God. Not just enduring, not just getting back, not just holding on, not just trying to hold out through to the end, but enjoying every day of your Christian life. An abundant Christian life in the center of the will of God, telling others about Jesus, rejoicing every day in all the miraculous things God has given you all the tools He's made available to you, your Christian friends, the Holy Spirit within you, the Word of God in your hand, a local church to encourage you and inspire you and motivate you and a pastor to love you and pray for you and and uh an opportunity to serve the King of Kings. What a life. What a life. You know, I think the world would want that life. They're afraid they can't live it. They don't know. They don't they look at you and say, well, I could never be like that person. They don't know that you came out that That you're just like them, except that you got saved. God's changing you day by day into the image of his son. They think you were born that way. And so therefore they'll ridicule you or make fun of you. Christ was. Remember the other another incident? He went along there. He said, Hey, hey uh Zacchaeus. You know Zacchaeus, I'm getting kinda hungry. I heard you had some food over at your house. Could we just go to your house and get some food? something to eat. He didn't say, you dirty publicans robbing these people, you ought to be ashamed of yourself. I hope you fall out of that tree and break your stinking neck. He said, I'd like to have supper with you. We could be friends, you know. Wow That's pretty neat, isn't it? I mean, you just don't go to somebody's house need of whatever. And Jesus is the friend of sinners. He's the best friend you'll ever have. Let's bow our heads together, please. With our heads bound with Christ right here with us. Wonder who's here tonight. You say Brother Lonnie. Well, I am saved. And I rejoice in my salvation, and I'm thankful for it. I'm glad I'm going to heaven when I die, and I'm not ashamed of my faith in Christ. And I rejoice that he has saved me. Would you slip your hand up for a moment, please? Just as a testimony of the grace of God. Isn't that good? Isn't it great to know that you're saved? Hey, by the way, would you tell him right now, not because I don't think you normally do, but sometimes we forget, would you just tell him right now how much you love him? him just tell him would you tell him again thank you Lord for saving my soul would you tell him That where he leads you, you will follow. That you're so grateful that he spared you from eternity in hell