Luke chapter fifteen We uh June and I came to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church the first time in 1997. That's uh twenty-one years ago. And we uh have been here thirteen times and just in missions conferences over those years, and uh Uh of course, other times we've been here for different things, but but uh we love Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. We just this is just a very special place for us. We love the Leathermans, and we love most of you. There's a few guys we put up with, but we really do have a a fondness for this place and it's always an exciting time. when we know that we're headed this direction. And we just feel like a part of this church. We really do. And uh just uh want to be a blessing as much as we can. But uh some of you we met before that. We Uh we're at uh the church in accident for a number of years and uh the Heinleball Heinball boys were just They just run around like little tots back then. And but uh we just uh just appreciate you and uh We talk about you and the uh good memories that we have from this place over the years, all through the year uh you come up. And uh so uh we uh appreciate you and we want to thank you for letting us be a part of your missions family And partnering with us and letting us represent you throughout the islands over the years and then just around our country sharing missions. Well, tonight we're going to look at Luke chapter 15. And here's what I want us to think about. We're going to look at the story of the prodigal son. And I know you've heard many messages and different emphasis. And here's the thing I want us to look at and think about tonight. I want us to look at this and this young man's misguided values. He uh demands that the father give him uh the portion of goods that uh Yeah. His and by law and practice there was nothing wrong with the father doing that. As a matter of fact, he could distribute uh their goods over a period of time before he died or anything. But in this particular story What's being brought out is the fact that this young man did not have the right attitude in what he was doing. He was demanding something because he wanted what he wanted so he could do what he wanted with it. And and because of that, God gives us some some good lessons in this for our own lives. We are guilty so often of just thinking what I have belongs to me when it doesn't belong to me. It belongs to God, and we have a responsibility to honor God with everything we have And uh there's some good things here to to remind us of the importance of that. So let's pray as we look at it. We'll just, you're familiar with the story, we'll just work our way through uh this section tonight. Father, we thank you again for what you have let us be a part of this week. Such a blessing to be in this church, these kind folks. And loving folks. And thank you for what you've let us be a part of this year. We ask that this last service would be a time that you really speak to our hearts and give us something that would strengthen us in our personal relationship with you and our attitude toward the things that you give us, you tell us that Uh you give us you want us to enjoy all the things that that you have made, and we know that the enjoyment of that comes when we handle it the way you want us to handle it So uh tonight make it a special time. Holy Spirit, open this scripture up. Help us not to sit here tonight and and just uh be consumed with what we already know without uh letting you give us What you desire to give us tonight. Bless our time together. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Now, to begin with, these first few verses, I want us to think about uh what this what we see about human nature in this young man, what God teaches us about that human nature. And uh let's uh let's read beginning in uh verse 11. The Bible says, and he said a certain man had two sons. And the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me. And he divided unto them his living. And not many days after the younger son gathered all together and took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living. And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in the land, in that land, and he began to be in want. Now let me just show you some things in these three verses that he teaches us about human nature and our attitude toward the things that are available to us, the things that God makes available to us. And when our attitude is not what it should be toward those things Now, first of all, I want us to see where this wrong attitude begins with a dissatisfaction. With a dissatisfaction. How many times do we come to a place that we're not satisfied with what God has given us? We're not satisfied with what we have. Now I'm not talking about being satisfied with what we have when we ought to be working, we ought to be earning, we ought to be doing things. But I'm talking about just not being satisfied with what God has provided for us. Now notice what it says here in verse twelve. And the younger of them said to his father, Give me the portion of goods that falleth to me. And he divided unto them his living. Now he revealed in this verse that he was dissatisfied with what he had. He was not, think about this. He was, I'm not on again, right? You need to holler. We uh uh there there it shows us that uh he was not satisfied with what he had. He wanted what he did not have. Now, how many times are you and I dissatisfied with what we have because we want something that we do not have God has not given it to us. God has not made it available to us. Evidently, God knows it's not what we need, but we want it. And because we want it, it causes us to be satisf to be dissatisfied with what we have. When you and I get the place that we want something that God does not have for us, it blinds us to the blessing of what we do have. And the enjoyment of what we do have. That's what happened to Adam and Eve, right? They had, hey, listen, we know that they had everything they needed for fulmil fulfillment. I mean, they had everything to make them satisfied, and yet they wanted the one thing that God told them was not for them They had to have that, and they wanted what they did not have when all they had was sufficient. The Bible tells us in 1 Timothy 6 6, but godliness with Contentment is great gain. In Philippians 4 11, we saw it this morning. Paul said, not that I speak in respect of want For I have learned in whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content. We need to come to a place that we're satisfied with what God gives us. And we need to take as a warning. We need to keep in our minds and hearts that Getting away from God and letting our value system be what it should not be begins when we're dissatisfied with what we have. Now, the second thing I want you to see here is that it continues by tearing down lives. It continues by tearing down lives. Look at verse. 13. And not many days after the younger son gathered all together. And took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living. Now, what happens when he gets what is not for him at this time? What happens when he is able to express this attitude of having what he wanted when it's not what God wants for him at this time? It causes him to want, think about this, it causes him to want to leave the place where he's supposed to be. It causes him to want to leave and go to a far country. How many times do you see that with people? They get a hold of what they should not have because they're not satisfied with what they have, and it causes them to want to get away from those That they should be with? How many times do we see it in a family when someone goes after what they should not have? How many times do you see it in a church? Where someone gets what they should not have because of an attitude of misplaced values. And right away you can see the cooling down and right away you can see the dissatisfaction and pretty soon there's a drifting away. And that's what happens When you and I have an attitude of not being satisfied with what God gives us, but wanting Something he has not given us and and deciding we're going to make a way to get it It begins to destroy us. Now, notice the third thing. It finishes with destruction. Notice verse 14. And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that land. Look at this. And he began to be in want He began to be in want. Now he has gotten what he demanded. He has gone where he wanted to go. But now he is in want. In other words, he is not at all satisfied. with what he got when he demanded what he should not have. Now here's what I want you to see in this portion of scripture. And this is what I want you to think about. Because as Christians we ought to consider the seriousness of this. Here's the thing I want you to see. Part of the judgment of God is to give us what we demand when what we demand is not what He wants for us. Now think about that. Part of the judgment of God is to give us what we demand. When what we want and what we demand is not what he wants for us. Because you see, once we have an attitude, Of not being satisfied with what God gives us and wanting something that He has not provided for us and it's not what He wants for us Then we began to make that demand for that. Then when we get what we demand, it becomes the master. That we serve. We want it because it is something that is going to rule in our lives And God comes to a place, and we see it throughout the scripture in character's life. God comes to the place that he says to an individual, okay, if you must have it, you can have it. But you have to take what comes with it. And what comes with it is, I can no more be your master because it becomes your master. And that is a sad place for the child of God. How many times do we see people in other uh with other things Uh how many times do you see a an individual that's uh that's a drunk that uh begins by saying, hey listen, I enjoy the the alcohol, I'm gonna have the alcohol, uh uh that's what I want And they get it, and pretty soon they don't decide when they're going to take a drink. The bottle tells them when they're going to take a drink. How many of you smoked before you got saved? I smoked, and I'm going to tell you one thing. Boy, that was one of the most difficult things to give up And I can remember when I started smoking, and I thought it was a cool thing as a teenage boy, and uh I thought it was cool to light that cigarette up and And I could just uh uh just decide when I wanted to smoke a cigarette, but there came a time when I did not decide when I wanted a cigarette. The cigarette decided when I wanted it And I had to have it right in certain places at certain times because I would want it at certain times. And and it became the master and told me when I wanted it. And it's the same way with this misplaced values If you and I, as a Christian, do not learn to live being satisfied with what God provides. And not demand what we want because we become covetous, because we want things like we talked about this morning. Then God will finally just say, okay, if that's what you want, you can have it. But that thing, those things That you want, they will rule your lives. God's good to us. Isn't he? You and I are so blessed. We have so much. And there's really no reason for us to want what God doesn't give us. Well, this story here shares where he ends up, and we know about uh him ending up in the hog pen. Verse 15, and he went went and joined himself to a citizen of that country, and he sent him into the fields to feed swine. And he would fain have filled his belly with the husk that the swine did eat, and no man gave unto him. Now, once you get to verse 17, Then he begins to show us what we what our responsibility is. When you and I find ourselves With this attitude, when we find ourselves with the attitude of I want what I don't do not have, And when we find ourselves not satisfied with what we have, but we want more, and more is not what God wants for us Then we have to come to a place that we take responsibility for it. We take responsibility. And that's what he did. Notice in verse 17. And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants of my fathers have bread enough and despair? And I perish with hunger. I will arise and go to my Father and will say unto him, Father, I have sent. Against heaven and before thee, and I'm no more worthy to be called thy son, make me as one of thy hired servants. Now, once he comes to himself, we find that he takes responsibility for his circumstances. He takes responsibility. Notice what he says here. He came to himself. He came to himself. What I have belongs to God. And his attitude changes, and all of a sudden he realizes what he has done. That's a great place to come to as a Christian. When we realize, hey, I have made a mistake. I have done the wrong thing. I have gotten myself in this situation. We find also that he takes responsibility for himself. Look at verses 18 and 19 again He said, I will arise and go to my Father and will say unto my Father, I have sinned against heaven and before thee. And I am no more worthy to be called thy son. Before his attitude was, I have a right to demand what I want. Now his attitude is, I have sinned against heaven, and I have sinned against my father. Now his attitude is, I am no more worthy. His attitude was, hey, I have a right I have a right. How many times do you and I have that attitude? Oh, we might not just blatantly demand or s uh the uh or something like that, but uh uh Our attitude is revealed in the fact that all of a sudden we're wrapped up in something we want that God is not ready for us to have. And uh uh we uh we go after that thing. And also we find that he took responsibility for his for his circumstances He said, I will arise and go to my Father. Now here's what I want you to see. And here's what we see in these verses. You and I have a responsibility to take care of our own attitude, wrong attitudes. We have a responsibility, and we have to come to a place that we get over this thing of blaming someone else for where we are and the mistakes we've made. Because that's what we want to do. Isn't it How many times when you and I find ourselves saying something we shouldn't say or doing something we shouldn't do, uh getting involved something we shouldn't be involved in, r the the the first thing we want to do is find somebody. That we can blame for what we've done. Huh? It's that woman you gave me. That's the problem. We want to find somebody to blame it on. And what it's what he's saying here, uh, what he's revealing to us here is you need to take responsibility for your failures. You need to take responsibility for your wrong attitudes. When you find yourself getting involved in something because you have misplaced values. Then you need to stop and say, I have sinned. I have made a mistake. I used to, uh, when I pastored I would counsel people and often I would counsel couples, you know, and and family difficulties or problems or situations. And I always had a a yellow pad on my desk and often uh when I'd maybe talked to them separately and had them together and was ready to deal with what was going on I would just simply fill that, pick that pad up, and I would draw a big X right in the middle of that pad. And I would say to him simply, now that's you. That's where you are, right there. The question is, how did you get there? How did you get where you are? And I would go back here and draw a line up to that X And simply say, you are where you are because that's what you've been becoming. You have done What needed to be done to make you what you are now. Now you can get forgiveness for that, you can repent, you can take care of that, but you can't change what you are to this point. You are what you are. Now the question is, what are you going to be six months from now? I'll tell you what you're going to be. You're going to be what you become between now and then. Simple as that. And what you and I have to do is simply take responsibility for where we are And make up our minds, I'm not going to be here in the place I should not be six months from now. I got myself here, and I'm going to change it. How do we change it? We change it by getting a right attitude about God. By being open and honest with God. God, by attitude, hasn't been what it should be I have looked at things the way I should not look at things. I have not been satisfied with what you have done in my life. I have not been satisfied with what you gave me. I have let myself begin wanting what you did not want for me. And it's my fault. Forgive me. Amen. Now the thing we see here is when we do that, then God becomes active Notice what happens. Look in verse 20. So he arose and came to the Father, came to his father. But when he was yet a great way off, his father saw him and had compassion and ran and fell on his neck and kissed him. And the son said unto his father, I have sinned against heaven and in thy sight. And am no more worthy to be called thy son. But the father said to his son, servants, Bring forth the best robe and put it on him. And put a ring on his hand and shoes on his feet, and bring hither the fatted calf and kill it, and let us eat and be merry, for this day my son was dead And he is alive again. He was lost and is found, and they began to be merry. Now I want you to see something. He's in the hog pen. He uh uh he uh came to himself, deals with it And then he goes to the Father, and when he gets to the Father, he begins confessing, I have sinned against heaven, and in thy sight, and I'm no more worthy to be called thy son And by but as he's talking to the father, now get this picture. He comes, his father runs and hugs him, and he begins to tell his father, I have sinned No more worthy to be called thy son. And it seems while he is saying this to the father, the father is talking to the servant. Get this and get that and bring this and bring that. And he seems to not even be paying any attention to the sun Why is that? Because the son got this whole thing right in the hog pen We don't have to rehearse over and over our confession for sin. God says when we confess, he forgets it. Remove the as far as the east as from the west. I'm convinced when he's telling his father this, the father doesn't even know what he's talking about. He's already gotten rid of that But here's the thing I want us to see. When you and I realize that we have misplaced values, that we have misused uh our our uh uh Provision by God, and we confess it and handle it right, then we will always find That is, that God makes it easier to get things right than we ever thought it would be. He's always waiting to forgive. And not only that, he will always do more for us than we ever thought he would do. God does not get mad at us when we do something that hurts him. You don't get angry with somebody that hurts you. If you love them, you hurt for them. We grieve God. And he's waiting for us to come back. But we've got to realize, now this is coming on purpose. We've got to realize this matter of God's provision, what God gives us What he lets us have, what he lets us use that belongs to him. It's a serious thing with God. It's not just some insignificant thing How do you feel when someone you love just turns away from you and Just uh disrespect you and what you've done for them and how you've helped them. How's that hurt you How do you think God feels when you and I just say with our actions, I don't appreciate what you've given me. I want what I want. I'm not satisfied with you. I'm not going to be satisfied till I get that. We've got to come to the place that we have the right values. That we appreciate God. And all he's provided. You and I are blessed more than we deserve. Amen. And we ought to just be waiting with open ears for God to say This is what I've given you. This is how I want you to use it. That is an enjoyable life. When you and I come to a place that we're satisfied with God, let's pray. Father, I pray that you would help us. Really be satisfied with you. Help us to learn that. Help us to make it a Something major in our lives. Help us to ponder it. Help us to think, just think often and much about it. This is what God's given me. I'm going to appreciate it. God hasn't given me that I'm not gonna I'm not gonna desire it to the place that I have to have it. God help us to get the right attitude. How many folks tonight would say, preacher, that's where I want to be? Would you pray that God would help me to have that attitude? To learn that or learn more about that. Help me to be in that place. Would you slip your hand up all over the building? God bless you. Father, bless these tonight and others that desire to do so and teach us, move us. This direction we pray. Let's stand with heads bowed. As a peer in this place, why don't you slip out of your place tonight and get along with God