I'm very aware of the time. I just want to kind of give you my a couple of thoughts tonight. We're coming up in the missions conference. And this is the question I want to address is missions and the will of God. And I hope that on the part of all of us, at least somewhere in our mind, uh we're asking ourselves this and and Hopefully seeking the Lord also. What is God's will for me concerning world missions? What is God's will for me concerning uh world missions. Charles Spurgeon said, he said that every Christian ought to consider themselves called to the mission field unless God tells you to stay. I think that's a tremendous approach to it. Must God cause you to stay? Consider the fact that you're called to go If God tells you to stay, then do that. If you would notice in Psalm 143, I want to read verse number 8 down through verse 10, just real quickly. David is the penman here, writing under the inspiration of God, and he says this, cause me to hear thy loving kindness in the morning. Now this is a prayer. He's lifting up to God. Cause me to hear thy loving kindness in the morning, for in thee do I trust. Cause me to know the way wherein I should walk, for I lift up my soul unto thee Deliver me, O Lord, from mine enemies. I flee unto thee. Hide me. I flee unto thee to hide me. Now look at verse 10. Teach me to do thy will. He wanted to do God's will. Verse 80 says, cause me to know the way wherein I should walk. In that verse, he wants to know God's will. And then verse 10 he says, I want to do God's will. And so as we go into missions conference, I hope that's our prayer Lord, show me your will concerning my role as a young person, as an adult, senior citizen. What's my role in world missions for this coming 12 months And then teach me to do it. Teach me to do it. Let's pray. Like I said, I just want to give you my thoughts on time to give you all I got. Father, bless our thoughts here tonight. And I pray you would pre- I pray for myself and for all of us individuals and as a church body that you prepare our hearts and minds for this coming week. And we're just trusting you, Lord, and we're looking to you. We want you to use us according to your will. In Jesus' name. Amen. I believe that determining what God's will is and then doing God's will for my life is the most important issue in life The will of God for my life and your life is the most important issue in life. All are you we're we're talking about youth ministries tonight All our youth ministries ultimately are to help the young people determine what the will of God is for their life and then enable them to carry it out. We're trying to help them. The most important issue in life is the will of God. You can be a tremendous businessman. You can be a very successful businessman, but if you miss the will of God for your life, you're a failure You can be a tremendous family man. You can be a tremendous very successful financially. You can be very successful socially. You can be the most popular person on social media. But if you miss the will of God, I failed. I failed. The judgment seat of Christ I want to hear, and I think any of us are sincere, we want to hear the Lord say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Amen. I was challenged to use this tonight. Amen. I think that's what the judgment seat of Christ is about, to an extent. Did I fulfill God's will for my life? Did I do what God created me to do? Have I fulfilled the purpose for which God gave me life? Did he just randomly give us life and just whatever? Or does he have a plan? Does he have a purpose for our life? And the will of God, doing the determining and doing the will of God is, I believe, the most important issue in life. So we're approaching missions conference, and we're asking this question: what's God's will can for me concerning missions? Let me give you three thoughts. I'm just going to give you the point super quick Number one, if I'm going to determine the will of God for my life concerning missions, and really in any area, but concerning missions, number one, I must establish and maintain a daily walk with God Notice in verse number 8, he says, Cause me to hear thy loving kindness when? In the morning. You know what that implies to me? David was getting up and spending time with the Lord in the morning. So, Lord, I want to hear from you in the morning. I want to hear your loving kindness. I need you to speak to me. David, I believe, had a daily walk with God. And what does it mean to walk with God? Well, I think two things. Number one, you mean to stay close to God. If if if my wife and I are taking a walk in the park and she's going down that trail and I'm heading down that trail, are we walking together? No. Going going we're not even close to each other. So to walk with God means I need to stay close to God. How do I stay close to God? Well, I think I need to spend time every day in God's Word. And I know some of y'all are thinking, I'm so tired of hearing preacher say I need to spend time every day in God's Word. But I'm telling you, we have to. I'll never determine God's will for my life if I neglect my daily walk with God. I've got to stay close to Him. Got to spend time in that book and let God speak to my heart. He says, Lord, cause me to hear thy loving kindness in the morning. Where do we hear about God's loving kindness? In his word. So I need to spend time daily in the Word of God. I need to spend time in prayer. Prayer, reading God's Word is when God speaks to me. Prayer is when I speak to God. Preacher put it this way one time. He said, Reading the Word of God is inhaling, prayer is exhaling. It's taking in what God speaks to me, and then I pour my heart out to God. And then I need to keep short accounts with sin. Sin will separate the believer in his fellowship with God. God is a holy God, and if I allow sin in my life, I'm not walking with him, I'm not close to him. And I gotta keep I gotta keep short accounts with sin. Listen, sin is a lifelong battle. How many people have found that to be true? I figure by the time I hit 63, good night, sin won't be an issue anymore. Good grief. Sin is a constant battle, and sometimes, uh I hate to say it, but in some cases, often it gets the better of us, right or wrong. We give in, we say something we shouldn't say. We know it's a man, what's wrong with me? Don't do something we know we should do. And I gotta keep short accounts. Listen, we do everything we can to avoid sinning But when we do, we deal with it immediately. Don't let it linger. Don't ignore it. Don't justify it. Don't excuse it. Come to God and say, God, I sinned. It was wrong. I acknowledge it. I agree with you. Forsake it and get up and go on. Amen? So, if I'm going to know the will of God for my life, I've got to walk with God. And walking with God means I need to stay close to God. It also means I need to go the same direction as God You can't walk with somebody, you're going two different directions. Amos said, except two walk together, how can they be agreed? The answer is they can. And so I need to walk with God. Enoch walked with God. The Bible says Noah walked with God. And they both fulfilled the will of God for their lives. They stayed close to the Lord. They stayed in fellowship. Were they perfect? No. But they walked with God. They were going the same direction God was. Both fulfilled the will of God. You cannot walk with God and walk with the world. The world and God are going two different directions. Listen, if the world has captured your attention, you're walking in the wrong direction. So tired of hearing about people talking about a cool God. God isn't cool. God's holy We're all worried about being cool in the eyes of the world. We just want to be, oh yeah, I want the world to think I'm something. Listen, you're nuts, you're going the wrong direction Jesus said the world's going to hate you. He said, love not the world, the things that are in the world. And so we've got to walk in the same direction God's going. If we're walking with the world, we can't walk with God. If I'm walking in the flesh, I can't walk with God. This old flesh is sinful. This old flesh is fallen. Read Galatians. We don't have time. I wish we'd go to Galatians 5. Tells us what the works of the flesh are Anger, wrath, drunkenness. He goes down this list of horrible sins. They all come from our flesh. If I find myself being unkind to people, family members, if I find myself flying off in anger, if I find myself all frustrated and and irritated with people, that's a sure indicator I'm walking in the flesh and I'm not walking with God. So the flesh, the flesh. Paul and Barnabas, again, I'm just buzzing through here. Paul and Barnabas in Acts chapter 13, they were called of God to go on this mission trip, to go on a mission field. They were called of God. And if you'll study it carefully, you'll find out they were walking with God. They were fasting. They were praying. They were serving the Lord in their local church there. They're walking with God, and God says, separate me, Paul and Barnabas. I've got a mission field for them to go to. So, number one, if I'm going to know the will of God concerning missions, I've got to have a daily walk with God. Number two, I put this down: I've got to be obedient to the word of God. Everybody hear me okay? Alright, good. I need to be obedient to the word of God. Look at verse 8 there in our text. Cause me to know the way wherein I should walk. How do we know the way we should walk? How do we get that information? Where do we get it from? The Word of God, the Bible. David telling to us here, we need to be obedient to what we know the Bible says. I'm never going to know the Word of God in this In the matter of missions, where it doesn't say clear. By the way, nowhere in the Bible does it say nowhere in the Bible does it say Dennis Leatherman is the pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. But I believe it's God's will for me to do this and others. And so how do I determine that it's God's will for me to do this or for you to do whatever you're doing, work in a bus minister or whatever? Well, one way I determine that is first of all by doing what I know the Bible does say to do There are some things very clearly laid out. There's nowhere in the Bible that says that the Belcher family is to go to Guam as missionaries. But they determined that that was the will of God for their life. And the way, one of the ways we determine that is I maintain a close walk with God. Number two, I do the Word of God. I do what the Bible says, what I know the Bible says. For instance, The Bible says that we're to be filled with the Holy Spirit in Ephesians. Every one of us ought to seek to be filled with the Holy Spirit. We think that's oh that's some preacher thing. You know, that's what preachers get filled. No, no, no, it's for all God's people. I think a young person in sixth grade, a Christian in sixth grade, ought to be filled with the Holy Spirit A senior citizen doing whatever senior, I don't know what senior citizens do. A senior citizen, do whatever they ought to be filled with the Holy Spirit and all points in between So if I'm not willing or seeking, at least seeking to be filled with the Spirit of God, empowered and controlled by the Spirit of God, I'm never going to know what God's will is for missions. If I'm not willing to do what I know the Bible tells me to do Be filled with the Spirit. How about this? Be pure. Flee fornication, for this is the will of God. The Bible is very clear. We're to keep our hearts and minds pure. I'm just gonna start pointing to it, all right? We ought to be pure It's going to be tough to determine the leadership of God if my heart and mind is impure, if I'm living impure. How many people believe young people ought to keep themselves pure? How many people believe middle-aged people ought to keep themselves pure? Seniors. We live in a world saturated with impurity. Being keeping ourselves pure ought to be a major effort, the part of all of us The Bible tells us to be pure. The Bible tells us God's will for us to be kind. Ye kind one to another. Do you ever consider this? Being unkind to someone is sin? Be kind one to another, tender-hearted. That means be patient, be sensitive to the needs of others. We get so wrapped up in ourselves we forget that our actions affect other people. We forget that our words affect other people. And if I'm not willing to obey what the Bible clearly tells me I'm supposed to do, How in the world am I going to obey God when I need Him to tell me in something that's not spelled out directly in Scripture? Um be faithful witness. Preach the gospel. Let me bring it home a little bit. Be a Christ-like husband. Amen. Be Christ-like. How does Christ treat you? How many people how many people hear Jesus has been awfully patient with you? How many people here Jesus dealt with your nonsense? Yeah. So now you know how us husbands feel. Ouch. Dave, that's the kind of stuff you edit out, all right? Um How many people believe the husband ought to be kind to his wife? Or be patient and gracious, helper, encourager. Yeah? How about the wives? The Bible says the wife is to be a biblical wife, honor, respect the husband. Now we we jump and men jump all over that submit part, don't we? Do you know the Bible says submitting yourselves one to another? It's mutual. Respect each other. But God gives the husband the leadership role. That needs to be respected in the home. Obedient children. You're gonna have a hard time obeying God, young people, if you don't obey your parents. Brother Homers used to say, if you can't obey your parents, you'll never obey God. We need to be obedient. So we ask, what's the will of God for a child? It's very simple. Just obey your parents. It's very simple. How about be honest? Be honest. You can't tell the truth. You're going to have a hard time finding God's will for your life because Jesus says, I am the way, the truth, and the life. Liars have a hard time Determining the will of God and finding God's will and carrying out the will of God for their life. So there's some basic thing we could the list could go on and on and on. But there's some basic things spelled out very, very clearly in Scripture. And if I'm going to know the will of God for missions, where I'm at or what role I play in world missions, I've got to get some of these things that are clearly spelled out. I gotta do them first, be willing to do them before I'm ever gonna be able to carry out some of the others Uh, do every day what the Bible tells me to do, and God will direct me in the areas that are not clear. When I was a youth pastor in Indianapolis, young people would ask me occasionally, Well, I don't I want to know what God's will is for me when I'm uh when I graduate from college. When I'm 22, what's God's will? I said, don't worry about God's will for you when you're 22. Do God's will for you today, and you'll be where you should be when you're 22. Proverbs 3, 5 and 6, trust the Lord with all your heart, lead not into your understanding. In all thy ways, acknowledge him. In all your ways, do what he says, acknowledge him. Yes, Lord, I acknowledge that. I'll do that. And he shall do what? Direct your ways. He'll lead you in his will. Let me give you the last one. My last thought is this: be sensitive to the will of God. So I said, first of all, I need to establish and maintain a daily walk with God. I need to be obedient to the word of God, what I know it says, and then I need to be sensitive to the will of God In other words, be sensitive to the leadership of the Lord in my life as he leads me, whether it's determining his will for faith promise Whether it's determining his will what ministry to be involved in, what uh if I'm called to the fish mission field, be sensitive as the Lord leads us. You say, well, how do you do that? Let me give you real quick and I'm going to end. Gotta number one, be certain in your mind that God has a place for you in world missions. We're never going to be serious about missions until we become convinced that we have a part in it. You follow what I'm trying to say? I get to the point and I realize and I become convinced, you know what? God has a place, a role for me personally. In this matter of world wind missions. When I get to that point and I become convinced of that, suddenly I'm going to take it a lot more serious. If I'm sitting on the sidelines and say, well, if this doesn't affect me It's not going to be very not going to take it very seriously. For instance, Jesus was in the Gospels in Luke. I just read this here not long ago. He had great crowds, and it got to the end of the day. There was 5,000 men. Not counting women and children. And it got to the end of the day and people were starving. They I guess they didn't anticipate being there that long or whatever, but the people are very hungry. He said they weary, and if I send them home, they're going to faint in the way. He said to the disciples, What should I do? I kind of picked up from the disciples, they really didn't care too much about those folks because they didn't see they had any role in it. One of the he's Jesus said, what should we do? We got all these people. We need food. Their first answer was, send them home. That's their problem. Just send them home. We don't we don't have any we have no part in this Another solution, Jesus said, another one of the guys said, you know, if we had two hundred dollars, and they didn't say dollars, if we had two hundred uh dollars, we couldn't buy enough food for all of them They're saying there's nothing we can do. There's nothing we don't have a part in this. We're not part of the solution. One of the guys said, here's a little boy, has some bread and some fish, some sardines and some barley loaves, horse food. But what's that? There's nothing we can do. What could Mount Lake Independent Baptist? What could I do, a member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church in all world missions? Good heavens And Jesus said, just do what I say. Give me the bread, give me the fish, you divide the people up, make them sit down. Here, you take this and serve them. And they found out they did have a role. And they found out they did have a part in meeting that need. And God used them and did a miracle through their obedience to the Lord's instructions Listen, we got a whole world, 8 billion people, we're told now. Say, well, what can we do? Good night. If we gave $200 million, we wouldn't reach everybody. How can mountain lake and greek, what in the world can we do? I tell you what we can do. We can be determined that God wants to use us and just do what he tells us to do. And see what happens. And see what God does. So I gotta be convinced that I have a part in this world missions endeavor, me personally. A Christian wife, a Christian husband, a Christian young person. Number two, be serious about knowing my role in missions. God doesn't play games. God doesn't play games with the souls of men. And we just play games with missions and say, well, uh God's not going to tell you his will for you and me in the in this matter of world missions If all it is is we're curious about it. Any of you husbands ever do this? Your wife says, sweetheart, will you do something for me? What's the first answer the husband says when the wife says, Will you do something for me? What is it? What do you want me to do? And then we decide if we're going to do it or not, right? Lord says, I've got a role for you in world missions. Uh, what is it, Lord? No. Isaiah said, Here am I. I've got to be serious. Lord, you have a role for me? Alright, you tell me what it is, I'll do it. It's not a decision. I don't decide. Alright, God, uh you tell me what it is, and then I'll decide whether I do it or not. God says, no, I'm not going to tell you till you're serious about it, until you mean business about it. Missions is not a game. Missions is not a hobby. Ministry is not an its missions is not entertainment. We don't just do it for fun. Jackie likes to give me a hard time. I tell you, you've got to pray for me. These secretaries She I go on a mission trip. She goes, oh pastor's off another one of his vacations. Some of y'all have been with me. There ain't no vacations. Missions is not entertainment. Missions is not a game. It's not a hobby. It's a matter of life and death, eternal life and death of the souls of the people we're working with. God doesn't play games and he doesn't want us to play games. And he says, you need to take this very, very seriously. If you want to know what your role is, you want to know what my will is in world missions, number one, you don't just come and play. We're not going to play. We're going to be serious about this. We mean business. And then last of all, I put this down. We need to allow the Holy Spirit to direct us. I think, you say, well, how does the Holy Spirit direct us? Now that's a toughie. I can assure you this: if you're looking for dreams and visions, you're looking at the wrong place. God directs us through His Word. And that's a whole nother subject we can address another time. But I believe God uses our daily walk for the Holy Spirit to leave us. He just uses passages. impressions on our heart. You'd be amazed. I'm convinced when we read scripture and we think, well, I didn't get a whole lot out of that. I think there's more happening in our heart and mind than we realize when we're reading that scripture and we may not even be conscious of it at the moment. But God is putting impressions in our heart and mind. He's putting, and he uses that to lead us and direct us in our desires to serve Him. The Bible says he will give you the desires of your heart. And I believe he does that through the Word of God, as I spend time in the Word of God. But also, I believe he does it through the ministries of the local church. Missions is a local church endeavor. And God uses the preaching, God uses the fellowship, rubbing shoulders with missionaries The Holy Spirit of God uses that to lead us and direct us in the role we have in missions. We go on mission trips and come back, man our hearts are stirred. We have a whole different perspective God uses ministries of the church for the Holy Spirit to lead us and direct us in areas that are not expressly spelled out in Scripture. You follow what I'm saying? And sometimes, and I don't know this, I hesitate to say this, but sometimes, and some of y'all know what I mean by this, sometimes you just know They say, well, how do you know? I just know that this is God's calling. God's called me to preach. God's called me to ministry. I just know. And he uses that word of God and the ministry of the church. Remember, Paul and Silas were called out of a local church. They were serving. Preaching, teaching, pray, and God called them out. God was using that church to prepare them to call them to go to the mission field. So the church is important. And God's will for my life and on missions. So you've got to be convinced. I'm here to tell you. What I'm trying to say is this. I'll end with this. What I'm trying to say is this. Every single one of us here tonight, everybody that makes up Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, every single individual that makes up this church, every one of us have a role in world missions. And God has a will for each of us on what that role is. And we've got to be convinced of that. I hope sitting there in your pew, you're thinking right now, God has a will for me personally in world missions. And until you get to that point, you're going to have a hard time determining what his will is. My son and I we text and message about every day, my boys and I, just constant. My son has out there, uh there's a farm there that has three ponds on it. He sent me pictures of his beautiful farm. And I said, are there any fish you tell you where my mind is at? I said, are there any fish in those ponds? And he said back, he said, nah. There ain't no fish in those ponds. I've fished it, didn't catch nothing. Somebody some of these rednecks out here caught all the fish out of it. There ain't no fish in those ponds. I said something like, uh, that stakes Because I was going to go visit them, but since there's no fishing, I'm not going to. But me asking that question prompted him to go out and fish them again. And guess what? He caught a ton. He sent me pictures. These bay old bass made. I mean he's a man And guess what he's been doing every day since he caught some fish out of those ponds? He's been out there fishing. Yeah, there is fish in these ponds. And it changed his whole perspective. It changed everything about his attitude towards those ponds. And when you and I become convinced, yeah, you know what? I do have a role in world missions. I am important in this endeavor. I do have a part. God does have a will. For me personally, in World Missions, you know what? It changes your whole perspective about missions. I'm a part of this. I'm part of the solution. I'm part of the mechanism. And we do that, then God will lead us and direct us. Let's pray, Father. Lord, I felt like I run through this quick, but I pray the truth will grip us. And Lord, I pray this Sunday night, three days before our mission conference kicks off, you'd stir our hearts. To get close to you, to get clean, be sensitive to your leadership, be obedient to your word And that we would know that we have a role and what that role is. Giving or going. Either way. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, or how many would join me. Preacher, I'm going to take this seriously I'm going to take this endeavor, missions, seriously. I'm going to pray. I want to get as close to God as I can. And I'm asking God to lead me and direct me what my role is. Anybody like that? Will you join me? My hands raised I'm telling you, I take this as serious as anything we do in Mountain League. I pray you'll join me. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name, let's stand in