Great, Second Corinthians chapter eight. It is a joy to be back at Mountain Lake again and uh be with you folks. June and I love this church. Of course we I love the Leathermans and always look forward to coming and being here. And I'll have to say you have done a superb job this week with the weather. You just uh in the past you failed quite often with uh rain and sleet and messy weather, but you just did a great job. I I understand you held the rain off till tomorrow, right? Supposed to have it tomorrow. So I appreciate that. And I think I might come back again since you've learned to do that. But uh it's a joy to be here. And we've had a great time this week. Appreciate your hospitality and your faithfulness. 2 Corinthians Chapters 8 and 9, of course, is the place in the Bible where it talks about faith, promise, and giving. And that's what we want to talk about this morning. uh in uh leading up to you making the commitments God has uh placed on your heart And uh we have looked at this portion of Scripture numerous times together, but uh we want to do that again this morning and try to maybe do it in a way that we can Uh open it up a little bit more, a different way. But uh the setting here is that the church at Corinth had made a faith-promise commitment. That's recorded back in 1 Corinthians chapter 16. And now Paul is writing to them. Paul had shared with them, shared with some other churches. that there was a need in Jerusalem. The saints in Jerusalem had a need, and he was encouraging the churches to commit themselves to give to help meet that need. And so uh now as he writes this letter to the church at Corinth, he he uh tells them that it's time for them to give what they promised to give. And as he does that, he he just uh uh does it by example. He he brings out principles that they should follow. And really as he shares with them what they ought to do and how they ought to do it, he shares with us how we can be involved in this matter of uh giving uh by uh the faith promise method and and so it's a biblical concept and that's why we That's why you as a church do what you do, the way you do it, because it's uh that's what's taught in the Bible, and hopefully we'll see some of that this morning. I want us to read, I'm going to read this morning quite a few verses. I'd like to read probably, well, the first 14 verses of chapter 8. And keep in mind now, he's writing to this church because they had made a commitment And it's time for them to give. He's gonna he's telling them, I'm gonna send Titus and some others. They're gonna receive the offering that you've committed to give. So don't be embarrassed when they come. Have it ready and be the example you should be. In the first five verses, he uses the churches of Macedonia as an example to them. You remember that Macedonian call there in Acts chapter sixteen and and uh Paul went over to Macedonia, churches were started in Philippi and Thessalonic and Berea, and he's talking about those churches in these beginning verses. Notice what he says. Moreover, brethren, We do you to wit of the grace of God bestowed on the churches of Macedonia how that in a great trial of affliction The abundance of their joy and their deep poverty abounded unto the riches of their liberality. For to their power I bear record, yea, and beyond their power They were willing of themselves, praying us with much entreaty that we would receive the gift and take upon us the fellowship of the ministering to the saints And uh that ministering to the saints he's talking about uh uh is the the ministering to the saints there at Jerusalem. And this they did Not as we hoped, but first gave their own selves to the Lord, and to us by the will of God. Now I finish this talking About the churches of Macedonia there, and he begins to talk directly about the responsibility the Church of Carthage has. Verse 6 he says, Insomuch that we desired Titus That as he had begun, so he would also finish in you the same grace also. Therefore, as ye abound in everything. In faith and utterance and knowledge, and in all diligence, and in your love to us, see that ye abound in this grace also. I speak not by commandment but by occasion of the forwardness of others, and to prove the sincerity of your love. For ye know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor. that ye through his poverty might be rich. And herein I give my advice, for this is expedient for you who have begun before, not only to do, but also to be forward a year ago. Now, therefore, perform the doing of it. That as there was a readiness to will, so there may be a performance also out of that which ye have For if there be first a willing mind, it is accepted according to that a man hath, and not according to that he hath not. For I mean not that other men be eased and ye burdened, but by an equality that now at this time your abundance may be a supply for their want that their abundance also may be a supply for your want, that there may be equality. Let's stop right there Father, we thank you this morning for the opportunity again to open the Bible and sit before you as you move in our midst to give us understanding of your word. I pray that you would cause us to just uh pay attention to you this morning and listen to what you have for us. And I pray that you would give us something that would stir our hearts afresh and anew in this matter of worldwide evangelization. Bless these moments. In a very special way, we pray in Christ's name. Amen. I want to use three words to sort of get into the definition of faith promise giving this morning. And I want to start with the word grace. Grace. When we get into this portion of Scripture, we find out that faith promise giving is by the grace of God. Now, what does that mean? Look at what it says in verse 1. He says, Moreover, brethren, we do you to wit of the grace of God bestowed on the churches of Macedonia. Now those words there, the grace of God, is talking specifically about giving by grace. Grace giving. Now we know there's a lot of works of grace throughout the Bible. Here he's talking specifically about giving by the grace of God. That little word with there. Has the thought of to make known or to understand. And what he's saying to them, to the church at Corinth here, I want you to realize what took place over in those churches in Macedonia. When they learn to give by the grace of God. Now he goes on and mentions it many times throughout this chapter. Look down in verse 6 again. He said, Insomuch that we desire Titus That as he had begun, so he would also finish in you the same grace also. He says it again, verse seven. Therefore, as ye abound in everything, in faith, and utterance and knowledge, and in all diligence, and in your love to us, see that ye abound in this grace also. So he uses the churches of Macedonia As an example of giving by the grace of God, and then he encourages the church at Corinth, you need to follow this example. You need to learn to give by God's grace. So, what does that mean? It means a giving that's different than any other giving. Uh most of our giving is just spontaneous. We just give because it's something that we care about, we're sympathetic to, and so we just give toward it. For instance, tithing. You don't have to pray about tithing. That's already settled in the Bible, exactly what we're to do. If we believe the Bible, And they're obedient to the Bible, then there's no problem tithing, because it tells us that's what we ought to do. But grace giving is different because there's uh there's no amount with grace giving It's not a 10% thing or a 20% thing. It's not a definite amount thing. It is something that's personal between the individual and God. It is, uh let me just give you two thoughts to to sort of describe it. Number one, it is a work that is initiated by God. It is something that God initiates. Now, a good example of that would be Ephesians chapter 2. You remember verse 8? For by grace are ye saved. Now, what does it mean to be saved by grace? Well, we know it means that it is completely a work of God Right? It is something God does in our lives. And and uh and uh you can you can consider it as something that When God is ready to be involved in our lives in that way, then he moves in and he makes us aware of what he wants to do. If you're saved today, you can remember the time that you received Christ as Savior. And you remember the circumstances that surrounded that time, how God dealt with you in making you aware of your need for salvation. Bringing you to a place that you realized and were willing to admit you were a sinner and uh willing to to uh admit your need for Christ. And it was because God reached down. God got involved in your life, God did something. Now, when you talk about giving by the grace of God, it's the same thing. It's the same way. It's something initiated by God. That's why you pray about it. That's why you seek God's direction about it. Uh, because God wants to reach down in each heart uh of each member of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church and put on each heart what he wants to do in a personal, definite way. God initiates it. But not does God just initiate it, God does it. It's a work that God does once we respond to it. When grace is presented to an individual, there must be a response to that grace. Ephesians 2. 8 says, For by grace are ye saved, but you can't stop right there. You can't get saved with just that much of it. It says through faith. There has to be a response. And when there's a response, then God becomes active in doing it. You remember what it says in Philippians chapter 2, verse 13. For it is God which worketh in you. Both to will and to do of his good pleasure. Now think about what he's saying there. For it is God which worketh in you both to will. That word will means that he's the one that puts it there. Listen, if if you and I have a spiritual thought this morning, it's because God puts it there. We would like to think we come to a place that that we're spiritual enough that we can think of this and we have a desire to do this and we uh but uh hey uh apart from the Spirit of God within us There's no spiritual activity at all. And once he uh then uh he puts the will there, he puts the desire there. And then once we respond to it, then he becomes active in doing it, for it is God which worketh in you, both to will and to do of his good pleasure God this morning wants to reach down into every heart of this church and put on the heart the good work that he wants to do in world evangelism this coming year. And that's what the grace part of it is all about. It begins by the grace of God. It begins by us understanding. It's a work of God. It's God's activity. It's God reaching into our hearts, putting there what He wants to do And we listen and understand that it is God's, uh it is God's responsibility and uh our privilege But then I want us to think about that word faith. Faith. First grace and then faith. Because that's the way grace becomes active when we by faith respond to what God speaks to us about. Now you look at this portion of scripture and you say, well, you know, I don't see in there where where faith is mentioned, and the word faith is not there. But what uh why do we use the word faith? Why do we talk about faith promise giving? Because faith is our agreeing with God. Now think about it. When God dealt with you about your need for salvation, you had to respond to him in agreement. When he reached down into your life and revealed to you that you were lost and separated from God in your sin, you had to stop and say, Okay, God, you're right. And I'm wrong. There had to be an agreement with him. And what we call that, we call that repentance. We call that coming to a place that we admit everything I've trusted, everything I've believed is uh is not right, but what God says is right. And what I've got to do is set everything in my human understanding aside, and my my own understanding aside, I've got to lean on the Word of God. I've got to respond to the Word of God. I've got to accept the fact that the Bible is true and men are liars. And I've got to turn from all of this and place my trust and faith in Christ. Now, when it comes to, and that's why we use the word faith-promise giving, because there must be a turning. Listen, by nature, you and I are not givers, we're takers. We're getters. Right? Now shake your head. Don't make me think I'm the only one that has uh lives in the flesh here. Uh we uh by nature, if we're going to if we're going to give the way God wants us to give, then we have to be changed by God. And it means we have to come to a place that we agree with God and turn from everything our flesh wants to lead us to do. Everything our whole nature wants us to do. Now, what does that mean? That means looking in the place where he teaches us and agreeing with him. Faith is simply agreeing with God's Word when He speaks to us, setting our belief aside and believing in Him So what does it mean? Well, let's look at some of it here. Notice what it says. First of all, let me just say it means we're going to have to come to a place that we agree with him that God already has a plan for us. Now notice what it notice what it says here. Look in verse eleven. Well, verse ten. Let's start in verse ten. He says, and herein I give my advice, for this is expedient for you, who have begun before not only to do, but also to be forward a year ago. That word forward there has the thought of being willing. And he's talking to them about their willingness a year ago to make the commitment that they made. Look at verse eleven. Now, therefore, perform the doing of it. See what he's saying? There was a willingness a year ago. You made a promise, now do what you said you were going to do. Perform the doing of it, that as there was a readiness to will, so there may be a performance also out of that which ye have. For if there be first a willing mind, it is accepted according to that a man hath, and not according to the that he hath not. Now let me show you something here. He says two times you're to give out of what you have. Now there's no problem understanding. You know, you may you were willing to make a promise. And uh you know a lot of difference in making a promise and fulfilling a promise. Right. All of us uh uh you know are willing to take the step sometimes that uh doing what we take the step to do that's something else. But notice the end of verse eleven he says, so there may be a performance also out of that which ye have He says the same thing then to verse 12. It is accepted according to that a man hath, and not according to that he hath not. Now what's he saying? He's saying, first of all, you you this faith promise thing, it's a giving out of what you have. Well, we don't have any problem with that. That's logical We understand that. But the thought is this, that God has given us what we have. See? Everything you and I have, God has given to us. He wants us to recognize that See, that's what this whole thing's about: us recognizing God as owner, God as Lord, God as creator. God as sustainer, it being all God. And and that's why that's why what this money thing's all about. Hey, listen, he he needs our money. He doesn't need our money at all. It's already his. He can move it where he wants when he wants. What he wants us to do is to agree with his plan about it, how he wants to use us. So he comes to us and he says, hey, I've given you everything you have, now I want to tell you how to use it. And in this portion of Scripture, and the way we're using it today, he is saying, in all that I have given you, I have given you something for world evangelism. I have given you something for missions. Now I need you to agree with me about that. See what I'm saying? That's where the faith part comes in. Are we willing to agree with God that he has given us something that need that he that is for missions. It's not for us, it's for missions. That's where it begins. That's what the faith uh thing is all about. Faith is not making some fantastic thing happen out there. It's not a faith is not a a fantasy thing that that we try to to perform to to bring about reality. Faith is just simply saying, okay God, you're right. I'm wrong. I believe you instead of me. I believe the Spirit of God instead of the flesh. And and we have to come to a place first that we believe that it's all uh that He has uh given us all of it And and he has a right to tell us what he wants us to give the missions. Secondly, we see here that he we have to agree with him that that he's given us something that's not for us. Look at what it says down in verse uh 14. He says, but by an equality that now at this time your abundance May be a supply for their want, that their abundance also may be a supply for your want, that there may be equality. Now the word equality has the thought of being equal, but it also has the thought of a uh a willingness, uh togetherness here. He's talking about us being in tune with God. But do you notice what he says? Your abundance sometimes is a supply for their want. Because their abundance sometimes is a supply for your want. What's he saying? He's just simply saying, hey, I move things through people. To each other. That's where what we have comes from. It comes from God, but He moves it through people. And sometimes he puts something in our possession that's not for us, it's for somebody else. Why would he do that? He wants us to become givers. He wants us to become people who let him use us to be involved in the lives of other people. And when it comes to missions, that's what he's saying through faith promise. Listen, I have put something in your possession that's not for you. It's for missions. It's for another work. It's for somebody else. And you're never going to do what I want you to do until you agree with me about that. Right? And so uh the faith part is that's just saying, okay, uh, I agree with what the Bible says. Let me show you another thought here. Look over in verse nine or chapter 9. We're going to have to come to a place that we we agree that we uh that we control the future of this thing. Look at verse 6. It says, But I say, he which soweth sparingly shall reap also sparingly, and he which soweth bountifully shall reap also bountifully. Hey, let me ask you something. Do you believe that? We've got to come to a place that we agree that that's truth. That we we've got to come to a place that we agree with God about that. He comes a place that If we don't watch, we'll let the televangelists rob us of truth because we get afraid to use it the way they use it, but we've got to use it the way the Bible teaches it. And what he says, right here in the middle of faith promise giving, he says, listen, if you want to reap a lot tomorrow, then you learn to give a lot. Now, if you don't want a lot, don't give a lot. It's up to you. He gives us choice. Right? And that's why uh that's why uh I'm convinced so many Christians and and by the way, uh I'm not saying if you want to be rich, then you learn to give a lot. That's not what he's saying here. It's uh, you know, it it's uh you can enjoy little when God's in it. And he's dealing with a grace thing here, and you go on and below, we don't have time to get into it, but you see that. He's not saying you want to Cadillac, then invest toward it. That's not what he's saying. He's saying, You want me all over your life? Invest toward it. You want me to be in your life giving you a peace about where you are and what you have and what you're doing? Then And that's what he says. I'm just going to take time to do this. Run over with me, run back with me to uh to uh Galatians real quick, just a few pages. And let me just read it. Because this is where he shows us this law. Galatians chapter 6. Notice what he says. Galatians chapter 6, verse 7 Be not deceived, God is not mocked, for whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. For he that soweth to his flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption. Now, is that what you want? You want corruption? Huh? He says you choose You see? And uh corruption, of course, that's just decay, trash. But he that soweth to the spirit shall the spirit reap life everlasting. That's what he's talking about. So he comes to you and to me and he says, listen, uh part of this is deciding what you want tomorrow. What do you want next week? What do you want in your life next month? What do you want in your life next year? He said, I'll tell you how to determine my blessings. Give the way I want you to give. Now, that's what God says. And you and I are not going to have the right attitude. We're not going to respond the way God wants us to respond until we come to a place that we agree, God, you're right, I'm wrong. Huh? Because you and I look at what we have, and here's what we think. If I do this with it, it's going to work out this way. Huh? Now it's time to shake your head again so I don't feel guilty. If I handle it this way, it's gotta work out this way. It don't gotta work out anyway. And it's not going to work out anyway until we do it God's way. We've got to come through. And that's the faith part. The faith part is not making it happen. The faith part is simply agreeing with God. God makes it happen. See? God determines. And so that's why we call it faith promise giving. Because it us coming to a place that we simply say, okay, I know I can't decide all this, I can't determine it. I have to agree with God's word. Amen. Let me give you a third word. We could go on and on there, but let me give you a third word. That word promise. Promise. Where does the promise come in? Why do we have to make a promise? Because the Bible tells us that that's what we ought to do. We're just following the Word of God. Notice back with me. Go back to verse 10 again with me. Of chapter 8 in 2 Corinthians. Verse 10. Look at what it says. And herein I give my advice, for this is expedient for you. Who have begun before not only to do, but also to be forward a year ago. I said now that word forward has the thought of being willing. He's saying, You were willing a year ago. To do what you did. Now look at verse eleven. Now therefore, perform the doing of it. And that that that seem that simply has the thought of executing. It it goes a little further than executing. That word has the thought of finishing. And what he's saying here is, you were willing, now finish what you said, execute. The commitment you made. And what he's what he's doing there is showing us that that this is a commitment to be made. This is a promise to be made. It's not something to just being done slipshod. It is to be done in an organized fashion. And that's why we have to. You and I do not perform most things that we do not get structured in our life. It's never done in a consistent way unless we set it up in a consistent structure. And that's what he's dealing with. That's the reason for this. That's why we we make the promise that we made. Look at verse uh 11 as he continues here. For if their first uh I'm sorry, now therefore perform the doing of it That as there was a, here it is now, a readiness to will. And that word readiness there, that word readiness is the same word as forward. It's talking about a willingness. See? Same thought. There was a readiness to will. In other words, you were ready to make the commitment. He's not condemning that. He's just telling them how to fulfill that. There was a readiness, uh, so there uh there was a readiness to will. Now look at this, so there may be a performance also out of that which you have. That readiness to will. And so uh he's saying that the church had made that promise a year ago And now it's time to fulfill it. So why do we why do we do it? Why do we have a conference and say, okay, this coming year, here's what we want to do? Because we're saying, okay, God I agree with your word. We'll do it the way you tell us to do it. Amen? So that's the simple reason we use faith, promise, giving. By the grace of God. But it all comes back to us coming to a place that we simply say I agree with you. And that's that's what all of us have to decide. Now, notice another thought here. Look with me. Over in verse uh seven of chapter nine. You're familiar with this. Every man according as he purposeth in his heart, so let him give. Not grudgingly or of necessity, for God loveth a cheerful giver. What's he doing with there? He's just dealing with attitude. He can go through those words all he wanted, but what he's saying is simply this. You need to make sure you have the right attitude about this giving thing. You need to make sure that it's not something that you're fighting, but it's something that you have a willingness to get involved with. Now, here's what we say. You listening? Well, I don't know about this promise thing. I don't know about this commitment thing. And then we go down here and get us a new vehicle and commit ourselves to five years with GMAC. Guilty? Huh? Well, I don't know. Just committing yourself for a whole year, and then we go down here and buy a piece of property and commit ourself for thirty years, fifteen years. To pay for it. Do you know why? Because we think we know how to work it out. to happen the way we want it to happen. Amen. When we just need to come back and say, okay, and I'm not saying anything wrong with financing a car and financing, I'm not saying that. I'm just saying There's nothing wrong with committing for a year to God because the Bible tells us we should. Amen. And that's the way we ought to do it. And so that's what today's about. And the thing about it is once you commit and once you get involved, then to experience God becoming active. And and I the reason I have no problem, the reason I have no problem standing up and talking to you about this the way I do. Is because of what God has done in our lives over the years. Faith promised giving has been one of the most exciting parts of our Christian lives. I'll tell about June and myself. When we made our first commitment to give to missions in nineteen sixty seven, it was a life changing experience. And I am convinced that God has blessed in our lives in ways that I could just spend hours talking to you about. Because of missions giving. And I would do anything I could possibly do to convince you, get involved Get involved. You will never regret it. Don't do it emotionally only. Just do what God tells you. Do what God tells you. And I'll tell you what, He'll never mislead you. Amen. Let's pray. Every head bowed, every eye closed. Maybe God's spoken to your heart, and of course we've talked much about faith promise and missions giving, but there may be someone sitting here today, and God's dealt with you about a different area of your life altogether. How many folks here this morning say, Preacher, I'm glad I can sit here, listen to that, look at that, and know if I died right now, I would go to heaven. I've trusted Christ as my Savior. I've been born again by the Spirit of God. And I can take you to the Bible and show you how I know I would go to heaven if I died today. Could you give testimony slipping your hand up all over the building? God bless you. That's a wonderful sight. Thank you. May put your hands down. Let me ask you a second question. Is there someone here to say, Preacher, I could not raise my hand because I don't know I would go to heaven if I died right now, but I know this. I want to go to heaven. I sure don't want to go to hell. Preacher, would you pray with me and pray for me that God would help me to get this settled? I would love to have assurance in my heart. That if I died today, I would go to heaven. I would love to know that. Would you let me pray for you, pray with you? Would you slip your hand up right now? And just in doing so, no one's looking but Pastor Leatherman and myself, you slip your hand up and say, Preacher, would you just pray with me and pray for me that God would help me to get that settled in my life Would you let me pray for you? I'm not going to mention your name or call uh call you out. Anyone at all? Just say just pray for me. Anyone at all? Okay, third question. How many folks would say, Preacher, God has spoken to my heart, and I need to do business with him today? He's dealt with me about some things in my Christian life, some attitudes, some actions that I need to take care of. Would you pray with me and pray for me as as we uh Uh pray and as we face this invitation, would you slip your hand up all over the building? God spoken to my heart. God bless you. Yes, yes. Okay, let's stand to our feet as we pray. Father, bless you.