Bibles, if you will, please, tonight, uh, to the book of 1 Samuel. The book of 1 Samuel. We're going to be in the 15th chapter of the book of 1 Samuel. 1 Samuel chapter 1 It's one of those passages of Scripture that to understand this passage of Scripture, you have to understand a lot more than just this passage of Scripture You have to understand that the children of Israel, uh you have to go all the way back to the children of Israel coming out of the land of Egypt. You have to go back to them being delivered by Almighty God and moving into the wilderness. Now, we read so much in the Word of God about the children of Israel conquering land, winning victory. victories, defeating their enemies and those great battles against the Philistines and the uh in Syria and Jordan, all those uh great battles that take place in the Word of God. And sometimes I think That were under the impression that as the children of Israel came out of the land of Egypt and moved into the wilderness, that they were a marching army as they moved into the wilderness. They were not a marching army as they moved into the wilderness. They're a marching nation as they move into the wilderness. There's a big difference there. In a marching army, the guy on the front row is a soldier. The guy on the back row is a soldier. The guy on the left flank is a soldier. And the guy on the right flank is Let me just say this. I don't know if anybody in this auditorium was Actually in the Air Force, let me just take a moment, just in case you were, marching, is when a group of people walk in the same step and everything like dress dress uh for uh forty inches all around, dress right, dress, all that kind of stuff So if you're in the Air Force, I just want to bring you up to speed with everybody else in the auditorium. Anyone in the Air Force that really knows what I'm going after right there? Raise your hand. Nobody? All right Rest of you'll get it later. But anyway, the the the truth is they're a marching army as they come up out of Egypt. Here's why that's so important. As they're coming up out of Egypt, the Amalekites decide to attack them The Bible tells us that they laid in wait by the way as they came up out of Egypt. In other words, they stayed quietly until the children of Israel walked by and then they attacked them from the rear. See in a marching nation, who would be in the rear of a marching nation? In the front you would have your soldiers and your fighting men and your men of valor. But the further back you would go, the more helpless the congregation would be. Way back in the back, you'd have a lady that was eight and a half months pregnant while carrying a toddler in her arms. In the back you would have people in wheelchairs, on canes, in stretchers. You would have people that uh walked with limbs, she would have people that weren't quite as ready to fight as those in the front. Like if we tonight decided that we're all gonna leave after this service and we're gonna walk over to the Walmart. Now I my I have this unwritten law with my wife that I have to go to Walmart every single day. Even if I don't have to get anything, you still have to go to Walmart. You have to drive by and see just so she continues to have faith that it's still there, all right? Well then we have to do that. But we decide to all walk out on the parking lot and leave and walk to Walmart Every man in the auditorium would say, uh, Brother Harper, why are we walking to Walmart? It's just an illustration, all right? You don't really have to do it. But if we would start out all of us together as we headed up the road. It wouldn't take long, maybe just another hundred yards, two hundred yards, until you'd find those that are young and virile and masculine and in great physical condition, like me and Pastor, we'd be all all the way up in the front, and the further back you would go, the more helpless the congregation would be That's why when the Amalekites decide to attack them, they didn't attack their soldiers, they didn't attack their fighting men or the men of valor. They attacked the weak. and the sickly and the aged and the children in a complete act of cowardice. We've already mentioned briefly the other day when I was talking about uh uh one sin too many that this is the battle that Joshua has led the children of Israel down in the valley. And as long as Moses' hands were in the air the battle went well. When his hands went down the battle went poorly. And so Aaron and Hur stood on either side of Moses and held his hands up. Now I've preached in over twelve hundred churches now And I can tell you this, I've never met one pastor in my entire life that didn't need an error, Erin, and a her holding up his hands. Finally, the battle is won. But after the battle was won, the Bible says this in Exodus chapter 17, I believe it's verse 14. And the Lord spake unto Moses and said, Write this for memorial in the book. And rehearse in the ears of Joshua, for I will utterly put out from under heaven the remembrance of Amalek. God said one of these days I'm going to destroy the Amalekites. I'm going to wipe them out. I'm going to wipe them from existence. Now see, God has already made the promise. Once God says He's going to do that That means, quite simply, he's going to do that. Nothing is going to change. He's going to wipe the Amalekites out. But as is God's plan and God's pattern, he is going to use a man to lead his army to do that. I wonder who God's going to pick. Maybe Moses will lead the children of Israel up to the banks of the Jordan River and then turn around and wipe out the Amalekites. Maybe Joshua watched the walls of Jericho fall down, then go and d wipe out the Amalekites. But it wasn't Joshua. Maybe Caleb, after he takes that mountain, God's going to let him go back and destroy the Amalekites, but it wasn't Caleb, and it wasn't Gideon, and it wasn't Samson, it wasn't any of those men. As a matter of fact, God's going to pick a man that has been an absolute fellow. failure and give him the opportunity to destroy the Amalekites. God's going to give King Saul the opportunity to fight a battle. Watch me now that he cannot lose All he has to do is fight the battle, and God's going to give the victory. The outcome has already been prophesied, but King Saul is going to miss his opportunity In the graciousness of God, he's going to give him one chance to redeem his entire reign, if you will, to take him from someone who's being rejected and his line has already been rejected to someone that God can smile on and talk about his greatness. Victories. But King Saul's going to miss his opportunity. Christian, part of our problem is we miss our opportunities and greatness so many times in our Christian life. Say, Brother Harper, wait a minute. Not everybody's called to pastor a church, not everybody's called to be a missionary. No, but every Christian is called to do something like uh called this, drawing closer to the Lord How many times has God used the preaching of your pastor to attempt to draw you closer to the Lord? And when that opportunity was there, you missed it by walking out and not doing anything about it There's a word that we use, and we use it often, and every time we describe use it as a description, it always sounds terrible You ever hear this? You'll hear, and I'll leave, I'll put X there for the word. Well, this man, pastor, was preaching, and this man had X. And boy, he was shaken all over. This man had X and he was breaking out in sweat. This man had X and he couldn't stand still. You know what I'm describing? What we call conviction When you describe conviction like that, it sounds like you got a bad case of the flu, really, doesn't it? Oh, I was shaking all over, I broke out in a cold sweat, I couldn't stand still. That's how we describe it. When you really stop and think about what conviction is Conviction is Almighty God looks down and sees my brother sitting right here. Now, he is wearing a red and black plaid shirt. Please follow me. I have a red and black plaid shirt. There is nothing in this message against red and black plaid shirts. Alright? Once again, I have to stress this because someone's going to tell me I have a red and black plaid shirt too, Brother Harper, at the end of the service. Has nothing to do with that. It's just using it as an example. And he's sitting in the pew and pastor is preaching a message on the ills of alcohol. But the Lord doesn't convict him about the ills of alcohol. The Lord convicts him during that message about wearing that red and black plaid shirt He gets up out of his seat and he comes down to the altar and he says, no matter what anybody else thinks, Lord, I'm giving up this red and black plaid shirt Because you don't want me to wear it anymore. When he stands up from that altar, listen, he's closer to the Lord than he was when he was sitting in the seat. You are not going to get closer to the Lord because God's going to become more like you. Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh unto thee. The simple truth is what conviction really is, is when Almighty God looks at one of his own children and says I love you so much. I love you so much that I want us to be closer. And the thing that's keeping us from being closer is that red and black plaid shirt. Conviction isn't a negative. It's not God beating us over the head from heaven. It's God telling us that He loves us and wants to be closer to us than we have ever been to Him before And yet we still walk out so many times, missing our opportunity. I want to preach tonight a message entitled Missed Opportunities about King Saul. First Samuel chapter fifteen and follow along with me. We're going to read several verses, but we'll read them quickly tonight, beginning in verse one. Saw Saw Samuel also had said unto Saul The Lord sent me to anoint thee to be king over his people over Israel. Now therefore hearken down to the voice of the words of the Lord. Thus saith the Lord of hosts, I remember that which Amalek did to Israel, how he laid wait for him in the way when he came up from Egypt Now go and smite Amalek and utter this twirl that they have and spare them not, but slay both men and beast, infinite suckling, oxen sheep, camel and mass And Saul gathered the people together and numbered them in Telahim, two hundred thousand footmen and ten thousand men of Judah. And Saul came to a city of Amalek and laid wait in the valley. And Saul said unto the Kenites, Go, depart, get you down from among the Amalekites, lest I destroy you with them. For ye showed kindness to all the children of Israel when they came up out of Egypt. So the Kenites departed from among the Amalekites. And Saul smote the Amalekites from Havilah until thou comest to Shore that is over against Egypt. And he took Agag, the king of the Amalekites, alive, and other destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword. But Saul and the people spared Agag, and the best of the sheep, and of the oxen, and of the fatlings, and of the lambs, and all that was good. Now watch this phrase, and would not utterly destroy them. But everything that was vile and refuse that they destroyed utterly. Then came the word of the Lord unto Samuel, saying, It repenteth me that I have set up Saul to be king, for he has turned back from following me, and hath not performed my commandments. And it grieved Samuel, and he cried unto the Lord all night And when Samuel rose early to meet Saul in the morning, it was told Samuel saying, Saul came to Carmel, and behold he set him up a place and has gone about and passed on and gone down to Gilgal Samuel came to Saul, and Saul said unto him, Blessed be thou of the Lord. I have performed the commandment of the Lord. And Samuel said, What meaneth then this bleeding of the sheep in mine ears, or the lowing of the oxen which I hear? And Saul said, They have brought them from the Amalekites For the people spared the best of the sheep and of the oxen this sacrifice unto the Lord thy God, and the rest we have utterly destroyed. Then Samuel said unto Saul, Stay, and I will tell thee what the Lord has said to me this night. And he said unto him, Say on And Samuel said, When thou wast little in thine own sight, wast thou not made the head of the tribes of Israel? And the Lord anointed thee king over Israel. And the Lord sent thee on a journey, and said, Go and utterly destroy the the sinners, the Amalekites, and fight against them until they be consumed. Wherefore then didst thou not obey the voice of the Lord, but didst fly upon the spoil and didst evil in the sight of the Lord. And Saul said unto Samuel, Yea, I have obeyed the voice of the Lord, and have gone the way which the Lord sent me, and have brought Agag, the king of Amalek, and have utterly destroyed the Amalekites That verse is one of the funniest verses in the Word of God to me. I brought Agag, the king of the Amalekites, to prove that I've utterly destroyed all of the Amalekites. You almost almost roll your eyes so loud when you read that that you can hear it from back there. I'm proving by showing you a living Amalekite that I killed all the Amalekites See, the devil will give you some crazy excuses for your sin, won't he? Look at verse twenty one. But the people took it as spoil, sheep and oxen, the chief of things which should have been utterly destroyed, to sacrifice unto the Lord thy God in Kilcal Samuel said, Hath the Lord his great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices is in obeying the voice of the Lord. Behold to obey is better than sacrifice, and hearken them the rat of fat of rams For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft and stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry. Because thou hast rejected the word of the Lord, he hath also rejected thee from being king. Saul said unto Samuel, I have sinned. For I have transgressed the commandment of the Lord in thy words, because I feared the people and obeyed their voice. Now therefore I pray thee, pardon my sin, and turn again with me, that I may worship the Lord. And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee, for thou hast rejected the word of the Lord, and the Lord hath rejected thee from being king over Israel. Skip down to verse thirty five We'll read two more verses and conclude our reading for tonight. Samuel came to no more to see Saul until the day of his death. Nevertheless, Samuel mourned for Saul, and the Lord repented that he'd made Saul king over Israel And the Lord said unto Samuel, how long wilt thou mourn for Saul? Seeing I have rejected him from reigning over Israel, fill thine horn with oil and go, and I will send thee to Jesley the Bethlehemite For I have provided me a king among his sons. I want to preach tonight this message entitled Missed Opportunities. Let's have a word of prayer. The Lord and Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for another wonderful evening in your house Well we thank you for what has already been done in hearts. And Father, we thank you for those that are here in the auditorium and been here faithfully, for those that can't be here because they're sick and are watching at home online. Father, we pray the message will be a blessing and a conviction to them as well as those in the auditorium. Father, I pray that you have your will and your way in our hearts. Lord, help us, at least tonight, not to miss our opportunity. In Jesus' name, Amen. Notice number one, I want you to see the plan That's an easy thing to think that Saul must not be the sharpest tool in the shed. He must not be the brightest light in the fixture He must be about three fries short of a happy meal. In other words, Saul isn't all the way there. The plan is laid out by Samuel for King Saul. Notice two things about this plan that God has for him Number one, it's understandable. Here's the plan that Samuel lays out from the Lord. Go and kill all the Amalekites and kill all their animals. Go and smite Amelech and a little shall that they have and spare them not but slay both man and woman infinite suckling oxen sheep, camel, and ass. Saul Go kill all the people and go kill all of their animals. Now, if Saul were like most modern-day Christians today, he would have walked out of that conversation and said something like this: I wonder what God really wants me to do. We have Christians looking for some top secret secret decoder will will uh for got from God, an X Mark Sh the spot, secret passageway that we can find to find God's will while we ignore the very understandable things that God has said is his or his will for us. Understand, there's not one person that was here Sunday morning, that here we are on Thursday night, and they're sitting at home watching whatever they watch on television. Not one of those people is under the impression that God didn't want them here. Everybody who misses church knows that God wants them to be in church. Now, of course, understand some people have to work, some people are sick. I understand that. I'm talking about the guy that's just sitting home, who decided Sunday morning that they were done for the week. They can't even come back on Sunday night. They're not sitting in their house saying, I'm pretty sure God doesn't want me to go to church tonight. The person with dust on his Bible He knows that God wants him to read his Bible. The Christian who hasn't bent his knee in prayer in three weeks, he knows that God expects him to pray The simple truth is God's plan is understandable. It's not hard to figure out. It's not something we have to have special classes to know most of the things that are God's will in our lives The plan was understandable, but it was also unmistakable. Now, once again, we're going to be hard on King Saul, but understand we should be hard on ourselves as well. Notice what he says. Now go and smite Amalek. Now the word smite means to strike hard, to kill, or to destroy. And remember, this is the first city of the Amalekites. Saul's supposed to have a campaign until he's wiped them all out. He goes to this first city. He says, go and smite Amalek, strike hard, kill, or destroy. And other destroy that they have, and spare them not. Now, if smite means to go and strike hard and kill and destroy, sparing them not means don't leave any that don't get struck hard, killed, or destroy. And then he makes it even more clear. But slay both man and woman, infant and suckling, oxen, sheep, camel and ass. Slay has one definition. Kill. So watch what God told King Saul here. I want you, here's what I want you to do, King Saul, number one, I want you to go and kill the Amalekites. And then I want you to kill the Amalekites. And then once you finish that, I want you to kill the Amalekites. God told him three times in one verse The same thing over and over and over. And we say, oh, poor King Saul, he must not have been very bright. You know, if there was a book in your Bible. Called the book of Hezekiah. There's not. Don't look it up. Hezekiah chapter 1 and verse 3, God could have said, I want every Christian to pray. But how many times did he tell us that? Call unto me and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not? You shall seek me and you shall find me when you search for me with all your heart. It tells us to pray without ceasing. How many times did God tell us to pray, and yet God's people still don't pray? How many times did he tell us to be students of the Word of God? Study to show thyself approved. Hide thy word in my heart that I might not sin against thee. How many different ways Different uh uh uh di different ways of communicating it. Did y did God tell us over and over and over that we're supposed to be students of the Word of God I was glad when they said unto me, Let us go into the house of the Lord. I'd rather be a doorkeeper in the house of the Lord, not forsaking the assembling of yourselves. How many different ways did God have to tell us to be faithful to church, and God's people still aren't faithful to church? So before we're too hard on King Saul, Christian, we've ought to look at ourselves just a little bit, shouldn't we? I mean the plan is understandable, but the plan is also unmistakable. There's no way to misunderstand and and and and uh be mistaken about what God expects. Now, unfortunately, we have this idea in our minds. You can almost hear it seeping out sometimes in preaching as you go places It's almost the attitude of Christians sitting in the pew. That up in heaven, there is what's called an obedienceometer. Alright? There's no such thing as an obedienceometer, but we act like there is. On one end of the obedienceometer scale, I can be zero percent obedient and 100% disobedient. But I can also be 25% obedient and 75% disobedient. I can be 50-50. I can even be 75% obedient and only 25% percent disobedient. Understand, there is no obedient ometer in heaven. There is no partial obedience to Almighty God. Partial obedience to God is disobedience. The apostle uh the uh I'm sorry King Saul is going to be Pretty obedient when you look at the whole passage of Scripture. But God doesn't look at partial obedience and say, That's good enough. God looks at partial obedience and says, I want a hundred percent obedience. Notice, number one, there's the plan. Number two, there's the problem. King Saul is going to disobey God. King Saul, just like we talked about Moses the other day. is going to disobey the Lord. I want you to notice a few things about King Saul's problem, his disobedience, his sin, if you will. Notice the first thing was that it was deliberate. Look at verse 9. Watch what it says But so in the people spared the best and the uh of the sheep and the oxen, the fatlings and the lambs. And now watch what it says next. And would not utterly destroy them. You know what we do, Christian? We act as if we don't have any choice when we sin. When you sin, you sin the same way I do. We sin deliberately. We sin on purpose. We sin because we do the math, if you will. We say, I can have the immediate pleasure in sin for a season. Eventually, God is going to judge me, but I can be enjoying sin up until the time that God judges me And maybe, just maybe, I'll get by without God judging me. We act as if when we talk to people about it, well, I couldn't help it I sinned because the temptation was too great. No, he will not suffer you to be tempted above that which you're able. Oh, I sinned because the devil is so powerful. No Greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. Go down through the list. All the different people we want to blame for our sin. The Bible clearly tells us they can't be blamed for our sin. The only person that can be blamed for my sin is me. And I don't sin accidentally. God's plan was understandable and it was unmistakable, and I know what God expects, and I choose not to obey God They would not utterly destroy them. They sinned deliberately. Notice carefully, please. Not only do they sin deliberately, King Saul sins dartingly. When Samuel gets there and he sits down with King Saul and he says Listen, Saul, uh you're you've done wrong, and Saul says, No, no, I haven't. And then Samuel says, Stay. In other words, hush And I'll tell thee what the Lord has said to me this night. And he goes in and says, Wherefore didst thou not obey the voice of the Lord? And he uses this phrase, but didst fly upon the spoil Did fly upon the spoil. The word fly means to dart or to run greedily. It's not just that he did it quickly, it's that he did it Uh that he did it purposely and he did it selfishly. He went in there and he said, Alright, so there's some sheep over there that uh that are are just perfect and I'm gonna save those. It's not like he missed some sheep and God's gonna judge him that there was a pen of sheep a mile outside of town that Saul didn't see. No. Saul walks into this city the Malachites and says Deliberately, I'm not going to kill those, and I'm not going to kill those, and I'm not going to kill those, and I'm not going to kill those. But we also did it this way He walked in and said, Hey, these right here, put them in my place in Carmel. Those right there, put them in my place in Gilgal. Those oxen over there, put them in my place in Jerusalem Those are mine, and those are mine, and those are mine, and those are mine, and those are mine. King Saul always had a problem with self-centeredness and selfishness. Watch me carefully. One of the things that is destroying our churches to this very day is selfishness. When Pastor says, Well, we're going to do this, we're going to have this program, we're going to invite people out, we're going out soul winning, well, I can't. I have to do what I want to do. When I was a young man, I tell stories about uh my uh the church in New Jersey. It's where I cut my teeth. And so uh Pastor Brindley would get up in the pulpit and this is the the senior pastor Brindley, if you ever knew the junior Pastor Brindley, there's a huge difference. He would get up and he would talk about we're gonna buy a van or We're gonna actually build a little Sunday school wing, or we're gonna uh partition off two rooms and divide them into two Sunday school classes, or more to the point, here at Mountain Lake, we're gonna do our nursery project And people would ask questions. Now please understand me, there is nothing wrong with asking a question in a business meeting or when something is brought up, as long as you're doing it in the right spirit, there's nothing wrong with it. People would start asking questions, so how much is this going to cost and how long is it going to take? And are we going to have to borrow money and what interest rate are we going to get? And all those kinds of questions. Again, nothing wrong with any of them There's a man that sat right over here where you're sitting, brother. And his name was Jim Gravat. Jim Gravat led my daddy to Christ. Jim Gravat was one of our deacons, and he would raise his hand, and it was it was obvious to me, even as a third and fourth grade boy, that when Jim Gravat raised his hand, my pastor went, And Jim Gravat always, every business meeting that I remember, asked the same question. He said, Pastor, can you tell us how this is going to affect the cause of Christ? He said it just like that every time. Pastor would say, well, if we buy one more van, we can pick up more boys and girls. If we divide those two Sunday school classes, we can have another Sunday school class to help young people grow in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. If we build an activity building, we have places for the teenagers to go to keep them out of the world so they can prepare to go off and serve the Lord or uh once again to put a fine point on it. If we had a We can have a place for boys and girls and children to come where moms and dads can drop their children off and come and listen to the messages so they can go home and raise their children the way they're supposed to raise them You know here's what happened though. Every time Jim Gravat asked that question, I never remember one other question after that. Once everybody stopped wondering about how it was going to affect them And started listening to how it was going to affect the calls of Christ. It changed everything. King Saul was darting King Saul not only is deliberate, and King Saul not only is darting, but he's also deceptive. I love it when Samuel shows up. He's been trying to catch up And he finally goes to uh uh Gilgal first, uh goes to Carmel first, and uh then he goes to Gilgal and finally catches up to him and King Saul comes out when Samuel shows up. The only person on the planet that King Saul answered to was Samuel. King Saul was over the military, he was over the finances, he was over the kingdom, but he wasn't over the service of Almighty God. That's still Samuel's job Samuel shows up. King Saul does what some of you will do on Sunday. You have that Sunday morning where everything goes wrong. Everybody spills something, everybody gets their clothes dirty, you're running late, uh uh you have all kinds of problems and you're getting dressed for church. You have World War III in your van and you get to church and you walk in and Pastor says, How are you? And you go, Oh, preach, I'm doing great. Saul comes out and says, Blessed be thou of the Lord. I have performed the commandment of the Lord. That sounds really good, doesn't it? Whenever we do something deceptive, we think we're fooling two people. We think we're fooling God, and we always think we're fooling the pastor. King Saul thinks he's fooling God. I don't know why we would ever think that, but we do, do we not? And he also thinks he's fooling his pastor. You know why he can't fool his pastor? And Samuel, for lack of a better comparison, is his pastor. The reason he can't fool Samuel The couple verses before that, it tells us that the Lord had already told Samuel what King Saul was doing. And you know what Samuel did? He cried unto the Lord all night long. He prayed for the disobedient Saul all night long. We're always acting like everything is just fine, everything is just hunky-dory. I was at uh uh Fourth City Baptist Church Tri-City Baptist Church in Forest City, North Carolina, several years ago. The pastor there was Brother Dave Cummins. And we were standing, let me give you the layout to the church so you understand the story There's the main door that comes in this way. It comes down and it the the it comes to a wall here, and when you turn left from that wall, you go down to the Sunday school wing and the the fellowship hall and all that. You turn right This part of the building is the auditorium. And so Pastor and I are standing there at the auditorium door. I'm going to be teaching Sunday school here in just a couple of minutes. And so we're standing there greeting people as they come in. All of a sudden, those two doors open up. And excuse the pop culture reference. They open up like the old doors on the saloons in the old westerns. I mean they just swing open both doors. I'm expecting a big giant of a man to be standing there It was a four-year-old North Carolina boy. He was as North Carolina as you can possibly get. You close your eyes and picture a little four-year-old boy coming to church on Sunday morning, you're going to picture this little blonde-head, blue-dy uh, blue-eyed boy. His hair is slicked over to one side with a little wave in the front and a little cowlick in the back. He comes walking in with his clip-on tie hanging out of his collar as he walks in, wearing his cowboy boots and his pants are tucked down in his cowboy boots. He comes walking in just all little boy, if you will. He's carrying a Bible that is bigger than he is. He walks up straight to me and to Pastor He shakes our hand and pastor says, How are you doing today? Little Billy, and that's not his real name. Little Billy looks up at me at the pastor and says, Preacher. Y'all need to pray for my mom and dad. He said it just like that. Pastor said, why? He said, oh, they had him a big old fight on the way to church this morning. He beboped down that hallway, never thought a thing about it the rest of his life, I guarantee it. A couple moments later, one of the two doors opened up And then walked his dad. Pastor Cummins elbowed me and winked, and I knew what was coming. This man walked up to Pastor and me and he shook our hands, and Pastor says, Well, how are you doing today, buddy? He said, Oh, preacher If I was any better, I'd have to be twins. He thought he was fooling his preacher. Thought he was fooling God, but you're not going to fool God and you're not going to fool your preacher every single time. His problem was deliberate, it was deceptive, it was darting, and it was discovered. Don't you love that scene where Samuel shows up Saul comes out to meet him and he says, Blessed be thou of the Lord. I have performed the commandment of the Lord. What does Samuel say? What meaneth then this bleeding of the sheep in mine ears? The glowing of the oxen which I hear. Why did you bring sheep and oxen with you to battle there, Saul? Samuel immediately tells him, I know exactly what you've done. God's already told me what you've done. I know exactly that you've disobeyed God. There is one promise that God keeps that we may we get mad at every time, isn't there? When God says, Call unto me, I will answer thee and show thee great mighty things which thou knowest not. We love that verse. We love all things work together for good to them that love God, to them of the call to according to his purpose. We love that verse We love the Lord Himself, shall descend from heaven with the shout and the voice of the archangel and the trumpet of God. We love that verse. We love when God keeps his promises, don't we? Except when he keeps this one. Be not deceived. God is not mocked. For whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. Every time we reap what we sow, we get mad at God because he kept his promise. King Saul is caught. He is discovered. Listen, Christian, those sheep will start bleeding just when it's going to be the most embarrassing for you. Just when it's going to hurt you and your family the most The simple truth is the oxen will low just when you're there in front of someone that you don't want to know that you've got lowing oxen behind you. The problem was deceptive. It was darting. It was deliberate. But it was discovered. Just like you and I will be discovered. We sin because we want to. We sin even though we know the un understandable and unmistakable plan of God. We choose the pleasure in sin instead of serving the Lord and walking away from it. And then we do it on purpose, and we're going to eventually be discovered because we poured it out on our own selves because we darted selfishly toward it. Notice number one the plan. Number two, the problem. Number three, the ploy. King Saul, now, once Samuel says What meaneth then this bleeding of the sheep in mine ears? And the lowing of the oxen which are here I hear, King Saul is caught with his hand in the cookie jar. All right. How many of you ladies actually to this day you still have a cookie jar, not just for decorations, you put cookies in a cookie jar? Raise your hand if there's any in this auditorium. None Somebody wait Thank you so much. Please, I thought revival was over. All right. I asked that question in New York and everybody kind of looked at each other like, what's a cookie jar? I'm like, oh we've got to pray for you guys. My grandmother had a cookie jar. My dad was in the United States Army and we traveled all the time and all that. But West Virginia was always home for us. My mom's family was from uh one side of uh holler, my dad's family was from the other side of the exact same holler. So we would go home and we would always stay with my Aunt Betty on Cosmos Drive. Up the street from Aunt Betty's house, on the left-hand side, was my grandmother's house Now I knew this. I knew this, my family knew this, my cousins knew this, and my sister knew this. I was Granny's favorite. I was always Granny's favorite. And I know there are grandparents in this room saying, oh, brother, have a favorite Yes, you do. Quit trying to hide it. All your grandkids already know which one's your favorite. We could bring them in and ask them and they'd say, Oh no, it's him. They would just point right out to it. Everybody knows. I knew I was Granny's favorite. My sister, however, was my papa's favorite. So we worked that thing. If we wanted something from granny, I asked. If we wanted something from Papa, she asked. We got everything we wanted. It was great I walk up to Granny's house. I'm about eight years old. I walk in her front door, and there she is. As I walk in the door, I'm hit in the face with the aroma afresh Hot out of the oven chocolate chip cookies. There is almost nothing in the world that smells as good as that. She's taken the very last ones they've been cooling on the cookie sheet and she's taken them and she's putting them in the cookie jar right there in front of me. I did it as good as I could I looked at her and I said, You gotta do the lip thing, right? I said, Granny, do you think I could have just one of those delicious chocolate chip cookies. And then I said this, my mommy never makes me chocolate chip cookies. And my grandmother looked at me and then she said this. I didn't know this was even possible. She said No. No? Grandmothers aren't supposed to say no. When we would let our daughter go up to my my mother-in-law's house, as as a mother-in-law, my mother my mother-in-law was a great grandmother, all right? She really was We would send my my daughter up there and my daughter would come back with a stomachache every single time. She ate cookies and cake and cup Cakes and ice cream the whole time she was up there. If your if your grandchildren come back from grandmama's house and walk in and say, Mom Can I have some broccoli? You failed as a grandmother, right? You're supposed to just pile the sweets onto them. That's what you're supposed to do. My wife would say, I'm gonna go talk to her about it. I said, No, you're not. She's allowed to do that. That's what a grandmother is My grandmother said no. I didn't know she could say no. I don't know that I'd ever heard it in my life. But then she added this. Moms and dads, I'm gonna help you with this in just a second. She said, you'll spoil your dinner Listen, no means no. You don't always have to give an explanation to your three-year-old Oh, it's fine to teach them, but they have to understand that when no is said, no is meant. Because one of these days you're going to be standing on the side of the road, on a busy road And uh traffic going by and your son, your son or grandson wants to cross the street and you say no, and he says, Why? And while you're explaining it, he takes the first step and What I'm saying is, please don't think as a parent you always have to explain every single thing that you say and do. Sometimes just say no and leave it at that That's what my grandmother should have done, but she said, No, you'll spoil your dinner. That to this day, I am sixty-one years old. That's the lamest answer that has ever been given by any parent or grandparent anywhere At 61, do you know I've had probably 20,000 dinners? If I miss dinner tonight Uh uh at dinner time, I'll heat something up later. There's always dinner just around the corner. Every day there's another dinner. Understand that. But not every day is there fresh, hot out of the oven, chocolate chip cookies to this very day. I would eat the cookies and nuke my dinner later. That's what I would do. It was a terrible answer for her to give me. She then put the lid on the cookie jar and she walked out of the kitchen Now, my grandmother's a grandmother. That means she doesn't hear as well as she used to, and she doesn't move as fast as she used to. I'm in the kitchen It was a kitchen-dining room thing. I'm in the kitchen. There's the dining room table. There's the counter with the cookies on it. I consider this a personal challenge. I picked up the chair and I quietly snuck across the floor. I set it down in front of the counter. I climbed up on the chair and I sat down on the counter. I took the lid off of that ch uh that cookie jar and I ate one of those still warm. Chocolate chip cookies. Chocolate was melting on my fingers. And I will tell you this as well as I can remember it. There was pleasure in sin. for that season. That was the most delicious thing I'd ever eaten in my entire life. It was so good that I had another one. And another one. And another one. I was someplace between my sixth and my seventh cookie. I have melted chocolate all over my face, melted chocolate all over my hands, and all of a sudden I look up and there's my grandmother. Apparently, she heard better than I thought she did and moved faster than I thought she did. I first thought I was okay. She said this What are you doing? I thought, if she doesn't know, I'm getting by with this. But she finished her sentence. What are you doing? in that cookie jar. Now I have two options, don't I? Every grandmother in this room knows I have two options. Number one, I could say, Granny, I'm sorry. I know you told me not to, but I couldn't help it. And uh would you please forgive me? And every grandmother knows. My grandmother would have forgiven me instantly if I'd have just asked Or I could say, what are you doing with your hand in that cookie jar? What cookie jar? Guess which one I did. I literally tried to c uh commit uh convince my grandmother that I wasn't eating cookies. It just didn't work. Just like Saul tries to convince Samuel that he hasn't left the sheep and the oxen alive when the sheep are bleeding. And the oxen are lowing. You're going to get discovered every time. Once you've been caught with your hand in the cookie jar, you can either confess and ask for forgiveness, or you can continue to act like you didn't do anything wrong King Saul is going to act like he didn't do anything wrong. Watch his toy. Number three. King Saul immediately blames everybody else. He said the people spared the best of the sheep and of the oxen. It's the people that did it, not me When Samuel had just said, you flew upon the spoil. Samuel already knew that it was King Saul that led the children of Israel not to kill those animals. Had he ordered them to kill those animals, they would have killed them. But King Saul now immediately wants to blame everybody else. Isn't that what we do? We want to blame everybody else for our sin. We never want to take complete Uh complete uh the uh uh the pr uh the the complete uh guilt of it rubber on ourselves. We're always saying, uh no, somebody else Oh, it's my friends, it's society, it's the world, it's the devil. Everybody's making me sin. Once again, nobody can make you sin. We sin because we want to. The first toy is to blame the people. It's everybody else's fault. Then he blames God. I do think this is almost comical. He said the people spared the best of the sheep and of the oxen to sacrifice Unto the Lord thy God in Gilgal. Now I realize this is 3,000 years old, but King Saul's words still ring true today, even in the modern New Testament church era. You know what King Saul just said? He said, in order to worship God better, I had to disobey him in the first place. In order to worship God, I have to have music that looks like the world and sounds like the world. I have to have music that if you drive by my church, it sounds like a war is going on or a rock concert is taking uh taking place. I have to disobey God to worship him better. That's not true then, and it's not true now, although that is the mantra of so many things that call themselves churches, although they don't put the name church on their door. They still would uh consider themselves churches, but understand that's their mantra. We have to live more like the world so we can worship God better. There is absolutely not one ounce of truth in that. Not when King Saul said it 3,000 years ago, and not when they say it today. Oh, it's God's fault. God wants us to sacrifice. So I had to leave these animals alive. I had to disobey God to worship him better. By the way, it's always a lie when they say that, isn't it? King Saul says, we spared the sheep and the oxen to sacrifice. Do you realize they have been in Gilgal for a day? And the sheep are still bleeding and the oxen are still lowing? A sheep that has been sacrificed unto the Lord doesn't make any more noise. An oxen that has been killed on an altar doesn't low anymore. The simple truth of the matter is it's an absolute lie. When you get caught in your sin, you try to make it sound like you were sinning so that you could do the right thing It doesn't work that way with Almighty God. He is not a pragmatist. The ends do not justify the means. If the means are wrong, it's still sin, no matter how it ends up Notice, the ploy, he blamed the people. He blamed God. But number three, he blames the fear. This is what gets us sometimes. We're sitting in a seat and listening to your pastor preach. Let's say he's preaching a series, since we talked about this briefly the other day. He's preaching a series on the family. And as you're sitting there, the Lord begins to convince convict you as a dad that you're not the right kind of husband and you're not the right kind of father. And so finally you get out of your seat after the conviction You kneel at the altar and you say, Lord, please forgive me. I'm not the right kind of husband. I don't love my wife as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it. I'm not the right kind of father, Lord. I've provoked my children to wrath. Please forgive me, Lord. But you know, Lord, if my wife were a better wife, I would love her more. And if my children were more obedient, I wouldn't provoke them to wrath. See, we are constantly adding one word to our prayer of confession that makes it not a prayer of confession. Look what King Saul says. I believe it's verse 24. He begins his prayer, his conversation with Samuel, and he says this, I have sinned. Now listen to me. That's a good way. To start a prayer of confession, isn't it? I have sinned. I have transgressed the commandment of the Lord and thy word. Now watch what he says next. Because if there's a because in your prayer of confession, it's not a prayer of confession. If you're coming forward and saying, boy, I'm not the right kind of testimony, but you know, Lord, it's because the world is so bad today. Oh, I'm not faithful to church, Lord, but you know, it's because I have so many things to do. That's not confession. Confession is against thee, and thee only have I sinned and done this evil in thy sight. Confession is when I agree with God And say, I have sinned. Nobody else is responsible for my sin. Nobody else has to answer for it. And no one else can confess it but me. Lord, I'm sorry I'm not the right kind of husband. I'm sorry I'm not the right kind of father. I have disobeyed your word. I have absolutely no excuse. It's no one's fault but mine. Please forgive me. Then He is faithful and just to forgive us our sin and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. We have gotten to the place where we will admit our sin. We will even say we want to repent from our sin, but we don't confess anymore because if you're confessing, there is no because in there. It's just you saying, please forgive me, Lord. I've sinned against you. King Saul tried. He's caught with his hand in the cookie jar. He blamed the people. He even blamed God. We had to disobey God to worship him better. And he even blames the fear. I would be confessing, but it's because I feared the people and obeyed their voice. Lastly, please, I want you to see the punishment. Before we get to the punishment, let me point something out. Saul was told to kill all the uh oxen, all the uh the asses, the camels, and the sheep, right? He killed all the donkeys and he killed all the camels. The only ones he left behind were the fatlings and the lambs, the baby animals, and the oxen. So he killed all of those by the way that weren't the best. He only spared the best of the sheep and of the oxen and of the fatlings and the lambs. So in other words, Saul killed a vast majority of all the animals that this city of Amalek had He killed all the people, but one. He left one man alive. Let's assume that Saul was the military master of Overkill He shows up with 210,000 soldiers. Let's say that this city of Amalek only had a thousand people in it. That means Saul killed 999 out of a thousand. That's pretty obedient, isn't it? Do you know what you and I do when we're 99. 9% obedient? We pat ourselves on the back and we tell everybody how obedient we are. God is not satisfied with ninety-nine point nine percent. God wants one hundred percent obedience We sit around and we compare ourselves to everybody else and we do the math in our heads, well I'm glad I'm ninety-three percent, because he's only eighty-five percent It's not how it's supposed to be. The goal, as I said earlier in the week, is not to be more obedient than someone else in the church. It's to be 100% obedient. But Saul's going to suffer some punishment for his very small percentage of disobedience, isn't he? First off, he's going to lose his testimony. There was one thing. There's two verses in here, and I fear that we misinterpret them because we're trying to explain them. And you'll see what I'm saying here in just a second. There's one verse that I use with my daughter all the time. I would tell my daughter, Go clean your room. And my little four-year-old would come into my office about twenty minutes later with a picture that she had drawn and colored for me. Every picture that she ever drew should be hanging in the Louvre right now. They were just works of art. You know how your kids' pictures are, right? She would give me that picture. Everything in me wanted to say, oh, thank you, Charity. This is the most beautiful picture I've ever gotten. But before I could say that, I remembered She was supposed to be cleaning her room. Instead, she went in there and drew me a picture, so I would sit her down on my lap and I would quote this verse to her to obey is better than the sacrifice. I would rather you cleaned your room than drew me the picture. But if after you clean your room you want to draw me a picture, that would be wonderful. But then it says this. This is one that I when I was a teenager, every single preacher had a message on this next verse. Notice what it says. Verse 23. For rebellion Is as the sin of witchcraft. Let me ask you a question. And I'm going to ask you to raise your hand, all right? How many in this room have ever been rebellious in your entire life? Would you raise your hand? Because if your hand's not up, you're rebelling right now. You see what I'm saying, right? We've all been rebellious. I won't ask you to raise your hand, but I imagine I know what the answer would be if you did. How many have actively been involved in witchcraft and the dark arts. I'm not talking about experimenting with something when you were a kid. I'm saying actively being involved in witchcraft. And so we read that verse. And we say, God just compared rebellion And witchcraft. To us, there's no comparison. All of us have been rebellious. None of us have practiced witchcraft. That's when you get preachers that say this Now, the root word, the Hebrew root word that is used to translate the word witchcraft, is also, it gives us the Latin root word from which we get the word pharmacei, that's where we get the uh word pharmaceuticals. And so what it's saying is rebellion and drug addiction go hand in hand. Do you know from that same root word? You also get the word pharmacy, so if you've ever been to a Walgreens, you're guilty of doing drugs. You might as well be guilty of witchcraft because you just got a prescription filled No. Do you know what the Hebrew word, watch this is this I promise this is going to blow your mind. Do you know what the Hebrew word that is translated witchcraft in this passage of scripture? Do you know what it really means? Witchcraft. That's the only thing it means. It means witchcraft. Now we're back to our problem, aren't we? Everybody in this room is rebellious. Nobody in this room is guilty of witchcraft. But God says rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft. Can I point something out to you Samuel's not talking to us. Now the Bible's inspired for us, it's preserved for us, we learn from it, we grow from it, all of that But this is actually the recording of a conversation, isn't it? This is Samuel talking to King Saul. And Samuel tells King Saul this. Rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft. Don't you think that made Saul mad just a little bit? And uh with all of the mistakes that Saul has made All of the failures in serving Almighty God, there is one stand that he has had that has been consistent. He's against witchcraft. He's against witches and wizards and those that have familiar spirits. One of the first acts he does as king is he removes them all out of the nation of Israel. The one sin that King Saul would never be guilty of is witchcraft. And now you've got Samuel saying, rebellion is just uh uh is uh is as the sin of witchcraft. King Saul sitting there thinking, no, no, no, no, no. I might be rebellious But I'm not going to be involved in witchcraft. You know the difference between rebellion in the life of King Saul and witchcraft in the life of King Saul? Thirteen chapters. Thirteen chapters from now, King Saul is going to put on a disguise. He's going to slip across the border to the border town of Endor. He's going to find a witch there and the reason the witch is there, she actually says it in your Bible. She says the reason I'm here is because King Saul Kick me out of the nation of Israel. King Saul goes to see a witch and goes and sits down at a seance. Samuel is not saying here that every person that ever rebels against God is going to be involved in witchcraft What he's saying here, once you start rebelling, you're not going to stop till you've done the absolute worst thing that you can think about doing The one sin that King Saul would have never wanted to commit is the one sin we find him doing before he dies. Rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft. This man who at least had a testimony that he stood there. He lost his testimony His punishment also includes that he lost his kingdom. Oh, he's going to sit on the throne until the day he dies, but none of his family will ascend to the throne. Say, Brother Harper, that's not that big a deal. He's king until the day he dies. Wait just a second. For a thousand years on planet Earth, our Savior is going to sit on the throne of his father, David, not Saul. That's the throne he lost. But he lost a third thing. He lost his friend, didn't he? That 35th verse, Samuel came no more to see Saul until the day of his death. The one person that could have helped Saul never saw him again. As a matter of fact, even after Saul has been rejected The Lord says to Samuel, by the way, I heard a preacher preach an entire message on the lack of conviction of Samuel. Because apparently he said in verse 1, Samuel mourned for Saul longer than God did. First off God does not uh condemn Samuel for doing that. He just asks the question, how long wilt thou mourn for Saul, seeing I have rejected him from reigning over Israel? Secondly, if I ever do what Saul did, I want some Samuels praying for me. I want some Samuels that are brokenhearted and will cry all night when they find out that I've done the wrong thing. What we do, Christian, is once we've gotten away from the Lord, once we've been caught with our hand in the cookie jar, once we realize that our sin has been revealed, be sure your sin will find you out Then we get mad at the only people that can help us. King Saul is going to miss an opportunity. He could have written his name beside the Gideons, beside the Joshua's. Aside to Samson's. But instead, he's going to fail again. Instead, he's going to disobey God And miss an opportunity at greatness. Not because King Saul got up that morning and said, I'm not going to do one single thing that the Lord told me to do. He said, I want to do just enough so that everyone will think I'm obedient. Even though I know I'm not. You want to put a number on it? Saul's 90% obedient. On our obedientometer, 90% obedient, 10% disobedient. Once again, if that's us, we spend our time patting ourselves on the back and telling everybody what a great servant of the Lord's we are. Because we have been trained somehow in our own minds to believe that 90% obedient should be good enough for God. We should be broken by every one of our disobediences. What did Paul say? The good that I would, that I do not, and that which I would not, that I do. I know that in me, that is in my flesh, there dwelleth no good thing. Oh, wretched man that I am Saul looked at his life and saw 99% obedience and was still broken because he was a wretched man. Saul looked at his life and saw 90% obedience and said, boy, that should be good enough. I have performed the commandment of the Lord. Listen, Christian, as the Lord speaks to you, even if it's about something other than what your pastor is preaching on. Instead of just sitting there and saying, I'll just leave and take care of it later. How many victories has the devil won in your life and my life? by convicting uh con uh convincing us that we're gonna take care of it later. And then we never do Don't miss an opportunity. Every time the Lord speaks to your heart, just say, I'm going to take care of this Right now. I'm not going to put it off. I'm not going to wait. What would have happened if when Samuel showed up, instead of saying, I have obeyed the commandment of the Lord, if Saul had come out to Samuel and said, Samuel Please pray for me, I've sinned. How would his life and his testimony have been different? Don't miss your opportunities tonight as a child of God. Let's bow our heads and close our eyes. No one looking around. We saw the plan, we saw the problem, the ploy, and the punishment. As you're sitting here tonight, how many would say Brother Harper tonight? Instead of being proud of my 91% obedience or whatever the number is you want to put there. The night I was broken by my 9% disobedience. Instead of patting myself on the back tonight, I want to do what Saul should have done and just confess. I know I'll never be perfect, but I can always be obedient. Their heads bowed and their eyes closed, how many would say, Brother Harper, tonight, the Lord convicted my heart? Would you slip your hand up, please, all over the auditorium? Do you always Christian when your heart's convicted? Let me say this with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. Instead of sitting there acting like we have been browbeaten, we should be saying, thank you, Lord, for loving me enough to want to draw closer to me. Just a moment, we're going to have an invitation. Pianist is already in her place, and we'll have a word of prayer, then we'll stand. After we stand, won't you step out of your seat? Don't wait. Don't hesitate. Just do what God let on your heart. Lord Heavenly Father, we thank you for this evening. We thank you for our time once again in your house. Father, we pray that you'll bless our time of invitation to have your will and your way. Father, help us to never be satisfied with being a good enough Christian. Help us to always want to be closer, more obedient, and more faithful. In Jesus' name, with your head still bowed and your eyes still closed, let's stand all over the outer twenty