And uh we thank God you can be with us tonight and you preach to us. All right. That's all I'm just gonna do. Thank you. Praise the Lord. Tremendous report on it. You do that every month? Once a month. Wow. My oh my. It's wonderful. Well I'm glad to be here. I really am. I appreciate you preacher. Allow me to prevent I d okay. Um allow me the privilege of coming and being with you. Uh I'm I'd like to take a minute or two and just thank you for support. You support us and uh appreciate that very much and the prayer support that you give us. Uh we have uh really been really busy. God is really uh been keeping our schedule full. Uh we had a downtime during Christmas, but that's kind of normal for somebody in itinerant ministry to be home during the Christmas days and so on. But in fact it kinda almost I hate to say it's good, but we we both got sick with that flu. I got the flu and ended up sick for three weeks And then my wife caught it a week after I got it, and she had it uh for a month. It went from the flu to bronchitis to walking pneumonia And we thought we never were gonna get well. And uh but God did help us and so on. Um but uh this year we of course I don't know y uh some of you may not uh remember anything. But we're we uh I'm kinda in two ministries kind of connected together. I'm with uh First Bible International and um and of course I think you're familiar with that Dr. Keene They have now come under the auspices of the First Baptist Church of Milford, Ohio, Dr. Duttry. Dr. Keene still kind of has the hand on the ministry and leadership. And um but they're trying to reach the unreached people. Uh there's seven billion people in the world, three point two billion do not have one line of the Bible And I think you're aware of that. So we're trying to keep people stirred up, churches stirred up, and pastors well aware of the need on the foreign field like you just saw. This is what every every church in this country needs to see. Every Baptist church needs to get involved in reaching the uh foreign fields. And um this year we were supposed to go to India and the missionary had to cancel it and change it so we're looking to reschedule. We're not sure when now. May maybe be the first of next year now. And then we're supposed to go to Mongolia. And uh last minute that got changed. And uh so now we're waiting on a date to go to Zambia, Africa. And uh we go to I I'm kind of an international representative for uh for First Bible and I do training of nationals. We go to the foreign field and and uh we help the missionary train the national do do uh what you call modules, which is usually taking a whole semester of a course maybe a book of Romans or pastoral theology or something and or missions and crowding it into uh maybe two weeks and teach maybe four or five hours a day for two weeks Uh we did a uh in India we did the uh book of Genesis on the master's level and uh for twenty-seven hours I taught the book of Ma uh Genesis And I asked the doctor Dr. uh Cherry and I said doctor uh and and I asked Dr. Keene, I said what what is the difference between what you get in a BA and you know in the in the undergrads and a master's in in the book of Genesis? I mean But uh so we dug and dug and dug. So it's challenging sometimes. We just went down to the uh Costa Rica, our second trip to Costa Rica. My wife's been to India twice then the I I see we've been married five and a half years, I have her in thirty eight states and many of them more than once. And she's been in the f uh been to the foreign field eight times, spoke in four countries, spoken Costa Rica three times and other places and you and with an interpreter also. And uh so God's given her a ministry to go and speak to the ladies on the foreign field. We're really thrilled about that and so on. And then of course we stay busy. Dr. Keene said uh several years ago now, it's hard to believe how time flies, but he said several years ago we need to stop having missionary conferences That kind of shocked everybody. He said we need to have missionary revivals. Because if we don't get revival, we're not going to reach this world for Christ. We need a Holy Ghost heaven-sent revival. We need an awakening. We need God to do something in our country, in our churches. And uh so my burden as I travel now in the last uh couple of years now has been to stir up the the people about the matter of missions as well as revival and uh we're praying to God. I d I just happen to be one of those preachers that believe in the last days we can have a revival. I mean an outpouring of God's Spirit, preacher. I mean where God moves in and begins the work in churches that spread to the next church, the next church throughout an area, maybe a whole area of the country, and bring about a under a wonderful uh revival and uh and uh and a time of awakening We surely need that. You know that? We really do. Uh take your Bibles. I want you to look at a verse found in the book of Acts. Would you please? The book of Acts. I I thank God that God's allowed me the privilege of I'll be saved fifty-two years here in July, and um I had the privilege of pastoring for forty years I've been preaching for 51 years and I've been to the foreign field about 60 times in 38 years in 15 different countries. And uh so I I've had a wonderful, wonderful ministry and wonderful life, preacher. And I'm so thankful for that. And I hope the Lord will continue to give us health and strength that we can keep on doing that and so on. But my burden, my burden tonight is to share with you my heart. And I want to use this verse. If you're familiar with this in Acts the 17th chapter, notice what it says in verse number 15 Acts 17, verse 15. They that conducted Paul brought him unto Athens, and receiving a commandment on uh into unto Silas and Timotheus for to come to him with all speed they departed. Now, while Paul waited for them at Athens, his spirit was stirred in him when he saw the city wholly given to idolatry. Let me pray. Father, I want to be a blessing. I love this dear pastor. I thank you for him and for this church and God there. They're just drive to to to reach this area and uh and to take the gospel where it's never been taken before. And I thank you for that. And I pray that you'd help me to be a blessing and speak to hearts, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen I'm seventy-four years old. I'm as excited about what God's doing now as I think I've ever been in my life I really mean that. I uh I I I j I d these are wonderful days to live and wonderful days t to minister, wonderful days to preach Trouble is that most preachers don't want to be an Isaiah or Jeremiah or Ezekiel. Those are end time preachers. They don't they didn't get much results. You know, and uh so on. We want we want to preach back in the in the seventies and eighties when everything was flourishing and going. But the real truth is probably we need preaching now more than any time ever, ever in our country we need preaching. And uh old-fashioned Holy Ghost heaven-sent preaching. And uh and I'm I'm glad. I I I I don't know about I don't know, do you get stirred up in your heart? I mean really stirred up in your heart when you see something like this You get stirred in your heart when the preaching of the Word of God goes forth and you hear that, you get stirred up. Because if we don't get stirred up, I'm afraid there's going to be a lot more problems down the road for our churches and our country Uh I'm I thank God that uh I still get stirred up about the Great Commission. You know, I've been to India ten times. You know the Hindu religion has over three hundred million gods 300 million gods in the Hindu religion in India. We were there a couple of years ago and uh we had we were sitting having lunch with Dr. Chiryan and the staff and the American preachers and so on and and uh All of a sudden uh uh one of the uh men from the uh staff came in and said something to Dr. Cherion and he looked startled and he said something to his wife and then they They said to us and said uh we just got bad news. In their Christian school they have a this little girl's five years old. She's from a Hindu family It's five or I think she's five years old, she's a kindergarten. And they and they live just outside the campus in a home there. And this man is a businessman and makes a lot of money and has really, even though he's a Hindu And the family's devoted Hindus, they have really helped Dr. Chiron in the college and so on. Well the young girl went home and she had a pain so they called and uh or no, they took her to a what d you would never call a hospital. It was just a place where there was a some kind of medical aid. And the doctor or the person who is uh uh caring for their the little girl gave her some medicine to kind of knock out the pain and killed her She died. Stopped her heart. And of course they they came uh we we we heard about it so we run actually ran across the campus to try to get to the house. We got there the same time the ambulance came And uh and the mother and father in the car following the ambulance, and when they got to the house, she ran over and jerked the back door of uh the of the ambulance and reached in, took the dead body of the little girl five years old, and she's screaming screaming and the people had gathered the neighbors and the grandmother was sitting on the on the uh uh on the ground and she's banging her head on the steps going up to the porch and blood was streaming down her face and she's screaming and crying out and everybody's wailing and just all this terrible and I just stood there and wept and wept and Dr. Cheer and wept and Dr. Jeff Code always just stood there and wept at this tremendous, tremendous event happening at the death of this little girl. And then the mother started screaming, screaming up in the air, screaming, just screaming and screaming and screaming. And wow my The next day at lunch, Mrs. Chiron said to us to us preachers and Americans said, I want to tell you what that mother was doing. She said, and what she was saying, do you remember when I said yes? I all said yes, remember. And she was screaming because her Hindu god, Kali. Was that was her Hindu God? She was screaming out to the Cali and she's saying, I trusted you. You have eyes that cannot see. You have hands that cannot touch. You have feet that do not walk You have a heart of stone. You have ears that cannot hear. We gave you all that money, and you let my daughter die. You break ity, blank ity, blank ity, blank That's where people live. That's their gods. And that stirs my heart. And that stirs my soul. Dominican Republic given over to the Catholics and Mexicans to the Catholic religion and Islam and darkness everywhere. Heathens are blinded. Seems as though nobody seems to care but a few The world's dying and going to hell. And nobody seems to care. Thank God there are churches like yours that do something, actively do something, but not many. Not many. It's about time we got stirred up. But I said, how are we going to get stirred up, preacher? Because I've been hearing this. Haven't you been hearing preaching about the missions for almost all your Christian life? If you've been on a member of this church, you've heard it. People are going to Baptist churches and they've been members of those Baptist churches and still they still even though they heard missionary after missionary, they've met missionary after missionary, and though they've been to every missionary conference of church Maybe they've gone all the time or something part of the time, but they know and they understand that there's a world out here that needs the gospel and they're supposed to be doing something to do about it. But you know what? They're unmoved. They're unchallenged. Nothing seems to change them. And so on. That stirs my heart. But you know what? It's not just true there, it's true everything. I I got the thing, and also I get stirred in my heart because of the lack of knowledge that people have about the power of God and revival. I was uh preaching in Indiana about seven or eight years ago. Dr. Hamlin got me into that church. I didn't know the preacher. Good man though. And um so I was gonna preach for him Sunday morning, Sunday night. So I was in his office on Sunday morning and we were sitting and sitting there just kind of chit chatting and everything and And he was telling me a little about the work there. And I said to him, I said, Well preacher, I said, I was going to preach on Sunday morning in the morning service and then at night. And I said, Is there anything I can do with anything I can do to be a blessing to you? And he says, Well Well, I guess we need revival. I said, Well, okay. And I said, Can I ask you a question? I want to ask you the question too. I said, what has to happen in that auditorium this morning or tonight that'll make you call your pastor friends and say, man, we had revival in our church last night. He looked at me. It's like And he finally just fell back in his chair, looking at me, all the time looking at me. He said, you know, I've been a pastor here for 16 years, Brother Schindler. He said, I want no revival if it walked in the front door and introduced itself to me. A lot of people don't understand what revival, they don't understand what it is. So and I thought, m how in the world could we, how in the world could we have revival if we don't even know what we're praying for or what we want? That's really the the real truth is. You know how we know we need We need revival? We take a look at our own lives. We look at our own hearts. We look at the sin that we have not confessed. We look at the grudges that we carry in our hearts. We look at our apathy. We look at our we look at the way we stalemate. We look at the fact that God is dealing with our hearts. I I I preached this morning something if you have you heard this preacher. I I get something happened to me about six months ago. Just I never had and I've heard this over and over, somebody do this, but it just come over me, well the preacher did that. I preached my heart out, just preached on revival, preached on getting right with it, preached on responding to the Holy Spirit. Just obey the Holy Spirit, obey God, and preach. Give the invitation. Nobody came. I want to tell you something. That's probably the hardest thing. To contend with in the preacher, no seeing no results when you're preaching. And so the preacher got up. I think he was a little bit antsy about it. So he got up and said, uh, how many, how many had God speak to you during that message tonight? Real kind. And people raised their hand all over the service. I I don't say I got mad, but I got really indignant. I said, wait a minute, can I ask you a question? I said, now you just raised your hand and said that God spoke to your heart. Why are you in your pew? You mean to tell me that God spoke to your heart in the message and you don't do anything about it and you want us to pray for you? You mean to tell me you're going to raise your hand and say, God spoke to my heart, but pray for me? What am I supposed to pray? God kill you? What am I supposed to pray? How do I pray for that? That they won't answer to God, they won't obey God, God speaks to heart, and they don't pay any attention? That'd be like you. You had a son and you said, Son And it's and and by the way, it i it's it's allowance day. So your son comes, you said, Son, go feed the dog. He said, Daddy, I don't want to do that. Go feed the dog, son. Say daddy, I'll do it tomorrow. You'd be a hampicapper, wouldn't you? Oh yeah. Oh you'd give him his allowance too, wouldn't you? I don't believe so. No, no, no, no. Why do we believe that God would bless us? If we don't do what he says? Why would we believe that God would give us kokura allowance if we don't respond In a positive way to God's speaking to our hearts. And yet, in our services, over and over, over and over, God speaks to us, and we don't respond. We don't respond. And I want to tell you something, it's just if we're gonna have revival You know, somebody said this: revival is when God takes the mask of hypocrisy off the lives of his people. He removes the mask of hypocrisy. From the lives of our people. Can I ask you a question? This is I I want you to know, by the way, I have about the highest regards And respect for this man of God and this church of any church and any church I've been in. And I mean that. You may not feel that way when I'm preaching. But I I do believe that. But you know what? I want to ask you something. If do you today believe in your heart that God gets angry with his people. I asked the preacher that. He was a Calvinist. But he's also one of these innovative type guys, one of these contemporary, you know. And I says, do you believe that God gets angry with his people? Today. He thought for a second or two, and he said, Well, no, I said, really, he said, This is a day of grace, and this is a grace, this is a day of God's love and grace, and so on I said, so Jesus is not the same yesterday, today, and forever. He's not the same. You read the Old Testament, that what is that? The Israelites are some kind of evil monsters? God's people all down through the years is just kind of evil, and we aren't. But sometimes I believe that God's people no longer fear God because they don't really believe that God gets angry at their sin. They don't really believe that God they they have been sought they have been given this idea that God is some old I I say they believe that God's a sugar daddy You know what a sugar daddy is? It's somebody who supports another person in their life of sin. A man is a sugar daddy to his his uh hearted girlfriend. What's he doing? He's taking care of her See? And a lot of people say, well, you know, I I believe God's blessing me and so on. Okay? Here's what I say. I I I get stirred up about this stuff. Please pray for me because I really get stirred up. Because where we go, no we're seeing? No power. No power. Preacher, I was in this in church service uh three months, four months ago, and it was in a large church. Runs about a thousand. Got a national ministry. I named the preacher you know, or know of him. And uh so There was about six of us in this in this class with this pastor. This pastor is fifty-four years old, been in the ministry about twenty-eight, twenty-nine, thirty years. Pastor of a large church. Well respected. And so he uh he was teaching in there how that uh today it's different He said today, he said, uh we live in an electronic age, we live in a you know people live lives different, they're they're on and on and on, all about the society and how it is And he said, now I know this, and he said, I'm fifty-four, and so I can I can minister to people twenty years younger than me and twenty years older than me. Well, I can't minister to teenagers. They won't listen to me. Now he's not talking about being a youth director. He's talking about preaching to them. Talking about being their pastor. And he said, so I I I in fact there was a man there in the class that had been working with the youth ministry in that ministry. For and he turned 40 and he took him out of the ministry because he's no 40-year-old man can uh can can relate to teenagers. And took him out and broke his heart. You could see him, he looked like a broken man. Then he looks at me Looks out at me and he says, Some of you older men need to get out of the way. You need to go fishing. You need to go get your rocking chair because you're irrelevant. That's what he said. And I sit there saying, what? So we went out we went out to l had lunch. I had lunch together. And I'm such a nice, sweet guy. I couldn't wait. So I said, Are you serious what you said? He said, Yes. I said, Well, what about what I preached 30 or 40 years ago from the Word of God? Was it relevant then? He said, Probably. But it's not relevant now. Now watch this. He I said, so it's not relevant now And he went like that. I said, why? Here's the word of God. He says, now what you say is how you say it. So I'm not relevant right now According to that preacher, I am not relevant because of the way I'm preaching to you, how I'm saying what I'm saying. That's what he said. So then he got talking about electronics. And uh and and the ministry today and and all it So as we were talking, they had this this young man, assistant pastor of some kind, he's some staff member, sitting there, and he was about maybe in the late thirties. And he kind of, you know, now here I am, 74 years old, going to be saved 52 years, pastored for 40 years. Had a Bible college for thirty-eight years in my ministry in Michigan and in Pennsylvania. I'm no l I'm not some little kid, I'm I'm not the wisest and And you know the uh the owls do not come to me and wisdom will not die with me, but y you can gain a little bit, don't you think, a little bit of experience in forty years of pastor. So he says, Well you preach against electronics. When have I ever preached against electronics? So I said to him. Why don't you I said uh well what do you mean they talk about the uh uh overheads uh you know overhead screens and uh uh the websites and and all that stuff, you know So I said to him, I said, Why don't you ask me what I believe about overhead projectors, overhead screens? Why don't you go ahead and ask me? He said, okay. I said, what do you think about it? I said, you really want to know? He says, yeah. And I want to say, you little squirt. Somebody I'll take you out behind the bar and spank you. Talking. You talk to me like that. I said, go ahead. So I said, do you use do you use a a flannograph or overheads or any kind of visuals in your teaching? He said, Yes. I said Duh, what's wrong with using an overhead then? I said, but when you come to preaching. He said, you think it's wrong to use it for preaching? I said, no. I don't think so. But would you consider this? I'm not I've seen this guy preach. You know that the message he preaches is mixed up with the messenger You know that? You can't separate the message from the messenger. And he gets that preaching and walking around shaking his finger, man, you wow, and you said, boy, the preacher's mule got loose. And part of how he preaches is part of the message. I said, when you're preaching, all of a sudden you stop and you point to your overhead, or you flick the overhead, everybody looks up there. They take the off the eyes off of the message as well as the messenger. And I said, You're gonna lose something. And uh so I said so I turned to the preacher after that and I said, You got all electronics, don't you? He said, Yeah. I said, You got the website? Yeah, I got and the Urent? Yes. I said But you don't have the power of God, do you? He hung his head. Shru said no. What good's all that then? And by the way, don't try and start a church in I can't say Cas Caskay. Process that? Because you may not have an overhead projector and you may not have mics, you may not have air conditioning and You may not have full-color brochures. Oh, how are you gonna start church with full-color brochures? And a website. Ah, wow. No, do you think that maybe the power of God on your ministry and on your life would help you to start a church in whatever condition, whatever country you go to? We got some idea. By listening to these people that somehow that we gotta get all these things. I preached a message. I didn't preach it here, did I preach it here? Looking for grass instead of uh looking for grass instead of rain Years that about three years ago I preached a message and uh I told about Elijah. Elijah had prayed, and I think he prayed and asked God to stop it from raining because he pointed back to Deuteronomy 28, 29, 30, where God said if the Israelites did not do what's right, he was going to chastise them and judge them. And send them famine and so on. So I think I think Elijah said, hey, look at the Israel is is n worshiping Baal, they're idolatrous, they're far away from you, and you're not doing anything about it That's the hardest answer what Habakkuk said. Habakkuk said, and Habakkuk of the first chapter, he told God, he said, Habakkuk's burden, and then it says what he did see What he saw was that seemingly God was just not doing anything about sin in people's lives and sin in the Israelites' life And Jesus said, you just wait around. I'm not done yet. That's paraphrasing. Well, so Elijah prays, and God stops, stops the rain for three and a half years Now you you have to stop a minute think about that. Last summer my I flew into uh uh into uh Dallas Fort Worth uh uh uh uh uh re uh air airfield uh to go be with Rex uh uh Rex Cobb down at the Baptist Bible Translation Institute. And uh and they had just I think there's like the 107th day of that f of that drought. No rain for 107 days in Texas. When you flew in and looked out the window, it looked like you're landing on burnt toast. I mean it was brown, brindle brown, tremendous, and death and dearth and everywhere, crops dying, people dying, and And animals dying and a hundred and s but this is three and a half years. No rain. Because of judgment of God And then, of course, after the brook died or dried up, and he went to the widow Zarephath, God says, okay, I want you to go confront Ahab, the wicked king. So you go to the 18th chapter, we find Ahab, the wicked king, and Obadiah, the backslidden preacher, they're riding around in their riding around in their donkeys, and they were looking for grass patches I said, what are they looking for grass for? They need rain. You know what rain represents? Revival. You know what we do in our ministry, in our life, our homes and everything, and we are looking for grass when we should be looking for rain We need God. We need God's power. We need God, the supernaturally, show up in our service and show up in our preaching. Show up in our life. Show up in our prayer life. We need God. We need rain. We don't need to go get another grass patch. I'll be honest, preacher. What I did in the last maybe fifteen years, I traveled to this church, that church, that church, and that church, that ministry, and that ministry, looking for a grass patch What are you doing? Oh man, you're going. What are you doing? Tell me. I'll take that home. I'll put that little grass patch in my grass patch. I was looking for grass. But the real truth, I could stand on a lake Genesaret shore, like Peter stood with Jesus, and Jesus said, cast out your nets for a drought. Peter says, Master, we have toiled all night and taken nothing Nevertheless, at thy word will let down the net. And he let down a net instead of the nets. Again, there's that partial obedience. Partial obedience. And so what we see here is God's wanting to send revival on God's. Our church is a dying, folks. They're dying. And they ain't because of bad preachers either. And sometimes it's more because of bad people than bad preachers because bad people push the envelope. and and put the pressure on the preacher all the time. They're always pushing the envelope, can can let up on the standards, let up the pressure and so on and and so on. And So they look at their budget and they look at their people and they know they're not growing and they know they got bills to pay and everything, so they start tiptoe through the tithers Don't want to make anybody mad. So now we don't want to make any mad. Anybody mad? We don't want to say anything that's not political correct. And we don't want so we're gonna pet them all the time. Pet 'em all the time. Talk about how sweet they are. We say we know you've had such a hard time. Oh my goodness. You know, we're so busy and And you I know you're having all kinds of problems and everything. I mean your computer crashed out. Oh, how are you gonna live? Oh, somebody said something about you on Facebook. Facebook, oh what are you gonna do? So many problems. What what Here? Oh, what Who are you? You're a Reverend so-and-so from where? Seventeen seventeen? Wow, in the New England? What? You want us to pray for you? Because what? You're going to prison tomorrow for preaching the gospel? That your daughter was slaughtered for her faith in Christ? And your pastor is going to prison? Oh, that's trouble. Well we whine and cry over every little problem. And I found this out because I found it my own true life. That I sometimes served God and dedicated my life to God to the point of inconvenience. People today need revival because they serve God to the point of inconvenience. Preacher, I'd take a bus route, but man, I'm not going to give up my Saturdays for nobody. I go fishing on Saturday. That's my day. Or the mother says, I'm not going to do that. That's my day for whatever. So we do not have the attitude, dear Lord, here I am. I'll do whatever you want to do. I'll go anywhere you want to go. I'll be anything you want me to be. We have given our lives. And so it's kind of like this. Lord, you tell me what you want me to do, and I'll let you know whether I do it or not. And that's where our churches are. Now, the problem is we don't recognize sometimes in our churches how desperately Desperately, desperate we are. Because we lost our song. We lost our joy. We've lost the thrill. You know what new churches do today? They tried to set up a worship service to put excitement into the church. By program. One of the most exciting thing about life is serving God. You don't need to prop it up and build it up. If our hearts are right and sold out and dedicated to Him, guess what, man? It's exciting. Gold that God. I just uh about three days ago, uh I spent about, oh, probably an hour and a half sitting in a chair just going over my life. And I got to thanking the Lord for his goodness to me. And I got to thank God. I'm telling you, I had a spell. Lord, I got man, I just haven't. Time I got to thinking the Lord for my wife and her love for me, she'd obviously can you imagine anybody loving me? She loves me And so when I got to thinking about all the goodness of God, thanking God for all the places He sent me and every all my friends. I thank Him for you and for my friends and everything. I got to say, Glory to God, what a life to live. What a wonderful life. Well you know why I'm preaching messages like this, preacher? Because I hope on the arrow. Of conviction from the Holy Spirit would hit some of your people. And they say, I'm sick and tired of being sick and tired, preacher. I'm tired of the lost and Tired of fighting. Our preacher saying, now I'm tired of fighting. Had one preacher tell me he dropped all the standards. Drew a lot drew a circle around his church property and said, This is the only place that we're going to have standards on. We'll tell my leaders and tell my uh church family that when they come to church this is where you keep what you wear at home, what you do at home, what you listen to at home, and what you watch at home between you and God. I'm going to only worry about this. And it put an elephant on the on the horizon of his ministry. That was two years ago. I saw him the other day. I said, hey preacher, the elephant's in your driveway. It's about to be in your auditorium. Because he got tired of fighting. So he got tired of fighting. And I told him, you need to get out of the ministry. Tired of fighting. Because that's what the ministry is. It's a fight. You fight the flesh and the devil and the world. You fight for holiness and righteousness. You fight for the gospel. It is a battlefield, not a recreation field. But we want it to be a recreation field. We want it to be comfortable. I told everybody I tell everybody what Vance Habner said, I come to comfort the afflicted and afflict the comforted. Mm? And it's time that we woke up to our own selves and our own need. So let me ask you a question. Are you living in revival right now? Or do you care? One of the things is many of us don't care. But we're not getting our prayers answered. We're serving God without the power of God. We're not happy. We don't have any joy. We always have to be propped up, pushed, prodded, pleated. Just to get you to almost be in church where you're supposed to be. Why? Could it be our hearts are really cold? Could it be that we really do have a lot of unconfessed sin in our life? Could it be that we don't even care? Could that be? I wonder what God has to do. See, it stirs me up. I'm stirred. Can you tell I'm stirred? I'm stirred up about these things. I'm stirred up. I'm stirred up our churches are going worldly, worldly as hell, man. Worldly. Worldly music. Worldly entertainment. Worldly programs. Worldly. You go to some church like going to a burlesco. Ari Tori. He went to a church to preach. This is supposed to be a true story. It's in his biography or something. uh one of the books I read about it. He sat there, he got there early and talked to a preacher. The preacher went to do something, so he just sat down. He was sitting at the end of a like the second pew On the end. And he turned around and a lady come in. A woman come in and sat behind in the pew on the end over here. Right behind him. And she was dressed really immodest. So he turned and nodded to her and said hello. So did you come to church dressed like that to take the minds of the men of this church off of God and the Word of God and put it on you? She got saved that night, by the way. But you'd have had a heart attack if a preacher did that. But that's what I want to ask when I go to church something Did you I I've seen women come in, I said, Do you I I want to say walk up and say, Did you come to church like that? In fact, I I was preaching in a revival in Missouri last week An 18-year-old boy sitting over here on this side, he kept looking over to a girl on the on the other side, 16-year-old girl by the way, and he kept winking at her. And and so and I'm preaching my guts out up here, and I saw him twice. Wink at her. And she's over there giggling and everything. I went up to him after the service quietly, pulled him aside. That's a kind of shoe question I said, did God tell you to flirt with that girl over there to keep her mind off of the preaching and the word of God and put it on you? He just hung his head. He hung his head. And he didn't come back to church. Pouting. Pouty. Huh? I think good time for mom and dad to exercise a little discipline. To see we're we're just not thinking spiritually about things anymore. Let me ask you a question. Are you living in a state of revival? Are you completely sold out to the Lord? Unreservedly. Without question. God I only wanted one thing in my life please you. God, I want to honor you. I want to obey you. I'll do whatever you want me to do. I'll go anywhere you want me to go. I'll be anything you want me to be. God, here am I. I want to please you and only you. Is how you live your life? When you start living that life you're gonna you're gonna experience revival. Do you ever notice how? How many of how many of you in a service where the preacher preached on revival? Hold up your hand. Do you notice that you got uncomfortable? Why do you get uncomfortable? I'm not uncomfortable preaching it. Why are you uncomfortable? It's called conviction. It's called conviction, Holy Ghost conviction. It's God dealing with your heart. And as I said in the beginning of the message, what are you going to do about it? Don't ask me to pray for you. I'll pray for you, but I'll pray God pour it on. Keep it. Man, don't let him sleep. Don't let him sleep. Don't let her sleep. Pour it on. Make it so she can't they can't function, man. I'm I'm just so much under conviction. See, I got to get to God. I've got to get right with God It's called conviction. It's called repentance. It's called getting right with God. It's called making the Lord. It's all a challenge you tonight. Are you living a revival? Now, what can happen? This is what happens. Now here let's let's get into Baptist mode for a minute. The Baptist mode. The Baptist anthem. You know what the Baptist anthem is? I shall not be, I shall not be moved There's three things that never change, God, the devil, and the Baptist. But the real truth is you need to change And if you're not changing, you need to change the method of your changing. It ain't working. But God sent conviction in your heart tonight. You need to hit an old-fashioned altar and say, God forgive me. Give me my joy back. I give you my life. I give you my life. I want to serve you. Do whatever you want me to do. Give me my joy back. Lord, I want you and I want your power and I want your blessings in my life And let's start getting right with God. Let's start doing something. Let's really make it right. But this is where the wheel, this is where the tower hits the roll right here. In a public invitation, whether you mean business or not. Whether you really want revival or not. Whether you're really listening to the Holy Spirit working in your heart tonight. What are you going to do? Stand on our feet and bow our heads, please. Father in heaven. Oh God, what a I'm I'm stirred, Lord, I'm stirred, I'm stirred in my heart. Oh, the potential. The potential that's in our churches today. Lord, I pray that you'd speak to hearts tonight. Holy Spirit, convict and help us. Every head bowed and every eye closed, a pen is going to play. And if God spoke to your heart, you slip out of your seat and come and talk to God about what he talked to you about That's it. Come on. Come on. Let's get real. Come on. Let's get real. Let's get serious about God. Let's get serious about His will for our life. Let' Yet serious The world's going to hell. God bless you. Come on, somebody. I may be here tonight and you're not saved. You come. We'll take a Bible and show you how to save. Come on. That's it. God bless you. Somebody else God's speaking to. Come on. Slip out of his seat and come. Come on. Let's make this a memorable night. Let's make it a beginning. Revival is a new beginning of obedience to God. Let's get a new fresh start. Let's ask Him forgive us, cleanse us, purify our motives, our intents, our lives. Help us. Hello, Jesus, no turning back. No turning back. Father in heaven, thank you for this message tonight. I needed this, God. And thank you for Brother Schindler and his wife. And bless us, help us to carry through now, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you.