Here's the situation. God's called Jonah to go to Nineveh and preach to the Nineveh the message, the word that God has for them. And uh instead of going, Jonah has a contention with God's call, and uh he turns around and goes the other way. I think I got this on, Dave. There we go. And uh Jonah has a little bit of a contention with God's call. Does anybody here ever have God doing something like that? And um it's usually best to go ahead and trust the Lord and go ahead with it, you know. That that's been my experience anyway. So Jonah takes can has a little contention here, and um he decides to go the other direction. He makes a decision, we said uh to not go where God called him to do. He sets out in his destination. There's a descent and uh there's a departure Uh departure there. I don't think I did that Uh and so God steps in. So Jonah is uh cold of God a little strong there, Dave. And uh this is Dave's first night back there, so give him a break. I'm kidding. Uh anyway, um God calls him. Jonah says no. Jonah heads off to uh Tarshish. And uh God intervenes. Thank God that he intervenes in our plans when we're going to ray. Amen. Thankful for that. And um uh God intervenes and he chastens Jonah. Remember we said chastening is correction God's getting him back on track, correcting his direction he's going in his life. God does it through two means. First of all is the storm, and that's what we've been looking at. Then he sends the fish, the great fish, that's what comes next And uh depending on how Jonah responds to the storm, is uh the uh depending on his response there, uh determines whether he has to face the fish or not And that's my message tonight is I'm the more I study this, I'm coming to the conclusion that if Jonah had responded correctly to the storm, he would not have gone through the fish And uh we'll see that and I'll try and uh tell you show you why I'm thinking that way. But there's a series of events take place in the storm, and I went down through that. I tried to alliterate them. Uh he's uh He's in you have the intervention of the Lord, he sends the storm, you have the intensity of this storm. It's nothing like they've ever seen before. It's obviously of a supernatural s uh um source behind the storm. Uh then the assailors are intimidated and then Jonah is indifferent. The captain's indignant They begin an investigation by the crew and they grill Jonah, figure out who he is, where he's from, why this is happening, what's going on, and the investigation, then the interrogation. Now we come up to verse 11 And uh this thing comes to a head. Look at verse 11. Then said they unto him, They've come to the conclusion, the storm is of God. Jonah is a man of God. Jonah is doing something wrong. He's fleeing from the Lord. That's why this storm is here Then said they unto him, What shall we do unto thee, that the sea may be calm unto us? For the sea wrought and was tempestuous. I get a little hint here. Let me just throw this out. I get a little hint here. Their respect for Jonah has greatly diminished. Notice what they say. What should we do to you? That the sea may be calm unto us. You know, so they're kind of separating themselves from it here a little bit, I think. For the sea wrought and was tempestuous. And he, Jonah, said unto them, Take me up, and cast me forth into the sea. So shall the sea be calm unto you. For I know that for my sake this great tempest is upon you Nevertheless, the men rode hard to bring it to the land, but they could not, for the sea was wrought and was tempestuous against them. Wherefore they cried unto the Lord and said, We beseech thee, O Lord, we beseech thee. Let us not perish for this man's life. And lay not upon us innocent blood, for thou, O Lord, hast done as it pleased thee. So they took up Jonah, and cast him forth into the sea, and the sea ceased from her raging. Then the men feared the Lord exceedingly, and offered a sacrifice unto the Lord, and made vows. I called tonight's lesson, this study here, Missionary Overboard. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father, I'm grateful for this book and the lessons that are here for us Lord, uh we have a tremendous respect for missionaries, yet at the same time we understand, Father, they're just people that have the same struggles and the same issues that we deal with as Christians here at home. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us learn from this man and this experience that we can trust you and obey you, and uh your will is the best And so please bless. Fill me with your spirit, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, his rebellion's been exposed. Everybody on the ship knows he's fleeing from God. And that's what brought this storm. Well, now what? Number one, this is my first point here tonight. Jonah, I believe, in verse number 11, is at a crossroads I think this is a very crucial point in Jonah that he's already had one when God called him to go to Nineveh. Jonah made a decision. That was a crossroads there. Am I going to trust and obey God, do what he says No doubt he had his life laid out. No doubt he had family he wanted to enjoy. No doubt he had things in place. God calls him to go to Nineveh, pack up everything, go over there. Jonah makes a decision. No, I'm not doing that And so then he's in the situation he's in. I think verse 11, he's at another crossroads. There's another decision to be made. Look what it says. Then they said unto him, What shall we do unto thee, that the sea may be calm unto us? For the sea wrought was um and was tempestuous In the middle of this storm, out in the middle of the sea, he's at a crossroads. I think he has a decision to make here, as I said. The decision is this I believe he could have at this point repented of his sin of rebellion against God and submitted to God. Now I'm speculating here a little bit, but this is The impression I'm getting studying this, he could have said, fellas, I'm fronting from God. God's called me to go to Nineveh I rebelled against it. I'm going to repent from that rebellion. I'm going to go to Nineveh. I'm going to submit to what God has called me to do. Turn this ship around. Get me back to Joppa. And we're going to be alright Now my again, I'm speculating here, and I wonder if he hadn't humbled himself and submitted himself to God, that God wouldn't have shown grace. Calmed storm, and he could have made it back. That's my thinking. What does 2 Chronicles 7. 14 say? My people which are called by my name shall what? humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then will I forgive their sin and heal their land. And um Something else. And what? Hear from heaven and forgive the sin and heal their lamb. So uh that's a principle there. Bible says resist the devil Submit yourselves therefore to God and uh and uh uh humble yourself before the Lord and he'll give you grace. I'm murdering these verses here But there's a principle there. When we humble ourselves before God, we acknowledge our sin. We repent from it. God is very merciful. But I don't see Jonah doing that. Back to in my mind, what should we do? He could have said, I'm wrong, I'm sinning against God, I'll turn around, I'm going to make it back. By the way, repentance is more than just saying I'm wrong. Repentance is stop turning around and doing right. Right? It's a complete change of mind. He's admitted he's done wrong, but he certainly hasn't repented. He's not doing what God called him to do. His other decision, his other option at this crossroads out in the middle of a storm in the middle of a sea is he can resist God's call, continue on in his resistance, and pay a heavy price. And um that's what he does. Look what he says here. What shall be done unto thee? Well, we'll get to that. I'm getting a little ahead of myself here. I find It's very characteristic of our Lord to give people an opportunity to make things right when they've done wrong. God is very patient. Anybody find that to be true? God is very patient. And many times you'll find in scripture where somebody did something wrong, God will just hold back for a little bit. And he'll give that person an opportunity to come clean. He'll give that person an opportunity to come and say, Lord, I've done wrong. I've sinned against you and confess it and forsake it and find mercy. Now I can think of two. I know there's others, maybe you'll think of some, but I think of I I thought of Adam. Right at the beginning, when Adam and Eve disobeyed God, they went and hid themselves The Bible says that God came down to the Garden of Eden at a certain time of the day. Anybody recall offhand what it says? In the cool of the day, when would that be? I believe that would be of the evening, just as things are cooling down at the end of the day. That tells me now, I don't know what time of day Adam and Eve sin But I get the impression in reading that, God let a whole day go by. God let a good period of time go by. God was just waiting. And again, it's some speculation on my part, but I wonder if God wasn't giving Adam the opportunity to come and seek the Lord, find the Lord, and say, Lord, I messed up. I'm so sorry I've done wrong. Instead, what did he do? He hid himself And God had to come and approach him. Now, when God did approach him, he came clean. The other one I thought of in the Bible that God gave an opportunity when they did wrong, gave him an opportunity to get right, was Achan. Classic example Achan had that hidden, you know, some time goes by, they go to the next battle, they lose that. All that time, Achan could have come clean Thirty-six men are killed at Ai, uh unnecessarily, because God's hand of protection, sin had separated them from God. They come back, uh Joshua begins crying after God, something's wrong, something's wrong. God says Basically says, oh, quit your whining, they're sitting the camp. That whole time, Achan could have come and said I did wrong. Then God gives this long process to go through, breaking down by the tribes, and then the families, and then the households, and then the f the the ha families within the households. And this long, elaborate process goes by, and I like to picture in my mind uh Aiken standing there and the whole time and He's thinking, you know, I can pull this off. There's no way anybody knows. There's no way anybody knows. Lo and behold, his tribe is selected. Then his family and then his household. And it's narrowing down. It's getting tighter and tighter and tighter till he's in line. I think at any point there he could have stepped up and said, wait a minute, I'm the one I did wrong. And God was giving him opportunity to to make things right And I think God's doing that for Jonah. He sent this storm. This is obviously of God. Jonah recognizes it's of God. He knows why this storm is hitting. It's very clear. He's admitted it to the sailors. And now they say, all right, what should we do? What do we got to do to make things right? And Jonah persists in his rebellion. And um basically says he'd rather die than uh than do what God's called him to do. Now uh for the sake uh again uh maybe I'm looking through distorted glasses here, maybe I'm being a little too biased, but My respect for these sellers, the more I'm studying this book, my respect for these sellers has gone up. My respect for Jonah has gone down I see not only in this verse did Jonah have a decision. What are we going to do? He has to decide, tell him. But there's a real dignity on the part of the sailors, I think. Jonah just admitted it's his fault. Look at the last part of verse 13. For the men knew that he fled from the presence of the Lord because he told him. Now, you think in our modern day, uh if somebody did something that was endangering your life, And your livelihood. They did something stupid, and because of their actions, my life is in danger. I've lost all my profit of this my v my employment Uh we've thrown everything overboard. Uh would you agree with me? I'd be pretty aggravated with that guy But you don't find that on these guys. Now no doubt they are, but they don't expect express it. They treat him very respectfully, I think, under the circumstances They're not calling him names. They're not treating him with derision. They're just being very matter-of-fact. I think we need to be real careful. We as Christians need to be real careful about our treatment and our attitude towards people who are out of sorts with God. We need to be real careful about calling people names, and I've I'm in you know I've been among preachers and uh I hope I've not been guilty of it. Perhaps I have, but uh I tried I don't want to be Uh calling people who maybe are liberal, whatever calling people names and deriding them and being hateful to them and being mean to them and and treating them disrespectfully, I'll tell you something that will help us, if and helps me, is if we will just keep in mind, regardless of how foolish that person's actions are, Jesus Christ thought they were worth dying for. And so we've got to keep that in mind, and that's what the Lord spoke to Ma. These sailors, these are unsaved men at this point And they really treat him very respectfully, I think, under the circumstances. I put this down. Disobedience to God does not justify unkindness Jonah was being very disobedient to God to the point where their lives were endangered, but I don't see any unkindness on the part of the sailors to this person. Isn't it sad when unsaved people treat others better than saved people do sometimes? That's a tragedy. And so these sailors, you know, they're just um what do we got to do? And I'm I think they're very serious. They're very firm here. Their lives are at stake. What do we got to do to make this right? They don't say, what are you going to do to make this right, you moron, you stupid jerk? They're not saying stuff like that. They're just being pretty respectful. Now there is something, a statement here I thought was interesting, just trivia Look at the last part of verse 11. For the sea wrought and was tempestuous. Now what does that mean? Why would God use that terminology? Why got looking up those words and how they're used other places in Scripture, I get this idea This storm is getting worse. The word wrought there means working up, increasing, going forward in intensity. And tempestuous has the idea of a whirlwind type thing. So the whole time they're in this conversation, the whole time the interrogation is going on, the whole time they're uh trying to find out what to do, this thing is getting worse and getting worse and getting worse. In fact, if you come down to verse uh number uh thirteen. Look at the last part of verse 13. For the sea wrought is still working up and was tempestuous against that I mean it is getting more intense as time's gone by. This thing is building and building and building. Do you see the pictures of that storm over in in um in the Philippines? Good heavens. I was reading one article, the the worst storm on record, the strongest storm on the history of of recording storms I'm wondering where Jonah's storm would fall in on that thing if it would be something to that degree. Whatever the case is, this thing is out of hand. It's getting worse. Number two, so first of all, you have Jonah at the crossroads. Alright, what are you going to do, Jonah? What do we got to do to make things right? Submit, repent and submit, or resist and suffer. Well, number Roman two, we have Jonah's commitment to rebellion. Look what he says. And he said unto them, he said unto them, Take me up and cast me forth into the sea. So shall the sea be calm unto you. For I know that for my sake this great tempest is upon you. Now, as I always do, I got a I have a series of commentaries and I like to see what these guys say in different ones And almost to a commentary, they said that Jonah was repenting here. And that this was his repentance. He realized he sinned, he was going to die. I disagree with that. What did God call Jonah to do? Did God call Jonah to be cast into a sea and die? No. God called Jonah to go to Nineveh. And so if he's not going to Nineveh, here's Nineveh, this is Joppah, he's on his way to Joppa, a storm comes up, obviously from God, because he's fleeing from the presence of the Lord. And he's going to repent. Throwing him in the sea is not what the storm was there for. Him dying is not the purpose of the storm. The purpose of the storm is to get Jonah to turn around and do what? Go to Nineveh. That's what his repentance would consist of in my mind. I'm going this way, I'm going against the will of God. God's throwing all these obstacles up and the storm and trying to get me not to do this and do that. And I say, all right, just kill me instead of sending me, taking me back. That is not repentance, that's rebellion. That is getting such a hardened heart that I will die before I'm going to do what God says. Now that sounds extreme, but you know, in my years in the ministry, I found people do something that same principle all the time. I'll destroy my life before I do what God says. I'll ruin my future. I'll let my whole life go down the tubes and be absolutely of no value when I stand before the judgment seat of Christ rather than do what God told me to do. Isn't that a tragedy? And that's that's I think is what Jonah's mentality is here. His rebellion is so thorough that he would rather destroy himself than obey God. I notice several things here in this verse. The first part of verse 12, I notice he's indifferent to the others' well-being And uh look what he says. He said unto them, Take me up and cast me forth into the sea. If him being thrown into the sea is what's going to stop the storm, and it does eventually Then why is he telling them to throw him into the sea? Why didn't he say, well, I just need to jump in the sea and you guys will be fine? Why does he tell them to throw him and why is he putting the burden on them? Uh I think he's just indifferent. You want me to live? Okay. You guys want to live? Okay, throw me overboard. He is just could care less. Whether it's just him dying or them dying with him, he could care less. If you guys want to live, then you throw me overboard. Man alive. Isn't that the mentality of people sometimes? I'm not going to do what God says, and I don't care how it affects anybody else around me. I don't care how other people hurt. I don't care if there's people going to die and go to hell because I'm not living for God. I am not going to live for God. And he he's totally indifferent to these guys' well-being I put this down. He's unconcerned about the consequences of his actions. Look at the second part of verse 12. For I know That for my sake, this great tempest is upon you. His disobedience was bringing a storm into the lives of others Now, here's what we think sometimes. All right, I'm not doing what God wants me to do, but that's just me. No, it is never just me. My obedience or disobedience to God has a direct impact on others around us. And there are a lot of people hurt Because Christians won't obey God. And that's a fair thing. And Jonah knows that. He says it with his own lips. Listen, it's because of me, you guys are in this storm. But he's completely unconcerned about that. Here's something, and I know I'm coming down hard on him and I'm trying to make application on us, but I'm telling you, at no point do I find Jonah putting forth any effort to help rectify this situation. Nothing. He's down in the ship sleeping when the storm first comes up. They rebuke him for that. He doesn't come and offer any information. They have to come and interrogate him. Then when he finally does expose and it's his fault, he says, You want to live? You guys throw me over. He's doing nothing. Absolutely unconcerned for the well-being of others. And so you have Jonah's crossroads. He can make a decision here. Is he going to submit to God and do right, or is he going to rebel against God and suffer for it? Then uh he has a com he makes his decision and his decision I'm committed to rebellion. I'm going to do what I want to do. I don't care what God says, I'll die before I do what God says Then thirdly, I notice the sailors' concern for Jonah's life. They have more respect for him than he has for them. Look at verse 13. Nevertheless, the men rode hard to bring it to land But they could not, for the sea wrought and was tempestuous against them. Jonah says, You guys want to live? Throw me overboard and the sea will be calm. They said, Well, we can't do that. It'll kill you. You'll die. They care more about him than he cares about them. And so they dig in. And they start rowing hard. And it says, that says the men rowed hard to bring it to land Think about this. Jonah had cost them about everything they had. They had thrown all their stuff overboard. Their lives, they're about to be killed. This thing is getting worse. This ship is about to go down. And still, you know, I'm thinking and knowing me and I'm I'm on board there and this guy says this, he's cost me everything, he's just about killed me, and he says, throw me overboard and you'll live I'd probably be one of the first ones to grab him by the arm, huh? So, okay, you do this, all right, buddy, you're on over But they're not that way. They have a genuine concern for this man. And so they dig in. Nevertheless. They don't want them to die. It's interesting. I got looking up the word, nevertheless, the men rode hard. That word rode hard. I looked it up and it's translated other places in our Bible, digging, like you're digging for a well. And the idea here is, I believe, they aren't just row, row, row your boat. They are putting this thing in, and they are doing they're putting every effort they have. I'm wondering And again, this is speculation on my part. I'm trying real hard to point out when I'm speculating here. I'm wondering if they're thinking he's running from the present Lord. Let's try and turn this thing around and get him back there so this thing stops without us having to to uh uh uh without having to throw him overboard. I'm wondering if they're not trying to repent for Jonah. Here's the problem. You can't repent for someone else. I can't do right on someone else's behalf. But they try. They care about it. So they dig in. In spite of his concern, they were very much concerned about him. I thought of this. Wouldn't it be nice if Jonah had the same amount of concern for the people in Nineveh as the sailors had for Jonah? Jonah had treated these sailors the same way the Ninevites had treated the Jews. They killed them. They were unconcerned for them. Jonah was about to kill these guys. He had no concern for them. And yet these guys were compassionate and trying to save his life. And so maybe God is illustrating to Jonah, hey Jonah, look at these These unsaved sailors are being more compassionate, more concerned for you than you are for the Ninevehes. Maybe God's trying to communicate something to Jonah here. It's sad when sometimes the unsaved are more compassionate than God's people are. Then number four, I put this down real quick. The sailors cry out to God for mercy in verse number fourteen. Wherefore they cried, uh, the sea's getting worse, their their rowing doesn't do any good. Wherefore they cried unto the Lord and said, We beseech thee, O Lord, we beseech thee. Let us not perish for this man's life. And lay not upon us innocent blood, for thou, O Lord, hast done as it pleased thee. Word cry there means they're crying out loud. The wind is blowing, this thing is creaking and snapping, and the waves are crashing, it's as noisy as you can be, and these guys are at the top of their lungs crying out to God. Now they have an interesting prayer here. I tried breaking it down. I think the first thing I notice is they recognized God as Lord. Look at the word Lord there. What do you notice about it? It's all capital letters. What does that tell us? That is Jehovah. They're using not some generic term for whatever God out there They are using, in a very real sense, God's personal name. They are referencing a very specific God, the only true God, Jehovah. Now it's interesting you come back up to verse number 10, and um it says, For the men knew that he fled from the presence of the Lord. There's Jehovah. I think they're listening to Jonah and they're watching what's taking place and they're getting this information and they're coming to the conclusion: hey, this Jehovah God, he's the one. And I see here the beginnings of their salvation decision. Things are starting to click in their mind. They're starting to gain information. They're calling out to the one true God, Jehovah. And um I think it's interesting. How did they come to this conclusion? Jehovah, the one true God. I think, as I said, they're putting two and two together. And they're realizing conviction is setting in. God is moving in their hearts, perhaps. I remember before I got saved, and there's months of conviction. And I started seeing things, and I saw started seeing God's hand and different things he's doing in my life, and I'm coming to the conclusion, man, this is real. I need this, I need this God And so, first of all, they recognize God as Lord. Second of all, on their prayer, I notice they humble themselves. They use a phrase twice. We beseech thee, we beseech thee. The word beseech has the idea of begging and pleading, like somebody pleading for their life, which is what they're doing. They're crying out. They're not making any demands. And they're not making any promises. They're just saying, God And so they're humbling themselves before the Lord. And as I often say, God cannot resist humility. And so God steps in. Then they make their request. I think their request is twofold. Number one, don't hold us responsible for what's about to happen. This guy brought it on. We're simply doing what he said. Lord, don't hold us responsible. And second of all, and I may be reading into this a little bit But when they say they say uh and lay not upon us innocent blood, I think what they're saying is this God don't let us be making a mistake here. If he's guilty of death, if this is really what he's done, then we're going to do it. But God, please don't let us be making a mistake. We do not want to kill someone that's innocent. And they're asked, I think they're pleading for God. Their request is one, don't hold us responsible for what his actions, and two, don't let us be mistaken here. And then the last thing they do in their prayer, they recognize God's power and authority And they say to the Lord, O Lord, there's that term Jehovah, God's personnel, thou, O Lord, hast done as it Please thee. They're recognizing God's authority and God's power. God, you're doing whatever you see think is best. We recognize that. We submit to that. And so a powerful prayer here. Verse number 15, you have the sailors' compliance to the situation. They finally give in. There's nothing else they can do. They've thrown everything overboard. They've rode as hard as they could. They've questioned this guy. There's nothing else to do than to do what he says, or we're going to die. So they comply with the situation There's no other options available. It's interesting to me. There's no resistance from Jonah. Jonah doesn't fight Or try and hold back. You want to live? Throw me overboard. So the finally, all right, we don't have any choice. I see him very reluctantly getting him. Maybe tears in their eyes, I don't know. And Jonah does nothing to resist. But neither do I see that Jonah does anything to assist him. He's just dead weight. He is totally indifferent. His mind is set. And um what a pitiful situation. So there's no resistance from Jonah, but there's immediate results from the sea. Look what happens. So they took up Jonah, cast him forth in the sea, and the sea ceased. From a raging. The word cease there has the idea of being instant and thorough. I just see as soon as Jonah hits the water, these guys throw him over. and they're holding on, the wind's blowing, they get them over, maybe just kind of flip them overward and I mean it stops. Look how they respond. And then I have uh my last point, number six, the sailor's conversion. Look at verse 16. Then The men feared the Lord, what? Exceedingly. You thought they were scared before. Now they're just out of their mind terrified. What in the world? Now here's the thing interesting. These guys get converted. I'll just point this out here in just a moment But here's the interesting thing. It wasn't Jonah's testimony that brought about these guys' conversion. Jonah's testimony was pitiful. But was it? It was God's power. They saw God working in ways they never dreamed a God could and would do. Their concept of God, back a few verses earlier. Was far short of what Jehovah is doing. And it absolutely terrifies them. They are a fear of God. When they realized Who this God was, and what he was, and how desperately they needed him They got saved. I'm convinced they got saved. Three things here, real quick. Let me show you in verse 16. The men feared the Lord exceedingly. I put that down. Now they feared God. Lord, Jehovah, the true God, not some phony little God's statues they had stashed away in their lockers. Now they know the true God. And they fear him. The word fear has an interesting use, is used interesting throughout scripture. The word fear here, first it means to be terrified. It's no stretch of the imagination to say this would scare you pretty much, huh? What's just taking place. So they are terrified, but there's more to it than that. It also, that word is used in ways to be in awe of something. They are just, they can't comprehend the power of the God that they've just been exposed to. And they're in awe of that. It means to have extreme reverence and respect. So when it says they fear God, they're not scared of him. Ah, get me away from him. Get me away from it. It's not that. It's a fear, but it's an all-struck fear. A fear that just brings tremendous respect. I can just Put myself in their shoes and I want to start thinking maybe the way they're thinking. Good night, this God, and he and he's involved in a man's life. And he does that, he heard our prayers. And their mind is just clicking, clicking, clicking, clicking. And then it goes on, not only did they fear God, but now they exercised faith in God. Look at the next thing they did. The men feared the Lord exceedingly. and offered a sacrifice unto the Lord. In the Old Testament, offering a sacrifice was an expression of faith. Everywhere Abraham went, he built an altar and offered a sacrifice. Everywhere and he didn't build any houses. But he built tons of altars. And the Bible says that Abraham lived by faith, was saved by faith, was justified by faith When they came in the Old Testament and sacrifices were set up, and the ceremonial sacrifices at the temple there were set up, all those were expressions of faith in the coming Messiah And so what I think when the Bible says here these guys offered a sacrifice to the God, they were exercising faith in God. Now that was very limited, no doubt. They knew very little about Jehovah, apparently. And so they're offering some sort of sacrifice, I don't know what it is, but it's an exercise of faith. They're trusting that God is being merciful to them. They're putting their faith in this God to be gracious and merciful to them. And so one, I put down they feared God. Second of all, I put uh they exercised faith in God, and then thirdly, they followed God. Look again what it says. The men feared the Lord exceedingly and offered a sacrifice to the Lord and made what? Vows. It's interesting. They're not making vows before the storm stopped. That's usually when people start making vows, huh? Oh God, you stop this storm, and I'll go to church every time the doors are open. The storm stops. Where'd they go? We've had people over the years, oh God, you get me well of cancer, of this, that, and the other. God take this away, and I'll be faithful to you. And lo and behold, God takes it away, and we never see him again God, you get me out of this situation and I'll be a soul winner. And God, you do pay this bill for me and I'll tithe. And God, you do this, and I'll do this, and I'll make all these vows. But they're not making any vows before the storm ends. They're making vows when vows are intended to be made after the storm, after God's come through Who dedicates their life to the Lord? Romans 12, 1 and 2. I beseech therefore, brethren, by the mercy of God, present your body living sacrifice. Who makes vows of devotion and dedication to the Lord? The unsaved or the saved? The saved And the basis of my vows to the Lord, the basis of my devotion and dedication, Lord, isn't to get something from God. It's because God has done something for me. And God saved me from sin in hell, and because of that, I want to follow Him. I want to commit my life. These are vows, they're not promises. A vow is much more binding than a promise. We don't have marriage promises, right? We have marriage what? Because they're much more binding than a promise. I've promised Kathy the moon. And the best I'd come up with some cheese. And uh that's pretty good. I just came up with that. What? Green cheese. These guys are making vows. A vow, that term vow is often used, in fact it's used throughout history as a act of dedication. An act of devoting myself to someone. That's what marriage vows are, devoting myself. From what I can tell about these sailors, they meant business. I believe they followed through with this. Here's the interesting thing: we never hear from these guys again. They're gone, they're off the scene. We know nothing more about them. Just this one storm. And we see how they responded and how where they started and where they ended up. They left port just uh uh a three-hour tour. Um, they're just setting off uh little tale, about a three hour tour. Listen, uh and they ended up in a big storm. That was pretty lame. But anyway. And here they are saved, fearing God, committed to Him, bowing, committing their lives to Him. I'd like to, I don't know about you, I'd like to believe these guys followed through. Wouldn't you? I'd like to believe they got back to port and they're getting off the ship's all shattered and tattered, and uh these guys are coming off haggard and wet and pfft fish, you know, sticking flying all over and and their eyes are bug out and uh they come back and everybody says, What in the world happened? I like to I like to think they responded something like this. We found the Lord. I met God. He saved me. Come home, the wife says, Good night. You're a different person than you were when you left. Yeah, I met Jehovah. I think these guys meant business. I think God did a work in these guys' lives. I'd like to believe that you and I, as believers. We'll hold through and come through for the Lord and be faithful. We've all, well, all of us here, as far as we can tell, take everybody at their word, we all know Christ as Savior. We've all come to the point in our life where we've accepted Jesus Christ our personal Savior. He suffered hell for us. He forgave all our sin. He gave us eternal life. I would like to think that you and I, like these sailors, will be faithful to the Lord. We don't know what happens to them. They're off the record books. But I sure would like to believe that they amounted to be something to the Lord, and I would like to be myself amount to something for the Lord. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven. Sure, we'd like to meet these guys and talk to them. Just amazing testimony here of these sailors and what took place in their lives. And how you revealed yourself to an amazing way. I pray you'd help us, those of us that know you as Savior, some of us for many years, that you'd help us be true to our vows, that we would love you and be devoted to you. That our testimony would be such that people could see Christ in us and know that you're real and what you mean to us. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I know God saved me. There's no doubt in my mind. But I really want to live my life. And maybe there's some areas in our lives that say, I need to I need to clean it up, make a little sharper, my testimony, a little clearer, that folks could know that I'm a Christian, not to put on a show, but it'd be real. They could see what God can do for them. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand preacher? I just want my life to be real. I want it to be real. Like these sailors. God bless you. Of course that's the way we feel. Goodness Well, let's ask the Lord to help us. Let's not take it for granted that we're going to be strong. Let's ask the Lord to help us be strong and ask God to work in our lives. And if necessary, send those storms we need sometimes. Get us on track. And just trust the Lord. Father, bless our invitation. You know our hearts, dear Lord. And we're asking you to help us. Keep us close to you. Keep us on that short leash we pray again, Lord, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.