That song and the song that the choir sang uh brought back memories from Bible college days and uh we used to sing them and listen to them and uh on the old cassette tapes and um They carried us through many a difficult day years ago. Thank you for the special music. Mark chapter 13, if you would, turn in your Bibles. Mark chapter 13 I'm going to be preaching a different message this morning and this evening from what is in the bulletin, and um I I'm excited about today's message this morning and this evening's in particular So if you can only make one service, either this morning and evening, make sure it's this evening's service because uh uh I actually like tonight's message better than this morning's But I trust God will use them both and uh challenge us as we consider the subject of missions. Look at Matthew, I'm I'm sorry, Mark chapter thirteen Verse number ten, before we read it, I heard about a little boy's uh came home from Sunday school and uh mom's getting lunch ready and and uh they're all around and he starts emptying his pockets out on the kitchen table, just coins. fifty cent quarters, all this money. And she goes, uh Johnny, where did you get all that money? He said, I got it in Sunday school. She goes, what do you mean? He goes, yeah, they passed buckets of it around down in Sunday school. So that's not the idea behind offering time. Mark chapter thirteen, verse number ten. And the gospel must first be published among all nations. You could write in the Marginal Bible, you could write Last Days Missions. And I've entitled the message, The Urgency of Missions. Next week we have missionary Travis Snowd with us. All day long, we have our missions emphasis Sunday. And I want to set the stage today for next week's service and just prepare our hearts, ask God to challenge us concerning the urgency of missions. Let's pray together. Father, bless now our time in your word. God, I believe with all my heart, as we have assembled here, that our subject of today and next week is the subject that is dearest to your heart and so important to us as a church. I pray, God, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and that, God, this morning, it would be you speaking to our hearts, not me giving a sermon, but you speaking to our hearts and challenging us in this matter of missions. Take me, Lord, and use me. Help us, Lord, and the other areas of our Christian life. We just pray you'd bring that all together as we focus on this matter of the urgency. Blessed, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. How many folks recognize the name Jessica McClure? Does anybody recognize that name? Jessica McClure Anybody at all? Well I see one, uh maybe two. Uh how about this? Baby Jessica. Ah Baby Jessica. Baby Jessica was back in nineteen eighty-seven. She was eighteen month- Um uh daycare and she had wandered off the property down in Midland, Texas, wandered off the property And she fell uh um twenty two feet down an old water well shaft She got stuck 22 feet down. She was trapped in that water well for two and one half days. The media found of course the police were called, the emergency squads were called, the p the firemen were there. I think before it was said and done, the uh National Guard was out They had called in people from various universities, uh um engineers and whatnot, to try and figure out how to get this little girl out of that hole that was trapped down there The news media got into it, and there was a massive rescue effort given to get this one 18-month-old girl out of this shaft. The CNN was uh just becoming a big news organization's. I got it on, Brother Sam. I don't know There was resources coming in from all over the world. There was uh uh individuals coming in to offer their help, doing everything they can. They were sparing nothing to rescue that little girl. She ended up having to have her one of her toes amputated. Gangrene had set in because of uh the the length of time down there She has a scar to this day on her forehead. Following her rescue, she had 15 surgeries. But because of the urgency Oh, by the way, baby Jessica today is married, has uh several children, and uh graduated from a university, and just interesting things how she was able to go on with her life. But here's the thing Because of the diligent and urgent efforts, people who sacrificed Time, finances, resources. To save that little girl her life, she's able to live a life today. Now I tell you this, I read this passage here in Mark. The gospel must first be published among all nations. I began developing this message. I thought of little baby Jessica. And I thought of this. What if the same urgency that your average church puts into reaching the lost today Would have been put into rescuing little baby Jessica. I wonder if she would be alive today. If the sense of urgency that your average church has in getting the gospel to the unsaved, people who are on their way to hell, dying on their way to hell, If the same sense of urgency that your average church has for the unsay the day had been applied to little baby Jessica I'm afraid the outcome would not have been the same. Well, if we have some time, if we got an extra buck, we'll send it. Oh, we have a little time next week. I think I got a half hour. I can maybe come over and help. Well, somebody ought to go and help. Urgency. I'm convinced. And I'm not speaking of us. in particular, I'm talking about the church in general, although no doubt we've got our share of work to do. But I'm convinced one of the greatest sins in the Bible-believing churches today is the neglect of the Great Commission. What God has given us to do, to take the soul-saving, life-changing gospel of Jesus Christ to every person in the world. There's a sense of urgency about it. If you'll read the chapter, Mark chapter 13 here, if you'd read, if we take the time to go down through there, we would find that this is a text dealing with the second advent of our Lord Jesus Christ. He's talking about conditions in the world, not at the time of his rapture, but at the time of the second advent, when he comes to earth at the end of the seven-year tribulation period. He's talking here about world conditions leading up to that point. Now I want to stop here and point out very emphatically, there are no signs for the rapture of the church. You follow what I'm saying? The rapture can happen at any moment. It's eminent. There's no prophecy that needs to be fulfilled. There's no signs that need to be in place. The rapture can happen at any moment. Paul, the apostle, in his lifetime, anticipated the rapture of the church. But what I want to say here is in Mark chapter 13 And if you're familiar with prophecy and the timelines we generally use, the next event, this being uh the cross and past history, this being future, and uh the next event in uh God's calendar is the rapture of the church I just referenced. Then begins the seven-year period of we call the tribulation. The Bible refers to it as a tribulation period. At the end of the tribulation period is the second advent. That's when Jesus Jesus comes back visibly in the sky, comes back on the earth and battle barm again and judgment of the nations and begins the millennial reign Now Jesus in Mark chapter 13 is telling us that there are certain, the world is going to be in a certain conditions taking place in the world, certain events taking place in the world, that are going to indicate his second advent. Those events in Mark chapter 13 primarily are taking place during the tribulation period. Now here's my contention. If we on this side of the rapture, who were at least seven years away, at very minimum, seven years away from the second advent of Christ, If we are seeing some of these events and world conditions taking place now, who we don't need any s uh um signs for the rapture. I mean it could happen any moment. But if we're seeing events that indicate the second advent, my thinking is how close must the the rapture be? I I I can't say this. We don't know. It could be a hundred years from now, it could be a thousand years from now. But you look at the world, you read the scripture, looks to me uh the rapture uh has to be pretty soon, it seems like in my mind So he's describing these end characteristics of the end days, and we read our newspaper and it looks very similar. He says here in the previous verses, he says, there will be worldwide deception. I think three or four or five times he says, beware, beware. They'll deceive many. They'll deceive many I'm telling you, we live in a world, uh we live in worldwide deception. You know what I've come to the conclusion, and please, uh I I don't mean to be harsh or or hard on this, but it's just a fact. Most of your news reporters are liars. Can I be real frank about it? They're liars. They just say what they want people to believe. They just present their perspective on things. And both sides, it's just that's the way it is We live in a day of worldwide deception. Primarily, your political leaders around the world are very deceptive. Yes, very much. Am I right or wrong? Yes, very much. No, I'm not anti-government, all that. It has its place and thank God for some good ones. I read an article yesterday. Anybody happen to see this? The president of Uganda Did anybody see that prayer he prayed at a memorial thing? Man, you ought to go on the news and find that thing. That guy, he's praying, he's asking God to have mercy. He's confessing his nation's sin. And he goes down through there and it sounds like to me uh independent fundamental Baptist at an altar getting right with God. Hey, thank God for folks like that. Amen? But we live in an age of worldwide deception, and Jesus goes down through there. Look at verse 5. Jesus answering said unto them, began to say, take heed lest any man deceive you. Into verse six, deceive many. He comes down through here. Verse nine, take heed So he says one of these characteristics are going to be worldwide deception. He comes down through there and he also points out there's going to be massive false religion. He says there's going to be false trace, there's going to be false teaching about God and about the spiritual world, about salvation. Brother, do we not live in a day of false religion? On every hand, some of the most ridiculous doctrines out there, unscriptural, are some of the most popular. And just booming, and the cults are busting at the seams. He says we'll live in a day of worldwide deception. False religion will be rampant. World wars and turmoil on every hand. Brother, just read the newspapers. Just watch your evening news and there's war in the Middle East and there's potential war with Iran. Now I'm not saying all these things are necessarily what's happening here. I'm simply saying they fit the bill It's characteristic of the last days. There's intense persecution of believers, he mentions. And uh some statistics you read are suggesting to us that there is more persecutions of Christians in the year there was in the year 2011 than there had been in any year in all of history. And so, persecution. Now, verse 10, he's saying, as we approach the end of the age. As world conditions deteriorate, he makes this statement. And the gospel must first be published among all nations. I believe he's saying here that the preaching of the gospel in all the nations, as we approach the end of the days, as we approach the coming of the Lord, however soon or far away that may be. The preaching of the gospel to all nations must become a greater and greater priority in our thinking and in our actions. He's talking about the end times. He's talking about world conditions. And smack dab in the middle, he says the gospel must first be published among all nations. Can I suggest to you? Now I have a responsibility as pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Someday I will stand before God for my leadership of this church. So I take instructions like this, personally, I take them very seriously. And God is telling us here, and we'll notice other passages of scriptures. That the primary responsibility for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church is getting the gospel to every lost person in our community and around the world. That is our job! And that is my responsibility as pastor to lead this church in fulfilling that responsibility. I find nowhere in Scripture that our priority is building buildings. Now listen, thank God for our buildings. Amen? There's nothing wrong with it. Uh we got a nice building out there. We use it tremendously. I I like to think We use it in advancement of the gospel to some degree. We got beautiful near houses and whatnot. We're grateful for all this. But I got reading this past week about Jehovah's Witness. A false cult. By the way, Mormonism is a false cult also. Regardless of what political offices they hold, it's a cult. But I was reading about Jehovah don't get me going on that, okay? Um I was reading about Jehovah's Witnesses. And Jehovah's Witnesses apparently have a policy in place Where they do not build fancy, big, or neat cathedrals. In fact, I was trying, I was straining to think where you see, ever see, they call them kingdom halls Where you ever see a kingdom hall that is huge and ornate and fancy and extravagant? They have a policy in place, I understood from the research I did that they will deliberately build buildings as economically as they possibly can so that they can direct all their resources into advancing the message of Jehovah's Witness cult. I thought, boy, they put us to shame. He doesn't say, he doesn't tell us here in the last days, the buildings must first be built all among all nations. There's nothing wrong with that. But our responsibility is preaching, publishing, proclaiming, advancing the gospel of Jesus Christ. That is our responsibility. In a 12-month period, I was reading a 12-month period, there were 6,000 new church buildings built in the United States of America. at a cost of over one billion dollars. Six thousand new church buildings built in the United States of America in one year period of time. at a cost of one billion dollars. Now again, don't misunderstand what I'm saying. Thank God for buildings. But I'm wondering Sometimes, if we haven't misplaced our priorities, when our concern is what we have, the physical things we have, and our secondary is getting the gospel to the unsaved He said the gospel must first be published among all nations. It's interesting. Again, if you want to misrepresent what I'm saying this morning, you can easily But I I'm not saying buildings are wrong. I'm not saying having facilities and nice lighting and all this is wrong. I don't believe it's wrong. It has its place But if you'll study your New Testament very carefully, you know what I found out? The New Testament church had no buildings. They had no chandeliers. They had no padded pews. They had nothing materialized. In fact, Peter told the layman outside the temple, silver and gold have I done. But such as I have, I give it to thee. In the name of Jesus Christ rise up and walk. They didn't have much materially, but brother, they had a lot as far as obedience to the Great Commission was concerned. And so he says, first of all, uh uh the gospel must first be published among all nations. Listen, I want to challenge us. I want to challenge the leadership of our church. I want to challenge the membership of our church. I want to challenge our Sunday school teachers, children's church, choir members, every aspect of our church I want to challenge us to make preaching of the gospel the primary and the priority in the ministries of this church. From every aspect. Now there's an urgency about this. Number one, I have two matters, two issues, two points, I guess, that make the preaching of the gospel missions And urgency. Number one is because of the command of God. Take your Bible. Here we have in Mark 13, he says the gospel must first be preached. uh among all nations. Take your Bible if you would and turn back to Mark chapter 16. Now you got you have your Bible with you? All right, amen. Uh you brought it with you. You might as well use it. Just sitting there, you might as well get it out and use it. So turn to Matt Mark chapter sixteen If you have a pen in hand, which I think is a good thing to do when you have your Bible, I never read my Bible without a pen. Um Here's a good verse to underscore. Mark chapter 16, and look with me if you would at verse 15. This verse is not underlined in your Bible. It'd be a good verse to underline. Notice what it says. And he said unto them Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. That is not a suggestion. That is not a good idea. That is a direct command of God. We are commanded by God. Notice, if you would, over to let's go to Matthew chapter 28. Would you turn back there with me? It's a little warm in here this morning. We're working on that. But Carolyn's comfortable, so that's all that really matters. Matthew, my life is a whole lot easier when Carolyn's comfortable. Amen, Ed. Yeah, he ain't saying nothing. He's sitting beside her. Mark, Matthew chapter 28 and verse number 18. Familiar passage for most of us, no doubt. Good verse to underline, good verse to memorize. Notice what it says. And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always Even unto the end of the world. Amen. Here we have God giving us a very clear destruct instruction, very clear command. I want us to go to one more passage. We're going to end up back in Mark, but if you would go to Acts chapter 1 with me Now, if you're paying attention, you'll notice these verses we're referencing here are all spoken by our Lord at the end of his earthly ministry. Just prior to his ascension to heaven. These are his last words to his people. And when somebody gives you a last word, just before they pass on, so to speak, you pay a lot of attention to that. You remember it, it's significant. And in Acts chapter 1, notice with me verse number 8. Again, the Lord's speaking. He says, But ye shall receive power. After that, the Holy Ghost has come upon you. Look at this. And ye shall be. Witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem and in all Judea and in Samaria and unto the uttermost part of the earth. So here we have four passages scripture. We could go to scores of others. And as I read these, I sense an urgency In God's instructions to us. First of all, the command of God, there's an urgency about it. Come back to Mark chapter 13 with me if you would. And I notice, first of all, this is a proclamation. Now, what do I mean by a proclamation? By that I mean it's a command given by God with great authority. There is the authority of God Almighty behind this. Some little buskid comes up to me and says, Pastor, you've got to do this. Is there a lot of authority behind that command to me? No. I just say, oh yeah, bunk. And uh not really. But uh that little kid comes up and and uh there's not a whole lot of authority behind it. But when God says you must do this, suddenly it's another story. When God says this is something I am commanding you to do, then we better pay attention And this is a proclamation here, a command given with the authority of Almighty God. It's not a suggestion, it's a requirement. He does not command us to have fellowships. They get together and have a meal and exchange gifts and have a picnic and play ball and have a devotional. He doesn't command us to do that. Now question, is there anything wrong with those? No, absolutely not. I'm all for 'em. They're great. I think there's benefits to it there. Now this is not a command here to have Bible studies or to do social work or to have Christmas cantatas and musical programs, they're all fine and they're have their place, but God is proclaiming to us with all his authority that we must declare the gospel We must publish the gospel. Somebody, uh uh, this is my desire for this morning's message. That when you leave here and you get in, somebody calls you, what was church about today? How can you leave you'll be able to answer this very easily and say it's about the fact we're supposed to get the gospel to the lost people That's what we need. That's what this is about. We have the proclamation of, by the way, this isn't what the pastor says we should do. This is what God says we should do. God requires that we preach the gospel. So, first of all, this command is a proclamation, but this command is also a priority. This is what caught my attention in reading this And the gospel must first be preached among all nations. The word first there has two aspects to it. It has the idea of being a priority, top of the list. First. It means first in time and chronology. So what he's saying here, before the church does anything else in all the nations of the world, they are to proclaim the gospel. Publish the gospel. Preach the gospel. Christians send some missionaries, some representatives into a country. There's no witness there. Their first thing they're to do is to preach the gospel. It's the very first thing. Must first, in priority, in uh I'm sorry, in time, in chronology. But also it has means first or priority in value or importance. Not only is telling unsaved people how to be saved the first thing we should do, but it is the most important thing that we should do. Let me ask you this. Just answer it to yourself. What is Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church? What is our purpose here in Mountain Lake Hart? Why are we here? To preach the gospel. That's the first thing we should do, and that's the most important thing we should do. Hey, should we help folks if they don't have any food, they're really hungry, there's no other resources? Should we help them have the food? Sure. But first of all we should preach the gospel to them. Should we protest abortion and write letters and fight sodomite marriage and all that? Oh yeah, absolutely. But first of all, we should preach the gospel That's priority. That's the most important thing we do. And whenever a church, listen, whenever a church makes preaching of the gospel Secondary to anything else, they are disobeying God. It is to be first In chronology and in value, most important thing. Our number one I I think we're living, well I know we are, the Bible says we're living in the last days. Amen? We are. Actually, since the ascension of Christ to the rapture, that's all the last days. We're living in the last days. What are we supposed to be doing in these last days? Preaching the gospel. Telling others how to be saved, telling the lost how to be saved. It should be our number one concern. To publish the gospel to all men in our community around the world. So number one, there's a proclamation here. God gave this with authority. Number two, there's a priority. First. Number three, it's very plain. Look what he says. And the gospel must first be published among all nations. That's not very complicated. Just what what does the word publish mean? I got my strongs out and got comparing it. You know what I found out? Exact same word is preach. Mark chapter 16, go you therefore into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. Exact same word. It means to simply declare or proclaim something. It includes standing on someone's door and telling them the gospel of Jesus Christ. It includes sitting at break in the lunchroom at work on a Monday afternoon and declaring with folks the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. It includes taking gospel tracts and handing them out to people. Gospel tracts that tell people how to be saved, the gospel of Jesus Christ. So all we could, it's not complicated. It's simply communicating a message. And so it's very plain. The word gospel is simply the good news of salvation in Jesus Christ. And so that is our responsibility. Very plain, very simple, nothing complicated. Now, sometimes it may take some wisdom on how to implement it For instance, we have a missionary over in Central Africa uh Central Africa, Central Asia that uh we've been praying for, we support, we've been working with them, and uh dealing with visas and all that, unless you know who I'm talking about. And uh you know what? He found out this requires a little bit of wisdom to be able to get in there and figure out how to do this and operate that. But the but the mission itself is very simple. Proclaim the gospel. Tell people how to be saved. Tell them of Jesus Christ who died for them, was buried, and rose again. And so it's very simple. It's very the concept itself is very simple. A child can publish the gospel. Hey, I thank God we had uh a number of years ago we had a young girl who was in the church here. She was I think third grade, that's probably too old, she was probably younger than that, and uh she heard a message like this, she got stirred up So she took a handful of gospel tracts, went to school, and at refreshment break uh she gave out all her gospel tracts to the kids in school. And she told them, You need to be saved, you need to be saved, you need to be saved be safe. And so she gave him out. Teacher said, you're not allowed to do that in school. She collected them all up, sent them home with her, and said, Don't bring them back. The mother came to me and said, told me what happened. She said, What should I do? My daughter stirred up about proclaiming the gospel. I said, Well, what that teacher did was illegal. I said, you send them back with her, have her give them out again. I said, not during class, or in re uh uh lunchtime, or recess, or whatever, but don't disrupt the class, but have her give them out again. So she did. Uh excuse me, the girl gave them out again, teacher collected them up, sent her to the principal's office and refused to give the gospel tracts back to her. She says that's illegal, you can't do that So the mother called me, I called CLA, they sent uh five five-page letter that I was to give to the superintendent of the public schools here. I did, within two weeks' time, the T The teacher, the principal, the mother, the daughter, and myself were sitting in a principal's office and they were apologizing to the little girl, the mother, saying they were wrong, she was right, she can give them out however she wants, as long as it's not disrupting class. So thank God for that. But here's the point I'm trying to make. A little kid was able to make a difference. Had a little boy on our buses years ago, he was going around telling all the kids he's going to help. He didn't they were going to help they didn't get saved. Might not be the most tactful way to go about it, but hey, a little kid got stirred up about doing what God told him to do. It's nothing complicated about it. It's nothing dead. They go to a little child. A little child can publish the gospel. I put this down. I don't know why I got fired up studying this. I put this down. A redneck can share the gospel. And I've come across a my cousin or my nephew years ago came down to visit. He's in Philadelphia, city slicker, yuppie. Uh He he called up uh they were coming down with my dad to visit one time and he said uh he got down here he said uh Uncle Dennis, he said um there are you rednecks I said, oh watch carefully you might see some here and there. Hey, I put this down. Even a college professor can share the gospel. Anybody can. You say, well, I don't know that I got what it takes. If you're saved, you got what it takes. Remember the woman at the whale? This was a very immoral woman, to put it nicely. She's living with the guy, been married five times, smart out, smarting off the Lord Jesus. And she gets, lo and behold, she gets saved. And you know what the first thing she did was? She put down her pots, went back, told everybody about the Lord Jesus, published the gospel. I'm telling you, it's a very plain, simple thing. So, number one, it's a command of God. By that we mean there's a proclamation here, there's a priority here, it's very plain, and uh this is compassion He said the gospel must first be preached. I was thinking when we were reading a moment ago Matthew chapter 28, where he says, All power is given unto me in heaven and earth. Go ye therefore and teach all nations. Can you imagine if Muhammad was saying that? If he said, All power is given unto me, go ye therefore, what would his instructions be? According to the Quran, his instructions would be slaughter the infidels, conquer the nations, instill Sharil law. That's not what our Lord Jesus Christ said. That's not what our God said. He said, All power is given unto me in heaven and earth. Go ye therefore and teach all nations. Preach the gospel to all nations. Tell them of the fact that there's a God in heaven that loves sinful man so much that he died and suffered God's judgment on himself, was buried and rose again. And whoever believes in him and receives him will be fully forgiven for their sins. They'll get a new life and they'll have a home in heaven for all eternity. That is compassion. Our God loves this sinful world. And we get aggravated at the liars, and we get aggravated at the thieves, and we get aggravated at the degenerate. But Jesus thought they were worth dying for. He gave his life. So when God commands us as a church to take the gospel into all the world, into our community and around the world, he is commanding us to do something that comes From the compassion and heart of a loving God. So what's so urgent about this? Why is Brother Letterman? Why is this so important? There's other stuff. We need to talk about finances. We need to deal with this. We need to deal with that. No, no, no. The gospel must first be published among all nations. That's the priority. That's the urgency of our day, of our action Why? Because God's commanded it, and second of all, and last of all, not just because of the command of God, but because of the condition of man. What is man without the gospel? What's a person what happens to a person that never hears or receives the gospel of Jesus Christ? I put I put two things down. Number one, uh without the gospel means man is living a life without God Without God. You know what some of the saddest words in the Bible are? They're in John chapter 17, where Jesus is giving his Lord's Prayer. It's not the Lord's prayer we memorize, but he's praying for all the believers. And he makes this statement. Jesus, in the middle of his prayer, makes this statement. He says, O righteous Father The world hath not known thee. Isn't that sad? The world hath not known thee. You and I, in the next couple days, next 48 hours or so, we're going to come across people that do not know God. Oh, they know about God. They can tell you things about God and they can pray to God, say prayers to God, they can sing songs about God, but the word know there means to have any type of relationship. And they don't know what it means to have a God working in their life and developing them and leading and directing them. They're living a life without God. How many of us have ever made this statement? I don't know how they deal with it without God. I don't know how they go through that without God in your life. You know how they do it? They're missing They're miserable. They're empty. And they're scared. How many folks remember? How many folks were saved later in life and you remember life before you're suffering? Salvation. Anybody here? Remember what was like in your heart and mind? You know what I think? I think of how empty my life was. No purpose. No resources, man. You talk about being on your own. That's the way this world is without Christ. They're doing the best they can. They're trying to function without God and they're like, oh, they'll do three of them a religion. But they don't have God. Ephesians chapter 2 and verse 12 says, speaking of those outside of living without the gospel, without salvation, they have no hope. They're without God in the world. They know about, can sing about, and talk about, but they have no relationship. There are whole countries. There are countries with millions and millions of people. Who have not God. Just living lives without God and all that that produces, living a life without God, the emptiness, the fear. Why is it so urgent? Because all around there's people living without God, without hope. The second sense, the condition of man, man's living life without God, but also man will spend eternity without God. If a person dies without knowing Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, listen carefully. If a person dies Without knowing Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, that person goes to hell forever and ever and ever. Ends up in the lake of fire. You cannot get you cannot believe your Bible and get around that fact. That is clear That means in the last 40 minutes since I started this message, people around the world are now in hell who were not in hell when I started preaching a few moments ago. Could anybody have done anything about that? Could anybody done anything about that? The fact that a person dies and goes to an eternity under the judgment of God, if they don't have Jesus Christ the Savior, that ought to instill in you and I and our church a sense of urgency That nothing else can put there. The fact that people need Christ. If we knew Let's let's say suppose just suppose that somebody came rushing in this auditorium just as I'm speaking, they come running in, said Castle Leatherman, stop everything. Next door is a man. He's trapped. We need 200 people to help move something to get him out of there. He's going to die if we don't rescue him. You know what we would do? We would stop services. Send every person we possibly can over there to rescue that person from dying. I'm telling you, there are people in Garrett County who are dying by next week this time. They will be in eternity And one of us, some of us, would tell them of Jesus Christ and keep them from coming to hell. We could do that. We commanded to do that. We have a whole nation we've adopted. 16 million people that'll die in the next decade or next several years without Christ. There's an urgency about this. Why do we have missions conference in May? Why do we put missions numbers up on the wall? Why do we put prayer and pray missionaries? Because there's an urgency about this. It must first, the gospel must first be published in all nations. Where's Jessica? Anybody see Jessica? I don't know, she was out back playing. She's not there now. Where'd she go? I don't know, get the others. We've got to find her. Hey! Old staff of the nurse uh the child care. Come on, Jessica's missing. They go out, they look, you have the things over there. She must have been out there. Hey, call the neighbors. Jessica, got out! We gotta find her. And all the neighbors come down out, we've got to find Jessica! And then you're just waiting for your look, and here's an older man in Rome, and everyone was there. Jessica! Oh my word, she's down on the well! Call the 911! Call the police! Call the firewall fire department! Call the rescue squire. They come racing out, sirens. We never see there's no surgeon. Within twelve hours, the whole nation Knows about it. Money is pouring in from nations around the world to rescue this one little girl. And it should have been that way. What about the seven billion other people that are not about to lose their physical life but are about to go into eternity? under the judgment of God. Say, preacher, what can we do? Why know this? Doing nothing doesn't help. Come on. Staying home doesn't help. That's it has to be priority. You'll do anything else. Now you can pay out. You'll do anything else. You do this one day. You get the gospel to every lost person. Possibly. All the nations. We heard Paul Ravier, right? That's a credible story. Paul Ravier's ride warned the British are coming, the British are coming. Do you know there was another fellow that after the Battle of Concord did something even more amazing He realized, and the leadership he was with, realized that our nation was now at war with England. We were outnumbered, we were outgunned, there is no way this little nation could win this war, but brother, they were going to fight to the death. And there was a fellow by the name of, I think his last name was Bizzle. Um His name was Israel Bissel. Let me read you his story and I'll end. After the Battle of Lexington and Concord on April 19, 1775. Bizzle was ordered to raise the alarm in New Haven, Connecticut. He reached Worcester, he left Boston. He reached Worcester, Massachusetts. Normally a day's ride, he did it in two hours. They said when he showed up in that uh station there in Worcester, Massachusetts, the moment he got off of his horse, it dropped over dead. He had pushed it so hard He had to get the message that we were at war. There, his horse dropped over there, pausing only enough time to get another horse. He pressed on, and by April 22nd, three days later, he was in New Haven, Connecticut. But he didn't stop there. People in New York needed to know about it. He arrived in New York on April 24th. Then he got in the saddle and didn't get out until he reached Philadelphia, rode 24 hours straight. He got to Philadelphia, warned them that we were at war. He rode 345 miles in one and a hundred and in 126 hours, unheard of in that day. Why did he press himself? Why would he do that? Because the life of a nation, a new nation, was at stake. emergency. Now what about the gospel of Jesus Christ? What about nations without God? What about our neighbors? I drove by the other day a street, we've been here 19 years I saw that, I said, you know, I don't think we've ever knocked on those doors on that street. I felt shame. That ought to be, if nothing else, we ought to be getting the gospel every person in our community. Urgency, urgency, urgency. I wish I could say God's number one command to our church is that leading get together have a good time. Celebrate. Party. Everybody can Yeah. That's not what God's commanded. To take the gospel. First, take the gospel of your father heaven. So we're probably five years this morning. This isn't something the flesh gets excited about. inside our hearts and souls, we realize. We have a great, great responsibility. And that is take the gospel to the lost. Here in Deer Park and Crowin and Laughlin and Ireland, New Zealand. God stir our hearts and help us with prayer. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many say, preacher, I'm saved, God's come in my life, He's done some amazing, wonderful things for us. I know when I die, I'm going to heaven because of what Jesus Christ did for me. I've trusted him as my Savior. You would say, preacher, I can't honestly say that taking the gospel of the unsaved is the priority in my life. It's really not an urgency in my life. And that's not right. And as a Christian, I want it to take priority. And as a Christian, I want what's urgent in God's mind to be urgent in my mind.