And so that's what we're asking the Lord to teach us and help us to grow in our faith, our understanding of the world, and uh how we live our lives here in the world. Ecclesiastes chapter five, if you're there. I want to begin reading in verse number ten I'm going to read all the way down through verse 17. So if you would follow along as I read. Verse 10. He that loveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver. Nor he that loveth abundance with increase. This also is what? Vanity. We keep seeing that word show up through the book, don't we? Vanity, vanity Look at verse eleven. When goods increase, they are increased at eat them. And what good is there to the owners thereof, saving the beholding of them with their eyes? The sleep of a laboring man is sweet, whether he eat little or much, but the abundance of the rich will not suffer him to sleep. There is a sore evil which I have seen under the sun, namely riches kept for the owners thereof to their hurt. But those riches perish by evil travail, and he begetteth a son, and there is nothing in his hand. As he came forth of his mother's womb, naked shall he return to go as he came, and shall take nothing of his labor. Which he may carry away in his hand. It's that old saying, we've heard it many times. You don't never see a hearse with a U-Haul behind it, right? That's what he's saying. Can't take any of this with him Verse 16, and this also is a sore evil, that in all points as he came, so shall he go What profit hath he that he labored for the wind? All his days also he eateth in darkness, and he hath much sorrow and wrath with his sickness. I just entitled the message, lack of creativity maybe on my part, but I just say I just entitled the message Money, Money, Money. Let's pray and see what Ecclesiastes says about money. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now our study in this portion of Scripture. Lord, I ask that you would teach us, as always, I pray again you'd fill me with your Spirit, that I could get out of the way That you could just take my body and use it as a conduit for you to speak through, my tongue, my lips. I present my body to you. I yield my will. All my heart I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit And help us to grasp the Bible teaching, a little bit at least, about money. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. One thing we've learned so far in the Book of Ecclesiastes is this, I think it's pretty clear, is that in every heart and soul, the heart and soul of every man, there is what I call a God-shaped vacuum. There's something in our lives that only God can fill. I put it this way: there's a hole in our soul that only God can fill that thing up. And God and mankind is hungry for God. Have you noticed that? Every culture been discovered, every single culture, people worship some sort of God. God has put within us a hunger, an instinct, an instinct to worship Worship God of some sort. And most cultures, of course, the understanding of God is distorted. It's a false understanding of God, and some they take the created things. And exalt that up to gods. We criticize uh the pr we criticize the ancient civilizations that worship um that worship little m uh little uh uh idols and little statues, they take a tree and cut it down and carve a statue, then bow down to that statue, or take a stone and chisel away at it and make this little quote unquote God and then worship that God and we criticize them, but what do we do? We walk around with our own little gods, don't we? And they control us and they dictate us and we have our houses and our cars and we worship. God has created us to worship. There's a hole in our soul, but only God can fill it. There is nothing under the sun that can fill this God need that is in the heart of every single man. Not even money. Not even money. Money is the God of this day. Money. Come back to chapter 2 with me and just a reminder of what King Solomon said about money. He knows a little bit about this. He was at that point the most wealthy man in the world, no doubt, perhaps one of the wealthiest men that have ever lived. Just incomprehensible uh uh an incomprehensible wealth And notice in chapter 2 and verse number 11, notice what or verse number 8, notice what he says here. Now Solomon's giving testimony. He's saying, I've pushed God out of my life And I'm trying to find fulfillment. I'm trying to find purpose and meaning in life. And I look for it in money. Look at verse number eight. I gathered me also silver and gold. and the peculiar treasures of kings and of the provinces. Agat me men singers and women singers, the delights of the sons of men as musical instruments and that of all sorts. So I was great and increased more than all that were before me in Jerusalem. Also my wisdom remained with me And whatsoever my eyes desired, I kept not from them. Did you get that statement? He's saying, I am so wealthy, I've gathered up so much gold and so much silver, anything I wanted, I could have it. Anything I wanted, I could buy it without even giving it a second thought. For my heart rejoiced in all my labor, and this was my portion of all my labor. Look at verse 11 Then I looked on all the works that my hands had wrought, and on the labor that I had labored to do, and behold, look at this, all was what? Vanity. Empty. Nothing. All was vexation of spirit. And there was no prophet. What? Under the sun, under the sun. There is nothing, there is something in the heart of every man, woman, and child, a need, a hunger, an emptiness. That can only be filled by something that exists above the sun, beyond this earth, beyond the limits. It's of course is the Lord. Now Solomon knew a little bit about money. I came across some figures. Now these are a little dated. These are from 2004. How many people recognize the name Michael Jordan? Anybody recognize that name? Tremendous basketball player. One of the wealthiest, highest paid athletes in all of history. They did some figuring. Now again, this is from 2004 in his heyday. He made over $300,000 each basketball game he played Over 300,000. That means if he played for 30 minutes, he made, get this, $10,000 a minute for being out on that court playing They estimated at this point that he made at least $40 million a year on endorsements. That means you add that all up and you break it down, it means this. He made $178,000 a day. Whether he was working or not. Every day went by $178,000. Another day goes by $178,000. Another day goes by $178,00 He made fifty-two thousand dollars every night while he's dreaming of sugar plums If he would go to a ball game, a baseball game, say it lasts two and a half hours, cost him about twenty-five, thirty dollars back then to go baseball, I don't know what it cost. Might cost them, say he cost them 50 bucks. However, while he's sitting there at that baseball game, he made 80, $18,550. If he decided to have a five-minute egg, he made $618 while boiling that egg. If he wanted to buy a $90,000 car, it would take him 12 hours to earn $90,000 to buy that car. If you and I got one-tenth of a penny For every dollar he made, we'd make $65,000 a year. Michael Jordan was incredibly wealthy. Well another another statistic was this. Uh the the in 2004 he made more than twice as much of all past presidents combined In that one year. Isn't that an amazing thing? Money. Money. It's become the God of this world. Solomon knew a little bit firsthand Of what the emptiness of wealth without the Lord can do for us. So I was working on this and studying these verses and uh and uh studying this out. I got thinking of people back through the years that uh in the ministry that I've come across, and I can honestly say some of the most unhappy people I have ever met. I've been some of the wealthiest people I've ever met. I'm thinking of one fella in particular out in the Midwest who's extremely wealthy. And um he threw his money around uh pretty much. And I'll tell you, he's a very unhappy man. He's a very unhappy man. However, I think back over the years in the ministry and I think of some of the happiest people I've ever known. I'm thinking of one lady in particular down in Chattanooga, Tennessee, lived in the inner city projects there. I mean you talk about poverty. And this dear lady knew the Lord, and she was the happiest person. Anna Nixon Tate, I'm sure she's with the Lord many, many years now. And I'm telling you, on poverty income. And yet she loved the Lord sing and rejoice. Some of the happiest people I've ever known have been people living in poverty. Most people long for wealth. Most people would dream of having an income like we talked about Michael Jordan here. That's why people play the lottery. Let me take that back. That's why people throw their money away on the lottery People dream of someday there's going to be a check in the mail. I'm going to open the mail and there'll be a check there for incredible amounts of money and all my problems will go away and all my problems will be dissolved away. and that check never shows up. They never win the lottery. Um that's why people play the publisher's clearing house. Anybody ever do that? Here's a good. You get 95 things in the mail every other day. You're a contestant, you're in the running, you're in the running, and they never win. They dream of getting wealth. They dream if I can only have all this money, then I'll be happy. If I can have all this money, then my problems will be solved. If I have all this money, Then I'll find peace in my heart and mind. They dream of that. Um how many people here? Now let's just have a little fun with this a little bit. How many people here have ever already in your mind planned out what you would do if someone gave you a half a million dollars? Anybody ever do that? You already got it all planned out. You know exactly to the dollar What do you do with it? Anybody? Brother Hummel was here the other it was a year or so ago. We were at the uh lunch and we got talking and we were talking about the needs of beacon of truth and the ministry. And I we just uh one of us said something to the effect, boy, wouldn't that be something if uh somebody just gave a million dollars to Beacon of Truth, Brother Hummel said, I already have it down to the dollar decided how it's going to be spent We dream of that. I I mean I'm guilty of it driving along. Boy, if someone somehow I'd inherit a half a million dollars, I'd put so much here, I'd do this, and oh I'd give to the church and you know People dream of that. People dream of that. The fact is, the Bible makes a big deal about money. The Bible talks a lot about money. Jesus preached about money a lot. Money is very important in life. And God has designed it that way. We support missionaries. $100 plus $1,000 a year go to missionaries. God has set it up where finances are necessary. for missionaries to get on the field. And so money in and of itself is not evil. Money in and of itself is not wrong. Money in and of itself The Bible speaks a lot about it and emphasizes the importance of it, but here's the point that Solomon is making. As important as money is, and as a big a deal as the Bible makes about it, money cannot do for you and I what only God can do for us. And that's the point. I want to make a few statements I see here in this passage about money. Number one, I put this down: money cannot satisfy the soul. Money cannot satisfy the soul. Let's look at verse number 10 again here in Ecclesiastes chapter 5. He that loveth silver shall not be what? Satisfied with silver, nor he that loveth abundance with increase. This is vanity. In other words, the more you get, the more you're going to want. You're never satisfied. Never satisfied. Who was it? Was it um uh Rockefeller's when he died? I think it was Rockefeller when he died, they said how before he died, he said uh Uh they asked him, how much money is enough? You're a you're a gazillionaire, how much money is enough? And his answer was what? Just a little bit more. He that loveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver. There's two key words in this statement here in this verse. The one is love it. If you love something, what does that mean? If you love something, talk to me now, what does it mean? Alright, you highly regard it. If you and I love something, we cherish it very much. We consider it of great value. We highly value it. We have a strong affection for it And he says, he that loveth silver, he that has a strong affection, boy, highly values it, boy, he is in love with it. So the word loveth there, but it's note it's important to note what he does not say. He doesn't say he that possesseth silver. This passage is not condemning the possession of wealth. This passage is not condemning the possession of money Money is important. Money has a role. Some of the greatest men of God in the Bible had a tremendous amount of wealth. What he's condemning here is not the possession of wealth, but loving wealth. The obsession with wealth, the pursuit of wealth. By the way, you don't have to be rich to love money Right? A lot of poor people love money. Man, their whole life is lived. I gotta get more. Someday I'm gonna be rich. Someday I'm gonna have a lot of money. Someday. And that's their goal, their purpose, their drive in life, is to get more money So what he's condemning here is not the possession of wealth and silver, but the love of it, the affection for it, the desire for it, the drive for it. Um 1 Timothy 6 10 The love of money, the love of money is the what? Root of all evil Why is that? How does that play out that love of money is the root of all evil? When I fall in love with money, that money replaces the Lord's place in my life. And I start looking for money to do for me what only God can do for me, and it's going to fall short every single time. And the next thing you know, I start pursuing all kinds of evil things. So the first key word I notice in this verse is love it, not possess it. Nothing wrong with possessing it, but this love for it, this attachment to it, this adoration of it. Then the second word is satisfying. He that loveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver. The word satisfied there means to be fulfilled. It's actually used back uh uh earlier in the Old Testament when Israel would gather up the manna And God says that manna would nourish them, it would satisfy them, it would meet their needs, it would uh uh uh uh fulfill them And he says here that money, he that loveth silver, are never going to be fulfilled. They're never going to have spiritual nourishment. They're never going to have sufficient. Those who love money never have enough money. Just a little bit more. Just a little bit more. I like this. Money can buy comfort But it cannot buy contentment. Money can buy possessions, but it cannot buy peace of mind A love affair with money will always leave the lover dissatisfied. Take your Bible, if you would, and turn with me to Luke chapter number 12. Back in the New Testament, Jesus again addresses this money, this idea of finances and wealth and loving it. Luke chapter 12. Now keep your place there in Ecclesiastes. We're coming back. And when you find chapter 12, stay there because we're going to go back and forth a little bit. Luke chapter 12 and verse number 15. Did you find it there? Luke 12, 15. The Bible says this, and he said unto them, this is Jesus speaking. Oh, well, let's go back to verse 13. We'll get the context here. And one of the company said unto him, unto Jesus, Master, speak to my brother, that he divide the inheritance with me. Sounds like this guy loves what? Sounds like this guy loves money, he wants that inheritance. You need to make sure I get what I what's coming to me And he, Jesus, verse 14, he said unto him, Man, who made me a judge or a divider over you? Then he got to the heart of the problem in verse 15. And he said unto them, Take heed Be careful. Hey, watch out. Take heed. And beware of what? Covetousness. Loving money. Wanting it, wanting it, wanting it For a man's life, get this, a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesseth. What is he saying? He's saying that money, those possessions, that stuff that you're pursuing, it's never going to meet your need. That's not what your life consists of. That's not what brings fulfillment and satisfaction to life. And so the first thing we find out here, this Solomon points out, is that money will not satisfy. Money cannot satisfy the soul. Anyone here recognize the name Uncle Bud Robinson? Anybody recognize that name? Uncle Bud Robinson, he was an old evangelist back in the early 1900s. I believe he was out of Florida He was a Nazarene. He grew up in extreme poverty. God saved him. He was sleeping on a log, actually. That was all he had to sleep on, is a piece of wood. And uh he was sleeping on there and he woke up and he was under conviction from a can't meet and he was at and he got saved. And Uncle Bud Robinson had a severe speech speech speech he had a speech impediment And that's how he would preach. God called him to be a preacher. And he would preach, and he had this stutter real bad. But God's hand was on Uncle Bud Robinson And thousands and thousands of people were saved under his meetings. And God filled them with his spirit. And the power of God, by the way, that is what we need in our churches and our preaching today, is the power of the Holy Spirit of God. And Uncle Bud had God's hand upon him. And one day he was preaching up in New England and uh the preacher or somebody said, uh, hey, we're you got a day off, we're going to give you a tour of New York City and see all the sights of New York City. And they took Uncle Bud Robinson and he toured and he saw all the sights of New York City and the lights and the stores and everything. that New York had to offer. And that night, as they were winding down, getting ready for bed, he called the folks together. He says, well let's have some devotions. They read some scripture and he says, let me lead in prayer And that night as Uncle Bud Robinson prayed. He prayed this prayer. Thank you, Lord, of course in this stuttering. Thank you, Lord, for letting me see the sights of New York. And thank you most of all, I didn't seek one thing I wanted Old Bud Robinson, he understood the role of finances and mondies. He knew that could not satisfy his soul. Only Jesus can satisfy our soul. Number two, I put this down. Money does not solve our problems. Come back to Ecclesiastes chapter 5 and verse number 11. When goods increase, they are increased that eat them. In other words, the more you get, the more is going to feed off of, the more you're going to need. And what good is there to the owners thereof, saving the beholding of them with their eyes? I put it this way, money does not solve all our problems. Again, money is an important part of life. It's necessary. We need it to function in the world. I put this down. Money is a good friend, but it's a terrible master. Jesus said, make friends of manna. Money should be my friend. Money should be something that helps me be a better Christian. Money should be something that helps me live for God. Money should be help something that helps me serve God and live in my life, not something that masters me. Not something that controls me that I worship like a God. It will not solve all our problems. When money replaces God Our problems increase. Our problems increase. I put it this way: when money becomes our lover, our problems increase. Our problems increase. Do you ever read? I saw a documentary. It's been a number of years ago, and I wish I had some documentation of this I could use. But they went through about 15 different lottery winners. This documentary did. Went 15 different lottery winners. And it followed up their lives after they won these millions of dollars. They went back five, ten, fifteen years later. And everyone, with, I think if I remember correctly, there was an exception of one, every one of them, their lives were destroyed. They were in debt over their heads. Their marriages were destroyed. Most of them were divorced. Some of them were in jail. It had absolutely destroyed their lives. The more money they got the more problems they had. I like Romans 8. 28. How many people like that verse, Romans 8. 28? And we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them that love God who are the called according to his purpose. That is a great verse, and that is absolutely true. But here's something you can't say. All things work together for good to them that love money. It's not going to happen that way. It's going to increase problems. Money cannot I know, I maybe I'm talking, you may never admit it, at least not in a church situation, but in the back of our minds we got this idea. Boy, you know, if I just had more money my problems would go away. If I just won that lottery, if I just got that inheritance, if I just somehow got that publisher clearing house. All my problems would go away. According to the Bible, I'm here to tell you, according to the Bible, your problems would increase Your problems would increase. So money cannot solve all our problems. I put this down. Money does not settle the mind. Does not settle the mind. Doesn't bring peace of mind. Look at verse number 12 here. The sleep of a laboring man is what? Sweet, whether he eat little or much. Regardless of how much possession he has, regardless of how much money he has, maybe he just has enough to eat a little bit, maybe money he can eat a lot But the sleep of a laboring man is sweet, whether he eat little or much. But the abundance of the rich, look at this, will not suffer him to what? The guy that's working just getting by and just trying to pay his bills and live his life and he's going by, maybe he's an old mechanic, works under a truck. He gets up in the morning and he busts his knuckles on those wrenches all day long, all greasy, comes home, cleans up, has a little bit of mashed potatoes and some hamburgers or some mashed potatoes and hamburgers. Uh that's pretty good And uh throw a little coleslaw in there, his mic make them a little pie, they go out to the can watch the kids play uh little league baseball, he comes back, they have devotions, go to bed. Tell you what, that guy sleeps pretty good at night He didn't have a whole lot. He's just getting by, whether he has a lot to eat or a little, but he's working hard. And he lays his head on that pill at night and within seconds he's asleep. You get this old guy that's got millions and millions of dollars. He doesn't know if he's coming and going. That guy can't sleep at night. Do you notice uh uh b well I don't know if you notice this, but back in the 1920s when the when the uh stock market crashed. Late twenties. Any of y'all remember that? And um that stark my stock market crash. It wasn't the common laboring guys that were jumping off bridges. They're just getting by. They're just doing their thing. They slept good at night. You know who couldn't sleep? You know whose worlds were turned upside down? The folks that love money. The folks that invested their lives in getting as much as I possibly can. People who were looking for money to do for them what only God could do for them. They were the ones that had all kinds of problems, had no peace of mind Generally, working folks have more peace of mind than folks that are so filthy rich they don't have to work. Generally, working folks sleep better at night than the highly rich people that love and seek after money The fourth thought I put down is this. Money does not secure success. Money does not secure success. Look at verse 13 down through verse 17. There's a sore evil which I've seen under the sun, namely riches kept for the owners thereof to their hurt. Oh, they got lots of money, they laid it up. But they weren't successful. It messed them up. It was to their hurt. Those riches perish by evil travail, and he begetteth a son, and there's nothing in his hand As he came forth out of his mother's womb, naked shall he return to go as he came, and shall take nothing of his labor which he may carry away in his hand. This is a sore evil that all all that in all points as he came So shall he go. What profit hath he that laboreth for the wind? All his days also he eateth in darkness, he hath much sorrow and wrath with his sickness. I don't know. I read that passage there. That doesn't sound like success to me. That doesn't sound like a man that's pursued finances and worshiped money and loved silver It doesn't sound to me like he ended up very successful. He ended up dying the same way he was born with nothing. And sore travail and evil. The money does not secure success. Can I tell you what true success is? True success is finding the will of God and doing it. I'll tell you what success is, the person that stands before the judgment seat of Christ and hears Almighty God say to that person, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. And I'm telling you this, our rewards at the judgment seat of Christ have absolutely nothing to do with our financial status in this world. Whether rich or poor, whether we have a lot of silver or just a little bit to get by, either way, I can stand before God with a clear conscience when I found the will of God and I fulfilled it for my life. That is success. Don't ever think that getting lots and lots and lots of money equals success in the eyes of God. Question, is God against great wealth? No. Some of the greatest Christians, some of the greatest men and women of God in the Bible were extremely wealthy. But that does not mean I'm in the will of God A poor person living on poverty income can be as much in the will of God as the wealthiest person in the United States of America. You follow what I'm trying to say? And he says, these are people that love it, they're pursuing it, they're looking for money to do for them what only God can do for them. And he says their lives end up failure. They have nothing to show for the light. They have nothing of spiritual, eternal value. There's nothing there. There's nothing there. Turn with me back to Luke chapter 12, if you would. Money is simply a tool provided by God so that I can accomplish His will for my life Did you get that? I think that's an important statement. Money is simply a tool that God provides to me so that I can carry out God's will for my life. Whatever that may be. And whatever God whatever finances are needed to accomplish God's will, God will provide that. What's Matthew 6 33 say? Seek ye first uh Kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these things shall be added unto you. What's he saying? God will provide the income, the finances you need. It will be a tool so that you can seek first, you put God first, you seek his kingdom, and God will provide the tools, God will provide the needs, uh the material needs that you have to carry that out. Is that making sense? Look with me at a fellow who is a fool. Jesus calls him a fool in Luke chapter 12 and verse number 16. We ended at 15 a few minutes ago. Look at verse 16 And he spake a parable unto them, Jesus now. He's addressing this covetous guy that wanted those brothers' inheritance Spake a parable unto them, saying, The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully. And he thought within himself, saying, What should I do? Because I have no room wherewith to bestow my fruits. I've got so much I don't have nowhere to put it. And he said, This will I do. I will pull down my barns and will build greater. And there will I bestow all my fruits and my goods, and I will say to my soul, Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years. Take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry. Sounds like United States of America, doesn't it? Man, we're wealthy. We got stuff. I need a bigger garage. I need a I need some outbuildings to put all my four-wheelers and my ski and my uh jet skis and I need more cars in the air and I need all that. Listen, having all that in and of itself is nothing wrong. But if that's what I'm living for If that is what is I'm looking to find fulfillment, I'm a fool. I'm a fool. Look what happens here I'll say to my soul, verse 19, soul, that's much goods laid up for many years, you're in good shape. Take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry. But God said unto him, Thou what? Fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee. Then whose shall these things be which thou hast provided? So is he that layeth up treasure for himself look at this and is not rich toward God. In other words, God's saying, God's not condemning this fella for being successful. God's not condemning this fella for being wealthy and all of that. But he is condemning them saying, listen, you're laying this all up for yourself. You're looking you're looking all this stuff. to satisfy you, to bring fulfillment to your life, to bring purpose in your life, and you die and you have nothing spiritually, and you're a fool. You're a fool. But he says, lay up treasure, not for yourselves, but for God. Um money is a tool to be used to fulfill God's will. Money is a tool that God entrusts me with to advance the gospel. I say this often. Whenever I preach on money, I like to bring this out. There's three views on finances, there's three ways to look at money One way is this is the world's view. It's all mine. I worked hard, I put in time, I used my skills, my abilities, I gathered all this. All this money is mine. I can do what I want with it. That's a foolish way. That was this guy There's a second approach. This is what view a lot of Christians had. I got this money, I got it in. 10% is God's. And by the way, that's a true statement. I didn't think I'd get a whole lot on that one, but 10% is God's. That part is true. But this is the attitude. 10% is God's, the other 90% is mine. I can do what I want. I'll give God his 10%. Rest of this is mine. There's a third approach. This is the biblical approach. It's all God's. It's all God's. He's just entrusted me with it to use it to accomplish his will for my life. He's entrusted me with this income, this finances, this wealth, whatever level it is. to use it to bring glory to God and to advance the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what Solomon's addressing People that love silver. We got all this, all this. And God is pushed out. And I'm looking for the gold and the silver to do for me. What only God can do for me. What only God can do for me. Money is simply a tool to be used for the glory of God. C. S. Lewis, I'm not a big fan of C. S. Lewis, but he made a good statement. He said, if you read history, you will find that the Christians who did the most good for this present world were precisely those who focused the most on the world to come. Did you get that? The Christians who had the most positive impact on the world were those that were not focused on this world and the things of this world. but were focused on the kingdom of heaven, the things to come, and they had a profound impact on this world. I think that applies to the the issue of money. If I understand that my money is a gift from God, it's an entrustment from God, it's a I'm a steward of the resources God has entrusted me with to use To advance his kingdom, those people have the greatest impact on this world. Am I making sense? In nineteen seventy-six, Bertha Adams Down in Florida, Palm Beach, Florida, West Palm Beach, Florida, she died. She was 71 years old. She died on Easter Sunday, 1976. Took her to the coroner's uh uh corner and did a did an autopsy. Cause of death, malnutrition She weighed 50 pounds, 71 years old. She had wasted away, weighed 50 pounds. They did a little investigation into her place. And they said that it was the the one guy, the one in uh investigator said it was a pig pen, the biggest mess you can possibly imagine. Another investigator said he had never seen such a messy place where somebody lived. This pitiful woman begged for food from her neighbors. Got what clothes she had from the salvation army, and by all appearances, she was a penniless, pitiful, forgotten widow As they were finally, after she was buried and gone, if they went through and started cleaning her place up, they found two keys. They looked at the keys carefully, did a little study, research, found out that they were to two different safety deposit boxes at two different banks downtown. They went down there and they opened the safety deposit boxes up and it says they it was unbelievable. The first box contained over 700 stock certificates, bonds and financial securities and cash mounting to over $200,000. The other box had in all cash $600,000. Between the two and all that they found, she apparently had over a million dollars that she had hoarded up and hoarded up and hoarded up. Money became her God. And she died pitiful, a sad, a horrific death. Now that's an extreme case. But I'm saying to us, you and I as Christians. We need to understand that money is a tool that God entrusts us with to use to advance the gospel, bring glory to Him. It is not our God. And when we begin to love money and we begin to worship money as our culture does, we're just asking for more troubles. We're asking for an emptiness in our heart and soul. Does that make sense? Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us with this matter of money. Lord, it's such a powerful thing in our world. It's such a uh an important aspect of our lives. It's so easy to get out of whack and out of perspective of what it is and how it's to be used And I pray you'd help us, myself, all through us as a church, help us to understand the role that money has in our lives as believers and how it's to be used I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, preacher, you know, I need to just stop and re-examine my possessions and my attitudes about it. And see it from God's perspective. Is there any like that? Say, preacher, pray with me. I just need to see and look at my finances from God's perspective. Anybody at all like that? God bless you. A bunch of hands around. And that's important. And we want to honor the Lord. with our finances. We want to honor the Lord and use it as God intends and not worship Him. As always, we finish out the Lord's day. I think it's important to ask the Lord to bless us and maybe kneel at an old-fashioned altar as we go into the coming week. And just ask God to do a great work. I want to throw this out. So we give the invitation, and maybe a little unrelated to the message. I want to ask our church to begin to pray and ask God to revive us, to send a real old-fashioned, Holy Ghost, heaven-sent revival to our church. How many folks will say, preacher, I'm going to pray for that. I'm going to pray that God sends revival. We need it. I need it. And let's ask God to do that for us. And then of course our finances are part of that. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. Please revive us. Help us to see heaven, see things from heaven's perspective, we pray in Jesus' name Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed, as Jennifer plays the embed