And uh her faith and the things of God. And of course he was devastated. He was living in Florida and one evening he was uh sitting at home, if I remember the story correctly, looking out over the ocean and just weeping uh of all that had happened and uh began playing at the piano and these words came to mind and he wrote that no one ever cared for me like Jesus Jesus. Isn't that a powerful song? Appreciate that chip. If you would take your Bibles turn with me to Acts chapter twenty, back to where Brother James Read from. It's a blessing to have James on the team this summer as our intern and he's been doing a good job. Appreciate him so much. Acts chapter 20. While you're turning there, a young girl was attending a wedding For the first time, the little girl was there and she leaned over and whispered to her mother, said, Why is the bride dressed in white? The mother replied, Because white is the color of happiness, and today is the happiest day of her life. The little girl thought a moment and then she said, why is the groom wearing black then? So that's dedicated to a couple in our church. Acts chapter twenty and uh I just want to notice if you would verse number twenty-four. I have this verse underlined in my Bible. And I recommend underscoring this or highlighting this passage in your Bible in some way. The Bible says, of course, this is Paul speaking under the inspiration of God. He says, none of these things move me. Neither count I my life dear unto myself, so that I might finish my course with joy. And the ministry which I received of the Lord Jesus to testify the gospel of the grace of God. Notice that phrase caught my attention. Neither count I my life beer unto myself. Years ago, as a young man, my parents would send me to camp. And uh to uh there was a religious camp we went up to, a Mennonite camp, and um they would teach us songs and different things, and it was nice. But one of the songs they taught us has stuck in my mind all these years. You don't hear it sung too often, but it went like this: More than life, I love thee, Lord. More than this world can afford. I have given myself to thee, O Lord, more than life, I love thee. Something to that effect. More than life, I love thee, Lord. Untitled The Message This Morning, More Than Life. Let's pray. Father, I ask now that you would bless our study of your word. And God, I would certainly be the first to acknowledge that in and of myself I have nothing to offer of any spiritual or eternal value to anybody here this morning. So God, I want to empty myself of self. I yield my will to yours as best as I am able, Father. I present my body to you anew, and I ask that your Holy Spirit would fill me, and you would speak through me, and you would be the preacher this hour. Open our hearts and minds. I pray, Father, you would help me and all of us to take our Christianity seriously. I pray, Father, that we would understand What our priorities should be, and what our life really is. Speak to our hearts, I pray. Have your way in Jesus' name. Amen. This whole passage of scripture here, what Brother James read, and really the whole chapter, Acts chapter 20, is what I believe one of the most touching scenes in the Bible. Perhaps one of the most emotional scenes in the Bible. Here you have the Apostle Paul, great preacher, a church planter, a missionary. And in spite of severe opposition, and in the face of severe persecution These folks that he's addressing in chapter 20, he had personally led them to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. He had literally risked his life. To come to the city of Ephesus and share with them the message that Jesus is the only Savior. That they could have their sins forgiven. That they could have the assurance that someday when they die, they would go to heaven to be with the Lord. He had literally risked his life. To come and share that. And he had led many of these people to the Lord Himself. He spent some time there. He had taught them personally. He had taught them the Word of God. Look with me, if you would, at verse 27. Look what he says. For I have not shun to declare unto you all the counsel of God. Not only did he lead them to the Lord, but Paul very carefully and very thoroughly took the Word of God and he taught them what the Bible taught. He took the counsel of God and declared it to them. He invested time in their spiritual well-being. He had established some good strong churches in this area. He started them, one people to the Lord, got them organized uh or uh had pastors, uh elders is the Bible term here, uh had them ordained and put in place. And he had a good work gone. A number of churches, good, strong, Bible preaching churches that were unified and Winning souls. Later on you read of the church at Ephesus, and they were doing a good job. Now Paul's leaving. And he says to them, I know I will never see, you will never see my face again. I'm leaving. These people who Paul loved dearly Paul's leaving these people, they loved him dearly. And he will never return. If you would, notice verse 37 and 38 with me. And they all wept sore and fell on Paul's neck and kissed him. Sorrowing most of all for the words which he spake, that they should see his face no more. And he accompanied him unto the ship. Verse thirty-seven, they wept sore. They're crying out loud, sobbing. This man that had brought them the good news of Jesus Christ, this man that had taught them the things of God, was leaving them and they'll never see him again. Their hearts are broken. In the midst of all of this, verse 24, Paul makes a startling statement. He says, neither count I my life dear unto myself. I took that phrase. I looked up every word. I did a word study on every word. I want to know exactly what he is saying when Paul said, I do not count my life dear unto myself. What exactly did he mean by that? What was he saying to these uh Ephesian believers? I believe this is what Paul was saying as I studied this. He was saying, I do not cling to my physical life as something overly precious or overly valuable. When he says, I do not count my life dear unto myself, the word life there, he's talking about his physical life, being alive physically. He said, to me, staying alive physically is not something that is overly precious or overly valuable. In other words There is something more important to me than remaining alive There is something of greater value. There is something more precious than my own physical life. Now this is not to say that Paul did not highly value his life. I believe you study the life of Paul in the Bible, you find that he did consider his life to be of great value. In fact, every man or woman of God values life very highly. Amen. Life is precious. And the very the very idea Of aborting a child before it even is born is abhorrent to those of us that know the Lord and have any sense of right and wrong. Because life is precious. Life is valuable. So, Paul, when he says, I do not count my life dear unto myself, was not saying That he doesn't highly value his or anyone's life. He does value life. God is the one that has given us life. And that makes it precious. Paul was not saying that he was weary of his life. I believe Paul lived a very full life. A very satisfying life. And I was tempted to go that way in the message. But uh Paul lived a very full, a very satisfying life. It's interesting. Look with me if you would at verse 24 again. None of these things movie Now notice he says, neither count I my life dear unto myself. Now notice that next phrase. So that, why does he not count his life dear unto himself? Well, so that he might finish his what? Course, that I might finish my course with joy. That word course there is interesting. He is using the word course to describe his view of life. He says, my life is a course. Now, we think of the word course in our language. You think of uh uh, I know one person thinking of a golf course. You know, and it's just one leisurely point to the next, sometimes kind of frustrating, but uh uh going point. But that is not the idea behind the word course here When he says he described his life as a course, he is referring to a marked-out racetrack. Something that has a specific goal at the end. Something that is designed to lead to a very specific place. Discourse has a purpose for being there, it has a goal that is to be accomplished, and it also has some perimeters that are not to be gone out of. So Paul's view of his life, he says, neither count I my life dear unto myself, so that I might finish my course. Here we get Paul's picture of life. Now, I hope you're still with me. Are you with me? You glad you came to church today? Amen? Everybody? Here's Paul's view of life. He says, my life is not some leisurely stroll just to be enjoyed Um life is not simply life is not simply seeking pleasure Life is more than simply spending time somewhere. It's more than simply making money. Paul did not view his life, and I believe this is what we need to get. I need this. Paul did not view his life. As some selfish thing that was his to use for his pleasure, to use for his advancement, to use for his enjoyment. His life had a purpose. His life had a course. It was a course. It had a goal. There were perimeters. There was something he was to accomplish in his life. Today's attitude was expressed in a commercial years ago when I was young, but it would it was something like this go for all the gusto. Anybody remember that little phrase? In other words, just live it up. You live life one time, man. Enjoy it. Just live it up. Pack in as much pleasure as you possibly can, because the world's philosophy of life is eat, drink, and be merry, because tomorrow we what? Die. But that's not Paul's view. Paul's view is my life has a purpose. There's it's a course. It is something that is marked out by God, my life And there are by the way, there's consequences for going outside of the perimeters of the course. Number one priority for Paul was this. What is God's will for me today? His priority number one priority is boy, what can I do that's fun today? His number one priority wasn't how much money can I make today? His number one priority was: what is God's will for me today? My life is a course. I think a good question for you and I to ask ourselves today, May 31st, 2009. What is God's will for you today? What does God want you to do today? Why has God allowed you to be alive today? What is your course? What is my course? Paul says that I may finish my course. I don't know about you, but in my mind, this approach to life made Paul, in my mind, a genuine hero. Here is a man who is living a life that is bigger than himself. He is a man who is living his life invested in something other than himself. And that, my friend, is a hero. Look with me at verse 24 again. Well, you need to get the context. Let's go back to verse 22. Notice what he says. And now, behold, I go bound in the spirit unto Jerusalem. Not knowing the things that shall befall me. Save that the Holy Ghost witnesseth in every city. Look at this, saying that bonds and what? Afflictions abide me. In other words, he's saying, listen, God has revealed to me, no matter where I go, I'm going to be chained up, I'm going to be in prison, and I'm going to be afflicted. No matter where I go, boy, what kind of life is that? Paul says, hey, there's something bigger than my pleasure. There's something more important here than if I rather than I get my way, something more important than that. So, with that in mind, the Holy Ghost witnessed every city, saying, bonds and afflictions abide me, but none of these things move me. In other words, I won't change a thing. If that is the price of obeying God, then so be it. Neither count I my life dear unto myself, so that I might finish my course with joy. And the ministry which I've received of the Lord Jesus to testify the gospel, the grace of God. Paul's life had a purpose bigger and greater than himself. Can I can I be so bold to say A person who is living for themselves is living a very small life. Everything has to do with me. My pleasure, my advancement, my will, my desires, my comfort. That is a very small person. Lives in a very small, self-centered world. I like the term. They have ingrown eyeballs. All they can see is themselves. All they can see is if how things affect me. It is never Something beyond me. It is never something outside of myself. It is never investing my time or my efforts or my life Into something besides my own self. Paul didn't live that way. He says, I don't count my life dear to myself. Myself, my will, my pleasure, my comfort is not precious to me. I have a course laid out by God. There is something for me to live for. There is a cause. There is a purpose greater than my own comfort, and I'm committed to that, whatever the price is. What a man! What a way to live life. People who live only for themselves live very small lives. People who value others only by whether they do me good or treat me nice or not are very small people. People whose their only purpose in life is to accomplish their will, live very empty lives, and you'll find them to be very, very frustrated. You'll find them to be very, very unhappy. You'll find them to be very, very empty. Paul said, there's something bigger than me. It's not my will. It's not my pleasure. It's not my cover. You say, Bridger, are you saying that we shouldn't have fun? We shouldn't enjoy things. We shouldn't have pleasure. No, no, no. I'm not saying that at all. But I am saying there's things more important than that There's something bigger to live for than simply my comfort. By the way, churches who exist only for themselves are very small churches. They may have a huge attendance, they may have a large membership role, but if all they're living for is their pleasure and their enjoyment and their comfort and their uh good feelings. Then that, regardless of the size of the membership, that is a very small church. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we have a course, we have a purpose, we have something much bigger than ourselves to live for. And Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church does not exist for our comfort and for our pleasure. We exist for the glory of God and for the advancement of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I don't want us to be a small church. I don't want us to be just simply what we want and our way and make us happy. And you get in that mentality, us four and no more. And that is selfish, and that is empty. Paul said, none of these things move me. I don't count my life dear unto myself. There's something more important, something more precious. Accomplishing the course that God has given is more important to me. than my own physical life. Let me give you two thoughts this morning, and then I'll be done. Number one, I noticed that Paul had something worth dying for. Paul had something worth dying for. Again, verse 24. Neither count I my life dear unto myself, so that I might finish my course with joy, and the ministry which I have received of the Lord Jesus. Look at this. to testify the gospel of the grace of God. Do you understand what Paul is saying here? Paul is saying that the gospel of the grace of God was worth dying for. That his life compared. to the gospel, the grace of God, his life was not something precious, was not something valuable. The gospel was more valuable than his own precious life Now not everything out there called the gospel is actually the gospel. You could, sad to say, In our day and age, you could go to ten different churches and you would get ten different definitions of what the gospel is. It's a lot of modern gospels being offered. But I'll be honest with you, the only gospel that I'm concerned about is the old-time gospel given to us in the Word of God. We're not interested in modern man's gospel. We're not interested in the people who reject the Bible and reject Christ and what their definition of the gospel is When we say the gospel of the grace of God is worth dying for, we're talking about the gospel of the Word of God, our Baptist forefathers. Died at the stake for the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Many of whom were burned at the stake for the true gospel. You read the stories in Fox's Book of Martyrs and other ancient historians, and they will tell of men and women. Who give an opportunity to forsake the Lord Jesus Christ, give an opportunity to deny the gospel of grace, and rather than live their life and deny the gospel, they would be burned at the stake and do it joyfully. You know what they were saying? More than life. I love you, Lord. More than this world can afford. I do not count my life dear unto myself. The gospel of Jesus Christ is worth dying for. There once was a gospel that Christians, all Christians, held to without question. Anybody ever hear the phrase the gospel though someone will say something like this? That's the gospel truth. Anybody hear that phrase? You know what they're saying? There was a day When you said the word gospel, every Christian knew the facts that were behind that, and they were unquestionably true. Jesus Christ was God's Son, came down and lived and died, suffered the judgment of God on the cross for us, was buried. Rose again. That was the gospel truth. Those were facts that were not questioned. Those were facts that were not doubted. They were absolute gospel truth Sad thing is, we get out Sunday afternoon, Saturday, sometimes during the week we knock on doors We talk to people saying, oh yes, I go to such and such church. Oh yes, I go to such and such church. Do you know for sure if you died right now you'd go to heaven? Well, I don't know. I don't know, and you share the gospel with them, and it's like they never heard it before Years ago I did a funeral and I've made m reference to this a number of times, but years ago we did a funeral here and I don't remember who the funeral was for, but there was a number of other pastors that were invited to be a part of it, the family had asked of any part, and so I gave them different parts and Read scripture or whatnot. And uh I got up and I gave the gospel, just a simple plan of salvation Just something we do every week on doorsteps and uh something we do from the pulpit here all the time. Nothing profound, nothing uh ex uh uh unusual, just old people how to be saved And one of the pastors came up, and his eyes were big, and he smiled, and he shook my head, and he said, Pastor Letterman, that was the greatest explanation of how to be saved I've ever heard in my life. And then I said, thank you, and I walked away and I thought, what in the world has he been preaching? If that's so profound, just the simple plan of salvation to the pastor, what in the world do the people in the church know? Now this message is not an attack on other pastors. God bless them. And there's a lot of good preachers out there who are preaching the gospel. What I'm saying is this We're not careful. We are getting away from the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ as given to us in the Bible, and we have a generation who knew nothing of the gospel. Let alone be willing to die for it. Paul said there's something worth dying for. My life is not precious, dear unto myself. The gospel was far more important. There once was a gospel preached. It used to be that people would gather by the thousands just to hear the gospel preached. I read of Charles Spurgeon and George Whitfield and John Wesley, of years going by, the 1700-1800s. And people would gather literally by the tens and twenty thousand to hear them do nothing other than preach how to be saved. No praise bands, no music, no dramas, no shows, no lights, no explosions, just the preaching of the gospel And people would come by thousands. The gospel. There was a gospel that Christians all held to without question. There was a gospel that was preached and people would come by the thousands just to hear it. There was once a gospel that by the tens of thousands people gave their lives for In Spain, in South America, in the mission field, people dying, giving their lives so that others could hear the gospel. Paul says there is something worth dying for. Sad to say, now we have churches that are driven by every wind of doctrine Some new idea comes along, and boy, they'll go out chasing after that. Sad to say, we have churches today that are holding to nothing but self-will and the pleasures of the flesh. I get the advertisements every week in the mail, these huge concerts and these huge things, and it's nothing more than a celebration of the flesh. And an indulgence of the flesh, all in the name of Christ, and there's no gospel given, and there's no truth of the word of God presented. The gospel is worth dying for. What is the gospel? Very simply that God Almighty Came down in the person of Jesus Christ and took on him the form of a man and was obedient even unto death. And on the cross he died took out all the world's sins, every sin that was ever committed. He took upon himself, suffered the judgment of God, an eternal separation from God, suffering the eternity of hell was buried, three days later, rose again, ascended to the right hand of God, and now, at the right hand of God, his ear is open to all who will call on him in repentance and faith. He will forgive their sin and save them from hell. That's the gospel. That is the message that you and I ought to be willing to die for. That Paul said, I don't count my life dear unto myself, not for the so that I can accomplish the ministry of the gospel of the grace of God. There's a lot of things I would not die for. But there's one thing that is greater than life, and that is the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. There is one thing more precious than our physical life, and that is the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Without the gospel, mankind has no hope of eternal life. So Paul said there's something worth dying for. That's the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And with that in mind, number two. Because of that, we have something worth living for. I would like to think I would be willing to die for the gospel. Anybody else feel that way? I would like to think I would be willing to do. I would like to think, yes, if it came down to that, I would be willing to die for the gospel of Jesus Christ. In my mind, I think I would be. I've not been put in that situation, thank God. I don't like to think I would be willing to die for the gospel. But You and I, at this point in time, are not being called on to die for the gospel. Now that could change. Amen? That could change in a very short period of time. Don't think that you or I or our children or our grandchildren will never have to face that. It is a very real possibility. But we're not there. And we're not being called on to die for the gospel. Therefore, we ought to be willing to live for the gospel. So how do you live for the gospel? Number one, you receive it. We receive the gospel. Hey, The fact that Jesus died on the cross, was buried, rose again, and that whoever calls on him in repentance and faith will have eternal life, that is not something we made up. That is something God gave to us. That is a truth. That is a message that God accomplished and He passed on to us. It is something we simply receive. Now, I may be speaking to somebody this morning, maybe a young person or an adult, and you're at a point in your life where you cannot honestly say that you know for sure that if you would die today, that your sins are forgiven and you're on your way to heaven. If you're at that point and you say, Preacher, I don't know for that. I'd like to hope I'd go to heaven. I think I would. I I I certainly wish I would, but you cannot honestly say, I know for sure, if the all if something awful happened, I died today, my sins are forgiven on my way to heaven, I'm here to tell you God has something he wants you to receive. That is the gospel of Jesus Christ, how that Christ died for you. If you receive what He did for you, God will forgive your sins, and you can know for sure you're going to heaven someday. This afternoon it's kind of a hectic day for me today. This afternoon we're gonna go to the uh uh memorial service for Mr. Friend, and God forbid And if we'd be going up 219, some Mac truck loses control and comes plowing into my car, and I'd be thrown from the car and be lying there dying on the side of the road And the life would be leaving my body. I I would probably be a little fearful. Would you give me that? Probably be a little fearful. But I can tell you I know for sure, without a shadow of a doubt in my mind, I know for sure that I would go to heaven when my life left my body. Not because I'm better than anyone else. The Lord knows I'm not better than anyone else. My wife knows I'm not better than anyone else I'm not better than anyone else. I certainly haven't done anything to deserve forgiveness of sins and a home in heaven. But on May 7, 1979, I bowed beside my bed and I called out to the Lord Jesus Christ, trusting the gospel of Christ and trusting Jesus and met him in my life and he forgave me and saved me and that matter is settled So the first thing we do if we're going to live for the gospel, first thing we've got to do is we've got to receive it as our own. We've got to take it to ourselves and know that we've trusted Christ, that his gospel has saved our souls. from sin and hell. We cannot pick and choose what is true. Well, you gotta get knocking on doors. Well preacher, I just think it's this way. It really doesn't matter what you think or what I think, it matters what does God say. When I die and go to heaven, it's not based on what I think, it's based on what God has said. I've read a lot of books in my lifetime. I've preached a lot of sermons. I've heard a lot of what man has to say. And I'll tell you, man has yet to come up with anything greater than Than the gospel of Jesus Christ. And I have committed myself. And I stand before you this morning as your pastor. And I say, I have committed myself not to alter one jot or tittle of the gospel as given to us in the Bible. I have committed myself to preach it and declare it and teach it exactly as the Bible gives it to us, not as we think it should be, not as we want it to be, but as God has declared it to be. We receive it. We don't modify it. We don't adjust it. We don't modernize it. We receive it. How do we live for the gospel? Number one, we receive it. Number two, we declare it. We give it out. Listen, there are people in Garrett County and surrounding areas who if they die today, they will be lost for all eternity. In hell and the lake of fire, and we have the gospel. We have the message that can change that. We've got to give it out. We've got to give it out. That's how we live the gospel. By giving it out Sharing it with others. We've tried to do everything we possibly can to facilitate that. We've got gospel tracts coming out our ears around here. We've got Christian literature, we're putting it everywhere. We've got radio stations, we've got Bibles, we've got soul-winning training. We're doing everything we possibly can to facilitate getting the gospel out to unsaved people, not just here, but through faith promise around the world. How do we live for the gospel? We declare it on the job, in the marketplace, in the streets, from the radio, on the newspaper, in the newspaper, from the pulpits. Number three, we live the gospel. We live for the gospel first by receiving it, then by declaring it, then number three, to testify of it. Look at verse 24, and I end with this, which I have received of the Lord Jesus to testify the gospel of the grace of God. The word testify is a simple little word. It simply means to tell what you know to be true. So what does it mean to testify of the gospel? Are you with me? To testify the gospel simply means I tell others what the gospel has done for me. How many folks here are you saved? You know it. Say amen. Has the gospel done anything for you? Has it? What has the gospel of Jesus Christ done for you? Think about it. What has it done for you? Has it done anything for you? Is the gospel done anything for you? Has it changed your life at all? Has it improved your life? Has it affected your thinking? Has it changed the way you view God? Has it affected your relationship with God? Yes! Then tell other people what the gospel has done for you. Tell other people what Jesus Christ has done for you. That's testifying. That's living for the gospel. Letting them know, hey, my life was empty. My life had no purpose. I was scared to death. I had no meaning. I felt so guilty. I was so sinful. Jesus came in my life and he changed it. Now my life has purpose. I know I'm going to heaven. I have peace in my heart Share with others what the gospel has done for you. I tell you, you watch some Christians, as pastor, I sit back and I watch some Christians and I think, I don't think the gospel's done a thing for them. They're miserable, they're angry, they're just out there Come on, either it's true or it isn't. Either we have it or we don't. And if we have it. If Christ has done something for us, then let's live for him. Let's declare, tell others what he's done for us. More than life, I love you, Lord. More than this world can afford. Neither count I my life dear unto myself. There's something more important to me than simply experiencing some pleasure than simply having a comfortable life. There's m something more important to me than simply making a bunch of money and then living a life of pleasure. I have a course laid out for me. There is a goal. That is to get the gospel to the unsaved around the world. And God help me to do everything and let nothing move me from that course. It's Paul's attitude. I end with this question. What has the gospel done for you? What has it done for you? Share that with others. Father, bless us now, I ask. Help our church to have a purpose bigger than ourselves. Help our lives to have a purpose bigger than ourselves. We can live for the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. With our heads bowed and with