Look with me at verse number thirty-seven. I'd like for us to read Romans chapter eight, verse thirty-seven. If we read that together, it would be our text for this morning. We're going to look at the whole chapter really I'm going to preach from all of Romans chapter 8 this morning. So we'll be out by work tomorrow. No, I'm joking. Verse 37. Let's read this together. Ready all together. Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him that loved us. What a great verse. What a promise for the child of God that in all these things, and we'll look at them, we're more than conquerors. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord, speak our hearts. Father in heaven, thank you for the word of God. And these tremendous truths that you give us here that help us, and Lord, that actually affect our lives, how we live our lives, how we think. And I pray now, as we look at this verse here and this truth, that you would help us to see that and believe that. I yield my will to you, and Lord, I present my body anew. And I ask with all my heart, Lord, that you fill me with your Holy Spirit. And dear Lord, that you would speak through me this morning and you would be the preacher and open our hearts and minds that we could hear, have ears to hear what you're saying And then be able to apply it to our lives and live for you. So please bless now. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. One of the most common responses I get, and you've heard me say this no doubt many times, but when I'm out in a community or I'm talking to people about the Lord, maybe you've gone through a neighborhood knocking on doors One thing I get more than anything else, one response I get more than anything else, I ask him uh, you know, through various ways, I ask him, do you know for sure that when you die your sins are forgiven, you go to heaven and not to hell. Now that's an important question. And I try to, and I'm visiting or talking to someone, I try to get to that question pretty early on in the conversation. And here is the response I get, more than any other response. And you probably already can guess what I'm going to say. You know for sure that when you die, your sins are forgiven. You go to heaven, not to hell. Here it is. I hope so. I hope so. Or sometimes they'll word it. I think so. Or it'll be uh sometimes they'll just be flat out and say, I don't know I don't know if I'm going to go to heaven or if I'm going to go to hell when I die. I hope I go to heaven. And usually I respond to that with this statement. I say, well, nobody in their right mind wants to go to hell We hope so. We think so. They have no assurance. The vast majority of people I talk to outside of the church. Out in the community. Vast majority of people I talk to have no assurance or no confidence in their heart and mind that they've been accepted by God. And that when it's all said and done, they spend eternity in heaven and not in hell. Now, I don't know about you, but that's sad. To live a life. Often church members. I ask them to go to church somewhere. Oh yeah, we go to so-and-so church. Go regular. Oh yeah. Do you know for sure when you die, your sins for you can go to heaven, not to hell? Well, I hope so. Well, I think so. No assurance, no confidence. Now we come to the Bible. And we look at biblical Christianity. We look at biblical faith, not man's version of it, not this world spin. On what the Bible says. We come to what does the Bible say? And what we find in biblical faith, biblical Christianity, we find assurance. We find certainties. The Bible deals in certainties. God deals in certainties, not hope-soes, not think so's, not maybe so's. Our God is a certain God. And so we come, we find biblical faith, faith, and by that I mean this, our faith being grounded in the Word of God. If we find a passage where God says something is so, I don't have to hope whether it's so or not. You follow what I'm getting at? If God says something, if God says this is the way it is, then I don't have to say, well, I think that's the way it is. I can be certain that's the way it is. So biblical faith is a faith of assurance. Biblical faith is a faith of certainty, of confidence. And you and I, if we know Jesus Christ as our Savior, if we trusted Jesus Christ as our personal Savior, we can be very, very confident in our standing with God and our acceptance by God. Now that's where I would say amen. That's a wonderful way to live. To have assurance Now here in Romans, Paul is writing to believers in the city of Rome. And um These believers are dealing with, as is true in most of the New Testament believers, they're dealing with intense persecution. Now the Jews in Jerusalem, the believers in Jerusalem were dealing with intense persecution from the Jews. The Pharisees were pouring it on, those New Testament believers. Paul, of course, you read his testimony before he got saved, and how he persecuted the Church of God, how he persecuted believers. Taking them and putting them in bonds and casting them in prison and many of them even being sentenced to death. Now get this, for no other reason than the fact that they were disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ Now in Jerusalem, the persecution came, and it was very intense, very violent. But it came primarily from the Jewish, self-righteous Jewish Pharisees Now here in Rome it was a very just as intense and just as violent persecution, but in Rome it was primarily from the Roman government. The Roman government viewed Christianity as a threat to their authority. And by the way, anytime you get an oppressive government, they are going to be opposed to Christianity. Because biblical Christianity will undermine dictatorial authoritative governments every single time. So that's why when you find out you find a government like that in North Korea and Russia and these types of places, China, they are adamant against Christianity because it's always a threat. Because biblical Christianity recognizes there is an authority that is higher than government. God Almighty. In fact, in the Roman setup, government was God. They worshiped Caesar. And so now you have this percentage of their population that is no longer worshiping Caesar under their directives But now they're worshiping the Lord Jesus Christ, God Almighty. And they viewed that as a threat, and they turned on them. Let me just throw this as an aside. Christianity is good for a country. You look at countries where Christianity is in the extreme minority or absent That country is a mess. There's little liberty, there's little freedom. In many cases, the economy is terrible. Christianity is good for a community. Oakland and Garrett County, surrounding areas needs good, strong Christians. It's good for our area. And so back to the situation here, Paul is writing to these believers in Rome, and uh they've been suffering violent persecution by the government, and it's increasing, and it's increasing. And we know from studying history that it got to the point where they would literally take Christians, and you've heard this, and fed them to the lions, literally for entertainment. And a bitter opposition to disciples of Christ. And so as Paul is writing to them, and um he wants them to know That because they've trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, as their personal Savior, because they are in Christ is the term that Paul uses here. They're saved. They're in Christ. That there are some things they can be very certain about. They were not certain of what tomorrow held They were not certain whether they would even be alive in another week or two because of what was happening in the government with the persecution. They have there was a lot of things there was little certainty about for them. But if they were in Christ, if they knew Jesus Christ as Savior, there were some things they could be absolutely assured of. Now listen, I don't know If you're paying much attention, what's going on in the world, but I'll tell you this, there's little certainty in this world that we're living in today. And we see our economy, what's happening there. We see war breaking out of war. We don't know where that leads to. We don't know in a year from now what's the situation going to be in our in our world, in our own country. But I'm here to tell you, and Paul told those Roman believers: listen, in an uncertain world, as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, there is some things we can have absolute assurance about. And we don't have to be rattled. And we don't have to be stressed. And we don't have to live in fear. We can live in confidence. We can live with peace in our hearts and minds, knowing That there are some things as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ that are absolutely certain. Now let's look at some of these here just quickly. If you would, come back to verse 1 of Romans chapter 8. And in verse 1 through 4, He lists one thing that they can be as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. Now by the way, let me stop and say this. If you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, listen, if you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, none of these things we're going to look at apply to you. The most important thing in the world is that you trust in Christ Savior. The most important thing in the world is that you get your matter of your eternal salvation settled today. It's important. But those that know Christ, whether a young person, adult, senior citizen, I quit calling people old people, I call them senior citizens now, or very aged, wise, uh wise um people. Because I I'm becoming one of them. Or the aged part anyway. Look at verse one. Now, look at this verse. See if this is a hope-so, think-so, maybe so, or if it's a confidence statement. There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. Hope so, think so, or confident. That is an absolute statement. There is therefore now no condemnation returning in Christ Jesus who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit And he goes on down through there. The law of the Spirit of Life in Christ Jesus had made me free from the law of sin and death. For what the law could not do, and that it was weak through the flesh, God sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh And for sin, condemn sin in the flesh, that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit He tells them this: listen, in an uncertain world, here's something you can be absolutely certain of. If you're in Christ, if you've trusted Jesus Christ, you are accepted by God. There's no condemnation. Not I don't know how you are, but sometimes the devil gets all over me about things I've done wrong. I know some are you in shock to think that Pastor did something wrong. I I can I be honest with you? I tell you, Jennifer's song just now, you I'm telling you, there's spiritual stuff takes place during a church service. Does everybody understand that? There's spiritual stuff goes on during it when God's Word is preached And songs are sung to the praise of the Lord Jesus Christ, and God's people get together. There is spiritual activity taking place that is unseen to the eye, unheard by the ear, but it's felt in the heart and soul. I tell you, I was sitting up here, I'm just going to be transparent with you. I was sitting up here getting ready to preach, looking at my notes a little bit, and I'm telling you, devil's all over me. You're a sorry Christian. You're you're this, you're that. And I mean anybody here know what I'm talking about? Anybody ever been there? You're gonna teach a Sunday school class, you're gonna try and do something, maybe you're gonna go, man, the devil jumps all over you And see no stuff from years ago. Man, he jumps all over you. And Jennifer sang that song. I thought, thank God, there's now no more condemnation. Listen, the devil can throw what he wants to at us. God has said we're no longer under condemnation. Thank God for that. Thank God for that. Devil brings up, and by the way, people bring up our past and the devil brings up stuff and throws us and They try and condemn us and tell us this, that, and the other. But I tell you there's one being in this world that matters, and that's God Almighty, and He says, if you've trusted me as their Savior, if you're in Christ Condemnation is gone. No more. Zero zilts, nada. Zip. No more. I don't know about you, but that encourages my heart. I may be preaching to someone this morning, devil's been all over you, you're sorry. Listen, if you know Christ as Savior, you're in Christ, no more condemnation. And all God's people said, Amen to that. So he's writing to these believers, and they're being told that they're enemies of the state, and they're being told they don't deserve to live. And they're being told that they're a threat to their communities and they are harmful to society because they're believers in Jesus Christ. And by the way, I say this often, and it is a truth. This world has perfected the ability to take that which is good and make it seem so bad. And that which is evil and wicked, and make it seem so pure and so good. And that is exactly what the government was doing to those those believers in the New Testament can trying to convince them that they were harmful to society. They didn't deserve to live. They didn't deserve their freedoms. And God says, they can say what they want, I have no condemnation on you. So we certain tease. Notice, if you would, verse number nine. But ye are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if so be that the Spirit of God dwell in you. Now, if any man have not the Spirit of Christ, he's none of his. What's he saying here? He's telling him, he's saying, listen, first of all, you can be certain, you can have absolute certainty, there's no more condemnation. You're in Christ. You know, walking after the flesh, you're you're after the spirit, you're a spiritual being now. Then he says that here's the second certainty. Is that a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ has the Holy Spirit of God dwelling within us. Now, again, I don't know about you. That fires me up. You think about uh anybody anybody see the night sky last night? I am captivated. Did you see that little moon? That sliver of the moon? It is a waxing moon What does that mean? It's getting bigger, right? So it's a waxing moon. It's a little sliver last night. And then the stars around I saw the little dipper was over here. And um uh and I saw that sky last night and I thought God just spoke this into existence. Man Imagine the power that resides in a being that can just speak a universe into existence. With galaxies and solar systems and suns and planets, just speak it. What kind of power does our God have? And I thought of this. If I know Jesus Christ as Savior, that God, in the person of the Holy Spirit, dwells inside my body. Would you agree with that? That's almost overwhelming to comprehend. We walk around like we're powerless, like we have nothing. And the reality is God Almighty and the personal Holy Spirit. Listen, if you don't have the Holy Spirit of God dwelling within you, then you're not saved. That's what he said. The fact of the matter, how many folks here are saved and you know it? Say amen. That means the moment you trusted Christ the Savior, God Almighty, the person of the Holy Spirit moved inside your body. And you have that God dwelling with you and within me. I mean, right now, in this massive chest. What I didn't say anything funny, I don't know. This massive gut. But the fact of the matter is right now inside this body the Holy Spirit of God dwells. And same with you if you trust in Christ And Paul's writing to these believers to say, listen, you've got the Holy Spirit of God within you, and all the resources that the presence of God brings. And all the security and all the confidence that the presence of God brings is dwelling within you. You know what's a tragedy? Maybe in our community, across our land, there's going to be people, I'm sure of it. It's going to be people that are genuinely saved, and they're kneeling at altars asking God to give them something they already have. Oh God, give me the Holy Spirit. Listen, if you've trusted Christ as Savior, you don't ever have to ask God to give you the Holy Spirit. You have the Holy Spirit dwell within you. The problem, you say, well why am I so to be? The problem isn't that we don't have the Holy Spirit. The problem is the Holy Spirit doesn't have us. We resist them and we we uh quench them. We go and do our things, even when the Holy Spirit's trying to lead us another way. What we need to understand is I've got to trust the Holy Spirit So Paul's writing, I've got to trust God that He's going to lead me. So Paul's writing to these believers. And he's assuring them, he says, there's no condemnation. There's therefore no condemnation that are in Christ Jesus. He says, but you're not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if so be that the Spirit of God dwell in you, you have the Holy Spirit of God dwelling within you. He gives them another assurance. Look with me at verse 11. But if the spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in you, look at this. He that raised up Christ from the dead, look at this. shall also quicken, that means make alive, quicken your mortal bodies by his spirit that dwelleth in you. What's he saying? He's saying this. Listen The Lord doesn't come back. If the rapture doesn't take place, we're going to die. Physically die. How many people are aware of that? How many people are glad you came to church? Preacher told me you're going to die. Boy, appraisal. But it's a reality of life, and unless we accept that reality, we're never going to be able to deal with it. There's a real possibility. The Lord may not. The rapture may be today. The rapture will happen. It might not be today. But worse comes to worse, he says, listen, even if Rome cuts your head off. Even if they throw you in the lines, Dan, you're torn to pieces, as horrible as that would be, it's not the end. It's not the end. I'm going to remind you, there's more to life than the few years you and I live here on this planet in these physical bodies. We have eternal life. And the grave is not the end. And he that believeth in me, Jesus says, though he were dead, yet shall he live. And Paul's telling him, listen, you can be sure someday is going to come. Then the same Spirit of God that raised Jesus, the same Holy Spirit that dwells inside your body now, that Holy Spirit's going to raise your body from the dead. And you will live again in this body. Glorified, but resurrected body. Now we don't hear a lot of tuk teet talking, preaching and teaching. The fact of the matter is My daddy's body that's buried up outside of Philly in Franconia, Pennsylvania. Someday that trumpet sounds, that archangel shouts, that body's coming up out of that grave. And same with your loved ones that know Christ, my loved ones that know Christ, and any of us that end up in the grave, that body's coming back down. And that's a certainty. We don't have to hope so, and we don't have to think maybe. And this whole world can laugh at us, and this whole world can say, oh yeah, your little fairy tales of the resurrection. I had a guy tell me that one time. Oh, your little fairy tales. I'm telling you, you can call it a fairy tale if you want. My God said it so. I can be sure of that Oh John R. R Ice talked about when his mother died, and he wrote that song, I'll see you again. Someday in glory, I'll see you again. It's a certainty. One, we can be certain there's no more condemnation. If I've trust in Christ, there's nothing anybody can hold against me Number two, I've been dwelt by the Holy Spirit of God. It's a certainty and not a hope-so, think so. Absolutely true. One day we'll be resurrected from the dead. He gives them another one. Look at verse 14. He says, For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. The Son of God is somebody that's been saved, born into God's family, trusting Christ as Savior. And he says here that the Holy Spirit will lead us. This is what I take away from that. You and I can know and do the will of God. We can know what God's will is for our life and we can do it. You say, oh preacher, I don't know what God wants me to do. Well, open your Bible. I saw a little little uh picture on the computer, and a guy was looking up to heaven and he says, God, you never speak to me And the next little panel said, open your Bible. God does speak to us. He speaks to us through his word. And God, the Holy Spirit, uses His Word to lead us and direct us so that we can do the will of God. You know what I found out? If I'm out of the will of God, I know it pretty quick. If I'm out of the will of God, the Holy Spirit anybody know what I'm talking about? If I'm out of the will of God, man, the Holy Spirit starts convicting me, and I know, uh man, uh this I'm not in the will of God, and I need to get back. You know what that is? That's God leading me and directing me. in my life. And we can know for certain. I don't know about you, but it sure brings a lot of peace to my heart to know that God will lead me through any and every situation If I'll just trust him and let him do it. Say, oh preacher, what are we going to do? Gas racist, what are we going to do? Oh, World War III, what are we going to do? Listen, that's all disturbing stuff But I'm here to tell you, we've got God Almighty and the person of the Holy Spirit dwelling inside our bodies, and he will lead us through it. So preacher, my personal situation, what a mess. Oh, I don't know. Hey, listen, the Holy Spirit of God, God has promised that He'll lead us. He'll direct us through every situation. And we take it, here's the thing: we take it day by day, trusting God, following what He tells us to do, and the Holy Spirit enables us to go through As thy days, so shall thy strength be, the Bible says. How many folks are saved? You know it. Say amen. You got the Holy Spirit, and you'll trust him. You'll listen to what he tells us in his word, and Holy Spirit will get us through any and every situation Now here's the thing. Sometimes we think, oh, God will that means God takes away the situation. No, no, no. Usually he sees us through the situation. Study the life of Jake of uh Joseph. Man, all he went through, and that when it was all said and done, he says, God led me through all of it. God had a plan, led me through all of it. So number one, there's no condemnation, certainty. Two, we're indwelt by the Holy Spirit. We'll be resurrected from the dead. Number three, we can know and do the will of God. Look at verse 15 with me He says, For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but ye receive the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba Father. The Spirit itself beareth witness with our Spirit that we are the children of God. Not maybe, not hopefully, we are. And if children, then heirs, heirs of God, and joint heirs with Christ. If so be that we suffer them, that we may also be glorified together. Here's what I put it: we are joint heirs with the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, what in the world does that mean? That means I've been adopted into when I trust in Christ the Savior. That word adoption there isn't talking about being adopted as a child. We're born again. We're born into the family of God, spiritually born into the family of God. That word adoption has to do with the legal rights of a child. You know, when a family adopts a child, they become legally part of that family. Right? You follow what I'm saying? And that's what he's talking about. Your standing and my standing as a child of God, we've adopted into the uh to be an heir of God, a joint heir with the Lord Jesus Christ. In other words We have the same standing with God as Jesus does. That boggles my mind The righteousness of Christ, everything, the goodness and righteous and the holy of Christ, when I trust Christ the Savior, it's put to my account. And God sees me as if I'm as righteous as if I'm standing in the shoes of Jesus Christ. Let me ask you a question: does God love Jesus? Yeah. You know what? He loves you and I just as much as he loves his son, Jesus Christ. Tell nobody loves me. Everybody hates me. That's a lie of the devil. But God in heaven says, you're my son, you're my child, you're my daughter. You have all the legal rights as a child of God has. All the air, everything. Same as a child of God. So we're joint heirs with Christ. Let's move on. Look at verse 18. He says, For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time, look at this, are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. In other words There is coming a day when we're going to experience the glories of heaven. I love that song we sing. There is coming a day. Well no, um I love the song, I'll never forget it. Um There is coming a day when no heartache shall come No more clouds in the sky, no more tears to dim the eye. All is peace forevermore on that happy golden shore. What a day, glorious day that will be. Tell you, there's coming a day we'll stand in the very presence of God. And we're going to see Jesus Christ. We're going to hear his voice, his inflections, his dialect. What his voice sounds like. Is it high? Does he have a low voice? We'll hear his voice. We'll see his eyes. We'll see the tone of his skin. We'll feel the embrace of his arms And Paul is writing to these believers in Rome that are under intense persecution. They don't know if they're going to be alive in another seven days. They don't know if their family's going to be together. They're going to end up in prison or some horrific situation. But one thing Paul says you can know That there's a place coming that's the glory that the sufferings of this world don't even compare to the glory we'll experience in heaven. I tell you what, we have a reason in this world, with we see everything falling apart, we have a reason to be able to hold our head up. and rejoice in the Lord and live a confident, peace-filled life in the midst of all of this. We have a day coming. In heaven. In heaven. And then one other, verse 28, here it is. This is the classic And we know, I underlined this verse in red in my Bible, and then I put red brackets around it, and then I circled the number 28. And then I took a black pen and I wrote over top the word no. I emboldened it, no. And we no I'm so glad God didn't say, and we hope that all things work together for good. You know what this world does? You know what the world does? The world hopes everything works out okay. Well, I hope these negotiations bring peace. Oh, I hope the economy changes. Oh, I hope God says you're a child of God, you're in Christ. We know that all things work together for good That doesn't mean everything works out the way we think, doesn't it? But God says, I'm in charge and we know that all things work together for good. This is the way I put it. We can be confident That God can and will fulfill his purpose for our lives if we trust him and do what he says. We know that all things work together for good. To them that love God, who are called according to his purpose, if we love the Lord, trust him, and do what he instructs us to do. God will work it together. Again, the life of Joseph, what a testimony. He said to his brothers who tried to kill him, and then sold him as a slave for no other reason than he had a nice coat They were jealous. And then he gets falsely accused of rape. He's forgotten in an Egyptian prison and in horrific situations. And then finally the Pharaoh has a dream. And God reveals to Joseph what that pharaoh dreamt and what it meant. There's seven years of famine. There's seven years of plenty, and then followed by seven years of famine. And God used all those horrific situations that Joseph went through to get him to the very place that God needed him to save the lives of millions of people. Finally, his brothers come to him after his daddy dies. And they lied to him. They said, Daddy told us before he died that you're not supposed to be mad at us for trying to kill you. Jacob never said that. As far as we know, Jacob never even knew that they did that. And Joseph says, You guys are going to pay for it all these years. I've been bitter. He didn't say that. You know what Joseph said? He understood Romans 8. 28. He had confidence that God was in control. And he says, you meant it for evil? But God meant it for good. I have no right to lash out at you. I have no right to seek revenge on you. God used all your Evil that you did to me. You meant it for evil. But God in heaven is in control. And he brought good out of it. And today, millions of lives have been saved. Because God is in control. I tell you, that's confidence right there. I've had people come to me and I've asked it myself, and it's a real Lord, I'm thinking of a lady years ago, something happened. She goes, Preacher, why did this happen to me? Why is this happening to me? I can't answer the reason why. I've asked that myself. God, why But I know this. God is good. God is in control. And if He allows something in my life as a child of God, He allows me to experience that, there is something that can come out of that. for his glory and for the good of God's people, if I will just trust him, love him and trust him and follow his instructions Confidence. I don't know what you're going through. I don't know what's in your mind right now as I'm preaching this and something has come mine. This is what I'm dealing with. But I'm here to tell you there's a God in heaven that is bigger than any situation you and I will ever face, that is better than any treatment anybody gives us, that is wiser than the worst devil in hell. He can take all these things and he can work them out for his good and his glory. I've used this before. You've heard this, an old illustration. My grandmother made quilts. Marilyn's a quilt maker. Maybe others are. When you're they would they would they would have these quilting parties, the ladies from the church would all get together when I was real little, grandma have all the anybody know what I'm talking about? And they have this big wood frame. They'd stretch that thing out. And the ladies all gather around and they'd gossip and show I was paying attention. Oh, did you hear about Sister So and So? Ah, what'd she do? Maybe doing that quilt. And I was just a little kid. Get up and crawl down underneath there. And you look up at the bottom of that quilt. Did you ever look on the bottom side of a quilt? It's a mess. So what in the world? These ladies have no idea what they're doing. This is disaster. It's just colors all mixed up and back and forth. It doesn't even make any sense. It's a mess. But you crawl up in grandma's lap and you look down on the top side of that quilt, and I remember she made one for us beautiful with big butterflies. I mean just ornate and gorgeous, detailed, specific. On the bottom side, it was a mess. But looking at it from the top, it was a beautiful pattern, and every line had a purpose, and every thread had a was placed on for a specific reason You looked at it from top. You know our problem is we're down here looking at life from the bottom side. But I'm here to tell you we got a God in heaven that works all things together for good. And when we get up in heaven and we look down at it from the top side, we'll say, man, God knew exactly what he was doing. And we can be confident about that. We don't have to hope that God's in control. Oh, I hope God cares about this. I think God's in control Listen, we can stand with our feet grounded on the promises of God's word, and we can say, yes, I know God's in control, and I trust him. As he leads me through this life. Paul's writing to these believers saying, listen, this isn't hope-so stuff. This isn't think-so stuff. This is no-so Christianity. The Christian life is a life of confidence, it's a life of assurance, it's a life of certainty, all grounded on the Word of God. Jesus said in Matthew 13, 31, Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word shall not pass away. God says it, that settles it. Some people have this little bumper sticker. God said it. I believe it. That settles it. I'm here to tell you, if God said it, it settled whether you believe it or not. So we can come and ground ourselves on the Word of God. Paul emphasizes this And to get to emphasize this, in verse number 31, he begins asking a series of questions. And he comes down through there. Look at verse 31. Pastor Matt read it a little bit ago. What shall we say to these things Now, Paul isn't asking these questions because he wants some information. He's not asking these questions because he doesn't know the answer. He's asking these questions to make a point. To get them to think and come to their to the correct conclusion in their minds. And he says, who what then shall we say things, if God be for us, who can be against us? And the answer is obviously what? No one can be against us. And Paul is pointing out: listen, if all these things are true that we just went through, mark it down. God is for us. God's not against us. Verse 32. He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him freely give us all things? Paul's not trying to get them to find an answer out of that question. He wants them to understand. That Jesus died for us. God, if he gave his son to die for us for crying out loud, if he does that for us. Surely he'll take care of us. Oh yeah, Jesus died for me, but I don't think he'll take care of me. What are you, a knucklehead? For Pete's sake, he suffered hell on the cross for us and rose again. What do you mean he don't think he'll take care of you? That's what Paul's saying, not in those words, but it's the point he's trying to get across. Look at verse 33. He says, Who is he that condemneth? Who condemns us? Well, there's only one person that has any authority, condemn us. That's God. And notice, he doesn't condemn us. He died for us. It's Christ that died, yea, rather risen again is even at the right hand of God that maketh intercession for us What's he saying? He says, nobody's going to condemn us. The devil can throw his accusations, but Jesus paid for our sins. He's at the right hand of God, making intercession. Jesus intercedes for us. Verse 35: Jesus loves us. Who shall separate us from the love of God? And he gives a list. Jesus keeps us, verse 38 through 39. So he goes down through these and he's asking these questions. And he's trying to get them to the point where they understand that regardless of what they're going through, we can still be confident in our standing with God. Our assurance of salvation is based on the Word of God. We don't have to hope or think or wonder whether I'm saved. If I trust Christ as Savior, I'm saved. Confidence in trials, joy in the midst of hardship, peace in the middle of storms. It's all based on what God has promised of who Christ is and we're in Christ. So I was studying this. Former member came to mind. Former member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Some of you remember Chuck Coddington. What a great guy. I learned something when Chuck found out he had brain cancer. I mean just out of nowhere. Boom, brain cancer. A few weeks went by, I don't remember what it was, nine, ten weeks maybe, something like that Boom, boom, boom. Next thing you know, he's in the nursing home on his deathbed. And his son made a statement. I learned something. His son said this, my daddy taught me how a Christian dies. And I thought, that's true. Chuck died with peace. He died in confidence He knew he was in Christ. He knew his eternal destiny was set up. He knew he was accepted by God. And a Christian dies, as Chuck did, in assurance and in confidence that God is in control God accepts him. That's what Paul's talking about. Christian life, listen, biblical Christianity isn't hope-so, isn't think-so, isn't maybe so. It's certain. And I tell you, I would hate to be, listen, I would hate to be in the shoes of preachers who are standing behind pulpits this morning telling their people they can't know. Whether their sins are forgiven. There's no assurance. There's no confidence in Christ. I tell you, I'll just say this: that's a lie of the devil. The biblical Christianity is a life of confidence and assurance, of peace. We are more than conquerors, he says in verse 37. We are more than conquerors in all these things Because all this is true. There's not a thing the devil in hell can throw at us and shake us. from our standing with God. Now we'll mess up, we'll do stupid stuff, and we'll get in ourselves in sin, but I'm here to tell you We have a Savior that's at the right hand of God, and when we sin and when we fail, He makes intercession for us. He is our advocate. And he stands on our behalf and he says, I've paid for that sin. I paid for that sin. And our standing with God is sure and secure. Say, all right, preacher, what does that mean? Well, I think I put three things down as I end with. I need to adjust my thinking. Some of us need to adjust our thinking We worry ourselves sick. We're so upset we can't even think. Isaiah 26, 3 says this: Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace. Whose mind is stayed on thee. Don't ever forget our standing with God, and God will give us peace. You know what our problem is? Our mind is stayed on CNN. You know what? We're feeding our mind with social media. We're feeding our mind with the media out there, and it affects the way we think. And it affects the peace in our hearts and minds. And I'm here to tell you, if you're basing your decision and you're living your life by what the world's media tells you, you are going to be upset every single time. But I'm telling you here, we got a word from God Almighty that is sure, and we put our mind on that, and we don't have to live in chaos and confusion and fear. Amen or not? He says that will keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on me. Like what the one guy said. I forget what he said, actually. If you if you don't if he said it this way, if you don't read the newspapers, you're uninformed. He said if you do read the newspapers, you're misinformed. I think there's some truth to that But I tell you what, we got something better than a newspaper. We got something better than a blog. That will keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on thee. I put this down, elevate my affection. Set your affection on things above. Problem is we fall in love with this world. This world's not our home. And then the last one I put down was anchor our convictions. I like what Daniel did in Daniel chapter 1 and verse 8. He's being held captive by the Babylonians, a violent people. Hateful, just violent. And he is a young teenage boy is taken captive. And they're trying to indoctrinate him And they're trying to brainwash him and to worship their gods and live their lifestyles and adopt their values and their priorities. And Daniel is a child of God. He's a one of God's people. And I mean the Babylonian world is pouring their pressure down on him. And in Daniel chapter 1, verse 8, it says, Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with the king's meat. You know what he was saying? He was saying, my mind has stayed on the Lord. I know where I stand with my God. I know who I am in the Lord. And I will not let this world mold me into their, uh pressure me into their mold and their form. I tell you, my hat's off to Daniel. God, give us more Daniels in our homes, in our businesses, in our churches for crying out loud. Christianity is a life of assurance. Biblical faith is a faith of certainty. Go out this week, somebody says, uh, well, you ever have somebody say to this to say this to you, well what do you know? Anybody ever say hear that Well, what do you know? You know what we should all do this week? Somebody comes up and says, what do you know? We ought to say this. I know I'm saved. I know God's in heaven is in control. I know God works all things out for his good and his glory. Is that good stuff to know? Y'all looking at me like a calf looking at a new gate or something, eh? I'm stirred up I'm glad that we have an anchor for our soul. We don't have to be shifted and blown about by what's happening in the world. This world's not our home. We live above this. We're children of God. We have a home in heaven. We have the Holy Spirit dwelling us. We got the eternal, preserved, perfect word of God to lead us and instruct us. I like my little I like my pickup trucks. Now Ed's pickup truck is starting to look like what my pickup trucks look like. They get old and rusty and uh Ron Ron got him a new truck. I said, Oh, you got a new truck? He said, No, I didn't get a truck, I got a Ford. And um But I I get a truck and I just I just keep it till it's dead. I just run it till there's nothing left of it. You know what I'm talking about? I mean I Literally the last five trucks I've had, I've taken them to the junkyard when I was done with them. Not that I didn't take care of them, it's just I just keep 'em and run 'em and run them and run them and run them until there's nothing left of them And someday I think uh sometimes I think I need to get a bumper sticker and put it on the back of the truck that says this. This is not an abandoned vehicle But here's what the devil wants to do. The devil wants to put a bumper sticker on your soul and my soul that says abandoned. Abandoned. And sometimes we feel that way. God, where are you? God, I don't even know. I hope, God, I hope. No, no, no, none of that. That is all of the devil. That is all of our own faulty thinking. We need to be able to plant our feet on the promises of God's word and say, I know God has saved me. I know God is good. I know God is in control and I trust Him. And watch what God does. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. Lord, get these doubts and these uncertainties out of our heads. And come and just take you at your word and believe that what you say you mean, and what you say is true, and build our lives on that. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed if there'd be some this morning, say, preacher, I'm in a situation. It reminds me of the underside of that quilt. It just looks like a mess, and I don't even understand. But you say, I'm going to trust that God knows what he's doing, and that from his perspective, he has a plan and a purpose. And I just need to trust him. Is there any like that, preacher? I feel like sometimes that's where I'm at. Amen. It's part of life. It happens. But we have to come to God's word and just settle it in our heart and mind. Maybe there's some here this morning, say, preacher, sometimes I feel abandoned. I pray and pray and pray and I don't see the answers and I witness and witness and witness and I don't see him get saved. Maybe this morning we need to come and just remind ourselves, God does not abandon us. He's not done yet. We need to trust them. Any like that? Feel that way sometimes, preacher. I feel like God bless you. Maybe there's some here this morning to say, Preacher, I don't, I can't say I know for sure my sins are forgiven. I hope they are. I think that God has saved me. Listen, I want to encourage you. Let us show you from the Bible and get that settled. And get a no-so salvation, not a hope-so. There's someone say, preacher, pray for me. I need to really get that settled in my heart and mind. I don't have to hope or think or maybe, but I got it settled and I know. Any like that? Any like that this morning? God bless you. How about it? Any others? Father, bless her invitation now, I ask. Have your way. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed. Our eyes are closed.