Chapter number four is where we're at. We're gonna finish up our chapter four. We're gonna switch over into chapter five. Things are gonna start stepping up here a little bit It's Moses and Aaron are showing up down in Egypt. And I'll tell you, this is where the rubber hits the road. Everything up to this point has been preparation for what's about to start taking place. in the life of Moses. And uh I want to read the whole context. We've already looked at the first uh few of these verses I'm going to read tonight, but I want to keep it all together because it's been a couple weeks, I think, since we looked at this Verse twenty nine, chapter four, and verse number twenty-nine, and I got a little frog in my throat. I don't Do you ever hear those frogs down on Amazon? They're toxic. If you touch them, they poison and kill you. I think I got one in my throat, so uh bear with me if my voice gets funny on me here Verse 29, and Moses and Aaron went and gathered together all the elders of the children of Israel. And Aaron spake all the words which the Lord had spoken unto Moses and did the signs in the sight of the people. And the people believed. And when they heard that the Lord had visited the children of Israel and that he had looked upon their afflictions, they bowed their heads and worshiped. They believed the message they heard and they worshiped their God Now look at verse chapter 5, verse 1. This is where we're going to look at tonight. And afterward, Moses and Aaron went in and told Pharaoh. Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, let my people go, that they may hold a feast unto me in the wilderness. And so we're looking at this bold entrance is what I talked is what we started a couple weeks ago. Let's pray, and uh we'll we'll look at this here. Father in heaven. Lord, I ask that you would bless our time in your word this evening in the life of Moses and these key events in his life that are so significant to the future. And the impact that he had upon Israel, Egypt, and the world and through the pages of Scripture. So I asked Father in heaven, you'd help us Glean something from this. Lord, I pray there'll be more than a little history lesson. Lord, I pray there'll be more than just maybe some interesting thoughts. I pray there'll be spiritual lessons we can pull from this, your Holy Spirit would pull out of this and apply to our lives. God, I pray that my walk with you would be stronger and and more intimate and my witness would be more effective. I pray that for all of us. Maybe because of something we can see here, something you can teach us. So I ask Holy Spirit for you to do what you're very, very good at. And applying the Word of God to our hearts and lies. I ask this all. And Lord, fill me with your sphere, isn't my prayer. In Jesus' name, Amen All right, we have this process going on. He's been through, he had that bloody issue, if you remember, with uh the issue of circumcision of his son, and then we had that brotherly alliance And now we have this bold entrance. And if you remember, now we've got to go back a couple weeks, but the first thing we noted there in verse number 29 and 30 was this assembly of the Hebrews. He calls the elders together. And wisdom on his part, working through the leadership there. And then we noted the acceptance by the Hebrews. And it says there, as I pointed out when we were reading through it, verse 31 That they heard what Moses said, that God had approached him, God had commissioned him, and to their credit, they believed Moses. Of course, he's speaking uh through Aaron, but uh they believed him. They accept it. God is in this. God has heard our prayers. Would you agree with me? It's a wonderful thing when you have visible evidence that God has heard your prayer. A lot of times we go by faith. I believe God heard my prayer because he told me he does. But on those times when God responds in a way that we see and know, this is God doing this. Man, uh what a blessing that is. And so they believed the message and then they worshiped. The only thing I want to touch on that, and we we spent a good bit of time on it. We hit that pretty hard But their worship here is uh is a little concerning, and I think it's something for you and I to be c careful about. They were willing and eager to worship God when He was answering their prayer and doing what they wanted. And it was a legitimate concern. They wanted out of Egypt. They wanted out of this affliction And so when God says, I heard your prayer, I'm going to bring you out, man, they were quick and eager to worship God. But you get down the road a few weeks, and they get out of Egypt, and they're out in the wilderness, and their faith is being tested And things aren't panning out exactly the way they thought it would, and God isn't working things out according to their understanding, then all of a sudden their worship turns to what? Anybody remember we mentioned it and you know the story? Turns to murmuring and griping and complaining. In fact, the very thing that they begged God for years to get out of When God doesn't do it their way, they want to go back. And so it concerns me that our worship of God as believers is not so superficial That it only takes place when God does what I want, when God works according to my understanding But if we can get to the point in our walk with God, and if our faith and our spiritual maturity can get to the point where it's strong enough and unshakable enough That I can worship God, I can rejoice in the Lord, I can believe Him, even when He's working things in ways that I don't understand or I wouldn't do it. You follow And so I think that's an important lesson, at least what I took away from that there. Now we move on to the third thought, and that is this, is uh we had the uh the assembly of the Hebrews, the acceptance of the Hebrews. Now we have their approach to Pharaoh. And that brings us over to chapter 5. And verse number one, it says, and afterward, after they met with the elders, and now words spread through the whole body of uh the Hebrews, they're all on board Afterward, Moses and Aaron went in and told Pharaoh, thus saith the Lord God of Israel, let my people go. Now they're approaching Pharaoh. The elders are on board. They support him. No doubt they may be with them here in this meeting. The it's not really a nation of Israel at this point. It's the Hebrews. Um there'll be a nation when they come out, I believe. And but the people support them. They got the people behind them, they got the leadership behind them, and now they go into Pharaoh. And I notice a few things about their approach to Pharaoh. First thing I notice is their entrance In the Pharaoh's presence. Now I caught a little phrase here. Uh there's a little phrase here that caught my attention I got looking at it, and it's interesting. Notice it says afterward Moses and Aaron went in and told Pharaoh. They went in. So I got, as I do and enjoy doing, I got studying that phrase a little bit. I like to, when I see a phrase or a word or something that seems like it might have some significance there. I do two things. One is I look up the word it came from. I think that sometimes gives us a little insight. And then also, the Bible is the best dictionary on Bible words. And so I look up what the word came from, then I look how that word is used other places throughout Scripture, and it kind of gives me a biblical definition. This is what God means by that. And so that little phrase they went in, you think, well, it just means they went in. But there's a little bit, there's something there that I found interesting The phrase went in has the idea, has a hint of confidence to it. They're not just, see if you know what I mean by this, just slinking into his presence. It has the idea of entering in without being timid. In other words, I believe what is taken place here. What Sembeeing implied at the very least, is they walked in there very, very confidently. They're walking into the presence of Pharaoh That word is most of the places in scripture it's used, translated, it's uh it's uh uh the phrase is uh to go in or went in or enter Just a generic understanding. But there's at least three times when that phrase has is uses this word to besiege Three times in Kings, 2 Kings, it's used where an army, and I can't give you a name, I don't have the reference, but an army is besieging Jerusalem And they're coming in with overwhelming numbers. They're coming in against Jerusalem with overwhelming weaponry. And they are absolutely confident that Israel, that Jerusalem is going to fall. They are besieging it. There's nothing timid about that word. There's nothing hesitant about that word. They are taking over. And I don't know. I got looking at that and cross-referencing some of these and uh and and it's used sometimes with the idea to attack And this is the picture I have in mind. It's Moses and he's got Aaron there. He's got that rod. Would you agree with me? The presence of that rod is pretty significant. He's seen what God can do through that rod. And they're walking in to the presence of What is arguably the most powerful human in the world, humanly speaking? This is Pharaoh. This is a powerful, powerful nation. He is not He is a dictator by all rights. He is a king. He is Pharaoh. His word is equivalent in the minds of the Egyptians to the words of God. They have multiple gods. In other words, this is a very intimidating situation. This is a very intimidating environment. And after all that Moses has been through the last several days, maybe it's been a couple weeks, what he saw at the burning bush, the voice of Almighty God speaking to him. These supernatural signs, the power of God displayed in supernatural ways And he and and uh and he finally submits all that, and now he and Aaron are walking into that environment And I believe, if I'm studying this correctly, they're walking into that environment with absolute confidence, their shoulders are back. Their shoulders are straight, their back is straight, and they're walking in there very, very confidently. Moses has met God face to face. Moses has heard God's voice. He's seen God's power. He understands what his commission is. He understands what God is capable of. And he went in to Pharaoh. I like to think of it this way: he besieged Pharaoh. They came in on the attack. We're telling Pharaoh how it is. We're telling Pharaoh what's going to happen. And so I see this tremendous entrance in this confidence they have in going in into Sea Pharaoh. Now, they're approaching the most powerful man on earth, but here's the thing: it is not in their own self-confidence they're going in there Now there was a time when Moses would have done that. Forty years ago, he was the hotshot big man on campus in Egypt. He was trained, he was educated, he was a leader in the military. Brother, he had absolute full confidence. Let me ask you a question: How did that work out for him? In utter failure He ends up just completely messing up. Then he goes to the other extreme. So for 40 years, he's very, very confident. 40 years, he's self-confident, then he blows it, and then he goes to 40 years of total lack of confidence. He has no assurance in himself, I can't do this, I don't know what to say, I'm a failure. And now all of that is scrapped. And now he's walking not in his own confidence, not in his own lack of confidence, but he's walking in the confidence of the Lord. And I think that's where you and I need to get. Some of us have a tendency to lean on our own understanding. Some of us have a tendency to lean on our own abilities. Well, I got this, I can do this, you know. And uh I'm telling you, there is a danger in self-confidence Some of us, on the other hand, don't have any confidence in ourselves. I can't do that. I can't, you know, I don't know, I could never do that, oh, I can never do that. The fact of the matter is Success and failure in Christian ministry has nothing to do with what I can or cannot do. It has everything to do with what God can do. And that's been the whole lesson through for Moses here, and I think he's got it. Moses has learned it's not me, my strengths, or my abilities. It's God working through me, using me, working through me. Take your Bible if you would and go with me to Second Corinthians chapter three. Mo uh Paul understood this, and he was trying to get the church at Corinth to get a hold of this. It's not my self-confidence, it's not my lack of confidence, but it's confidence in God. Look at 2 Corinthians chapter 3, and I have this underscore. I'm telling you, this passage helps me a lot Because if I was going to compare myself to Moses, either the first 40-year Moses or the second 40-year Moses, I would compare myself to the second 40-year Moses. But I found out it's not about me. It's not about Moses. Look at 2 Corinthians and chapter 3, and I want to begin reading in verse number 5. Now notice how he words this. Not that we are sufficient of ourselves to think anything as of ourselves But our sufficiency is of what? God, who also, verse six, who also made us able ministers of the New Testament. Then he goes on and he explains what it means to be a minister of the New Testament. But he makes this tremendous statement here. To me is so incredibly encouraging. It's not my sufficiency. It's not my capabilities. In fact, I get the idea when he says, well, not that we are sufficient of ourselves. I get the idea he's using the idea, I am not competent. to do this. Did anybody here ever find yourself in a situation and you felt totally incompetent in dealing with whatever that situation is? Can I get a witness? Anyone at all? Yeah. That's what Paul's saying. Not that we are competent ourselves, not that we are sufficient. I don't have what it takes to do what God has instructed me to do. Not that we are sufficient or but my sufficiency is of God. God has what it takes. I just yield to Him. I just trust Him. Just do what He says. And God works for us. And Moses got it. And uh we've been kind of harping on this truth, but it's a big, big lesson, I think, is being illustrated right before our very eyes here in the life of Moses. As he goes down. So now they went in. They are going in like they're besieging a city. They are going in like they are attacking an army. He walks in there with confidence. Jesus said in John chapter 15 and verse 5, without me you can do what? Nothing. Without Christ, I can do nothing. But in Philippians chapter 4, verse 13, he says, I can do all things through Christ. So without Christ I can do nothing, but through Christ I can do all things. And the all things there isn't mean I can jump over a building with a single bound. It's not what he's talking about He's talking about what God calls us to do, what God instructs us to do, and we think we can't do it. But in Christ, I can do whatever God calls me to do, I can do it through the strength of Christ. Now, without Christ, I can do nothing And so they walk in there, and their entrance is in great confidence. Pharaoh He was an incredibly powerful man. Life and death was was in his tongue. They uh he he was incre humanly speaking, he was incredibly powerful He's incredibly intimidating. Everything about the place he dwelt, the palace, everything, was designed to intimidate. We live in a world that spiritually can be very intimidating, right? We talk about our young people and peer pressure they face. And all peer pressure is is an attempt to intimidate somebody into doing what I want them to do. Young people aren't the only ones that deal with that. Every single one of us live in a world that tries to intimidate us and tries to influence us and get us to conform to its values and its principles and its purposes. The devil is a powerful, powerful being. Am I right or wrong? The devil can be awfully intimidating. In fact, Hollywood plays on that as they portray the devil as some fearful thing that scares people to death and everything. I'm telling you, in and of ourselves, and our own confidence, our own abilities, our own understanding. We're not much of a match before the world and before the devil. But if we can get a hold of the fact it's not about me be uh But it's about Christ in me. It's about God empowering me and using me to be a witness in a world that's incredibly intimidating and a devil that's incredibly powerful. Yet we can still be confident. Are you with me? You follow what I'm Getting that here? So I think there's a tremendous example. I think we have a beautiful illustration here of a man that had it all, that was self-confident, then was the other extreme And he erases all of that, and now it's God working in him. We don't have to be intimidated by the world. We don't have to be defeated. Nor should we be proud or arrogant. There's a little difference between being confident and being arrogant, but we can have a humble confidence in Christ. I want to show you another verse here real quick before we come back to chapter 5. Go with me to Proverbs. You always end up in Proverbs at some point, it seems like. Proverbs chapter 14 and verse number 26. Proverbs 14 and verse 26. And I would venture to say, while you're finding that, I'd venture to say our missionaries, we just had two great couples with us, tremendous. Um, I bet you say every one of them had to come to the point in their life before they would surrender to go to the mission field. And Savannah gave a great testimony. She's leaving her family, leaving her home, leaving her country And she had to come to the point, I'm confident they would say this, where they had to realize it's not me, it's Christ enabling me to do what he's called me to do. Look at Proverbs 14, verse 26. It says, um, in the fear of the Lord is strong confidence. In the fear of the Lord is strong confidence. And by the fear of the Lord, I think I think it simply means this, Lord, I trust you. I I I don't wanna be outside of your will. I don't wanna Lean on my own. I trust you and confidently trust you. And God gives us that confidence. So, number one, we have their entrance. We're talking about the approach to Pharaoh Then we have this entrance. It's very bold. It's very confident coming in here in the power of God. Then the second thing I notice back in chapter 5, verse 1, is their audience. Notice it says, and afterward, Moses and Aaron went in and told Pharaoh. Told Pharaoh. I mean, they went directly to the leadership. Now, my first question, I'm looking at this, is how in the world did these two guys, coming out of the wilderness, how in the world did they get access into the very presence of Pharaoh? How many people here think you can drive down to Washington, D. C. , go up on the front of the White House, knock on the door and say, oh, I'd like to sit down and talk to the President. I've got something to tell him Anybody think you'd get very far? You won't even get on the property, I guarantee it. So how in the world did these two guys get into Pharaoh's immediate presence? And I did some digging and did some research, and you know what I found out? We have no idea. The Bible doesn't tell us. So again, we have to do a little surmising, and I enjoy this, trying to put it in context and visualize how this is playing out. And regardless of how important it may be, but I thought this was interesting. How did they get access to Pharaoh? Well, it's possible that working through the Hebrew elders, they no doubt interacted with the leadership of Egypt. They were a key part of their economy as slaves. It was tense, it was not a pleasant arrangement, but they uh um they uh uh they they no doubt had access, so maybe they worked through the Hebrew elders. Um some suggested maybe Aaron had some connections. I'm wondering. I've got thinking I wonder. If maybe, who was Moses' adopted mother? It was Pharaoh's daughter. Now that Pharaoh had passed away a long time ago. It's very possible Moses' adopted mother may have passed on. Perhaps she was still alive. Maybe he contacted her, say, hey, I need to talk to the Pharaoh. And maybe that was an open door into the current Pharaoh there. I don't know. It's very possible, maybe very likely, Moses is 80 years old at this point, so you know she may not have been alive, but I would imagine Moses had adopted brothers. Adopted sisters. There was family that he grew up in that Pharaoh's household for years and decades. So no doubt there was family members his age, some older, some younger, that he perhaps most likely would have had connections with And that could have provided access. Either way, however he got in there, one thing we are absolutely certain of, he got in there because God made it possible God had a plan, God had a purpose, and God was going to make sure that whatever r avenue it took for Moses and Aaron to get in the presence of Pharaoh, it was going to happen. And I'm telling you, we have a God that can make things that look impossible to you eye. We have a God that can make things happen. So if God's called us, if God has given us some instruction to do something, we look at it and we say, that could never happen, don't believe it. I like Proverbs 3, verse 5 and 6 Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, and lean not into thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall what? Direct eye pass. He'll get you where you need to be. He'll provide what you need to have. You just trust them with all your heart. Don't lean on your own understanding. Don't say, oh, that could never happen. I could never do this. I can never, never. No, no, no. In all your ways, acknowledge him. And that's what Moses did. God, you told me, I'm surrendering, I'm trusting. You said, I'm stepping out, I'm acknowledging your leadership here. And however it happened, God got him in there And so their audience. Now, another observation I make about this is it appears, anyway, they went directly to the man who actually could make a difference. They didn't piddle around with low-level Egyptians, governors and council members, or whatever they may have been called Those guys, these low-level Egyptian and Egyptians in the government, low-level government appointees or whatever you would call them. They were not able to make the decision that needed to be made. Only Pharaoh could do that. Pharaoh was the only one that could deal with this issue they were bringing up about getting their people out And they didn't piddle around with that. They went directly to the one who was ultimately responsible and had the ultimate power to grant or not grant what they were insisting upon. Now I think there's a lesson in that. I think if there's an issue that we have need to deal with, or some issue comes up that needs to be dealt with The best thing to do in the biblical pattern, I think biblical instruction is go to the one with whom that issue Pertains to, don't go to everybody else in the world that really have nothing to do with it and have no influence on it and can't make a difference in the world. Go to the one with whom the issue pertains to You follow what I'm saying? And sometimes people get in their head, I need to they'll talk to everybody in the crowd about something that the crowd can do nothing about And they won't approach the one that can actually make a difference and correct whatever needs to be correct. You follow what I'm saying? Social media is terrible People have an issue and they disagree with something or maybe they don't understand something and first thing they do is they'll put long rants out there on social media and they'll go to everybody out there that has nothing to do with it and can't do a thing about it. They never approach the person that maybe they need to address. Now it's not the same context, but Jesus touched on this a little bit. When he says, if you have a fault against a brother, go to them alone, he said. And try and correct it, try and deal with it, work it out I think what the Lord is saying is don't make a mountain out of a molehill. And if it is a mountain, keep it just with those who are living on the mountain. You follow? You follow me? We had it's been quite a few years ago, but there was a couple that would come to church on Sunday mornings And um they were nice and uh I thought I'd been out to see them several times and they all claimed to know the Lord. And uh then they didn't see him for a long time and then he came back and uh they came to one of our church members And they said, we're upset with Pastor. Imagine that. And uh they said And and the fellow said, he says, I I got I was sick and had surgeries in the hospital. He never called me up, he never came to visit me, never checked on me one time. And they said, Well did you tell him about it? And he said, No He said, well you probably didn't even know anything about it. And I didn't. They they came to me later and said, so-and-so said you never went. And I said, Well, I had no idea they were sick in Osva had surgery. You know what the and I'm just trying to illustrate what I think the point here is, the lesson we can learn from this, is the proper way would have been go to the pastor who you think messed up. Right Go to other people that can't do anything about it and um and saturate it in prayer And so he goes, uh their audience, they go to Pharaoh, the one who actually could make a difference. Let me give you two other observations real quick, and we'll quit. The second thing, the third thing I notice here in verse 1 of chapter 5 is their authority. You have their approach, very confident, man. They walked in there, they had the author the confidence of God all over them. They go to Pharaoh, the one, the audience, the one who can actually do what they're re demanding of him. And then their authority. Notice what they say here. They went in and told Pharaoh. Now look at the first statements out of their mouth. The very first words out of their mouth. Thus saith the Lord God of Israel. They didn't come in and say, you better let our people go. They said they laid some authority down to begin with. That phrase, the Lord God of Israel, that phrase, that title for God is used one hundred and eight times in Scripture. The Lord God of Israel Just that statement has a ring of authority, doesn't it? Thus saith the Lord God of Israel. 108 times. Most of the time it was prophets. Confronting backslidden kings, prophets confronting a backslidden nation. And here you have the prophet Moses, who is a prophet And he's confronting the most powerful man on earth. And he's not coming in his own authority He's coming in the name of the Lord God of Israel. This is the first time that phrase is used in the Bible. 108 times it's used, this is the very first time. In one of the greatest conflicts in all of Scripture, humanly, Pharaoh letting God's people go. So, what does this, what's the significance of that title for God, the Lord God? Well, I think it's an introduction to who this God is that Moses and Aaron are speaking on behalf of. Egypt had hundreds and hundreds of false gods. I mean literally hundreds of gods of everything, frog gods, sun gods, lice gods In fact, all the plagues that God put on Egypt, every one of them had some sort of connection to some false god of Egypt. They worshiped anything and everything. And not one of those gods was real. Every single one of the gods that Egypt worshiped were figments of their imagination. They did not exist. There is no sun god. There's a sun, period. No bird gods, there's birds. And Aaron and Moses march in their absolute confidence. I think you could see confidence all over them. God was all over them. They walk in there, and the very first words from Moses through Aaron is, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel. This isn't one of your phony gods. This isn't one of your imaginary friends, gods. This is the true and living God is confronting you This is God Almighty that the Hebrews worship, that Israel worship, that has shown himself powerful. So it's an introduction to Moses to the true God. Moses is introduction of Pharaoh to the true God. Moses is introducing Pharaoh to the true and living God in that statement. So it's an introduction, but the other significance of that statement is it's instructional. In other words, we learn something about it I think it's laying out right here, right at the start, before any of this plays out, God through Moses and Aaron is laying out, listen, the issue between Egypt And the Hebrews, the issue here is not between Pharaoh and Egypt and the Hebrews. The issue in this conflict is between Pharaoh and God. And he says, listen, if you have a problem with what we're saying, then that's your problem is with God. Not with the Hebrews. And of course they tried to take it out of the Hebrews. Oh, you guys said this, and they increased the test and all of that. But they have yet to learn, and they will find out It wasn't the Hebrews their conflict was with, it was God, the Lord God of the Hebrews. This is between Egypt and the Lord God. And then their appeal, and I'll end with this: let my people go. Let my people go. Notice what he doesn't say. He doesn't say, thus saith the Lord God of Israel. Let us go. No, he says, let my people go. This is God speaking. Again, the issue for Pharaoh isn't with Hebrews, it's with the God of the Hebrews. God says, let my people go. It's not the Hebrews saying, you let us go. It's God saying, you let them go. The world is not against you and me, ultimately. Jesus said the world will hate you. That's the truth. It's been throughout the church's history. And the world does hate us, but he explained, he said, they hated me. They're going to hate you because you're mine. And the world's issue isn't with you and me so much. The world's issue is with the God we're trying to serve. It's with a God we're trying to obey. It's with a God we've given ourselves to that we love, we serve And we want to please and we want to glorify. That is the issue of the world. Listen, the devil isn't, his issue isn't with you and I so much. The devil's issue is with God Almighty. Somebody asked me years ago when I was youth pastor, one of the young people said, What do you think the devil's will for my life is? What's God has a will for my life. What's the devil's will for my life? I don't think I I don't think the devil has a will for your life and my life, anything other than we not do God's will He doesn't care what we do as long as it's not what God wants us to do. Because his issue isn't with you and I. He could care less about us. His issue was with our God. The world's issue is with our God. And Egypt's issue and Pharaoh's issue wasn't with the Hebrews, it was with doing what God said, trusting God, obeying God. So we go out and witness, somebody gives you a fit, and somebody cusses you out, or whatever, they throw a rock at you, or you lose a job because you're trying to please the Lord and trying to glorify God. Listen Just remember, it is God that the world has the problem with. Remember when God sent when God sent Prophet Samuel And the people wanted a king. Remember that? Beginning of 1 Samuel. People wanted a king. And Samuel objected. And he says, let me tell you what what the king's going to do. You get a king, you want to be like everybody else have a king, let me tell you what he's going to do. He's going to attach you to death He's gonna control everything you have. He's gonna make you fight his words. He's gonna make you wait on you. Sounds like a certain political party in our country. But um Uh we'll s we won't do that. But he says, and then God comes down and God confronts Samuel. And he says, Samuel, listen. This this is the Leatherman version, okay. He says, Samuel, listen, they're not rejecting you. They're rejecting me. They're rejecting me. You witness to somebody share the gospel, they say no, they get all defensive, they get all get all hot under the collar. Listen, don't give up on him. It's not you. It's the Jesus you're presenting, and you just keep giving it, you just keep giving it. Don't take it personally, not me. It's Christ. By the way, if we get a hold of that, if we understand that, then we can bless them that curse us. And we can do good to them that despitefully use us. And uh if we understand it, it's not it's not against me, it's against the Lord. It's against the Lord. Amen Father, I pray you'd help us learn some of these lessons here from Moses and Aaron in this conflict that is just beginning to ignite. Between the most powerful man in the world and the Lord God of the Hebrews, I pray that you would help us to learn from this, to trust in you, have our confidence in you. And then understand what this all involves. Father, just bless now. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if there will be any this evening and say, preacher, help pray for me that God will help me, not trust in myself or look down on myself. But get my eyes off myself and see the Lord and His abilities, His capabilities. Is there anything like that? I need to see my sufficiency from the Lord, not myself. And He can enable me to do whatever it is I need to do. Lord if we could just get a hold of that, I think we could make a difference in Jesus' name. Let's stand again