To this chapter number four. And I want to read um I want to r begin reading verse one and I'm going to read down through verse five. Exodus 4, verse 1, or I'm sorry, verse 9. Exodus chapter 4, 1 through 9. The Bible says, and Moses answered and said, But behold, they will not believe me Nor hearken unto my voice, for they will say, The Lord hath not appeared unto thee. And the Lord said unto him, What is that in thy hand? And he, Moses, said, a rod. And he said, cast it on the ground. And he cast it on the ground. It became a serpent. And Moses fled before it. And the Lord said unto Moses, Put forth thine hand and take it by the tail. And he put forth his hand and caught it, and it became a rod in his hand. That they may believe that the Lord God of their fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, hath appeared unto thee. And the Lord said furthermore unto him, Put now thine hand in thy bosom. He put his hand in his bosom, and when he took it out, behold, his hand was leprous as snow. And he said, Put thine hand into thy bosom again. And he put his hand into his bosom again and plucked it out of his bosom, and behold, it was turned again as other flesh. And it shall come to pass that they will not believe thee, neither hearken unto the voice of the first sign that they will believe the voice of the latter sign. And it shall come to pass, if they will not believe also these two signs, neither hearken unto thy voice that thou shalt take of the water of the river and pour it upon the dry land, and the water which thou takest out of the river shall become blood upon the dry land. Moses is having this back and forth with God. God has commissioned him to go down into Egypt, go back down forty years after he had fled there. and um commissioned him to lead the Hebrews out from slavery, out of Egypt, into the promised land. And so Moses and God have this back and forth going on. What we just read here was Moses' third objection. To God calling him to lead the Hebrews. And so we're going to look at the first part of that tonight, and then we'll pick up later on. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless. As we look at this tremendous encounter between you and Moses, the great man And uh the back and forth and the uh objections that were raised. Lord, though this happened a long time ago and far away I pray that the truths that and the events that you recorded here by your Holy Spirit, that your Holy Spirit would take them and teach us principles and lessons. Examples and warnings from these events so that we can be stronger in our faith. God, we can serve you acceptably and effectively. And so I ask that you would please be our teacher tonight, Holy Spirit. I yield my will, my mind. May you guide my thinking. I present my body anew. I ask, Lord, with all my heart, do you please fill me with your Spirit and bless this time in your word? In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Do you ever try and talk God out of something? Anybody here know what I'm talking about? God wants you to do something, God's leading you. Maybe it's nothing more than just giving a track. God puts it on your heart to give a track to somebody And uh all of a sudden you come up with ninety-five objections why that can't happen. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Or you talk to somebody about the Lord, oh or uh or there's a need somewhere in the church and God touches your heart um to uh uh get involved and help with that. Maybe uh he puts a mount on your heart for offering. Maybe it happens that faith Promised missions conference, you know, God touch your heart about some of them. Now, Lord, that's what Moses is doing. He's trying to talk God out of what he's God has called Moses to do. And it's been a couple weeks since we looked at this. Just a quick reminder: Moses raises five objections why he can't do what God is commissioning him to do Five reasons why he can't do it. The first one, if you remember, he said uh he was incapable. He says, Who am I I can't do this. I'm not capable of this. The interesting thing, if we remember that we noticed about that first objection, I'm not capable I mean capable, is that God didn't dispute whether Moses was incapable or not. Okay, right. That's not the issue whether you're capable or not The issue is, am I capable or not? And God countered his objection with saying, it's not you, it's me. Then his second objection was that he was ignorant. I won't know who to tell him. Who do I say sent me? And again, God uh accommodates his concern, and God gives a pretty lengthy explanation of who God is. In fact, it's The first and one of the most thorough explanations of who God is when he says, I am. And all the information that that little statement gives us about God in his self-sufficiency, his eternality. And so God gives a uh accommodates, as I said, Moses' concern And gives them an answer. Now we're at the third objection of Moses. And this time Moses is saying, I'm not credible. I'm not credible. Notice verse 1. And Moses answered and said, But behold, they will not believe me. I'm not credible. If somebody's not credible, what do we mean by that? Somebody help me out. He says, I'm not credible. It means I'm not I'm not believable. I don't uh uh have any credibility in their hearts and minds, in their eyes I'm not believable. They won't believe me. And then he goes on, he says, nor hearken unto my voice. And they will say, the Lord hath not appeared unto him. So Moses has this third objection. He just keeps bearing them back. God counters his objection. I notice two things here. We're going to look at one of them. Just uh tonight. Uh number one, I noticed Moses' concern. That's in verse number one And then verse 2 down through verse number 9, we have God's condescension, is what I'm saying, as I'm using that term. God's condescension. What does it mean? When God condescends down to Moses. What do somebody help me out there? What's that mean? God's lowering himself. He's coming down. What God does, he comes down to where Moses is. And he answers his question. Any one of these objections, God could have said Shut up, Moses, and just do what I said. Anybody ever have a dad that said that to you? Just be quiet and do what I said. But God doesn't do that. He condescends down to where Moses is, and to use the word I used a little bit ago, he accommodates Moses' concern. Um and so first of all, I want to look at Moses' concern. He states his concern to God. God's told him, I want you to go down I'm going to use you. I'm leading them out, but I'm going to use you and go down and uh and confront Pharaoh. Moses says, they're not going to believe me. They're not going to even listen to me And they're going to say, God didn't send him. They will not. Now I got looking here at this. He says, Behold, they will not believe me. The word believe there, when he says they will not believe me has this idea and it pretty much what you think it would mean it means to put your trust in. They're not going to trust me to lead them out of this and out of this slavery. They're not going to trust me to be able to confront Pharaoh and And live, you know, just to live after I confront him. He'll kill him And so he says they're not going to believe me. I I got notice one definition as I'm working through that word and how it's used different places in a couple um Bible dictionaries I was looking up And one of them kind of caught my attention. It has this idea, the word believe has this idea of picking up and carrying. And the illustration it gave, like a mother picking up her child and carrying it. And I think the idea behind that is, and this kind of helps me get a word picture of what Moses is saying to God He's saying, listen, they're not going to come down and trust themselves into my leadership. They're not going to believe me. They're not going to trust me. They're not going to commit themselves To what you're telling me you want me to do with them. They're not going to believe me. They're not going to believe. Then he takes it another level, and he says, they will not believe me, nor hearken unto my voice. And again, that what he's saying there is they're not even going to listen to me, let alone trust me, God They're not going to let me lead them. They're not going to trust me. I don't have any credibility in their mind, in their eyes. And they're, in fact, they're not even going to listen to me The word harken means to pay attention to. He said they're not going to pay any attention to me. But it but we might say it, they're not even going to give me the time of day. Somebody know what we mean by that They're just going to pay any attention to me. They're just going to blow me off. Who's this guy? They're going to complete what he's saying is that the Hebrews are going to completely disregard Anything I have to say, they're just going to brush me off not paying attention. I'll be totally ineffective because I have no credibility with them. Now, I got thinking about that. That on the surface, I think he's got a legitimate concern. On the surface. I mean, Pharaoh, he's not gonna just let the Hebrews just walk out of there. You know, some guy shows up from the backside of a desert, comes down, and he says, Alright, let the let my people go and and mo and Pharaoh's just going to be, oh okay, sure, no problem. Guys good? You need anything? Moses saying, that ain't going to happen. I have no credibility in the eyes of Pharaoh, and if he does remember me, that's even worse. And so uh he has a legitimate, I think on the surface anyway, he has a legitimate concern about whether these people are going to trust me or not. And the ones that do remember from 40 years ago saw how I blew it the first time. They're certainly not going to trust me again. Pharaoh's not going to let them walk out of there, I think, for a couple of reasons. Number one, when the Hebrews leave, their economy is going to be devastated. The slavery in Egypt was a vital factor in their economy, their building, their their structure, infrastructure of the of the country was dependent upon these Hebrew slaves. And so he's not going to let 'em out if for no other reason, just what it would do to the nation's economy, I believe. It would devastate their lifestyle. These guys are doing all the dirty work. Somebody, they were, you know, it's been a big issue with immigrants and deporting illegal immigrants And I'm all for it. I support that. But one of the arguments was, on the other side, was well, who's going to clean our bathrooms in the motels? Who's going to sweep our streets? Who's going to do in other words what they were saying was, who's going to do the work we don't want to do? And I think that would be a factor in Egypt. Pharaoh's not going to let them go. Who's going to do? Who's going to make the bricks? He's going to do all the hard work, the dirty work. This has been happening for years and years and years and years and years, decades and centuries maybe. And uh Egypt's not about to give up their slave-based lifestyle, economy The their lifestyle is going to be affected, and I think there's a factor where Egypt's pride is at stake What? You let all those slaves out of there? You gotta be kidding me, the Hebrews. They have no weapons, they have no artillery, they have no way to defend themselves. And Moses is saying, listen Lord, there is no way in the world Pharaoh is going to believe that you've sent me, and he's not even going to listen to me. And then, as far as the Hebrews are concerned, they're not going to believe me. They're not going to trust me. They're not going to listen to me. And so I think on the surface. Moses has a legitimate concern here. They're not going to listen to it. He's saying basically it's going to be total failure. It's going to be totally ineffective. I'm going to be totally ineffective. I'm not going to accomplish a thing. Now, to be fair, what God was calling Moses to do was huge. Do we understand that? We've read this so many times. We've heard it in Bible stories, you know, in little kids, and to us it's just some story long ago and far away. But the fact is, what God was asking Moses to do was huge. He's disrupting a nation. These Hebrews, if they rally behind Moses and they come in, approach Pharaoh, and make this demand. The Hebrew, remember we talked about the elders several weeks ago. They're the leaders among the Hebrews. They're going to, the idea is they rally behind Moses. We're going to go in, we're going to confront Pharaoh the most powerful monarch in the world. Now you understand Pharaoh could have their head off by just saying, take their head off. There's no court processes, there's no defense lawyers, there's no Supreme Court appeals. If he says they're dead, guess what? They're dead. So these these Hebrews, they're risking their lives by trusting Far by trusting Moses and by rallying around him. Moses is saying, I need to have some credibility. If they're going to do this, if they're going to rally behind me, they've got to be able to trust me somehow. And they don't. They're just going to trust some stranger that walked in out of the wilderness and put their life on the line. So what I'm saying is this, I got looking at this At first I was like, come on, Moses. Then I got thinking about what he's saying, and I'm thinking, well, you know, it's uh I think it's a legitimate concern. However Though it, I think, again, my opinion is it's legitimate. I suspect that Moses isn't really that sincere in his concern. I don't think he's concerned about having credibility. Moses has something else in mind. There's something else he's trying to accomplish here. Anybody want to take a shot? He wants out. He's just he's looking for an excuse, something. I mean he's he's come up with one, all right. That's a legitimate concern. God addresses it. He comes with another. Who do I tell him send me? Alright, that's legit. The Hebrews are going to want to know who this God is. The Egyptians have a gazillion gods, so God makes it very clear. And now he comes up with another one. And we read ahead, and he comes up with two more. Moses is not looking for answers, he's throwing out excuses. And so I'm not real confident in his Sincerity in these objections he's making. I suspect he's not genuinely concerned about the Hebrews aren't going to believe him, but he's looking for a way out of this commission. Way out of it. Notice in verse number one, look here, look what Moses says. Moses answered and said, Now notice carefully the wording here. But behold, and by the way, that word behold means an idea of astonishment. He's saying, Lord, don't you know this? Behold, Lord, don't you know this as well as I do, I think is what he's the idea behind that word. He says, Behold, they will not believe me, nor hearken unto me. Now that statement right there is a direct contradiction. To what God had just told him. Come back to chapter 3, verse 18. God speaking to Moses. He explained who he is. And then God, if you remember, we kind of went through this portion fairly quickly, but God explains how this is all going to play out. God tells them ahead of time, this is going to happen, this is going to happen, this is going to happen, it's going to all work out. I know Here's the thing about dealing with God. He knows how it's going to work out. Right? And so he's telling Moses, I know how this is going to work out. So look what he says in verse 18. He says, they and they, what's the third word in verse 18, shall hearken unto thy voice. And thou shalt come, thou and the elders of Israel, unto the king of Egypt. And ye shall say to him. He says, listen, they will listen to you. They are going to pay attention to what you're saying. They are going to believe you. And Moses comes and turns that thing right around, and in the face of God He counters what God just told him. Would you agree with me? That takes guts or stupidity Both stupid guts is what that requires. It's a direct contradiction to what God says. God says, Behold, uh God says, and they shall hearken to thy voice. Several statements later, Moses answered, but behold, they will not believe me, nor hearken unto Mois. He's saying to God, No, they won't Anybody here ever try and argue with God? I'm telling you right now, you're going to lose every single time Now, one of the two things has to be true here. I've got to think of why in the world would Moses do this? I can only think of two reasons. Moses Would comp directly contradict what God said. God said this. One is, and it's very possible, he wasn't paying attention when God told him the first time, yes, they are going to listen to you. Yes, they are going to hearken to you. He may not have been paying attention. In fact, I suspect that maybe if that's the case, if he just wasn't paying attention I'm thinking he was, while God was speaking, he's thinking in his mind. He's not paying attention to what God's saying. He's thinking in his mind what his next excuse is going to be. What is next objection? Do you ever talk to somebody and while they're talking you're thinking about what you're going to say whenever they shut up? Anybody know You have people like that, you're talking to them, and it's like they're not even listening to what I'm saying. They're thinking about what they're going to say as soon as I'm done. And so I'm wondering if maybe Moses just wasn't listening Just wasn't paying attention to God. You say, preacher, surely nobody would not pay attention when God Himself is speaking to you. I'm here to tell you, people do it in Sunday services all the time. God's word's being preached and um and uh I hate to say it but it's true God's word being preached and people are sitting there they don't hear a word what God's trying to say to them because they're messing around on this. Amen or not Or they're writing out their uh they're writing out their shopping list for this week. And here's the thing I'm not God, and my voice is not God's voice, but when the Bible's being preached, that is God speaking to us. Just as real. When I'm reading my Bible, it's just as literally God speaking as if he was sitting right there across the table from me talking to me. Just as if he's talking to Moses right there, the word of God. So when the word of God is free, I say this all the time. I am absolutely convinced in my heart and mind Whoever it may be, when God's word is being preached accurately and correctly and thoroughly, it is more important than anything else going on in the world. I'm convinced of that And when people sitting there trimming their toenails, you know, and talking and writing notes or whatever. Um They're no different than if this was the case, if Moses just wasn't paying attention what God was saying to him, then really don't we can't be too hard on because Christians do it all the time. Right? We ought to pay attention to what God's doing. Do you ever read your devotions and you read down through there and you're done? And then you think, what did I just read? Huh? Because your mind's somewhere else and you're going through and like and that's what Karen was saying, but that's why these little books are very, very helpful. Uh uh anybody ever notice in the bulletin I put five questions to ask on every passage? That really helps me keep my mind on what God is trying to say to me. So Yeah, sometimes you have to I don't know why one reason I can only one reason I can think of why Moses would compl just directly contradict what God just said to him is possibly he wasn't paying attention, he wasn't listening I don't think that's really the case though. This is my opinion. I think he just didn't believe God He didn't believe God. He didn't believe God. By the way, backing up to the part about not listening, Moses isn't the only one in the Bible that didn't listen to God. King Saul, and we could give a score of illustrations of this, but remember King Saul, God told him to kill the Amalekites and Agag and A and the king Agag, uh do I have the right name there, Wilbur? A gag and uh and uh Saul just completely blew that off and spared him and the best of the sheep and just didn't even listen to what God said and it cost them the kingdom He blew his testimony terribly. And so there's someone that didn't listen to God. Remember Lot's wife? Jesus said we're supposed to remember Lot's wife. God told them through the angel of the Lord, he says, do not look back. What'd you do? Now my heart goes out to her because she has family back there, right? That would be very, very difficult in my mind, if you put yourself in her shoes, she's leaving. There's family back there And so it would be very difficult to look back. But God made it very, very clear not to do that. In fact, Jesus used her for an example, say, listen, you better pay attention to what God says. And so paying attention to what God says is very, very important in our lives. That's a lesson we can learn from this. Pay attention to what God's trying to tell me. Pay attention to how God's trying to lead me, what he's instructing me, the promises he gives me. God gives us promises for a purpose. Pay attention. So that's one reason. And then like I said, another and which I think is probably the case is Moses just Didn't that it wasn't that he didn't listen or he didn't know what God said, he wasn't paying attention. He knew it I think he knew exactly what God said, and he didn't believe it I don't believe that's true. I don't believe that when God says they will hearken to you, I don't believe they will. Would you agree with me? That's dangerous ground. Basically, what are you doing when you say, I don't believe you? You're accusing God either of being a liar or not or being ignorant. God doesn't know. I tell you, unbelief is a very, very dangerous thing. I think, I believe the root, both of these are bad. Not paying attention or not believing, both of those are bad. They hurt us. We need to pay attention to what God says, and we've got to believe what God says. Take him at his word. I believe the root of all of our difficulties In trusting God and obeying God and doing what He says is simply unbelief God tells us we need to do this, or we ought to be uh this ought to be part of our life. We ought to be faithful to this. We don't believe it. I don't need to do that. That's not important. Or we'll we'll see ourselves as an exception. Yeah, everybody ought to do that. But I not me. I'm an exception. That's unbelief. The root of that is unbelief. I don't believe when God says we need to do that. Uh a and you've heard this before, this goes around preachers use this sometimes. What kind of church would I have if everybody in the church was like me? If everybody in the church was as faithful to church as I am, what would church be like? If everybody in the church gave their offering like I do, what would the offerings be like? Could we afford to pay the electric bill Everybody in the church went soul winning and witnessed and shared the gospel like I do. Would our church have any witness at all in the community? So these are questions to ask you. We say, yeah, yeah. If we took a vote, should the should the church win souls? Everybody say, oh yeah, absolutely. Should the church uh give generously? Yeah, amen. Should the church work hard? Yeah, every And so Moses, I think, wasn't that he wasn't paying attention. I think he heard God very clearly, but he just didn't believe it. No, they won't hearken unto me. He says it right back to God just a few statements later. No, they won't. Unbelief is the root of our difficulties in obeying God and trusting God, just not believing what God says. If you go back to Genesis, we won't turn there, but we know the we know the events, how that played out, but Satan got Eve, the whole the sin entered the world because Satan got Eve to not believe God Well, did God tell you you can't uh eat any fruit in the whole garden? Now Satan knew exactly what God told him. He wasn't trying to get information. He was trying to influence Eve. And so he alters what God says. He says, Oh, did God tell you you can't eat any of this fruit? He knew exactly. Because oh no no no we can eat all the fruit just the free to the knowledge of the tree of good and evil we can't eat eat it or even touch it I think m I think may I wonder if maybe Adam didn't tell her, don't even touch it. Listen, God said don't eat it. Don't even touch it. That might be where she got that from And so his whole premise, Satan's whole method, his whole approach, his tool for getting Introducing sin into the world, the portal for bringing sin into humanity was getting Eve to not believe God. Just didn't take him at his word. Oh yeah, we'll die. You are not gonna die. Huh? Nah. Really? Yeah, God knows. If you eat of that, you'll just be just like him. What? It's true, no way. Yeah. That's all in the Hebrew. And she didn't believe God when he said you shouldn't do it. Now it's easy for us to look back. I would just say if we were in her shoes, we probably messed up just like her. Amen or not. I don't think we're any better than she was. But the the the proper approach would have been, no, I believe God. He said we'll die. If he says we're going to die, we're going to die. Amen? That's the approach. Just believe them. This whole world, this whole world is bent on getting us to not believe God. That's what evolution is all about. That's what humanism is all about. That's what materialism is all about. That's what it's all about. Get us not to believe what God says is so. And so she didn't believe God and it brought it brought sin into the world. I think Moses just didn't believe God. He didn't take God at his word. Now, what happens if I don't believe God? If God says something, they will hearken unto you. And my Rationale in my thinking, my response is no, they won't Well, what I'm doing in by not believing God and countering them, I'm not trusting God's character I'm doubting. I'm casting questions. I'm questioning God's integrity. Either he is being dishonest to me or he is really ignorant. But either case, what does that say about Moses view of his own understanding, his own rationale ration rationing. What does that say? If he says, God says they're going to hearken to you Moses says, no, they won't. They won't hearken unto me. What does that say about Moses' uh estimation of his own thinking? This is what's happening. Moses is exalting his thinking and his understanding and his information and his knowledge higher than God's. What he's saying is this, God, I know more than you do. Right? God says they're going to hearken to you. Most said, no, they won't. I know more than you. I understand this whole situation better than you do, God. You think they're going to, you're saying they're going to harden me, they're not. So I'm exalting myself. And he and God, are you you're lying to me? Or you don't know what you're talking about? I'm telling you, what I'm trying to get at here is this. It is a serious thing to not believe God. Got Jonah Nebelli, and there's a lot of people in hell. Because they won't believe God. And there's a lot of Christians that are grieving the Lord because we won't just take him at his word. We worry, and I'm guilty, I worry. But all with but it all boils down to not believing. Not believing. And so By not believing, he's questioning God's character. He's impugning the character of God by saying they won't hearken unto me. It's questioning God's wisdom. God, you don't know. I know better. I'm wiser than you are, God. I can see how this plays out. You don't. Questioning God's goodness. You see? You see why unbelief is so serious? You study the book of Hebrews and nation of Israel had the same issue, and it's it's characteristic of humanity. I'm not trying to pick on Moses particularly, Israel dealt with it. And he says, because of unbelief, they wandered forty years. They didn't take out. God says you're going to go in, you'll conquer the land. There's giants, there's walled cities, all that. Yep But I'm going to knock them down. I'm going to take it. You're going to have this. And they said, no, we won't. We can. For 40 years, Hebrews talks a lot about the unbelief of Israel. And so unbelief distrusts God's character. And I put it this down, unbelief denies God's authority. I hear I think what is behind this statement, and I know I'm being hard on Moses, but he makes a blantant contradiction in the face of God. I think what he's saying here is, I will decide the best course of action, God God says, here's what this is what needs to happen. God in his wisdom, his knowledge, his his power, his authority, he says, Moses, you go down there Confront them, they'll rally behind you. I will bring them out, I will use you to bring them out. And Moses says, you know, I think I know better how this should play out than what you're saying. Later on, he goes ahead and says, get somebody else. When God calls someone, God knows what he's doing. Amen or not? God leads someone to do something, or God instructs us to do something. God knows what he's doing. And it all boils down. The whole Christian life, the whole Christian service boils down to just believing God and just taking them at His Word, trusting Him and doing what He says. So that's there's no there's no there's no shortcuts. That's all it is. It's very basic They won't hearken to me. Moses saying, I uh I'll decide the best course of action. I'll decide whether I go down there or not I'll determine, I will determine what should be done and how it should be done. And it's not going to be me, and it's not going to be this way. I think at the root of all of Moses' objections were two things. One, an unwillingness to do what he knew God was telling him to do, and an unbelief. in God's ability and God's wisdom to use him in the way God wanted to use him, intended to use him. Now that's why I say, and we don't have time, I'm going to end there, that's why I say God's condescension. Now, if this would if you as a father, let me talk to the fathers, if you if this was you and your child was doing this to you, they'd end up in the back room Not a timeout. Not when we grew up. We didn't have timeout. Right? Your child, you said, listen, you're gonna do this and this is the way it's gonna be, and you said and you say, oh no, it ain't Yes it is. But God doesn't do any of that. I I don't know, I can't this is total me But I I wonder if God doesn't understand that what he's asking Moses to do is huge. And God understands his balking at this. God, I think, understands his struggle. What God is commissioning him to do. Listen, I made this statement before, and I'll make it again, no doubt. The call of God is never easy. I can't find anywhere in Scripture where God calls someone to do something that's very simple. Anybody can do that. God's call, God's commission is often very, very difficult. We live in a world that is absolutely opposed to everything God is for. When God calls us to make a difference, to stand up, to be a light, to be a witness, to be sought In a world that is so decayed. That's never easy. And God's going to be very, very gracious to Him here. Now, at some point, God's going to start getting a little more firm. And God doesn't really give him an inch, but he does condescend. He does accommodate him to an extent. And he explains. And he's going to, we're going to see here next time, Lord will. He gives three signs so that Moses can have some credibility. So that Moses has some confidence. It's not just up to me. And God gives these signs. Now And these signs aren't for Moses, well, they're probably for Moses' sake a little bit, but they're primarily to give Moses credibility in the eyes of Pharaoh and in the eyes of the Hebrews. And so God takes his objection seriously. And I think God understands what Moses is struggling with. Remember, he failed colossally. Forty years before. For 40 years he's been walking around the desert. He's got a wife and kids now. And he's been thinking about where he was and what he was and how he blew it so bad. I don't know about you, but probably most of us have something in our past that we look back and it affects us today, right? And we look back and say, oh man. We can't let that define us, but God's very, very patient, he's very, very understanding. And he accommodates, he condescends down to Moses, and he gives them these signs, these miracles, so that he will have some credibility. So I guess the imitation is this. How about this? Let's just believe God. God says it. Okay, yes, Lord. Alright. Does it make sense? I don't say it. But God, you're perfect in wisdom. You know the end from the beginning. You are good. You're all powerful. You're the final authority. I'll trust you, and I'll obey you. Amen. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to take these thoughts here from Moses, and I pray you'd help us to have faith in God. Lord, that's what Jesus drilled into the disciples. Have faith in God. Trust me. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if there are any somebody, any of us tonight That would say, sometimes I argue with God. Sometimes I look at things and I think I I think I know better than God does, and I need to watch out for that And they need to take them. Is there any like that? Anybody here at all? Sometimes I just have a hard time just trusting them. It's hard. And I I think God understands And he helps us. But we gotta watch out. We gotta watch out. And we gotta pay attention. Father, I ask you to bless our invitation now in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, our heads are bound, eyes are closed.