Exodus chapter 3, and I want to begin reading in verse number, let's see, I want to begin reading in verse 16. And it says, go, this is God speaking to Moses up on the mount, he saw the burning bush, and God speaking to him. We'll pick up here in a little bit, get the context. But let me just read it for right now. Go and gather the elders of Israel together and say unto them, The Lord God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob, appeared unto me, saying, I have surely visited you And seen that which is done to you in Egypt. And I have said, I will bring you up out of the affliction of Egypt into the land of the Canaanites. And the Hittites and the Amorites and the Parizzites and the Hivites and the Jebusites into a land flowing with milk and honey And they shall hearken to thy voice, and thou shalt come, thou and the elders of Israel, unto the king of Egypt, and ye shall say unto him, the Lord God of the Hebrews Have met with us, and now let us go, we beseech thee, three days' journey into the wilderness that we may sacrifice to the Lord our God. I am sure that the king of Egypt will not let you go, no, not by a mighty hand. And I will stretch out my hand and smite Egypt with all my wonders, which I will do in the midst thereof, and after that he will let you go. And I will give this people favor in the sight of the Egyptians, and it shall come to pass that when ye go ye shall not go empty That every woman shall borrow of her neighbor and of her that sojourneth in her house jewels of silver, jewels of gold, raiment. And ye shall put them upon your sons and upon your daughters, and ye shall spoil the Egyptians. We're looking at this. We're right in the middle of this back and forth Um conversation, I guess you'd call it, between Moses and God Almighty. Of course, he appeared to them there at the burning bush. And he extends this. It's more than a call, it's a commission. That Moses go down into Egypt, and we we all know this, we went over this, but go down into Egypt He's to rally the Hebrews together and confront Pharaoh and demand of Pharaoh that he let God's people, the Hebrew, uh the the the Hebrews, demand that he let them go. Now there's a little process they go through, but Moses is is in this back and forth with God here. So let's pray. We'll set the tone here a little bit. And a couple things I want to pick up on. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now as we look at this critical part of Scripture, in my opinion. of the call of Moses and this conversation he had with you so many years ago. I think so much of this applies uh very practically to our walk with you in our Christian service. And so I ask that your Holy Spirit, the author of this passage, of the whole book, really But Lord, I ask that your Holy Spirit would teach us and pull from this passage principles that would help us. Be the individual Christians we ought to be, and be the church we ought to be. And so I plead with you that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit And um and help us tonight, Lord, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. God's commissioning Moses, as I just said, to go to Egypt, lead the people out. God's going to do it, but he's going to use Moses. We went through all that So Moses gives a series of objections to God's commission on his life. We looked at the first one. We're dealing with God's answer to the second. And if you remember, his first objection was he was incapable. He says, who am I to do this? I I I'm not qualified, I'm not able. And God confronted that answer and gave him uh uh and that uh objection and gave him a very solid answer that there was no more argument on that. His second objection, which is what we've been looking at here the last few messages, is that uh uh that he is ignorant. The first one he says, Who am I God answers that, then he says, Who am I going to tell? The Hebrews sent me What name am I going to give the the as far as they're concerned, now he doesn't express all this, but we're assuming this might be in his mind, they they're viewing me as an Egyptian The last time I've been here now was hundreds of years ago, but no doubt the stories went down, you know, it didn't work out so hot And I show up there and said, oh, God said that uh we're gonna confront Pharaoh and and come out of Egypt. They're gonna want to know what God. And if you remember One thing the Hebrews had for them, at least this point, is they were very, very careful to be faithful in their worship of God and God alone. They they they uh maintained that um uh that single that that worship of the single God Jehovah and they knew God they knew the name Jehovah If you remember, Moses' mother, Jehovah, was part of her name. And so they were familiar that God's name was Jehovah, but they didn't know the meaning of it. And so God answers him very, very positively, I think, when he addresses his concern. He says to him, first he identifies himself up there in verse 14, and again, I know we looked at this. But he says, Tell them, God said unto Moses, I am that I am. Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, I am, hath sent me unto you Now I find it interesting at this point, Moses' concern isn't with Pharaoh. His objections aren't to say Pharaoh's not going to listen to me, Pharaoh's not going to believe me Pharaoh's not going to let us go. That's not his objections. His objections are concerning who? The Hebrews, the Israelites They're not called Israelites at this point, but uh his concern is whether they will trust him, whether they will follow his leadership at all And so God tells he gives a, explains, he says, I am. And when God says I am, and the word that we get that phrase, I am from, that title, is Jehovah. It's translated all through Scripture many, many times. And so he goes into detail a little bit of what that means, I think, when he says I am. And we looked at that quite a bit Then God instructs him, he tells them three times that he's to uh uh say unto them three things. He's supposed to tell them who he is. That he's aware of their situation. He's going to keep his word. God had promised them before, back in Genesis. in chapter 50 had promised Joseph before he died. In fact, if you would turn back there real quick me, just a couple pages. Actually, it's one page back to the last chapter of Genesis. It's interesting, it's one page in your Bible, but it's 400 years in history. We're going back 400 years. In Genesis chapter 50, and notice verse 24. Joseph said unto his brethren, I die. Now look at this, and God will surely visit you. And bring you out of this land unto the Lamb which ye swear unto Abraham, to Isaac, and Jacob. God repeats that almost verbatim in Exodus chapter 3 to Moses. Verse 25, And Joseph took an oath of the children of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you, and you shall carry, and you shall carry up my bones from thence. And so God's assuring, uh uh he says, I want you to go down and assure the Hebrews that I am the God that eternally exists, the God that is is um uh self- uh existent. He's the one that made this promise 400 years ago. I'm going to keep my promise. So that's Moses tell him that he's going to keep his word. Now, I was going to buzz through this, but in the last eight days, I got looking through this again. And I noticed something that I want to come back and look at in verse number 16. Now look what he tells, this is what he's telling Moses to do. Go and do what? Gather the elders of Israel together. Now here I saw that and I got thinking. I thought, what about these elders? What do we know about these elders that Moses is supposed to come down into Egypt? He's to go into the camp. Of the Hebrews. Now remember, they're slaves. They're not living in nice suburbs. They're not living in beautiful homes. They're not living in palaces. They're poor. They're everything you would picture slavery to be is what they are and probably a little worse. They've been intensely afflicted, they've been groaning, they're in poverty, they're in pain, they're in abuse. And Moses comes down into the camp of the Hebrews, and there's hundreds of thousands of them, perhaps a million perhaps, spread throughout. And he's to get these elders out of the camp of the Hebrews. Now, like I said, my question came up: who in the world are these elders? And why does he need the elders? Why doesn't he just show up and deliver his message? Well, I think there's several reasons. One is leadership is important. Elders. I got looking up the word elder. Anyone want to guess what the word elder means? The word. It means old. If we just go by the definition, God's telling them, go down and get the old guys, the old people, the aged, uh the elderly But it also has the idea, now this gives us a little more insight into who he's talking about, who these guys are and what their role might be. It also has the idea, not just aged or old, but it also has the idea of mature and experienced I don't know if you've noticed this. The older I get, the more I notice it. A person can be old and not necessarily be mature. Now wives, don't look at your husbands right then, all right? Well you can be very you can be elderly and not be mature So these, when he says, get the elders together, what we're picking up here and studying who these elders are, it's older men, but it's older men that have learned a few things. It's older men that have matured, they have some experience in working with the Hebrews And working with the Egyptians. They're experienced a little bit. I found one of the definitions, I was looking up different sources of getting meanings of the word, how they're used, and all that, like I always do. And one of the ideas was suggested that our word senator is associated somehow with the word elder. Now, this was not an official position. This wasn't something, as far as we know, they weren't elected to this position. They weren't appointed by any type of authority. As far as we know, God hasn't called them to be elders. They just were. They were older men that were mature and had some wisdom, had some discernment about themselves And they tended to rise to the top and take responsibility and help. And so these elders, they were respected heads of families. These were men within families and with clans within the twelve tribes that because of their experience, because of their wisdom, because of their discernment the people the the people attracted to them look to them for leadership just naturally. I think you understand that. Do you ever have a crowd of people or something in a situation and there's some people you just you just You just see some discernment there. You see some wisdom, maturity on their part, and you tend to gravitate to them, look to them for leadership. You know what I'm talking about, right? Now we elect people that are sometimes that aren't necessarily that, but these are just it's just a natural development. They are spokesmen. Apparently, they had gotten to the point where they would be a spokesman for the Hebrews before the Egyptian authorities. They had developed that. They had some the I like this this stuff description. They had moral authority. Moral authority among the Hebrews. Now, what does it mean to have moral authority? Anyone want to talk? What does it mean? Someone has moral authority. They have integrity. They're able to decide what's right and wrong. They have an input. Moral integrity means their life has the idea of integrity uh moral authority has the idea of integrity. Their life backs up their leadership. You know, some people want to be leaders, but their life is such a mess they don't have any moral authority to be leading anyone else. You follow what I'm saying? So, what I'm picking up as I'm studying these elders here, and there's a reason I want to spend some time on these guys a little bit, but what I'm picking up for these guys, these are guys that are highly respected They've been around for a while. They're for real. I think part of the idea of moral authority means people respect them not just for how they run their mouth, but how they live their life They have some character to them. There's some integrity to them. And so they're functioning here as an informal, kind of an informal government among the Hebrews. Um when Moses shows up, God tells him, get the elders together. Well when he shows up, the Hebrews immediately knew who their elders were. They knew who these men were, and he could assemble them together. Now what was their role? Why did he tell them to get the elders? Why does he say to them there, gather the elders of Israel together And say unto them. He doesn't tell them, go right down, don't he doesn't tell them go directly to Pharaoh and approach Pharaoh. He says, go to the Hebrews and get their elders, their leadership. They're men of integrity. They use the term influencers today. Some of the influencers, I wouldn't want to influence my cat I mean my wife's cat. But these men had influence because of integrity and character. Alright. So we we've got that. So why does God do this? Why didn't he just have them go down to Pharaoh? You know, and as we read this and we picture Moses shows up, he goes directly to Pharaoh. No, he didn't He got these these men together and he talks to them first and he explains things to them. And that was Moses' concern initially, is on a meet the leadership of the Hebrews They're not who they're going to want to know who what God am I representing. I need to know. And that's what God answered them. So what what was their role? I think number one, their role was to be representatives to Pharaoh of the Hebrews, there to be representatives. He says, get the elders together, say unto them, the Lord God of our fathers appeared God of Abraham. Isaac, Jacob appearing to me saying, I've surely visited you, seeing that which is done to you, and I'll bring you up. And he explains to them what's going on. So they are going to go With Moses before Pharaoh and be there as representatives of the nation. Now I think the significance of that is this. When uh if Moses would just come before Pharaoh himself, Pharaoh could be, well, pfft Who says you represent the Hebrews? You know, what credentials do you have? What you know I I don't even see any Hebrews with you. I mean you show up out of the wilderness and I'm going to let them go at you. But if he has These elders with him, who the Egyptians already know, who the Egyptians have already interacted with. Now it's been hostile. But they know them and the Egyptians aren't stupid, their leadership. They know that these men are respected by the The huge number of Hebrews. In fact, remember, one of the whole reasons they were afflicting them so heavily was because they were becoming such a large group and perceived as a threat. And so Moses shows up and he has these whatever number of elders with him. He has this entourage, so to speak, representing the people. That is going to have much more significance between Pharaoh than if he just shows up some shepherd out of the wilderness. Remember, this is 40 years later, he shows up And so they're helping Moses represent the people. So Moses goes down. He here's his responsibility. God's telling them you go down to Egypt, you get these elders of the Hebrews, and you win them over to this whole endeavor. You need to convince them. You will convince them that I am doing this, and you're going to win them over, and then we'll go to Pharaoh. You know that, now this is God doing, of course so that it's wise, but that's wise leadership is winning the uh winning the people over. I think a pastor, if he's going to lead a church to do something, one of the good things to do is win the leadership of the church over to what's being done so that the church can trust And then follow. You follow what I'm saying? And you know, sometimes a pastor comes and says, you know, I really think God wants us to do this if it's not unscriptural, you know And oh that the pastor ought to be able to say, I really think we ought to do this. But a wise pastor is going to meet with the men, talk to them, say, here's what I think we need to do, here's why I think we ought to do it, and get them on board. You with me So I think that's what's taking place. The interesting thing is that's exactly what David did when he wanted to move the Ark of the Covenant into Jerusalem. In uh Chronicles, uh first uh 1 Chronicles 13. In fact, let's turn over there real quick. I I find this fascinating. It it was tremendous leadership, I think, on the part of David. He's making basically leading Israel at this point To make Jerusalem the very center of the worship of Jehovah. And by moving the ark to Jerusalem, which is becoming the capital, it's the center of the nation. It's where all the business of the nation is being done, where the king is rolling from, and he wants God smack dab in the middle of the nation's commerce and the nation's government. Would you agree with me? That's a good idea. I think God ought to be the center of our government. I think God ought to be the center of our hopes. And so that David is trying to do that, but he has enough leadership. ability, skills, if you want, that he doesn't just do it. This is this is a profound This is a profound decision that he is making for the nation of Israel and their spiritual well-being. It is right, it is good, he is on target But he doesn't just do it. Look there in 1 Chronicles 13, and we study this when we looked at the life of David. But look at verse 1. He's wanting to bring this ark into the capital, Jerusalem. And David consulted with the captains of thousands and hundreds and with every what Leader. So he's getting the leadership of Israel together. Now they have a structured government at this point. Not like in Egypt. It's just a people. It's just a uh an incredibly huge family, basically, in Egypt at this point. But here it's a structured government, and David calls the leadership together. And David said unto all the congregation of Israel, if it seem unto you seem good unto you, and that it be of the Lord our God, let us send abroad unto our brethren everywhere that are left in the land of Israel, and with them also to the priests and Levites, which are in the cities and suburbs, that they may gather themselves together unto us. And let us bring again the ark of our God to us, for we inquired not at it in the days of Saul. Saul had neglected it. And all the congregations said that they would do so. But the thing was right in the eyes of the people. Why was it right in the eyes of the people to do this? Because mo because David Went to the leadership, convinced the leadership that this was of God, and they were able to convince the people, and everybody's on board. You follow? What I'm trying to say is this: the importance of leadership. Importance of leadership. And so when God tells Moses to go down, get the elders, get those that have influence, those, get them on board with you. And this is a biblical pattern. That's what I'm trying to show through scripture. It's a biblical pattern. God honors order and leadership. Everything in creation functions in order. It's not just chaos The evolutionists tried desperately to convince us that order comes out of chaos. It does not And it's just all chaos and somehow the unbelievably intricate design and technology that makes up our own DNA and how phenomenally organized that is. And design perfectly with purpose and function. That somehow that just came from past. Nothing happens that way. Our God is a God of order, our God is a God of leadership. And so uh so he's um that's the way God worked. He worked through recognized authority, not chaos. And I think Another reason he's coming down and he's win getting the elders together before he approaches Pharaoh, God's telling him to do this, is I think that he's laying some foundation or putting a very uh primitive structure in place for the leadership of Israel when they actually do become a nation. And they'll recognize the importance of leadership in the nation. They'll recognize the importance of leadership and their ability to make decisions and confront issues and deal with enemies. Leadership. Remember that And nobody in Israel would confront the champion of the Philistines. Why not? And I suggest poor leadership on the part of Saul. Poor leadership. Nobody was taken charge. Nobody saw the cause. And that was Saul's responsibility to lead this. And he wouldn't do it. And so I think we're seeing here the very early stages, perhaps. in God's mind of establishing leadership in what will eventually become the nation of Israel. And so there are representatives. I think there's a second reason, perhaps, that God wants them to go to the elders first and win them over. I think it's so that they can be witnesses to the rest of Israel that Moses is actually from God Moses doesn't have to go out to every home in every neighborhood and every community where these poor Hebrew slaves are scattered and and and being uh oppressed. He doesn't have to go out and all that. He has these elders, he convinces them This is God. God is leading us to do this. God is intervening in our situation. They become convinced of it. And then they go out and they say, hey, this is of God. It's not just Moses didn't go insane out in the sun in the wilderness and come back here and thinks he's going to do this again. No, no, no. God's in it this time. And so he's gaining them as being witnesses to the fact that this is God. He says, I have surely visited you. And they can go to the people of Israel and say, you know, Moses convinced us. God is doing this. This is God intervening. And so they can confirm God's promise to the people of Israel. They're a credible witness. To what God is doing. And then I think there's a third role that they have in confronting Pharaoh, they're partners with Moses. He's not going there by himself. He's got these respected, mature men that have some common sense about them. They're not going to say and do stupid stuff They're going to follow the leadership of God. And God says, notice, he says there, let me come back to Exodus. Let's see, where's Exodus at? He says, I will bring you out. And verse 18, and they shall hearken to thy voice. That's the elders. They're going to listen to you. And thou shalt come, thou and the elders of Israel, unto the king of Egypt. And so they're going to go with Moses there with them. How many people here, you're braver when you have somebody with you than when you're by yourself? Yeah. How many people are braver when you've got twenty-five guys with you than when you're by yourself? Oh yeah. I mean we're real big. Come on man. Come on. You look fat and everybody's gone. Whoa. Did I ever tell you about the time I was in Mexico and the dogs attacked me? I'm telling you, that was scary. You guys don't realize how close my life was to Being eaten. And I look back and my two buddies, Chris Mann, being one of them, Dan Stroop, they're running away. Suddenly I wasn't nearly as brave. And so God has him win these win these elders over, they're able to convince the rest of the nation, they're there, they can testify this is God, and then they've got your back They're there with you. They're they're uh uh adding clout to this. Uh he's not going alone Uh this is a national campaign. It's not just Moses' little agenda he's pushing on to the the f the Egyptians and and the Hebrews. This is a national endeavor. They're all on board now. They're coming with him. They're going to give credibility when he stands before Moses or before Pharaoh and demands that he lets the people go. And he's got all this leadership there with him Now, of course, Pharaoh, in fact God says there, notice verse 19, I am sure that the king of Egypt will not let you go. No, not by my he's not going to listen to you, but You've got these men, these good men standing with you, standing with you. So, by going to the elders, it legitimatizes Moses' leadership He's been gone for 40 years. The Egyptians barely remember him probably, the Hebrews. But he gets these men on board and he's recognized then as a leader. It preserves unity You've got men from all spectrum of the Hebrew family at this point. It's not really a nation yet, just this massive, massive family. And he's got representation from all of them, and they're on board. And that's going to help have unity behind Moses among the Israelites. And I think it shows God's respect for leadership and structure and organization. God uses men sometimes It's just one man or one woman maybe or one person that stands alone for God and God does a great work. But generally Behind a behind a leader that God is using, generally, there is a team of people who love the Lord and are on the same page and have some integrity and have some character and have some maturity about them, and they enable that leader to be what God is leading the leader to lead. Right? You have that team behind. And we see that in the home. We see it in the church. We see it across the board. When David was king, when he had the kings, they had counselors. They had support teams. And so God respects structure. This is long before the law was given in any kind of Any kind of specific structure is laid out for Israel, God's already putting these things in place. So these elders captivated my attention. Who these guys were. We don't know their names. We don't know their backgrounds. We don't know what tribes they're from. We know really, we're given very little specific detailed information about them other than We see what God's telling Moses to do and how to lead these funds. There's a tremendous lesson on leadership here. Even, I think, even within the whole A husband gets the idea, oh yeah, I'm the head of the home. Boom, we're doing what I say, when I say it, the way I say it, stand a tick, chuck, you know Where maybe it might be a good idea to win people over. Right? When the wife and the kid's over. Um and believe me, I'm I'm I'm for authority, I'm for leadership, but it needs to be done in the right way. Needs to be done the right way. And so I uh these elders, there's a tremendous lesson in leadership here. By the way, you look and see they play a role in the progressive development of Israel as a nation. I mean a significant role. We see Moses, Moses, Moses, Moses, Moses. Well, in reality, there was a team, if you want to use that word, of elders that were working with them, that God was working with them In uh go to Exodus chapter 12. We'll just jump here ahead a little bit. Exodus chapter 12, look at verse 21. This is the Passover. God's going to take out the firstborn male of all Egypt. God says you need to put blood on the doorposts, have the Passover lamp. And uh chapter 12, look at verse 21. Then Moses called for all the what? Elders of Israel. Here they are again. This is a pivotal point in Israel's Development as a nation. After this, they're out of Egypt. And he calls the elders together. And said unto them, Draw out and take you a lamb according to your family's Passover. And uh he gives them the instructions, and they carry that out to the people, and the nation does it. Come over to chapter 17. And verse number five. So we're down the road aways. They're out in the wilderness. They're crying about water. They don't need water. Verse 2, wherefore the people did chide with Moses and said, Give us water that we may drink. Those who said, why do you chide with me? Wherefore do you tempt the Lord? He comes down through there. And come down to verse 5. And the Lord said unto Moses, Go on before the people and take with thee of the what? Elders of Egypt. Of Israel. He says, I want them here with you. I want they they're going to be here. They're going to support you. The people are all worked up. They're griping and moaning and complaining and whining and murmuring. Get the elders together And they they witness the miracle at the rock there. Then come over to Exodus chapter 24. They're mentioned again. These are pivotal points in Israel's development as a nation. Verse number one, Exodus 24. And he said unto Moses. He's about to go up and get the covenant, get the commandments, get the instructions from God. He said unto Moses, come up unto the Lord, thou and Aaron and Nadab and Abihu And 70 of the what? Elders of Israel. So I want them to come with you. Now Moses goes himself up on the top, but these guys are their support, their witnessing. A lot of what God's doing, they're observing. These are mature, respected, older Men of integrity and character that are working with Moses. And they have a role all through here. Now God called Moses, but he gave them elders to work with him and help him. One more time they're mentioned and all the way back in Numbers. Now this becomes key. Numbers chapter 11 And verse number sixteen. Moses is carrying this load. They're going through the wilderness. And uh Moses is making all decisions, he's making all judgments. And notice 11 verse 16. And the Lord said unto Moses, Gather unto me seventy men of the elders of Israel. Here they are again. Who now knowest to be elders of the people. In other words, I think what God's saying is, you know they're respected, you know they're men of integrity, you know they're mature, they have common sense, they they're uh spiritually mature. You know them, you're respected, they're confirmed. And thou knowest to be elders of the people and officers over them, and bring them unto the tabernacle of the congregation that they may stand there with thee. Alright, why? And I will come down and talk with thee there. Now look at this. And I will take of the spirit which is upon thee. And will put it upon them. Who's the then? The elders. And they shall bear the burden of the people with thee, that thou bear it not thyself alone. Would you agree with me? These elders have a key role in the well-being of the nation of Israel. Moses couldn't make all the decisions, all the judgment, provide all the leadership for this massive nation at this point and it's a mobile nation. They're moving through a wilderness. And so God takes the spirit of wisdom and power And the call upon him to an extent, and he puts it on these elders, and they help provide leadership now. So my point is this: leadership is important. And the right leadership is important, right? These are elders. He doesn't say go get the old people. He says get the elders. Don't go get all the smart people. The people that got high IQs and all of that and might not necessarily be mature. They might not necessarily have integrity. But when he uses that term elder, it very specific It's older men with experience, maturity, integrity, character, and they, I'll use them as I lead you to accomplish this great task. I I studied under Dr. Lee Robertson for a number of years down at Highland Park in Tessie Temple. And I must have heard him say it, and this is his famous quote. You hear back when he was alive, you heard him all the time saying, I don't know how many times I heard him say it. But it was this everything rises and falls on leadership. The interesting thing is a lot of football coaches picked that saying up. And I read a quote somewhere when one of the presidents in the past actually used that quote. Now whether they got it from Dr. Robertson or not, I don't know, or vice versa. But that truth is important. That truth, get this, you'll be glad you came tonight. That truth is truth. You can quote me on that. Leadership, leadership, godly, biblical, mature, integrity, leadership is important. We've seen it in our nation, yes or no? Leaders are important. They play a role. It's true in the church. How many times has a church changed leadership and it changed the whole direction of the church? They got somebody maybe didn't have convictions, didn't have character, didn't have spiritual maturity. That's why I think God, through Paul, said that when you're talk, when you're appointing a bishop, should not be a novice. Somebody new, inexperienced, without any uh uh uh maturity about them. Give them time to grow, give them time to develop And so everything rises and falls on leadership, and I think what we're seeing here. God doesn't bypass leadership, he uses it. We had a It's been maybe a year or so ago we had a lady from another church in another state called us and she had heard about Our soul winning, we do soul-winning training. Now, I don't consider it anything exceptional. I think we're doing what the Bible says. I think we have a good soul-winning training, and a lot of churches do But for whatever reason, she heard about ours, she was enamored with it, and she was inviting Pastor Matt particularly, but our church come up to her church. and teach their church soul winning, what we teach here to teach it at her church. Does anybody see a problem with that? The problem was it needs to go through the leadership. If we'd have come in there under without the support of the leadership of the church, it would have never happened. Right? And rightly so. Leadership has a role. Leadership is important. Now you say, why would you spend all that time? One, it I felt the Lord directing this way for the message tonight, but I think there's a reason. We're electing officers here in just a few weeks. We're taking nominations. When God sent Moses down, he didn't say gather all the most popular men in the in the among the Hebrews and get them. Get all the good looking ones. I tell you, if we did that here, we'd be hurting, I'm telling you, we'd be Get all the good looking men. Now, get all those that have influence. Well, influence, yeah, but it has to be the right kind. And so as we go into a new year, and it's somewhat of a crucial year as we make some changes, and you know, with Pastor Matt moving on and different things, it's crucial that we seek the Lord. And we have good godly leadership and trustees and deacons and on that role. You with me on this? And so I hope we commit to prayer and we understand the importance of these positions. Sometimes I think, you know, sometimes, well, it's just a title. And it's really not. It's more than that. Well, we're just required by law to have trustees. Well, that's true, but they play a role And it's important. It's key. I don't know about you, but I want this old church, I want this body of believers to stay the course for the coming years and decades until Jesus Christ comes back. And if he tarries, if the Lord's coming, we don't know when it'll be. And if I'm eventually off the scene, I'm praying for the folks that follow us. older folks that they preach from the same Bible, sing the same songs, give the same gospel, and keep the same course that we've had all these many years. And that is going to depend on the leadership. Amen or not? Elders. Moses, go down and get the elders. Moses couldn't do it alone. He's going to need these guys. God knew that. I have something else I want to talk about tonight, but we don't have time. So we'll pick it up. And this is what my other thought was, is where he says, I'm going to take you out of Egypt and into Canaan. And that's a principle all through Scripture. God takes us out of something always to lead us into something else. God saved me May 7, 1979. He brought me out of sin, and he was leading me into the righteousness of Christ to live a life. Follow? And he doesn't get him out of the Alright I'm going to get you out of Egypt. Alright, you guys are on your own. No. He got him into. So I was going to I want to talk about that, but we don't have time. So let's pray. Father in heaven. I pray you'd help us to understand the role of leadership and the importance of it in a church and in a home, in a ministry, whatever. Government, and so I pray you give us wisdom. And God, I pray, as pastor and just as a member of this church, I pray That you would help us in the coming years, months, and years, decades perhaps, that you'd help us stay true to your word and stay the course, try and win as many people to Christ as we possibly can. We want your blessing. We want your power. We want your hand to be upon us. And Lord, we want that on our homes and our individual lives. So we ask you to help us. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, preacher, I want to pray earnestly that God will lead and direct in the leadership. In the coming months and years. Any like that, say, preacher, I'm I'm with you. I'm on board with you. I want to keep this thing going. Amen. Amen. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now Our invitation now, help us, Lord, to be sensitive to your leadership in our lives and in our church. In Jesus' name, amen.