All right, Exodus chapter four. And uh once you begin reading, I know we already looked at uh verse eighteen down, we started off uh I think it was last week. on this, but I want to read the whole section, you know what we already looked at, to keep the context together here. This is where Moses has agreed to God's call and he's relented and now he's taking these steps to go down to Egypt. to uh confront Pharaoh and um and lead the Hebrews out of Egypt. Verse 18, it says, And Moses went and returned to Jethro his father-in-law He had been out in the wilderness in the burning bush and all of that. So he goes back to Jethro, his father-in-law, and said unto him, Let me go, I pray thee. And return unto my brethren which are in Egypt, and see whether they be yet alive. And Jethro said to Moses, Go in peace. So he has his father-in-law's blessing. And the Lord said unto Moses and Midian, Go return unto Egypt, for all the men are dead which sought thy life. So there's been a change of administration, and we already looked at that previously. Verse 20, and Moses took his wife and his sons and set them upon an ass, and he returned to the land of Egypt. And Moses took the rod of God in his hand. And now this is where that's where we ended last week. This is where we're going to pick up tonight. And the Lord said unto Moses, When thou goest to return to Egypt, see that thou do all those wonders before Pharaoh. which I have put in thine hand, but I will harden his heart, and he that he shall not let the people go And thou shalt say unto Pharaoh, Thus saith the Lord, Israel is my son, even my firstborn And I say unto thee, let my son go, that he may serve me. And if thou refuse to let him go, behold, I will slay thy son, even thy firstborn. And so I've entitled this, it's a continuation of last week, but I've entitled it Moses Obeys, or we could say Moses finally obeys God. So let's pray. We'll try and uh see what this has says for us here tonight. Father in heaven, we come to you and we bow before you this evening with grateful hearts for the Word of God. We thank you for your Holy Spirit. It dwells within us, helps us to live our Christian life, and help us understand your word, your instructions to us so that we can follow your instructions and live as you intend for us to. So I yield myself to you now for these next few moments. I pray with all my heart that you would please fill me with your Spirit Father, I yield my body to you, present my body anew, ask you to speak through me as we always ask you to do, Lord. And so make this a helpful time for us, not just uh not just uh Me talking, but I pray it'll be you helping us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. God wins the battle for Moses' will. Moses relents And he agrees with God, now he's going. If you remember, last week we pointed out that uh Moses respected his family His call to the ministry, so to speak, his call to go down to Egypt, did not exempt him from responsibilities to his family. And so he goes, he uh reports to his father-in-law, uh, he requests leave of absence, and then he takes care of his wife and the boys. So we already looked at that Then we noted in verse 19, the first part, God reassures or restates his commission. He's been telling Moses over and over again, go return to Egypt, go back to Egypt, go down to Egypt. So God restates that again just so everything's clear in Moses' mind. Then in the second part of verse 19, he reassures Moses of his safety He says there verse 19, for all the men are dead which sought thy life, you don't have to worry about that. That's one thing you don't have to worry about. These guys are taken care of. And then we noted, we ended with this last week, verse number 20, that Moses responds promptly. And again, he includes his family. I got a little ahead of myself there. He took his wife and his sons and he takes care of them. He provides leadership there. And so he includes his family, he keeps this rod of God, now it's called, and we're going to reference that here in a moment And then so he includes his family and he keeps the word of God. Now we come to verse 21 through 23, and this is what I notice here. I see that God gives revelation of further instructions. Notice what he says here. And the Lord said unto Moses When thou goest to return to Egypt, and then the rest of this is God giving Moses information And some instructions as to what's going to take place when he gets down in Egypt. In other words, the way I see it here, God has given Moses some more specific information as to what there, what's going to take place, what he's to do down there. Now that is an important principle in Scripture. And that is this. When Moses took a step forward, remember he's he's going back and forth, he has this debate with God, and They're just going back and forth. And finally Moses relents and says, okay, I'll go. And he takes this first step. When he takes this first step, this first action, to trust God And do what God is instructing them to do. Then God steps in, he says, All right, I'm going to give you some more information. And that is a principle all through Scripture. See it all through Scripture. God very seldom does God tell us. What the whole journey is going to be. We start out, God lays on my heart to do something, maybe teach a Sunday school class, take a bus route, whatever it may be. God uh leads me and maybe I struggle with it for a little bit. Maybe going into the ministry or something, I struggle with it a little bit and finally say, alright God, I'm going to trust you, I'm going to obey you. Very seldom does God tell us how the whole thing's going to play out. Usually what he does is just one step at a time. He'll show me what I need to do next. And then I trust him, I bay him, I do that. Then God will show me what I need to do next. And I trust him, obey him, and then he shows me what I need to do next. If I, for some reason, God's leading me in a direction, a certain direction, certain ministry, make certain decisions And stirs my heart. I have scriptural basis for it. I act on it, and God then leads me. Okay, then this is what you need to do. If for some reason I balk At that forward progress, if for some reason I get hung up and I say, you know, Lord, I'm not sure I want to go any farther in this And then I think there's scriptural precedent for this. Then God shuts off, and then he's not going to reveal to me what's next and what's next. You follow what I'm saying? You see that in the life of Abraham. Go with me back to Genesis chapter 12. And we can see that here with Abraham. And you get a lot of preaching on this. In other words, it's a life of faith. It's called walking by faith. I don't know where I don't know what it all lays out. When I first uh started out, when I first went off to Bible college, I had no idea where that road was going to take me But I tried to just trust the Lord step by step, step by step. Here I am in Garrett County now, all these many years. I had no idea this is where it's going to lead. Pastoring, all that type of stuff. And so we just trust God. Trust God. Look at Genesis chapter 12. He says, Now the Lord had said unto Abraham, Get thee out of thy country and from thy kindred and from thy father's house. Now look what he tells them. Unto a land that I will what? Show thee. He says, I you're not telling you where you're going yet. I want you to just trust me. I just want you to step out by faith, follow my leadership, and I'll lead you step by step all the way. And it goes down through there. We could read down uh all the way through um um uh verse number, let me see, we've come down to verse six. Abraham passed through the land unto the place of Sichon. And unto the plain of Morah. And the Canaanite was then in the land. So he's making his progress. God's leading him, day by day, leading him, lead him. Then look at verse 7. And the Lord appeared unto Abraham when he's in the Sikum here is what it was called then. The Lord appeared unto Abraham and said, Unto thy seed will I give this land. Alright, now you're where I want you to be He didn't tell them when he started out, this is where I'm going to lead you to. He just said, trust me, trust me, I'll show you, I'll show you. Moses followed the Lord, followed the Lord, followed the Lord. Also he says, all right, this is where you're going to be And so, as we step forward in faith, I do what God says I should do, I follow God's instructions, I obey his commands, then he gives further information And he sheds more light on what he would have me to do. Abraham, later on, when Israel comes out of Egypt, it's the same thing. He just leads them step by step by step. They balk at uh at um at uh uh Kadesh Barnia They don't go in the land, they see the giants, and brother uh Kelly preached on that Sunday night, and then they back up and then they wander for 40 years. And then when they agree that finally under Moses dies, finally that generation dies off. Now Joshua's in charge. God says, all right, they said, all right, we're ready to go forward. And uh he says, all right, first thing you have to do, step in the Jordan River. The river's flowing. He says, step in the river. When you step in the river, then I'll part it You follow what I'm saying? And that's what's happening with Moses here. God is giving him some more information. You see it all through Scripture. It's an important thing. You say, preacher, I don't know what God wants me to do with my future. You know, I'm getting out of school maybe, or I'm uh maybe I'm retiring, whatever I may be in life. You say, well, I don't know what God would have for me. What I've told people for years is this, this is what I think I think if you don't know what the future holds, just do today what you know God wants you to do today, and tomorrow he'll lead you on the next day. Just do today. Just do today. And we see that all through scripture. Leads them step by step. Joshua, Jordan. Take your Bible with me. If you would go to Psalm 119 Psalm 119, right in the middle of your Bible there. Psalms 119. I just read this in my devotions, I think the end of last week, last Thursday or Friday. Psalm 119, and notice with me verse number 105. Psalm 119-105. Probably most of us are familiar with this verse. Thy word is a lamp unto my what? Feet. And a light into my pen. The idea behind this verse is God's word will light up my feet. If you're shining a light at your feet, that means you're not what? You're not shining it down the road. And so God shows me what m He shows what where my feet are. He shows me what I need to do now, what my next step is, what my next step is Then the idea here is, as I do that, then as I keep walking in the light he gives me for each step for my feet, then that will light up the path as I go. You follow? Everybody, good? Amen. I'm excited about this. Come over to Proverbs with me. I'd be honest with you, this this Proverbs chapter 4, and I I I like this verse. Do you ever have a verse you like it, but you don't really know what it means? It's kind of the way it was, this one. Proverbs four and verse number eighteen You there? Look at what it says. But the path of the just is as a shining light that shineth more and more unto the perfect day Now, how many of you agree with me? That sounds like a great verse. Man, that's great. Shining light, more and more, perfect day. What in the world does it mean? I think those are means. Let me ask you this question: what is a just person? He says there, the path of the just. Alright? Who is this just person? What's a just person? Alright, somebody that's saved, right? I'm just before God. But I think what he's talking here isn't my position of being just before God. because of what Christ did for me. I think he's talking about the person who lives a just life. Right? You follow there's a difference. And my standing before God as a just justified is because of what Christ done. Then how I live my life As a believer, as someone that's justified for God, then if I do right, and trust God, I'm a just man. He lives right, he does right. So I think when he says the path of the just, I think this is what he's saying. This is what I take from it. Is that the path of the one who trusts God and does what he says Person is living just. Alright, I read God. I believe the Bible. God says I should do this. Alright, I'm going to do that. Now look what it says. The path of the just as a shining light that shineth what? More and more and more. As I trust God, as I do what he says, I follow him, then God leads me some more Then I trust and do that, then he leads me some more. And I trust him and do that, and he leads me some more. If you'd have told me when I was nineteen years old and I got saved that when uh that I would someday pastor a church and do all these different things. I'd have said you're nuts, I ain't doing that, there ain't no way But when I was 19 years old, I got saved. God didn't tell me all that, but you know what He told me? He said, You need to get baptized. After I got saved, you need to get baptized. That's all right. I can do that. I want to do that. And so I follow the Lord in baptism. And then after that he says, you know, you need to get involved in the church ministry and do something there. Well, okay, I can do that I think, and let me just use baptism for an illustration here a little bit. I think baptism is incredibly important for a new believer. For two reasons in particular, well one, maybe three. One is because the Bible in Book of Acts they got saved, they got baptized right away. Boom, boom, boom. They got saved, they got baptized You can't get around that. It's a very clear pattern there. But I think there's two reasons, baptism is very important for a new believer as soon as possible, in my b you know, the way I see it One is because my baptism identifies me as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. It identifies me, Romans tells us this. That I am baptized unto Christ, unto his death. In other words, baptism identifies me as someone who has trusted Christ. He's died for me, he's buried, he rose again. I am in Christ So it's an identification with the Lord Jesus Christ. But I think there's a practical aspect to baptism for a new believer. I think it's this. New person gets saved. They don't know nothing about the Bible, maybe, they don't know much or anything about the Christian life. They don't know what all this involves. Just know I trusted Christ. He forgave my sins. I have a new Heart, I have a new life, I'm going to heaven someday. God saved me. He's changed my life. I have the joy of the Lord. I have purpose in my life. I have meaning In my life, because I trusted Christ. Then God comes along, and He doesn't lay the whole life, all right, someday you're going to be knocking on doors, someday you're going to be preaching, someday you're going to be teaching a class. He doesn't say all that to that new believer All he says is, listen, you just trust me and get baptized. Just take this one step. And I believe if a if a person trusts Christ and they understand that God's will is for them, after they get saved, to follow in baptism, And they will trust God and take that step. I believe that's setting a precedent for the rest of their life, just to trust God. God says I should do this, okay, I'll do that. God says do this, okay, I'll do that. God says do this, okay, I'll do that. My observation, now no doubt there's exceptions maybe My observation is somebody that trusts the Lord Jesus Savior knows that God wants them to get baptized and will not do it generally doesn't grow too strong in the Lord. Because they're not learning this principle in Scripture to take one step forward and then then God will lead me to the next And then take that step forward. Then God will lead me to this. He never dumps the whole load of his will and his plan on us at one shot. And that's what he's doing for Moses here. We spent a chapter or more, we spent a good portion of Scripture just getting Moses to be willing to do this for God. Finally, Moses says, All right, all right, all right, you've convinced me, you've won, I'll go. And he goes, Okay, now let me show you, let me give you some more information. And so I see Moses here. God is giving him more information how this is going to play out. Now let's come back to Exodus chapter number four. So the first thing, so we notice here God's revelation of further instructions. That's a principle I see all through Scripture And it's playing out here. I see it. Now, I got three thoughts from this passage. I took all that that was the introduction to the fourth point. Number one, I notice Moses is to display God's power. Look at verse 21, the first part. And the Lord said unto Moses When thou goest to return to Egypt, all right, it's settled, he's going. When thou goest to return to Egypt, see that thou do all those wonders before Pharaoh, which I have put in thy hand. What's he talking about? Put in thy hand. What's he referencing? The rod of God that represents the power of God. There was no power in that rod, but it was a visible representation of God's power. And he says, make sure, Moses, now you're willing to go. You got your family all taken care of. You got squared away with uh your father-in-law and uh giving your reassurance. Now when you go down there Make sure you display my power when you get down there. First instruction. This is the emphasis of God to Moses. You make sure that the power of God is displayed when I get down there. These wonders. The word wonders means signs, miracles. Generally, when the Bible refers to these wonders as it's used here, he's referring to things that only God is capable of doing. He's talking about supernatural things. And he's telling Moses, you get down there, you display My power. I've given you the rod. I've shown you what I can do with it. You get down there, you use that rod, you display the power of God to Pharaoh and to those Egyptians. The power of God. Now, we're going to find out later, and most of us. are familiar with this. When he does get down there and he starts doing these wonders with the rod, throws it down, turns to serpents and turns the water to blood and these couple things. The Egyptians are able to replicate three of these wonders. How many people remember that? How many people wonder how in the world did they do that? You have to come back when we get there, that part. We'll look at it. But they but Moses did ten wonders There were ten distinct displays of the power of God, a supernatural power of God. Now the Egyptians could replicate, to an extent, three of them. But it came a point where they could not replicate what God was doing. You know, Satan's whole thing, Satan's whole strategy, and we're going to probably talk about this more when we get there But straight Satan, one of his methods is to try and counterfeit what God does I mean, all through scripture, he tries to counterfeit, counterfeit, counterfeit. But you know, Satan's ability to replicate God in a perverse way, to counterfeit God in an evil way. Can only go so far. God is all powerful. Satan is not. The Egyptians were very clever, and they no doubt had demonic abilities. But they could only do so much. What I'm trying to say is this: God's power is going to override Satan every single time, if we'll just trust him, do what he says. That doesn't mean he can't uh Satan can't get some shots in, and he's going to do that a little bit. But God is emphasizing to Moses: listen, you get down there And you must have my power. When you confront Pharaoh, when you lead the Hebrews out of Egypt, you have to have my power. You display my power with that rod. Now, there's another word here that kind of caught my attention. He says, when thou goest, verse 21, when thou goest to return into Egypt, now notice the wording here. See That thou do all these wonders before Pharaoh. I thought, what does he mean? See that thou do this? The word see there has this idea. You take heed that you do this. You make sure you display the power I've given you. It has this idea, do not fail. To do this. To do this. Now, why would God have to say to Moses, listen, don't fail. You make sure you display my power. Apparently, there was the possibility that Moses would get down there and not display the power of God. Now, I don't know what all you know the purposes of God for saying that, but I think God's telling Moses, listen, don't you be tempted to try this without the power of God on you. Um, would you agree with me? Human beings are very fickled. Anyone? Anybody know anybody that's fickled? They're up and down, on and off, in and out. Anybody here ever look in the mirror and say, you're awfully fickle? We see it in others, but the fact is we're human beings and we're awfully fickled This is what I'm wondering. Now this is speculation on my part. We just had this huge back and forth between God and Moses. I can't do this. I can't do this. God, I can't talk I won't know what to say. Who do I tell sent me? Who am I? Now he finally agrees to go, and God's doing all this stuff. He's convinced them I'm wondering if Moses now isn't God's concern that Moses is going to be tempted to get down there and say, ah, you know what? I got this. Oh, you know. Well, I used to be, I grew up in Pharaoh's courthouse, you know. I uh surely I can well I know how to handle these people. I lived forty years here I'm wondering if he came in there. You know, I've been trained in military strategy. I know how to deal with dignitaries. And I'm wondering if the fickleness of humanity isn't being addressed here when God says Moses, you get down there Make sure you do this. Make sure you do this. Now my impression of Moses in that debate was Moses would get down there and say, I can't do this, I can't do this, I can't do this And I'm wondering now if God's saying, listen, you don't you lean on yourself. And I'm here to tell you, when we're serving God, when we're living for God We have to make sure we have the power of God on us. Whether it's teaching a Sunday school, whether it's singing in a choir, whether it's running a bus route, whether it's out knocking on doors, listen, you and I cannot make a difference in this old fallen world with the gospel apart from the power of God. And he says, see that you do this, see that you take that round that rod down there. You get and and do wonders. The Christian life, and I say this so often, the Christian life is a supernatural thing. The body of Christ is not something the world can produce. And I tell you, we we s we complain and we gripe about churches not having pastors and we talk about not seeing people saved and not seeing lives changed and not seeing baptize bat people baptized and that bothers me as much as anybody. But I think the solution is not different programs or dip bigger budgets. I think the solution is getting the power of God back on our ministries. Getting the power of God, the wonders of God back on our preaching, that when the Word of God is given out, when we say what God tells us to say, and we do what God tells us to do. His power is there, those wonders are there, and people come under conviction and their lives are changed. They believe on Christ, and we see God do something that only He can do And that's what God's telling Moses. You make sure you have that rod with you and you display the power of God. I want God's power on my ministry. I want God's power on our church. Amen. Our Sunday school teachers have the power of God, children's church workers, power of God on us. And God has to give it and we have to trust Him for it. So he says, you make sure you display the power of God. What Moses needed above all else was the power of God. You say, preacher, what are you talking about? I'm talking about the power of God We need it. It's not in a book. It's not in a college degree. It's not in a package. It comes from walking with God, obeying God, and trusting Him and seeking His power. I think what we need above all else in our church is what I'm saying is the power of God. As individuals and as a church Well I'm not going to bother to turn there, but Luke chapter 24, verse 49, Jesus told the disciples, he says, you wait, you tarry in Jerusalem until you're endued with power on high. He said, I'm not sending you out into the world to establish the church and preach the gospel, establish churches. I'm not doing that until you have the Holy Spirit of God upon you. And they did just that. They prayed in the upper room in Acts chapter 2, chapter 1. Acts chapter 2, the Holy Spirit comes upon them. Jesus said in Acts 1. 8, but ye shall receive power. After that the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses. I can't be a witness for the Lord apart from the power of the Holy Spirit. I can't be, not like I should be. And he says, um, and so God's power was available. He says, look what he says there. See thou do all these wonders before Pharaoh, which I have put in thy hand. He had the power of God available to him. Say, preacher, I don't know if I could have the ever have the power of God. Listen, you have it available. The Holy Spirit dwells within you. The Holy Spirit dwells within me. That power is there And uh it can make us cry and do all kinds of stuff, you never know I'm telling you, I'm happy for children in church. Praise the Lord for that. So number one, Moses is instructed to put uh display God's power. Number two, let me give you quickly, Pharaoh's decision will harden his heart. Alright, says Moses, you go down there, you make sure you got that rod, you make sure you show what I can do. You show them what I can do. Look at verse 20, last part of verse 21. But I will harden his heart, Pharaoh's heart, that he shall not let the people go. Now, here raises a question. God says God will harden Pharaoh's heart. Now, what does he mean by that Is God saying, is God just arbitrarily hardening some innocent Pharaoh's heart? I'm going to send Moses down there and uh Pharaoh's just doing his thing, but for God's predeterminate, secret purposes established from eternity past God's just going to arbitrarily harden this guy's heart and uh so that God can pour out his judgment on him. Is that what's taking place? No! That isn't just saying, oh, I'm just going to harden his heart. There's many things the Lord does that I don't understand. Right? There's things God allows that I don't understand that are beyond my level of comprehension. I don't the big question people ask often is they'll ask me, Pastor, why Why? Right? Anybody here ever asked that? That's actually a biblical question. Job asks it. David asks it. Jesus on the cross said why And the best answer I can give when people ask why for 99% of the time is, I don't know. I don't know. I don't always understand. Can everybody hear me? I don't always understand the plan and mind of God. I don't always understand. But I am confident of this that God is not just arbitrarily hardening this guy's heart for no reason that we can see. God's plans and purposes sometime are beyond our understanding, but I'm confident of this. God's plans and God's purposes, God's plans and God's action and what he allows, always are for a reason. He has a reason for that. And it's not just cold-hearted, just gonna harden his heart and pour judgment on him. There's a reason God hardened his heart. I believe God hardened Pharaoh's heart in response to a long series of affliction and cruelty That Pharaoh showed towards the people of Israel, towards the Hebrews. He had oppressed them with slavery. For centuries, the he the J the um Egyptians did. This new pharaoh that that tried to kill the one that killed Moses died. This is a new pharaoh, but he kept the affliction gone. Even under this new Pharaoh, the children of Israel are crying out in sorrow. They're crying out in grief. They're still being afflicted. Remember they were killing the babies. As the d as the Hebrews would have children, they were supposed to kill them. The midwives didn't. Then he told them, all right, throw them in the river. They're f if they're fellows. I have no idea whether that policy is still in place or not. I tried to do some research. Some most people say they probably dropped that at some point But I don't I can't see where anywhere in the Bible it says they stopped doing that. So it's very possible for forty plus years they have been killing the babies of is of the Hebrews Murdering innocent children like little Braxton back there. God hardened Pharaoh's heart, not for just no reason. It's because of the behavior and the actions of Pharaoh. He afflicted the people of God. He murdered their children. He blasphemed Jehovah, who is God, that he would tell me what to do. He uh open defiance of God, insincere repentance, over and over again. He goes, All right, I've sinned. As soon as God removed the plague, then he'd go right back again. Over and over and over and over. He hardened his own heart. Exodus chapter 7, 22. We won't turn all these. Chapter 8, verse 15, chapter 8, verse 32, it says that Pharaoh hardened his heart. I think this is what took place. Pharaoh had hardened his heart, rebelled against God, and it comes to a point, and God says, Alright, I'm going to harden your heart. You want a hard heart? Alright, I'll give you a hard heart. His behavior was not the result of God's hardening his heart. His behavior was the cause for God hardening his heart. I got a couple minutes. I'm not going to finish this, but I want to show you something. Come with me to Matthew chapter 25. Everybody still with me out there? Matthew chapter 25. Now remember, Pharaoh is messing with the people of God These are the Hebrews. These are the children of Israel. These are the children of the covenant to Abraham. And he's messing with them. Look at Matthew 25 and verse number 32. This is at the end of the tribulation period. And this is what we refer to as the judgment of the nations. We're going to end up talking about this in Sunday school. We're talking about judgments. Eventually. Turn of the century, we might. But notice, verse 31: when the Son of Man shall come in his glory, that's the end of the tribulation, and all the holy angels with him. Then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory, setting up his millennial reign. Now look at this. And before him shall be gathered all nations. And he shall separate them one from another as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats. You say, preacher, how does that play out? I don't know. I don't know the logistics of this But he's judging the nations. And he goes through and he talks about the good nations, the sheep nations, and they're going to be rewarded. Then notice verse number 41. He says, Then shall he say also unto them on the left hand, Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels. For I was a hungered and you gave me no meat. I was thirsty, you gave me no drink. Question, do you think Israel was hungry down in Egypt when they're under oppression? Did Egypt give them any food to eat? No. They oppressed them. I was thirsty and you gave me no drink. I was a stranger and you took me not in. Naked and you clothed me not, sick and in prison, you visited me not Then shall they also answer him and say, Lord, when saw we thee a hungered and a thirst, or a stranger, or naked and sick, and in prison, and did not minister unto thee? And he answered them and saying, Verily I say unto you, now we need to understand the context. When we look at this next statement Verily I say unto you, inasmuch as you did it not unto one of the least of these, you did it not unto me. Now who is the one of the least of these? Some people say children You study this, I believe he's referencing the people of God, the Israel, the Jewish people. And Jesus identifies himself. We're going to see here back in Exodus, he says, Israel is my son. He identifies with them. And I believe that what he's referring here, what he's describing, is the nation's treatment of Israel. At the end of the millennial, at the end of the tribulation, he's going to deal with them. And he says, Verily I say unto you, inasmuch you did not unto one of the least of these, you did it not unto me. And these shall go away into everlasting punishment, but the righteous into life eternal. It's only two destinies. So why did he throw these nations into everlasting punishment? Because of their actions towards Israel, their treatment of God's people. Nations. And I believe that's what God has taken place with Pharaoh. He's messing with God's people. And we're not going to have time to look at it tonight, but he says, Israel is my son. And you're messing with my son, you're mistreating my son. How many people would have a rough time if somebody was messing with your son? Yeah. God says Israel's my son. And you and you miss and if you don't let my son go, then I'm taking your son. He says that at the end of the chapter. So what does he mean he's hardening Pharaoh's heart? Is it just arbitrary? No. Pharaoh's playing with fire When he's mistreating the people of God, mistreating the people of God. And let me just throw this out, and this really isn't part of this, but Israel is still the people of God They are still the people of God. And He still, when God said they bless you, I will bless, and those that curse you, I will curse, I am convinced that is still in place. And we have to be very, very careful, and there is a movement even within our conservative folks. Of an anti-Israel movement and saying horrible, awful things about Israel. I'm here to tell you, the Bible stands with the children of Israel. We stand with them. Do they always do everything right? No. Read the Old Testament. Sometimes they do awful things. But they're God's people. And we we honor and respect and we bless God's people. Amen. And Pharaoh is messing with God's people, and God hardens his heart. God hardens his heart. Right. Uh the it's it's a consequence of their own actions. Now God is telling Moses He's saying, I'm going to harden his heart. God is saying this because of his foreknowledge. He know, this is a whole nother theological thing, but God knows what Pharaoh is going to do. He knows ahead of time how he's going to respond. And God's telling Moses, here, listen, I'm telling you what he's going to do, what they've been doing, what he's going to do, and I'm going to harden his heart because of all of that. Alright. So what's the what's the application? Oh I don't have time to get to the end, but I want to bring the application even though we didn't cover all of it. We need two things. Number one, we need the power of God. We need that. We have to have it. I'm convinced of that. And then later on, he tells Moses to tell Pharaoh, thus saith the Lord, that's the word of God. So we need the power of God. We need the word of God. Amen? We're going to deal with the world. Father, I ask you'd help us to trust you. I pray we can have your power on our ministries. Lord, we're needy. And we have a lot of prayer requests. We have a lot of needs in our church, and we need revival. And I pray that you would, your Holy Spirit would move on us in our homes, our hearts, our church, our ministries. And stir us that we can see you do things that only you can do and be glorified in us. And Lord, I pray you'd help us to be very, very faithful and declare the Word of God. And um in our community, in our classes, in our ministries, to give out the word of God. Wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I just need I just need to do today. I know I need to do today what I know God wants me to do today. And quit worrying about what's down the road five months, five years, whatever. I just need to do right now what I know God needs me to do. Anything like that, I know God has something there. God bless you. And that's what we have to live. It's called walking by faith, step by step. And then we seek his power, we do what he says. Father, bless our invitation. I pray you take these thoughts and help us in Jesus' name. Let's stand in the