Exodus chapter 2, verse 5. And as I said, read down through verse number 10. The Bible says, And the daughter of Pharaoh came down to wash herself at the river And her maidens walked along the riverside, and when she saw the ark among the flags, she sent her maid to fetch it. And when she had opened it, she saw the child, and behold, the babe wept And she had compassion on him, and said, This is one of the Hebrew children, Hebrew's children. Then said his sister to Pharaoh's daughter, Shall I go and call to thee a nurse of the Hebrew women, that she may nurse the child for thee? Pharaoh's daughter said to her, Go. And the maid, that's Moses' sister, the maid went and called the child's mother. And Pharaoh's daughter said unto her, Take this child away and nurse it for me, and I will give thee thy wages. And the woman took the child, and the woman there being Moses' mother, the woman took the child and nursed it. And the child grew. She brought him unto Pharaoh's daughter, and she bec and he became her son. She called his name Moses, and she said, Because I drew him out of the water I've entitled it tonight, Moses and Pharaoh's Household. Moses and Pharaoh's Household. Let's pray, ask the Lord to teach us some lessons from this. Father, again we come before you this evening. Our Bibles are open before us. Lord, I know I speak for our church when I say we believe that this book is your word. We believe every word of it. God, you've given it to us by inspiration. You've preserved it for us. We ask now, as we consider this passage, I ask, Lord, that your Holy Spirit would open our eyes and we could glean from here some principles. That would help us in our lives and help our faith be stronger, a witness, be a little bit more effective. So please fill me with your spirit, I pray, as I give myself anew to you tonight. I pray you guide my words Help me say exactly what you would have said. Again, please fill me, I pray. In Jesus' name I ask. Amen We're not told. We don't know. As I was looking at this, I got thinking, and I think I mentioned this in the previous message a couple weeks ago We're not told what Moses' parents anticipated when they took little baby Moses. And by the way, I'm getting a little ahead of myself with this statement, but He's not named at this point yet. His name is not Moses at this point. It's not until Pharaoh's daughter takes him home that She gives him a name. So we don't know what name Pharaoh's or Moses' parents gave him at his birth. We're not told. And so, nevertheless, whenever they to save his life, Hebrews 11 tells us in faith, they took little Moses, they built this ark, this little flotation device. And put them in there and put them in the Nile River. And I don't know what they were anticipating would happen. Um we uh when they place them in a radar. I believe they anticipated something because they were very strategic in the placement of this ark, Moses in the Ark. They're very strategic. They placed it uh in the reeds uh there uh by the river and I have a suspicion as I'm reading this and we see how this unfolds I have a suspicion that they figured Pharaoh's daughter would show up here. I would imagine it was a very secure area. If you notice there it says her maids There in verse number five it says that her maidens walked along the riverside. Again, I don't know, this is speculation on my part But I'm wondering if that wasn't some sort of security type thing. I mean she's going to bathe, and so the maidens are out there along the bank just keeping people away or whatever, I would I would guess. I don't know But I think Moses' parents suspected that Pharaoh's daughter would show up here. This was apparently where she did this. I don't know what they anticipated, but I do know this I know they had tremendous faith in God. And Hebrews chapter eleven tells us very clearly that this whole endeavor, this whole action on their part was rooted in the faith that God had a plan for this child, that God had a purpose, God had something in mind. And so um I doubt seriously they anticipated things playing out the way they did. I don't know how they could possibly have known that. They all they wanted to know, as far as we can tell, all they wanted was to keep their baby alive. Somehow, some way, somebody, some way, God would step in and spare the life of this little child. They got a whole lot more than that. If you would, now keep your place here, and I could quote this, but I want you to turn to Ephesians with me, and there's a passage that came to mind. As I was thinking about Moses' parents, Ephesians chapter number three, if you would find that there And I want you to see this, and if it's not underscored in your Bible or highlighted in some way in your Bible, I highly recommend it. I don't know what they anticipated, but I'm pretty confident they didn't dream that things were going to play out the way they did, and he would end up as next in line, most likely, to be Pharaoh of Egypt. Notice Ephesians chapter 3 and verse number 20. And I don't know about you, but this verse stirs my heart. This verse encourages me. Are you looking at it? Look what it says. Now unto him that is able. To do exceedingly, abundantly, above all that we ask or think according to the power that worketh in us. Would you agree with me? What a verse. God is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think. How many people here, you have something on your heart, you're burdened for, a situation that you really need God Anybody know what I'm t anybody have something like that? Sure. This verse tells me, according to the power that's in us, that's the Holy Spirit of God God is able to do even above what we would think he is able to do. And so I don't again I keep saying this over and over. I don't know what they were anticipating But I guarantee you, God did exceedingly abundantly above all that they would possibly anticipate God doing. And we've been emphasizing this whole idea, God's ways are not our ways. God's thoughts are greater than our thoughts. God's plans, God's purposes are far greater than anything we can come up with. And I'm here to tell you, God's ability is far greater than our ability. And so we can trust him. Moses' parents, no doubt, were convinced of that. That God was able. Now here's the interesting thing. Pharaoh, his plan was to kill all these baby boys. so that he could keep the Hebrews as their slaves. He did not want to lose the slaves. He would say he no doubt said stuff like this, if we lose these slaves, who's going to work at the hotels for us? Who's gonna pick our crops for us? And um we've gotta keep these slaves here. Because we'll have to do all the work ourselves if they're gone. And so his plan in his great wisdom His plan was kill all the kill all the male babies. That way they can't reproduce. We can keep a control over them. Here's the ironic thing. I'm telling you And this is maybe a little ill reverent way to put it, but God's pretty cool sometimes. I should say God's pretty awesome sometimes would probably be more appropriate. God does amazing things. Pharaoh's idea, his plan was, hey, I know, let's kill all the little baby boys, and then they can't go anywhere. So you know what God does? God spares one of the little baby Hebrew boys and puts him in Pharaoh's house, and Pharaoh finances him and raises him, and he's the one that leads all the slaves out of Egypt. Talk about irony And God just puts it in his face and said, Alright, that's the way you're going to be. Alright, you raise him and he's going to lead the people out. And so God's ways are greater than our ways. He is does exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think. Now I know what some of y'all are thinking, I know some of you well enough, I know what you're thinking, yeah, right. I've been praying, I've been doing this, uh, and God's going to do way better uh exceedingly abundantly above all we ask or think. Well either the Bible's true or it isn't. Either God is who he is or he isn't. And I'm convinced the Bible is true and I'm convinced God is who he is. And when he says he can do exceedingly abundantly above, all we ask your thing, I just take him at his word. And just trust them. And that's where Moses' parents were at. We're just going to trust them. Oh that's all we can do. We're going to put them in here. We're going to trust God. And God works it out. I got three thoughts here, real quick in this passage. Number one, I want us to notice I put it this way. Here's my three thoughts. Pharaoh's daughter's discovery. And then Miriam, who is Moses' sister, Miriam's determination, and then Moses' development. So notice this discovery by Pharaoh's daughter. Look with me there again. Verse number five, we're back in Exodus. He says, And the daughter of Pharaoh came down to wash herself at the river, and her maidens walked along by the river's side, and when she saw the ark, there's the discovery, she saw the ark among the flags. That's the reeds, the papyrus there growing in the river. She sent her maid to fetch it Now we know almost nothing about Pharaoh's daughter. We don't know her name. She obviously is the daughter of Pharaoh, we know that. Um other than the fact that she played a pivotal role in the life of Moses and saving his life and ultimately She played a pivotal role in the salvation of Israel as a nation. This one little act she does, this one decision she makes on a riverside. When she got up that morning, I'm guarantee you she was not anticipating. Adopting a little Hebrew boy she finds in a river. And yet that one event was so significant, that one event was so pivotal. in the salvation of little Hebrew babies life and ultimately in the salvation of a nation. I'm telling you, little decisions we make, a lot of times we don't give a lot of thought to it, but they can be absolutely life-changing. And so she makes this discovery. We don't know her name. We don't know what her name is. We're not told anywhere there. I got a little did a little digging here on this gal And Josephus, he was a Jewish historian. I have his set of books in my library, a little difficult read, but he references this gal. This Jewish historian, and uh he says, now this is an inspired scripture, and some of his accounts Don't have a lot of documentation, but uh he's been around a long time, highly respected in many ways. He says that Pharaoh's daughter was actually a married woman He suggests, along with several other Jewish traditions, that she actually had some small children at home at this point. Now we don't know. We don't know He says, Josephus says that Pharaoh's daughter was actually married to a Hebrew man. Of the tribe of Judah. In fact, they have a name for him. Mered, M-E-R-E-D, a Jewish man out of the tribe of Judah. Now that's very possible. Remember, Israel has been in Egypt for how many years at this point? 400 years They've been there. And although they maintained their identity for the most part, there was some intermingle there, which we will see. They maintained their identity and they maintained their worship of Jehovah for the most part. There were exceptions And so it's a very real possibility that she may have possibly met as a young child, a Hebrew, and ended up marrying him. We don't know. I do know this when Israel eventually leaves Egypt under the leadership of Moses at the direction of God, the power of God. We know there are Egyptians that are mingled in with the Hebrews, and they come out of Egypt with the Hebrews. It's referred to as a mixed multitude And so obviously there was some uh has they say intermarriage, but uh possibly if she was married to a Hebrew. And so we don't know that, but I'm just trying to glean what information I can about this gal, but um uh we're not told. The interesting thing is, think about Moses' life. There are five women That play a vital role in the early stages of Moses' life and his development as a phenomenal leader, one of the greatest leaders, in my opinion, in all of history Five women. Number of, anybody want to guess who those five women might be? The obvious one is what? Is mutter Right? Would you agree with me? Mothers are influential in the lives of their children. I got an amen there. Amen. They should be anyway. And so his mother, uh anybody want to guess who else might be an influential factor in his life? Georgia Farah's daughter, yep, she's one of them. We're gonna see that here. Uh there's a couple others. Miriam, his sister. She's in the mix of all of this here. And so she's a key factor. We don't know her age. We're guessing maybe some have said nine years old, up to maybe 16, 18 years old at this point. We don't know. But she played a role. And then there's two other women that play a key role in Moses as a young child, infant, really. The midwives. Remember, come back to chapter one. Look with me there at uh verse number 15. In fact, they're named for us. There's two of them. It says, and the king of Egypt spake to the Hebrew midwives, of which the name of one was Sherah, and then in the name of the other Pua. And he said, When you do the office of a midwife to the Hebrew women, see them and see them upon the stools. If it be a son, then ye shall kill him, but if it be a daughter, then she shall live. Look at verse 17. But the midwives what? They feared God and did not as the king of Egypt commanded them and save the men children alive. I put in the margin of my Bible, the fear of God ends abortion. Right? If there's a fear of God, you're not going to be murdering children in the womb of their mothers. You're not going to have infanticide. You know what America needs to stop abortion? The fear of God. The fear of God. Where does the fear of God come from? From the people of God, our influence in the world And I'm here to tell you, if our churches and our Christians would get back and have the presence and the power of God in our lives and have the respect We could turn this thing around, I think. And so these five women, there's mother, Miriam, the midwives, and Pharaoh's daughter, had a profound influence. Now Let's look what we do know about Pharaoh's daughter. Let's look what we're told about her here. In verse number five, first of all, she was curious She comes down to the uh along by the riverside, and she saw the ark among the flags. Now, I got looking at that word saw. She saw among the flags, as you know I like looking the words up. I like seeing what all they imply, what they mean. The word saw there has this idea. It caught her attention, but it's also this. She looked very intensely at. When it says she saw it. She she saw all the wheat reeds and she saw all the water. She also saw that. But this caught her attention. And she gets looking at it very, very carefully, and her curiosity gets the best of her And I can hear her say unto her maids, What in the world is that thing in there among the reeds in the water? And so she's curious. She wants to know. She wants to see that. And the second thing we know about her, we're told here, is that she was compassionate. And she sent her maid, the end of verse number five, to fetch it. She's curious. She wants to know what's in there. Verse 6, and when she had opened it, she saw the child. And behold, the babe, what? It wept. And she had compassion on him, and said, This is one of the Hebrew children. Compassion. When it says the babe wept, I always pictured, you know, the baby's in there kind of whimpering. Um did you ever hear a baby whimper? You know, it's just kind of whimpering. And I got looking this up, and um that's not what it means. When she opened that lid, the word wep there actually is translated some places wailing. I mean this guy is high octane screaming and hollering and yelling. The little baby's scared to death. And he is wailing. The word itself means wailing or weeping bitterly. You want me to imitate it? I won't. We'll probably hear something here before long, one of the babies. And s and it touches her heart. It stirs her heart. Now here's the interesting thing. Now we gotta we gotta try and put ourselves, our mindset into the mindset of the Egyptians at this point. A Hebrew infant, particularly a male Hebrew infant at this point in time, is of zero value. I mean a little baby kitten would be more important to the Egyptians at this point than a baby Hebrew, boy, uh male baby Hebrew They have no time for them. They are of zero value. But something touches her heart. For one, I think she's a mother. How can a mother not look, see a baby, a small child, and wail uh crying and wailing and um not be touched I know some guys, you open up the baby's well, and they'd push it out in the rivers. But not her heart's touched. Compassion. Compassion. Possible that she had her own children at home, as I mentioned. It's been suggested in some Hebrew writings that she had her own children. Maybe that stirred her heart and touched her heart. If her husband was a Hebrew of the tribe of Judah, that means her children are half Hebrew Maybe that stirred her heart. Maybe she already had a tender heart there. God had prepared her for this moment. We don't know. But I do know this: God stirred her heart. This was not typical of the Egyptians towards the Jews at this time, towards the Hebrews. Proverbs 21:1, and I love this verse. In my prayer time in the morning, I quote this verse a lot in praying for different people. It says this, the king's heart is in the hand of the Lord. And as rivers of water, he turneth it whithersoever he will. Do you get the meaning of that verse? God can turn the heart of the king. Just like he does the rivers and redirects rivers. God can turn the heart of the king. The heart of the king is in the hand of the Lord, and he turneth it whithersoever he will. And by the way, the king's Pharaoh's daughter's heart is in the hand of the Lord. And God can turn her heart to have compassion towards a little baby Hebrew boy. And by the way That person that you and I are praying for, that person we think will never get saved, we think their heart's so hard, they're so cold, they're so far from God, they'll never come back. I'm here to tell you Their heart is in the hand of the Lord, and God can turn their heart whithersoever He will. That's a great promise. And so I think God stirred her heart, maybe He used the Hebrew husband and half Hebrew children to prepare her heart to be compassionate towards Moses. But whatever the case was, her heart was stirred. There's no heart, I put this down, there's no heart that is so hard that God cannot turn. And by the way, in Proverbs 21, one where it says, uh he turneth it, that word turn means to bend or stretch. to break, to influence. Tell you, God never saves anybody against their will. Right? Everybody, are you with me tonight? Everybody out? Anyone out there? Hello? God never saves anybody against their will. He's given us a free will. We can choose to accept or reject. God won't save someone against his will, but he's awfully good at making someone willing. Suppose that I wanted everybody out of this building within the next three minutes. I couldn't force you out, there's no way I could. But if I had a yellow jacket's nest. And I threw it out there in the middle of the pew, I guarantee you this place would empty out pretty quick, right or wrong. I can't make you go against your will, but God can sure make us willing to go. There's a song about that. I don't know a lot about this woman, but I know this. Her heart was touched. God prepared and softened her heart. To take Moses, little baby Moses, in. And so the discovery of Pharaoh's daughter. Second thing I notice here is Miriam's determination. Look at verse 7. Then said his sister, that's Miriam, to Pharaoh's daughter. Now if you remember from our previous message on this, earlier in the chapter, Miriam's standing back. She put little ark with Moses in it out in the water. She's standing back to watch and see what's going to happen. And again, that suggests to me that they maybe suspected Pharaoh's daughter may come down. It's a very real possibility they had interacted with Pharaoh's daughter and knew her of sorts, and maybe they suspected she might be tender hearted. So they put it here, and I'm sure this is a very uh sectioned off area where the Pharaoh's daughter would come down and bathe and swim and whatever. She's got the maids there walking the banks, keeping it uh keeping it private. And so Miriam's standing off, and she's watching to see what's going to happen, how things are going to play out. And I notice, first of all, in verse number 7 her boldness. I'll tell you, my hat's off to Miriam. It says, she uh and then said his sister to fair Zoder, shall I go and call to thee a nurse to the Hebrew woman that she may nurse this child for thee? She doesn't say who she is. She doesn't say I'm a sister. She doesn't say anything. She goes, hey, uh, do you want me to go and uh get someone? Would you agree? That takes some courage right there To approach and say this. Approach Pharaoh's daughter of all people. And then suggest that we'll help you raise this child. I'll go get somebody to take care of it for you. I put this down in my notes. It's difficult for God to use a coward to advance his purposes. It's difficult for God to use someone that's a coward to influence this world with the gospel Now that's not to say that we cannot, we may not, it's not to say that we're never afraid. Anybody here ever have opportunity to witness and you got very, very anxious about it? Anybody know? Anybody here remember the first times you went out knocking on doors, some of you, and you go out knocking on doors, and uh my knees are knocking louder than I'm knocking on the door And sometimes, you know, you go up to the door and uh you knock very lightly. Oh, nobody's home. Oh, okay. We're scared to death. But we know what God wants us to do. Maybe it's a coworker and God stirs your heart and you need to talk to him. I was thinking Uh Evan back there had somebody cutting grass, you were telling me, a month or so ago, and God stirred his heart to witness to him, witness to him, and he was able to sit down and lead the person to Christ there on uh at work. Isn't that something And so we have, it's not, when we say it's difficult for God to use a coward, that's not to say that we're never afraid David put it this way, what time I am afraid, I will what? Trust in thee. He doesn't say I'm never afraid. Courage is not the absence of fear. Courage is doing what needs to be done in spite of the fear. So was Miriam afraid? I don't know, but I know this. She had some courage to her. She had some determination. She was going to do what needed to be done to make sure Moses was taken care of. Now I got thinking, what does boldness require? Say, preacher, I'd like to have boldness. I I I'm I'm scared to speak up for the Lord. I I'm just timid. I uh I'm uh I get afraid to take a stand for the Lord. and make public my faith in Christ. And that's a natural thing, so don't beat yourself up over that. But how do I overcome that? How do I gain boldness that I can be like Miriam and step out in the face of Pharaoh's daughter? And say, listen, I got a Hebrew lady who can take care of this. How do we do that? I think number one, it requires faith in God. I've just got to believe that God is right and I'm on his side and I can speak up for him. Have faith in God. I guarantee every one of us, if Jesus Christ was physically in person standing beside us when we had to do something for him and in his name, we'd be a whole lot bolder about it than when we don't see him, right? But the fact of the matter is he is with us. And he's in us in the person of the Spirit. And so I put down, number one, there has to be faith in God. And we know Miriam and her parents had faith in God. We're told in Hebrews I put number two, there needs to be confidence in God's word. I gotta be sure that what I'm telling people about the Lord, about heaven and hell, about salvation is right. If I don't have confidence about it, if I'm not sure about it myself, I'm gonna have a hard time being very confident and sharing it with others, right or wrong. If you've ever flown, whenever you fly, they always do these little safety speech they give at the beginning before you take off and they uh do the seatbelt in case of emergency, dah dah dah dah. And they always say this, uh, in the unlikely event that there is a loss of pressure in the cabin, uh oxygen mass will fall from the ceiling And then they tell you how to put it on, strap it on, and then just breathe naturally, and the butt and the bladder there may fill up, it may not, but oxygen is flowing, you'll just be just fine. Then they always make this statement They say before you help somebody else put theirs on, make sure you put yours on first. Anybody ever hear him say that? Put yours on first, then help the small child help somebody else. Why? Because if you're dead, you can't help somebody else. You can't breathe, so get yours on, and then you're able to help somebody else. And that same principle is true in the spiritual life. I have got to know I'm saved. I have got to know I'm with the Lord. I have got to know God's word is true and have confidence in the Word of God, or I'm not going to be able to help anybody else. I can't lead people to someplace I ain't. Right? So number one, there needs to be faith in God. Number two, there needs to be confidence in God's word. Number three, I put this down, there needs to be purity of heart. Proverbs 28:1 says, the wicked flee when who pursueth? What's the Bible say? Anybody know that passage? The wicked flee when no man pursueth. They're cowards. Why? Because their hearts are wicked. There's guilt there. There's shame. And they become paranoid and they're convinced. Everybody knows what I've done. They become convinced and uh they get all paranoid. Right? I'm right. We know what I'm talking about. But the righteous are as bold as a what? Lion. A pure heart gives boldness and courage. When I know I'm right with God, when I know my heart and mind is clean and pure. and I'm right with the Lord, I can be bold. Now remember, there's a difference between being bold and being arrogant. There's a difference between being confident and being arrogant. And so purity of heart, purity of heart. And then I put this one down, earnest prayer. Acts 4, verse 30. And they said, Lord, grant unto thy servants that with all boldness We may speak the word of God as we ought. Do you think Miriam and her family were praying for Moses' safety? Good night. And prayer produces boldness. I'm convinced of that. I get a hold of God in prayer. I can be very bold. So, Miriam, I see her boldness here, and she was a confident young lady. Second of all, I see in verse 78 her brilliance. Now notice what it happens here. She said, then said his sister to Pharaoh, Shall I go and call to thee a nurse of the Hebrew women that she may nurse the child for thee? Would you agree? That's pretty brilliant. Who she's getting? She's getting Moses' mama. And on the spur of the moment, she saw what was happening, she saw what was transpiring, and immediately she said, I'll get him and have mama nurse him and raise him for her. I tell you, she's an intelligent young lady. She came up with a brilliant plan. She assessed what was happening. And immediately came up with a brilliant plan. Then I notice her blessing. Look at verse 9. And Pharaoh's daughter said unto her, Take this child away and nurse it for me. And she doesn't stop there. What does she say she's going to do? Huh? What's it say? Are you with me? She says, yes, he's gonna pay her. How many ladies would Love to get paid to raise your own kid. Wouldn't that be great? And I will give thee thy wages. I don't know about you, but I would imagine Pharaoh's daughter's wages are pretty good money. I would imagine. And so she gets a blessing. Her boldness pays off. Her confidence. She thinks quickly on her feet and says, oh, I can get someone to nurses. And she's saying, I'll get mama. Mama can nurse Moses for her. I see three things here in her blessing. One, she's recognized as trustworthy. Pharaoh's daughter says, yeah, okay, I'll trust you with this little baby. Something in Miriam prompted Pharaoh's daughter to trust her with this little child. Now maybe Pharaoh's daughter figured this out, you know, what's going down here, but Anyway, she trusted her, and then she rewarded her for her service. She's going to pay her mother to nurse her own child, to raise her own child. And here's another blessing: the family is reunited. Can you imagine Moses' mother and father's face when Miriam comes walking home and she has Moses? What happened? Mama, you won't believe it. Look, she gave you a hundred bucks for you to raise little Moses What a blessing. What a blessing. Faith pays off. We don't know how long Moses lived in the home once Miriam brought him back home. I would imagine there were visits to the palace. For Pharaoh's daughter to see her. The average estimate by people who understand this again, I think Josephus was a factor. He suggested about 12, 13 years old, 10 to 12 years old When Moses was finally given back to Pharaoh's daughter to live in in the in the palace there and be adopted into the family. I'm telling you, living by faith pays all. My wife and I got married on February 14, 1987. I just graduated that previous spring from Bible College And I was working in the hospital and I'm telling you, uh, we didn't have nothing. I'm telling you, if we'd have waited to get married till we had something, we would still be engaged. Probably. We I mean we had nothing. We had a bed, we had a dresser, and we had didn't even have microwaves then. We had um those little toasters, you remember those little things with the glass you put the stuff in there And that was all we had. We didn't even have a refrigerator. And so we got married. We're living in this little school apartment the school had uh and renting it for like fifty bucks a month or something. And so we went out soul and we were working in the bus ministry doing everything. So one Thursday night, her and I were just out knocking on doors there in Chattanooga and uh we got this guy, a guy invited us in And we said, oh, we're from Highland Park Baptist Church. We're just going through a neighborhood, talk to people about the Lord. One you know for sure you're going to heaven when you die. And guy says, Oh yeah, I've been saved, born again. He told us it was good, solid time. He said, come on in And so we got talking to him. I talked to him about dedicating his life to Christ. Are you living for the Lord? Is there anything we can help you there? And we went on for probably spent 20 minutes or so in his home And then out of the blue, he said this, by the way, do you know anybody that could use a living room and kitchen set? She says, What said, What do you mean? She goes, Well I got this and he showed us he had nice kitchen setting. I mean the whole shebang, living room, everything And he and they said, well, how much do you want for it? He goes, no, I just need to get rid of it. He says, you know anybody that wants it? I said, I think I know someone that could use that The next day we came back with a friend of ours, had a pickup truck, and we furnished our whole home. Why? Because we were just going out knocking on doors talking to people about Jesus. I'm telling you, God blesses us when we serve Him. We don't get rich, but our needs are met. And God takes care. And Miriam is blessed of God. I got a couple other things I want to talk about, but I'm running out of time. The importance of early childhood training. Now I'll just leave this and we'll come back to it next week. But think about this. If Moses came back home Under his parents' roof, his mother and father, Aaron, Miriam, and he's back in there for 10 to 12 years. Those are the most formative years of a person's life The first 10 to 12 years. It's when your brain's developing, it's when your personality is being established, it's when lifelong habits are being ingrained. God knows what he's doing. Can you imagine? I'm getting I wan I want to quit, but I want to say this. Can you imagine What kind of training and rearing Moses would have gotten in Pharaoh's house for eighteen years? Paganism? Ungodliness? All that. But God knew he needed a leader 40 years down the road. And so the most formative years of his life, he puts him into a home where there's tremendous faith in God There's a love for Jehovah, there's a fear of God, there's a respect for the Word of God, and he is trained in probably one of the most godly homes in all of Egypt at that time. And then he's put into Pharaoh's thing. God knows what he's doing. We just need to wait on his timing. We just need to trust him. We go through dark times, we go through valleys, just trust him. God knows what he's doing. Trust them. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for the life of Moses and just this little event here that's so significant. I pray that we could, God, if we could just get some of that faith, learn from Moses' family's faith, and just see your hand working when we don't understand, we just trust you. I pray you'd help us to do that. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, you know, I just got some situations, and I'm trying to figure it out, I try to manipulate and all that I just need to learn to trust God. Let Him lead me. Let Him direct me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? I just need to learn to trust God. God bless you. Hands all around. And God's trustworthy we can trust him. Father, bless now our imitation of prayud, help us in Jesus' name. Amen