Alright, Exodus chapter 3 is where we're at, and I want to read verse 7 through 10, Life of Moses, Exodus 3, verse 7 through 10. The Bible says, and the Lord said, I have surely seen the affliction of my people which are in Egypt. Of course, the Lord is speaking to who at this point? Moses. And uh we'll get the context here in a minute. So he's saying this to Moses. He said, I've seen the affliction of my people, which are in Egypt. I've heard and have and have heard their cry by reason of their task maskers, for I know their sorrows, and I am come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians. and to bring them up out of that land into a good land, and a large, and unto a land flowing with milk and honey, unto the place of the Canaanites and the Hittites and the Amorites and the Perizzites and the Hivates and the Jebusites Now therefore, behold, the cry of the children of Israel is come up come unto me. And I have also seen the oppression wherewith the Egyptians oppressed them. Come now, therefore, and I will send thee unto Pharaoh, that thou mayest bring forth my people, the children of Israel, out of Egypt. I've called this Moses' Great Commission. Our last message that was broke down into a series of messages was the call of Moses. And in that we noticed how God prepared Moses at 40 years in the wilderness. God, uh, the purpose for the call was the condition that Israel was in, the Hebrews. It's not really a nation of Israel at this point. But the Hebrews, there in Egypt, their condition is what prompted the Lord to call Moses. And then we get the particulars. And what God did was he got Moses' attention. And then God clarified to Moses who he was. He wanted to make sure Moses knew who he was. Now Moses is given this commission So let's pray, and um uh we'll look at this here tonight. Father in heaven, uh so grateful for the opportunity to be in the house of God on a min on a Wednesday night, and Lord, to gather together, fellowship a little bit, look in your word a bit, and pray. Again, I ask your presence to be here, and I pray that you would take some thoughts. Your Holy Spirit would draw out from this passage some thoughts or principles that would apply to our lives Father, that would help us be the people you intend for us to be, to serve you in the way you intend for us to serve. And God, maybe you would help us understand our commission a little bit, as you gave Moses one here. So I yield myself to you again, Lord, for this message. I present my body anew and pray with all my heart, dear Lord. That you would fill me with your spirit, speak through me tonight. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Probably like most young people, when they're fresh out of college, Back in 1986, I walked off the platform at the Tennessee Temple University graduation service ceremony, big platform there. I walked off of there. And I had my diploma in hand. And I had all these awards in hand and had them all. I walked off there. And uh basically at that point in my life I pretty much knew everything. All right? I mean, I uh I had squeezed, after all, I had squeezed a four year degree into six years, literally So I pretty much knew the answer to every question. I knew the solution to every problem. I knew the best method to accomplish anything. I ha knew how to have a perfect marriage. I knew how to raise children, of course I didn't have any yet, I wasn't even married, but I knew all the way I knew how to have a good marriage. I knew how to raise kids perfectly. I found the people that are experts at raising children are those that don't have any. Generally. They'll tell you all about it So I knew based pretty much I'm pretty much, at least in my mind, I knew everything. Now here I am 45 years later. And um Sometimes there's a lot of things I'm not real sure about. I found out that at 65 I don't know near as much as I did when I was 25. Looks like it'd be the other way around, huh? Dementia. Yeah. Dementia setting it. Um I find myself saying this more often now than I did when I was younger. I'm not sure. I don't know. Now, I don't want you to misunderstand. There are some things I know. Alright? There are some things I'm settled on For instance, I'm settled on the doctrines of this book. And I don't know it completely, but I'd like to say I know what this book teaches. And I'm settled that it is true, it is right, without error, in every way, shape, and form. So I'm settled on the doctrine of the deity of Jesus Christ. I know that's true Somebody says, do you think, do you know if Jesus is God or not? I don't say I don't know. I say, yes, I know, he is God. Somebody says, do you know whether Jesus is the only way to have sins forgiven, to have eternal life? Have a new life here, have a have a home in heaven, is he the only way? I don't say I don't know or I'm not sure. I say yes, absolutely that's Bible truth. You follow what I'm saying? So I don't want to imply that I don't know anything. I don't want to suggest that I'm unsettled on anything. One thing I do know is I know whom I have believed and am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I've committed unto him against that day when he comes back. All right, are you with me? But as we age, sometimes we find out we don't really know as much as we thought we did when we were younger. Am I right or wrong? I'm talking to mostly aged folks here tonight. I didn't ha I I found out I don't have all the answers that I thought I did at one point. I'd like to believe I learned some things. um over the years that maybe I thought I knew earlier and found out that um I learned a little bit more than what I knew when I was younger. So I think you're understanding what I'm trying to say, right? Well, that's where Moses is at. I said all that to say this. That's where Moses is at. At forty years of age, which was forty years previous to what we just read, at forty years of age, Moses is fresh uh uh out of the universities of Egypt. Um he's popular in Egypt He's highly educated. He's trained in the best universities that the world could offer at that point. He's a very gifted leader militarily. We already looked at all of that And uh in his mind, and we pick this up from Acts chapter 7, we have an account there of Moses, and we pick this up and we've been touching on this. He pretty much knew how to get the Egyptians how to get the Hebrews out of Egypt. In his mind, he knew how to do it. He could manhandle those Egyptians He could manipulate and maneuver, and he could bring those Hebrews out of Egypt and get them up into the promised land pretty much on his own Now it's forty years later, and he's tremendously humble. He's matured in a lot of ways And one of the key characteristics of spiritual maturity is humility. If somebody starts to tell you, if somebody tries to tell you how spiritual they are and how mature they are and how much more spiritual they are than other people, you mark it down, that's a spiritually immature person I think I mentioned before when we were in Indianapolis, um the there was a fellow there, and um we were uh it was between Sunday school and church and the pastor had brought in uh uh husband and wife singing um family, husband and wife, they sang special. They're very good and they're straight down the line. The music is straight as can be, but This one fellow in the church didn't like it. He didn't like that style. And it wasn't contemporary, any way, shape, and form. It wasn't country. It was just hymns. And they sang them, uh they just sang it. I thought they were very good But for whatever reason, this guy didn't like it. And he got in a heated debate in the lobby. And this is a church, you know, four or five hundred. And so the lobby's packed. People are coming in, Sunday school and church, and maneuvering around And I'm there running around getting ready for church and children's church. And uh I happen to go through and I heard him say very loudly above the whole crowd, he says, I'll tell you right now, I'm the most spiritual person in this whole church Well, as I'm going through the lobby, I registered in my mind immediately, that's the least spiritual person in the whole church right there. Humility and spiritual maturity go hand in hand. I am not spiritually mature if I'm not humble in my attitude. And Moses is now humble. He leaned on his own strength. He trusted in his own arm to do a good thing, to serve God. But it was his way, in his strength, in his understanding, at his leadership, and it failed miserably. And I think that's one of the great lessons from the life of Moses. is learning that you and I, in and of ourselves, can do nothing for the Lord. Jesus put it this way, without me ye can do what? Nothing. And so he's humbled. He's matured spiritually tremendously. Look with me at chapter 3. Look, come over to uh look at the last part of verse number 6. And we preached on this last Wednesday night, but I just want to bring it back to our mind. It says, and Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look upon God. This is a different man than what we saw 40 years ago. And again, I'm saying all that to make this point. God isn't looking for know-it-alls Moses was a know-it-all 40 years earlier when he kills the Egyptian and he's going to take And no more. He's not that anymore. God is not looking for know-it-alls who are full of themselves. Rather, God is looking for people, men who are humble enough to trust God completely, put themselves completely in God's hands. And now Moses is at that point. He struggles a little bit. We're going to see this in coming weeks as we look at his life. He struggles a little bit with the trusting God part because he still sees himself a little bit But now he's not seeing here's his trouble now, and I'm getting ahead of myself a little bit, but here's his trouble now. It's not a problem of I can do this, I've got this, uh uh, you know, I've got all the answers. That's not his problem now His problem, we're going to see here and later on, is his problem is I can't do it. I don't have this. I don't have the ability. Now there's a problem with both those ends because his focus is where? On himself. We get our eyes on ourself and we either get full pride and say, I can do this, I can do this, or we get Focus on ourselves when we see our deficiencies, we see our weakness, and we say, oh, God can never use me. But God's looking for someone that's humble enough to trust him. To put myself in God's hand, let God do what God intends to do, his way, in his power. And Moses is getting there right now And so God is looking for a man humble enough to let the Lord have his way. Forty years in the wilderness, and now God's gotten Moses' attention in a miraculous way. God has now, as we noticed the last couple weeks, God has now revealed Himself to Moses as the all-powerful God. He's revealed himself to Moses as the unchanging God, and he's revealed himself to Moses as a holy God. And he's above all. I put down anyone that God will use must have a right attitude about themselves and a right understanding of God. I need to understand who and what I am, and I need to understand who and what God is. And that's what God is doing in the life of Moses. God wants to clarify that in his mind. Now we have his commission. Notice he says, I'm going to jump ahead to verse 10. He says, Come now, therefore, look at this, and I will send thee. That's his commission. Somebody help me out here a little bit. What is a commission? When we talk about a commission What are we talking about? We talk about the great commission that we as a church have. What is a commission itself? Anyone want to take a shot? Marching orders. Marching orders A mission that we're given. Anyone else want to throw your hat in the ring? A command? A commission, and all of these are all part of it, I put it this way: a commission is an authoritative mission to fulfill a specific task. Here's your commission. It comes from an authority that has, it comes from one who has authority to instruct me, to command me. But I'm given a very specific task. This is your commission. Again, in our context, in the church and in the things of the Lord, it's a God-given mission. To fulfill a specific task and almost always involves a specific method to carry out that task. And that's what God is giving Moses. He's got him to the point where he's usable to God. And now God says, all right, Moses, you're where you need to be. He's been through boot camp, so to speak. He's been humbled. He's put in a position, God can use him. God says, all right, here's your mission in life, Moses. Here's your purpose. Here is the task I give you to do. This is Moses' great commission. And I want to remind you, as we're all very much aware, the church has a great commission also God wants us to humble ourselves before Him. He wants us to trust Him completely, put aside our own strength, put aside our own understanding. And accept from him this great commission he's given us as a church and as individuals. And our great commission isn't to go to Egypt and deliver the Hebrews out of slavery. Our great commission is to do what? Take the gospel into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. And the commission that you and I as a church have, as individuals that a church has Has the same authority that Moses has. And so Moses has this great commission of God. It's a turning point in history. In a lot of ways. It's a key event in the record of Scripture. And so I want us to look at this commission. I have three thoughts. Number one I want us to notice, first of all, this is a sympathetic commission. And I'll explain what I mean by that. It's a sympathetic commission. Look at verse number 7 with me. God is laying the groundwork for this commission. And verse 7, and the Lord said, again, God speaking to Moses, he makes three statements here. He says, I have surely seen the affliction of my people which are in Egypt, and have heard their cry by reason of their taskmasters. For I know their sorrows. Did you pick up the three key words in that verse, in that statement that God makes? What are the three key words? Talk to me. I have seen, I have heard, and I know. God's laying the groundwork, the basis for this commission, this task that He's calling. Moses to fulfill. And God says the whole purpose for me doing this, the basis of it, is the sympathy That I have for the people in Israel. He says, I have seen their affliction, and as I always do, I did a study on that word seen. And I looked how it's used other places, and it's used in some very interesting situations in Scripture. And uh looked at the word it came from, how it's used other places, and I come to this definition for that word see. And it means this: to gaze upon very intently, to observe personally. To observe closely. Now, we don't have time to look at all of them, but that term is used, that word is used in some, as I said, very interesting situations in Scripture. For instance, in Joshua chapter seven, when Israel finally does get to the promised land And they're in the process of crossing the river of Jordan. They're entering into the promised land. They've got a series of battles ahead of them With all these uh pagans that are possessing the land. God assured them of victory, but he told them the very first city they get to when they come in the promised land, what is the name of that city? Jericho This is the first one. God says, listen, don't you take any spoils from Jericho. The first fruits are the Lord's. First spoils are the Lord's. And that's a principle through Scripture. After that, you'll be able to, you'll be, you'll get plenty, you'll be very, very wealthy, you're going to be fine. But the first spoils, they go to the Lord. We have one of the soldiers, one of the men in the Israeli army, go in there, and lo and behold, as the walls come down, as they're going through the city He comes across Babylonianish garment and some silver and some gold, some very nice clothing, and a stash of gold and silver. And he takes it and he hides it. You know the story, right? And God removes his blessing, his power off of them, and they're defeated at the little city of Ai. And Joshua comes to God and God says, Well, you know, what's the deal? You promised us we win. He said, They're spending the camp. So they go through these series of events, and I I'm spending more time on this than I intend to And then lo and behold, Aiken is the fellow that takes his garments and the gold and silver. And here's the interesting thing, when they question him, they say, why in the world, what's this about? And he makes an interesting statement. He says, I saw. We can go with chapter 7. You can look at it. He says, I saw this and I desired it. He says, I coveted it and I took it. That word saw there is the same word that God uses that I saw the afflictions of the Hebrews down in Egypt. Aiken looked at it very, very closely, very intently. He inspected it. He saw what it was. He saw what its value was. And he says, I want it. That's the exact same word God is using for the Hebrews that he says, I see them. I understand their situation. I see it. I've looked very, very closely. God knows exactly what the Hebrews are going through down in Egypt to look very, very closely at. In other words, God is not ignorant of their condition. I want to tell you, the New Testament teaches us in Hebrews, and again, I want to go through this quicker than what I am, but uh in Hebrews, in various places, we're told that God sees us. As his children, he pays close attention to us. He knows what we're dealing with. He knows what we're facing. He knows what we're struggling with. He knows our hidden sins, but he also knows our unrecognized good deeds. Hebrews teaches that very clearly and other passages of Scripture. I'm glad that I have a God that is not so far and so distant and so removed that he doesn't know what I'm dealing with in my life. And God's telling Moses, Moses, I see, I've looked, inspected closely, I paid close attention to I know what they're going through. That word used various other times was Samson, David, and Bathsheba, others Where look carefully, look, check it out very carefully. And God says, I've checked them out, I know what's going on. So that word seed, he's not ignorant of their condition. Then he says I've seen the affliction of my people. I've looked at it very closely. I see what they're going through. Then he says, and have heard their cry. Now, if the Bible says they were crying, that means they were, that would obviously include what? Praying They're praying to God. In their affliction, they're crying out to God. And God says, I heard it. And so I looked up the word heard and how it's used through Scripture. And it means it's very similar to the word seen. I have seen their affliction It's very similar to that, except it's not visual. It would be what? Audio. Audio. Audible. I've heard very carefully. I've listened very intensely. I've been paying very, very close attention to their prayers. I'm listening, I'm listening, I've been listening. I don't know about you. I'm glad I have a God that listens to my prayers And here's my prayers. You say, well, I prayed and he didn't do what I wanted. I'm glad God does what he knows is best, not what I think is best. But just the fact that he hears me. Would you agree with me as a child? When I was a child, I'd ask my parents for stuff and they didn't always give it to me. Anybody here? Same thing. You know, I ask them when I'm five, you know, I ask them for a submachine gun. Uh no, you're not having that. I didn't really do that, but can I have a knife? No. I'm glad my parents knew a little bit more about what's best for a five-year-old boy than me as a five-year-old boy knew, right? They didn't always give me what I wanted, but I'm glad for this. They always listened to me. Right? You with me? They heard me. They pay attention. I don't remember my parents ever saying, get out of it. I don't care what you want. Just get I don't want to hear it. I never I never remember them saying that. And God never says that. Now he he may not give me what I want. He knows what I'm going to ask, and he of course in his omniscience he knows He's not going to give it to me. But that doesn't mean he doesn't listen to me. And I I don't know about you. But when I'm on my knees in the morning praying, I'm pouring my requests out to God, and I always qualify, Lord, not my will, your will be done. But just the fact that he's there listening to what I need and what I desire and what I'm dealing with and the way I see things, just the fact that he hears me and he listens to me is a great encouragement and comfort. And that's where Israel is. And he says, I've heard them. I know, I know, I I I've seen what they're going through. I'm listening very carefully. In other words, he's not ignoring their prayers. Now, God, again, God doesn't always answer our prayers the way or in the timing we ask him. But he never ignores our prayers. Not if we come according, not if we meet the qualifications. He never ignores our prayers. So this whole commission of Moses, that God's going to commission him to go down into Egypt, it's based upon God's sympathy for his people. So he says, I've seen their affliction, I've heard their cry. I'm not ignorant of their condition. I'm not ignoring their prayers. Then he says, I know their sorrows Now, where do we experience sorrow? Where would we say sorrows we experience them? See if you get in our heart I mean the mental, we assess things mentally, but the sorrow is an emotion, a response from our heart, our core of our being, our soul. And he says, I don't just see their outward circumstances. I don't just see their outward difficulties. I know what's in their heart. I know what they're struggling with. I know what their questions are. I know what's hurting them. There's more than physical suffering they were going through. There was emotional anguish with all of this and the treatment, you know, the children and everything. And that word no. Again, I did a search on that and studied that and how it's used. And it means to understand. It's not just means to have facts. Not just have information, but to understand that information. You know, we know some things about our governor, just for sake of illustration. We know about him, but I doubt anybody of us here actually know him. And so God says, I know. And uh he says, I know their sorrow. I'm not uninvolved. I see what they're doing. I'm not ignoring it. How did I put it? I'm not ignorant of their condition. I see it. I hear their cry. I'm not ignoring them. I'm listening. I'm paying attention. And I'm not uninvolved in their sorrow. I understand what they're going through So God's commission, here's what I take away from that as I was studying this. God's commission to Moses, sending him down into Egypt, was not just some cold, indifferent fulfillment of a promise he made four centuries ago. Well, I made that promise. No, no, no. Well not at all. This was a sympathetic response, not just to a promise he had made years ago, but to their current condition. And it had deteriorated. And God saw that. And now it was time. Now it was time. This commission of Moses to go into Egypt and lead the Hebrews out of that. Situation, that horrific circumstances was based upon the compassion and the sympathy of God. We have a commission. And our commission to go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature is rooted in the sympathy of God. The compassion of God for people who are without God and without Christ and without hope in this world Dying in their sin. If you would keep your place here, I'd like you to come to the New Testament. I want two verses. One we'll look at, the other one we won't have to. Go with me to Luke chapter number twelve. Luke chapter 12. Moses' call and commission to go down there was rooted in God's concern for his people, his compassion for his people. In Luke chapter 12, we have a little hint into the heart of God here, a little bit, about his compassion for us. Verse 6, Luke chapter 12, notice verse number 6. He says, Are not five sparrows sold for two farthing? That's basically nothing, very little. And not one of them is forgotten before God. Now I got more than five sparrows coming into my bird feeder, Wilbur. I've got dozens, scores probably. And God knows, pays attention to every one of them. That's something. Now look what he says in verse 7. But even the very hairs of your head are numbered. Now for some of us that's not as difficult as others. Right? He says, Fear not, therefore, look at this. You're of more value than many sparrows. You know what he's saying? He says, I love you. You're valuable to me. You mean something to me. And the people of the world. That I've commissioned you to go and share the message of Christ with, tell people about the Lord Jesus Christ. This commission I've given you is rooted on the fact that these people are very, very valuable to me. They're dear to me. God wants to see people saved. Let me back up a little bit. How many of us here, we want to see people saved? Anybody? Sure, of course. What kind of cold-hearted Christian one? I'm here to tell you, God's more concerned for people getting saved than you and I are. He is more invested in it than we do. It's because he loves us. Because he loves people. He loves the people in Kazakhstan. He loves the people I was I was reading an article today about what's going on over in the little country in Africa Over a hundred thousand Christians slaughtered. I mean Christ Christians general term, but slaughtered for no other reason than they claim to be Christian. And um and uh uh and and God God's concern for people and the pressing on our part to get out and reach people for Christ. John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. That whosoever believed in him should not perish but have everlasting life. And that is the basis of our commission. That God loves these people in these countries and these Muslim countries where there's so little uh light, there's so little gospel. And so the sympathy of this commission, God says I've seen I've seen, I've heard, I know. And they need what I'm sending you down there to do. And so come back here with me, if you would, to Exodus. So the first thing I noticed in verse number Seven was the sympathy that was the basis of this commission. It was a sympathetic commission. The second thing I notice here in verse number eight was it's a supernatural commission. Now, I want you to pay close attention here because I think Moses misunderstood what God was saying in verse number 8. I'm going to show you why I think that. God makes a statement in verse number 8. He tells them what he's going to do. And then Moses, I'm convinced, misunderstood that. And Moses makes a statement later on that tells me he misunderstood. Alright? Notice in verse number 8. Now who's speaking in verse 8? God Almighty is speaking to Moses audibly. Somehow, through Lord Jesus, pre-incarnate appearance of Jesus, he's speaking to them. And God says, now pay close attention to the wording here And I am come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians. And to bring them up out of that land into a good land and a large unto a land flowing with milk and honey. And then he goes on to the land where all these uh pagans are these uh Hittites and Amorites and Mennonites and Perizzites and Jebusites are all in there Now, I think Moses misunderstood what he said there. Come over to verse number 11 and notice Moses' response. And Moses said unto God, Who am I? Now there we see his attitude, we mentioned earlier. Who am I that I should go down unto Pharaoh? Now look what Moses says That I should bring forth the children of Israel out of Egypt. Question, did God tell Moses to bring the children of Israel out of Egypt? Yes or no? No! Who did God say was going to bring the children of Israel out of Egypt? God would God isn't telling Moses, you go down there and you figure out a way, and you come up with a strategy, and you work this however you come up with, and get my people out of Egypt. God doesn't say that at all. Moses thought that's what God was saying. That wasn't what God was saying. God was saying, I'm going to bring them out. And I'm going to use you to do it. You're the instrument I'm using. This isn't a human, this isn't something That is done in human power. This is something that's done supernaturally. God is going to do this. And then of course when we look at it in detail, when it actually plays out, we find that's exactly what's happening. God tells Moses what to say. Moses says it. Pharaoh responds. God says, all right, Moses, do this. Moses does it. God does some miraculous thing that Moses could never do, no man could ever do, and he goes through this whole series until they they get more supernatural and more and more and more until finally they cross the Red Sea and they're free. It's never Moses doing any of this. The only thing Moses is doing is what God's telling him to do. God's doing all the delivering. Are you with me? So, God isn't telling Moses he has to get them out of Egypt and bring them in the promised land. God is telling Moses, I will bring them out of Egypt and I will bring them in the promised land. There's a big difference between those two. Alright? So let me make my point here, okay? There's a big difference between that And when God tells you and I as a church to go into all the world and preach the gospel and we look and say that's impossible. God doesn't say, oh uh uh you know you come up with a way, you figure out somehow to get the whole world, get the gospel to everyone in the world. He says this in Acts chapter 1 8. I know this verse. Somebody And ye shall receive power. After that, the Holy Ghost has come upon you. And ye shall be witnesses. You know what God says? I'm going to get put the Holy Spirit inside you. You call me. I'm going to I'm going to indwell you with the Holy Spirit. You let Him fill you. You let Him empower you. Then you just go out and say what I tell you to say, and the Holy Spirit of God will do the work. You follow? That's basically what he's telling Moses. But Moses misses that part. This is a supernatural commission. Moses is just the instrument that God is using. The commission, basically, as I see it, to Moses is, Moses, I'm asking you to trust me Moses, I'm instructing you to do what I say, and I'll use you. I'll do the work. You just do what I say. God does it all. He's going to deliver them out. He's going to bring them in. He's not going to get them halfway out and say, all right, Moses, you got to get them into the promised land. I'll get them out of Egypt. You get them into the promised land. No, no, no. God says, I'm going to bring them out. Of Egypt, I'm going to bring them into the promised land. I'm going to use you to do it. And I think that's an important truth in the Christian life. I really do. God doesn't say to an unsaved person, He doesn't say, Alright, you save yourself, you want to escape hell, and you get you be good enough and you do enough of this and you come up with a way. to get yourself, uh keep yourself from going to hell and get yourself to heaven. God doesn't do that at all. He says, I'll save you. All you do is just believe me and trust me. Put your faith in me. I'll do it all. I don't know about you. I'm glad it's God doing the saving and not me. He leaves it up to me whether I accept that or not. Moses, up to Moses whether he accepts the commission or not. God does it all. We just trust Him. We just do what He says. Living the victorious Christian life. God doesn't say, all right, I saved you by my grace. I did it all. I saved your soul, forgave your sin, I got you home reserved in heaven, your sealed, secured Now, you figure out a way to live the Christian life. You figure out a way to be victorious and conquer your sin. And you figure out somehow to live for me the way I want you to live. No, he doesn't do that at all. He says, I'll empower you. I'll give you the Holy Spirit. I'll fill you with the Holy Spirit. You just get yourself out of the way. Just let me have, let me do my thing, guide itself. Paul put it this way, for I am crucified with Christ, later less I live. Yet not I, but what? Christ liveth in me. The life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God. This whole aspect of our Christian life is God doing it, and we just cooperate with them. This matter of winning the lost. And I kind of touched on this. God works through me, works through us to get lost people saved. Because I'll save them, I'll change their life, I'll transform them. You just do what I tell you to do. You go and share the gospel with them, teach them the Bible, I'll do it all. Good night, I couldn't save myself. How in the world am I going to save somebody in Australia? Right? So I just trust God. He goes, all right, I'll put you where I want you to be. I want you in Oakland, Maryland. I want you to do everything you can. Get everybody in Oakland, Maryland, get the gospel to everybody, and then support those that are going out through missions, get people out, everything. You just do what I say. And don't and don't we say that on faith promise all the time Let God have his way. Let God speak their heart. Let God show you what he wants to do. What he wants to do through you and me. And that's what he's telling Moses. Moses missed that part. Um I just trust God, obey, I just preach the gospel. Early in my Ministry, and it wasn't overly this way, but to some extent I put so much pressure on myself On winning souls, out knocking on doors, and personal soul winning and preaching, I felt like I had to get these people saved And I thought if I go out and I've got to somehow, I've got to get. After a while I learned, wait a minute, I can't save them. Only God can do that. My job is to tell them of Christ. My job is to and urge them and try and persuade them. Paul said, knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men. Well, I want to try and persuade them and do everything I can, but I can't save them. It's God uses me. Now I've got to cooperate, right? God would not use Moses to bring those Hebrews out of Egypt if Moses Didn't cooperate, submit to him, say, Yes, Lord, I'll trust you, I'll do, I'll do. You tell me what to do, I'll do it. And that's where he struggled. Moses went back and forth. I I can't I can't do this, I can't do that. And God kept showing, and I'm getting way ahead of myself But he said, Well, I can't do this. He goes, well, all right, throw your rod down. See, I'll do it. Turn a snake, pick it back up, turn it back into a rod. The whole time God's trying to convince Moses, Moses, you're not the one doing it You just follow my instructions, I'll do it all. And so this commission that Moses had, and this commission that you and I have, is a supernatural commission only God can do what he's instructed us to do, but he does it through us. And then let me give me my last one here real quickly. It's a simple commission. It's a simple commission. Look at verse 10. Chapter 3. He says, uh come now there. Verse 9, he kind of repeats a little bit what he was saying in verse 7, his sympathy, his compassion. He restates that. Then verse 10, he says this. Here it is. This is very simple. Come now, therefore, speaking to Moses, and I will send thee unto Pharaoh. That thou mayest bring forth my people, the children of Israel, out of Egypt. Now he said before, I'm going to do it. I'm sending you down there. I'm using you to bring them out. Very simple instructions. He basically told Moses to do pretty much the same thing Moses attempted to do 40 years earlier, but earlier Moses did it his way in his power, and it failed. So God's tell them, all right, just go back down again, and this time we're going to do it my way, and I'm going to empower you. And we'll see how that plays out. And of course, we'll find out. God's way in God's power. Can I say to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we ought to serve God with all our heart, trusting Him fully, but we do it God's way in God's power. And we're missing both of those, I believe, in much of our Christianity today. We see churches doing things their way. Right? Getting away from the scriptures. Saying, oh well, we gotta be like the world, we gotta look like the world, we gotta you know, if we gotta if we're if we're gonna win the world, we gotta be like the world I never yet, I say this often, I like this illustration. Two reasons. One, I think it's really good, and two, I came up with it, I think. But uh I've never bought I've never seen egg-flavored salt on sale anywhere. I like salt on my eggs. I like salt on my everything. But you don't put egg-flavored salt on eggs because it would have what effect? None Because it tastes the same. It would have no effect. Why would I want that? And when we present Christianity to the world, we copy the world and present Christianity that's just like the world, it has no effect. Biblical Christianity is fundamentally different than the world. In every way, shape, and form. Read Acts. And so we have churches today saying, all right, we want to we're going to do it our way. We're going to change things and make them the way we think it should be, according to our methods and our understanding. And then we're going to trust in our programs, and we're going to trust in our personalities and our great illustrations and all our great oratory. And that's not where it is. That's what Moses did and it failed. What we need is to do things God's way in God's power. That's the power of the Holy Spirit. As we die to self-yield ourselves, say, God, you work through me. God, you do the work And I'll do it the way you say. So it's a very simple commission. You just go down there, Moses. Basically you say this, you go down there, Moses, do what I say, and boom, I'll get them out of there. I'm going to use you. I'm going to use you. Our commission is the same. Be a witness in the power of God. But we miss that. We think we got to do it. I had people so many times over these all these many years I've had people say, Preacher, I just I just can't be a soul winner. I c I just could never be a soul winner, you know, go out and I could never do that. Uh, hello. Join the club. It's not us doing it. It's the God. If we just let God fill us and use us. Thinking of one of our men, he told me years and years ago, he said, Oh, I I can never talk to people. By the way, this guy talks your ears off. But uh And uh he said, I could never witness. And uh Chris Warr, one of our missionaries, came through to preach a scorching message on hell. And this this fellow is at the altar just sobbing. And he started coming out the soul winning. And him and his wife become one of the greatest soul winners in our church. They won so many people, the Lord. They're in Florida now, so I won't tell you who it is, but they have a little camper they're living out of down in Florida, but I'm I'm not going to tell you who it is Tom, it's a great soul winner, his wife. And he told me for years, oh I could never talk to people. But God got a hold of him. He realized it's not me doing it. It's God working through me. I just do what God says. Are you with me? And so that's it. I don't have a chalkboard here, but if I had a chalkboard and there's a piece of chalk here, how much could that chalk communicate to us on the chalkboard by itself? Not. But if that chalk lets me pick it up and lets me write a message out on there Then we could all understand what that chalk is writing, right? And we say, oh that chalk is but No, it's not the chalk. The chalk's just letting me hold it and move it. And that's the same way it is with God. Oh, I can never do anything. Let the Lord have you, and He can use you to make an impact. That's what He's saying to Moses. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us, Lord To simply take you at your word and just trust you. You love us, you love this world, you want to use us. And so I pray that we would just make ourselves available, follow your instructions, trust you. And let you do the work. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many say, Preacher, I just need to let God have his way in my life. I just need to listen to him and let him direct me and trust him and follow his instructions And I'm telling you, God will use you. Is there any like that? Uplift a hand. I just need to let God do that. God bless you. Hands all around. Maybe an old altar. Just be that piece of chalk. Say, Lord, I put myself in your hand You lead me, you direct me, I'll trust you, and I'll try my best to do exactly what you say, and you'll be surprised how God will use you. Father, bless our invitation, I ask, in Jesus' name.